         ANNUAL REPORT 2014 A.S. CRÉATION TAPETEN AG
      
  A.S. CRÉATION: KEY FIGURES
  Sales
Earnings before interest and taxes (EBIT)
Earnings before income taxes
Earnings after income taxes
Cash-flow
Capital expenditures
Depreciation
Non-current assets
Shareholders' equity
Non-current liabilities
Total assets
Earnings per share
Dividend €/share Number of employees (average)
€ '000 € '000 € '000 € '000 € '000 € '000 € '000 € '000 € '000 € '000 € '000
2010
184,603 14,318 12,352
8,395 19,027 6,826 10,504 64,460 88,789 39,689 161,625 3.05 1.35 772
2011
192,262 9,587 7,325 4,650 14,338 19,667 9,933 67,763 89,553 43,436 157,327 1.69 0.75 796
2012
198,909 15,727 11,346 7,358 19,276 13,071 9,813 68,662 94,839 40,114 161,748 2.67 1.20 820
2013
199,818 10,238 5,233 1,323 16,393 8,667 9,469 63,961 93,473 37,184 159,067 0.48 0.25 837
2014 189,128 3,306 -5,052 -9,338 6,118 5,115 9,340 54,265 86,891 32,730 146,162 -3.39 0.00 822
           €/share
   
TABLE OF CONTENT
     Foreword 8
 managing Board and Supervisory Board 13
 highlights 2014 14
 Report of the Supervisory Board 15
 Corporate Governance Statement and Report on Corporate Governance 21
 Group management Report 33
 The share and our shareholders 73
 Consolidated financial statements according to IFRS 83
 Corporate Calendar 131
 This English translation of the annual report 2014 is merely a convenience translation. The German version is the prevailing one.

 8
FOREwORD
 FOREwORD
Dear readers, dear shareholders,
2014 was a difficult fiscal year, which A.S. Création closed with a consolidated net loss of € -9.3 million, compared to a moderate consolidated net profit of € 1.3 million in the previous year. Two extraordinary effects were the main rea- sons for the first loss posted by the company since 1989:
• Political developments in Russia and Ukra- ine led to a fast depreciation of the local currencies against the euro towards the end of the year. As a result, A.S. Création’s export conditions to these countries dete- riorated. In addition, the depreciation of the Russian rouble led to very high exchange losses in the 2014 consolidated financial statements, as the two Russian Group companies have mostly been funded in euros.
• The penalty notice from the German Fede- ral Cartel Office was received in February 2014, followed by the corresponding no- tice from the French antitrust authority in December. The maximum penalty im- posed by the antitrust authorities is now known to amount to € 15.5 million. A.S. Création has appealed against the penalty notices both in Germany and in France. We will now have to develop our defence strategy together with our law-
yers in order to keep the actual damage for A.S. Création as low as possible. Due to the uncertainties generally arising from court proceedings, however, a provision of € 7.0 million has been established as a precautionary measure for potential penal- ty payments arising from the antitrust proceedings.
Apart from these two special factors, the de- clining business also had an adverse impact on the company’s earnings. Sales revenues of A.S. Création declined by € 10.7 million or 5.3% from € 199.8 million in the previous year to € 189.1 million in 2014. The fact that over 50% of this reduction in sales revenues re- lates to Eastern European countries outside the European Union (EU) shows just how much A.S. Création is affected by the conse- quences of the Ukraine crisis. Wallpaper sales in the EU are also far from recovery. The French wallpaper market – A.S. Création’s second most important EU market behind Germany – was below the prior year level in 2014. Countries such as the Netherlands and Belgium were still characterised by re- strained consumer spending. As a result of these unfavourable conditions, some major export customers had to file for insolvency in 2014.
As announced last year, a key focus was placed on Russia in the fiscal year 2014,

although the performance of our two Russian subsidiaries during this period still fell short of expectations. While our local distribution company, A.S. Création (RUS), managed to boost its sales, the macroeconomic situation prevented it from achieving the originally projected higher growth rates. However, we are confident that the company will break even in 2015. On the one hand, the collec- tions launched in the market in the course of 2014 have met with a good response, which should translate into sales revenues. On the other hand, A.S. Création (RUS) meanwhile has full responsibility for marketing all regu- lar product lines produced in Germany. These collections used to be marketed exclusively by our German export department. This should make A.S. Création (RUS) much more attractive to large Russian customers. Moreover, the local management team has been expanded.
Our Russian production company, A.S. & Palitra, was unable to fully utilise both production facilities in the fiscal year 2014. Even so, we were able to significantly reduce the operating losses together with our joint venture partner, Kof Palitra. The fact that a higher pro-rated loss from the joint venture than in the previous year had to be posted in the 2014 consolida- ted financial statements is exclusively attribu- table to the exchange losses resulting from the depreciation of the rouble.
A.S. & Palitra meanwhile produces two brands:
• The “wallpaper world” brand is marketed by the factory’s own sales organisation and meanwhile accounts for the biggest part of the Russian-produced product range. These wallpapers are developed by the in-house design studio of A.S. & Palitra.
• The second brand, “asc wallpaper“ is deve- loped by designers of A.S. Création in Ger- many in cooperation with the product management team of A.S. Création (RUS) and marketed by A.S. Création (RUS).
Together with our partner Kof Palitra we have set ourselves the objective to achieve full utilisation of the two production facilities in the course of 2015 and to generate a posi- tive result. Our production company should benefit from the changed situation in Russia (where the depreciation of the rouble has clearly squeezed consumer income available for discretionary spending), as imports of foreign wallpapers, which used to be very popular in Russia, have become much more expensive and the proportion of domestic products in the retail stores should increase as a result.
It is difficult to predict what will happen in Russia and Ukraine in the course of 2015. At this stage, we assume that export sales to
FOREwORD
 9

Russia and its neighbouring countries will continue to decline sharply.
In Germany, we were able to increase our sales revenues and our market share in 2014. This positive performance is mainly attributable to the fact that A.S. Création benefited from the takeover of former Praktiker and Max Bahr branches by other DIY store operators. The restocking of these stores led to additional sales revenues for A.S. Création.
The German wallpaper market is in a phase of transformation. More and more consumers shop online and this also applies to home furnishing products such as wallpapers and is causing unrest among our retail partners. Besides the online trade, aggressive discoun- ters are expanding their market presence by constantly opening new stores. This leads to increased price and cut-throat competition.
Going forward, the established retailers will increasingly focus on selling through all avai- lable distribution channels. A.S. Création has developed concepts that allow its retail part- ners to use all these channels successfully. In the field of digitalisation, we have gained a competitive edge over our competitors. Con- cepts such as our “wallpaper order shop“ for the point of sale (POS) in the form of a modern touch screen, the “tapetenshop.de” domain, our “digital collections”, the new customer log-in section and our "mobile shopping tool"
 are constantly being refined and expanded. We are also thinking about the future of wallpaper selling at the POS and continue to inspire our retail partners with new ideas.
Apart from optimising the “software” side of the business, we are also working sys- tematically on the “hardware” side. In 2014, A.S. Création developed and produced some 2,200 new articles. These new developments range from exciting licensed collections such as VERSACE, PORSCHE DESIGN and ESPRIT to successful proprietary developments by our design studio to customised products for individual customers.
In the production department, we have ini- tiated a number of projects aimed at efficiency increases, rationalisation and quality improve- ments. The first successes are quite encoura- ging. The reject rate, for instance, was reduced in 2014 and contributed to an improvement in the gross profit margin. As these projects are continued with determination in 2015, we see considerable potential for improve- ments and cost savings provided that the measures developed by us are implemented successfully.
On a personal note, I will leave A.S. Création at the end of March 2016 after having spent more than 20 years with the company. My successor as Chairman of the Managing Board of A.S. Création will be Maik Krämer,
 10
 FOREwORD

FOREwORD
Director of Finance and Controlling, who will take over as of April 2016 and has been instru- mental in the successful development of A.S. Création for the past 15 years. Board re- sponsibility for Sales & Marketing will be as- sumed by Roland Bantel, who has been in charge of the DIY store segment for 17 years. To ensure that Mr Bantel can fully and swiftly familiarise himself with his new tasks, the Supervisory Board has appointed him as addi- tional Managing Board member already with effect from April 1, 2015.
These changes will create room for young people who can assume greater responsibility. I am particularly pleased that we will im- plement a genuine generational change in A.S. Création’s sales organisation by the end of 2015. We are currently handing over res- ponsibility to young managers from within our company in all three distribution segments, i.e. wholesale and specialist retail, DIY stores as well as exports. Never before has A.S. Création had such a young sales management team. The average age of the three new sales mana- gers is 31 years. I am convinced that our new management team will steer A.S. Création through these challenging times with confi- dence and will provide the company with fresh impulses.
The unfavourable conditions expected to pre- vail in 2015 will prevent significant growth for A.S. Création, as uncertainty about export
 prospects to Eastern Europe, especially Russia and Ukraine, is simply too high. The Group therefore projects sales revenues of between € 175 million and € 185 million for 2015, which means that sales revenues would stag- nate at best. By contrast, the earnings posi- tion of A.S. Création should improve markedly in 2015 as the company returns to profit. Although there are many imponderables with regard to the actual amount of earnings in 2015, the Managing Board is confident that a consolidated net profit will be posted and a dividend be paid for 2015. This would make the fiscal year 2014 what we consider it to be, namely an exception caused by external factors in the otherwise successful develop- ment of A.S. Création.
I would like to take this opportunity to thank all employees of the A.S. Création Group for their commitment in the past fiscal year. We will continue to work on expanding the leading market position of A.S. Création. While 2013 and 2014 were difficult years, we are well on track. This is not least confirmed by our customers. In December 2014, leading trade magazine “BTH Heimtex“ published a customer survey on “Wallpaper manufacturers in Germany – where do specialist retailers buy?”, in which we are the “winner on points” and even improved our performance compared to the previous year; A.S. Création was among the top three in twelve of sixteen categories. In the previous year, this was achieved in only
  11

12
 FOREwORD
nine categories. It was very gratifying to see that A.S. Création was rated so positively in categories such as friendliness, reliability of delivery, speed of delivery, sales promotion measures and future prospects. In our opinion, this is an excellent basis on which to achieve our goals.
I thank you, dear shareholders, for your sup- port and the confidence you have placed in us. I would be happy if you would stay with our company on this challenging and exci- ting journey.
Gummersbach, February 2015
Jörn Kämper
Chairman of the Managing Board
 
managing Board
Jörn Kämper Chairman
Sales and Marketing
Maik Holger Krämer Finance and Controlling
Antonios Suskas Production and Logistics
mANAGING BOARD AND SUPERVISORY BOARD
mANAGING BOARD AND SUPERVISORY BOARD
 Supervisory Board
Franz Jürgen Schneider 1),2),3) Chairman
Dr. Rüdiger Liebs 1),2) Vice Chairman
Jella Susanne Benner-Heinacher 3)
Peter Mourschinetz Employee representative
Jochen Müller 1),3) (from May 15, 2014) Dr. Dieter Schadt 1),3) (until May 15, 2014)
Rolf Schmuck 2) Employee representative
1) Member of Committee for Managing Board Matters 2) Member of Audit Committee
3) Member of Nomination Committee
13

 14
hIGhLIGhTS 2014
 hIGhLIGhTS 2014
January
In the stock market, the A.S. Création share starts the new year at € 36.00.
At the “Heimtextil” exhibition in Frankfurt a. M., A.S. Création presents its new products for 2014 including the paintable “AP Pigment” wallpaper collection, which has won the Interior Innovation Award 2014. The collection is also the winner of the “AIT Trend 2014 (No.1)” contest.
A.S. Création presents the “Mobile Shopping Tool” to assist retailers in taking their wallpaper business online.
The A.S. Création share climbs to € 40.40 on February 14 - the highest level of the year.
The German Federal Cartel Office issues penalty notices against the five largest German wallpaper manufacturers. A.S. Création Tapeten AG lodges an appeal against the penalty notice.
A.S. Création organises a family day for all employees and their families to celebrate its 40th anniversary.
Presentation of the first wallpaper collection by Werner Aisslinger, a famous, multiple award-winning designer from Berlin.
The A.S. Création share hits its low for the year at € 25.37 on August 14.
The depreciation of the Russian rouble against the euro triggered by the Ukraine crisis reaches a (temporary) high. Because of the resulting exchange losses, A.S. Création announces a consolidated net loss for the fiscal year.
The French antitrust authority issues penalty notices against seven French wallpaper companies, including two companies of the A.S. Création Group. A.S. Création lodges an appeal against the penalty notice.
The A.S. Création share closes the year 2014 at € 26.20 on December 30.
February
may
August
December

REPORT OF ThE SUPERVISORY BOARD
REPORT OF ThE SUPERVISORY BOARD
There was one change in the composition of the Supervisory Board in 2014 compared to the previous year. Mr Jochen Müller was elec- ted to the Supervisory Board at the Annual General Meeting of Shareholders on May 15, 2014 to replace Dr. Dieter Schadt. Having served on the Supervisory Board for many years, Dr. Schadt resigned from the Board with effect from the end of the AGM for reasons of age. The company thus continued to comply with the recommendation of the German Cor- porate Governance Code according to which the Supervisory Board shall include an adequate number of independent members. In the fiscal year 2014, the Supervisory Board met six times, namely on March 13, May 15 (twice), June 11, September 18 and December 18, 2014. Each of these meetings was attended by all members of the Supervisory Board.
The Supervisory Board has set up the follow- ing three committees to ensure that its tasks are performed efficiently:
• the Committee for Managing Board Matters,
• the Audit Committee and
• the Nomination Committee.
The committees prepare the resolutions to be passed by the Supervisory Board as well as the
  15

16
 REPORT OF ThE SUPERVISORY BOARD
topics that need to be addressed by the full Supervisory Board. In addition, the Supervi- sory Board has transferred decision-making powers to the committees within the limits of what is legally permissible. It has been en- sured that the full Supervisory Board is kept informed of the findings and decisions of the committees.
The Committee for Managing Board Matters, which is responsible for the preparation of the Managing Board contracts as well as for other personnel matters, met on March 13, 2014. The Committee for Managing Board Matters is chaired by the Chairman of the Supervisory Board. The Commitee addressed the compen- sation of the Managing Board members in the fiscal year 2013, and discussed looking for a successor to Mr Kämper, the Chairman of the Managing Board of AS. Création. Mr Kämper had informed the Commitee for Managing Board Matters of his intention not to renew his contract, which will expire on March 31, 2016, for personal reasons.
The Audit Committee, which is primarily re- sponsible for reviewing and auditing the finan- cial statements and the consolidated financial statements, the interim report and the quarterly reports as well as for monitoring the effective- ness of the risk management system, met two times in the fiscal year, on March 4 and on Sep- tember 17, 2014. The March meeting was
attended by representatives of the previous auditors, KPMG AG Wirtschaftsprüfungsge- sellschaft, while the September meeting was attended by repre-sentatives of the newly elected auditors, Ernst & Young GmbH Wirt- schaftsprüfungsgesellschaft; both meetings were also atten-ded by the Director of Finance and Controlling. The Audit Committee is chaired by the Vice Chairman of the Super- visory Board. He is an independent financial expert and has special knowledge and ex- perience in accounting and auditing.
In the fiscal year, the Audit Committee focused on the audit of the financial statements and the consolidated financial statements for the year 2013, the supervision of the accounting process, the effectiveness of the internal con- trol system and on planning the audit for the fiscal year 2014. At its meeting on March 4, 2014, the Audit Committee dealt with the financial statements and the consolidated financial statements and, in this context, primarily addressed the effects of the anti- trust proceedings in Germany and France, the currency risks arising from the rouble exchange rate trend and the appropriateness of the valuations of the two Russian subsidi- aries on the balance sheet. At its meeting on September 17, 2014, the Audit Committee also addressed the latest risk report as well as the compliance measures implemented at A.S. Création Tapeten AG. In view of the fact

that the auditors have been newly elected and will first have to familiarise themselves with the specifics of A.S. Création, the Audit Com- mittee decided not to define a special focus for the 2014 audit. In addition, the Audit Com- mittee discussed the interim report and the quarterly reports with the Managing Board prior to their publication.
The Nomination Committee, whose tasks in- clude proposing suitable candidates for the election of new shareholder representatives to the Supervisory Board, held one meeting in the fiscal year, on December 18, 2014. At this meeting, the Nomination Committee consul- ted on the successor to Dr. Rüdiger Liebs, who had informed the Supervisory Board of his in- tention to resign from the Supervisory Board with effect from the end of the 2015 ordina- ry Annual General Meeting Shareholders for reasons of age. Based on the recommendation made by the Nomination Committee, it shall be proposed to the Annual General Meeting of Shareholders to elect Dr. Volker Hues new member of the Supervisory Board. Dr. Hues is Chief Financial Officer of Jungheinrich AG, Hamburg.
The full Supervisory Board regularly advised the Managing Board on the management of the company and monitored its management activities. The Supervisory Board was directly involved in all decisions that were of funda-
mental importance for the company. It was informed about the course of business and the situation of the company in written monthly reports as well as in oral and written reports presented by the Managing Board at its mee- tings. Additional written reports were submit- ted on all special events. In addition, the Chair- man of the Supervisory Board was regularly informed by the Managing Board in personal meetings.
The Supervisory Board reviewed important individual transactions and decided on all transactions requiring its approval by law, under the statutes or under the Managing Board’s rules of internal procedure.
In the past fiscal year, the activities of the Supervisory Board focused on the following:
• analysis and discussion of the financial statements and the consolidated financial statements for the year ended December 31, 2013;
• consultation on the current state of the administrative offence proceedings initi- ated against the company by the German Federal Cartel Office including the risk provisions established with a view to the penalty notices received;
• discussion of the measures taken and plan-
REPORT OF ThE SUPERVISORY BOARD
 17

18
 REPORT OF ThE SUPERVISORY BOARD
ned to further improve the production processes;
• the sales and marketing strategy, especial- ly in view of customers’ changing buying behaviour and the growing importance of digital distribution channels;
• discussion about the current situation and organisation of the Russian joint venture, A.S. & Palitra; and the Russian distribu- tion company, A.S. Création (RUS), espe- cially with regard to the distribution struc- ture chosen and the future product range and brand policy;
• discussion and consultation on how to deal with the sales revenue and earnings situation at the two Russian companies, A.S. & Palitra and A.S. Création (RUS), and how to best manage the exchange rate risks in conjunction with the Russian bu- siness activities, considering that these risks increased significantly in the course of the year;
• discussion and consultation on the finan- cing of the Russian companies and resolu- tion on the granting of further loans to these two companies,
• preparatory discussion of Group budgeting for the fiscal years 2015 and 2016 as well
as the capital expenditure budget for fis- cal year 2015;
• preparation of the succession to Dr. Liebs,
• discussion about the recommendations and proposals of the German Corporate Governance Code, including implementa- tion of the proposed efficiency review.
The Supervisory Board and the Managing Board jointly issued a declaration of conformity and explained which recommendations of the Ger- man Corporate Governance Code have not been adopted.
The financial statements of A.S. Création Tapeten AG and the consolidated financial statements for 2014 as well as the manage- ment report of A.S. Création Tapeten AG and the Group management report were made available to the Supervisory Board. They were audited by Ernst & Young GmbH Wirtschafts- prüfungsgesellschaft, Cologne, (Ernst & Young) and received their unqualified audit opinion.
In response to a proposal submitted by the Supervisory Board, the Annual General Meet- ing of Shareholders on May 15, 2014 elected Ernst & Young new auditors of the financial statements and the consolidated financial statements for the fiscal year 2014; the new auditors replace KPMG AG Wirtschaftsprüfungs-

gesellschaft, which had audited the financial statements and the consolidated financial statements of A.S. Création Tapeten AG since 2004. The Supervisory Board is of the opinion that the company should subject itself to the critical view of a new auditor.
The auditor for the financial year 2014 was commissioned by the Supervisory Board on the basis of the results of the invitation to tender in 2013 for the audit of the financial statements and the consolidated financial statements for the fiscal year 2014 and the subsequent resolution adopted on December 12, 2013. In accordance with the recommen- dations made by the German Corporate Gover- nance Code, the Supervisory Board, which was represented by the Chairman of the Audit Com- mittee, obtained a statement from the audi- tor stating which professional, financial and other relations between the auditors and the company exist that might raise doubts about their independence before awarding the au- dit assignment. The statement also covers other services provided to the company in the past fiscal year. The statement issued by the auditors to the Supervisory Board raised no doubts about their independence.
The auditors’ reports were submitted to the Supervisory Board members in good time. They were discussed in detail at the meeting of the Audit Committee on March 3, 2015 and
at the Supervisory Board’s annual accounts meeting on March 16, 2015. At the latter meeting, the Chairman of the Audit Commit- tee provided the full Supervisory Board with an overview of the treatment of the financial statements and the consolidated financial statements. Both the Audit Committee mee- ting and the Supervisory Board’s annual ac- counts meeting were attended by representa- tives of the auditors, who reported on the key results of their audit. In the context of their audit, the auditors noted, among other things, that potential developments that may jeopar- dise the continued existence of the company and the Group can be identified and are re- corded by the risk management system imple- mented in accordance with Article 91 (2) of the German Stock Corporation Act (Aktienge- setz AktG) and are properly presented in the management report of A.S. Création Tapeten AG and the Group management report. The results of the audit were approved by the Audit Com- mittee and the Supervisory Board.
No objections were raised following the Su- pervisory Board’s own review of the financial statements, the consolidated financial state- ments, the two management reports and the profit appropriation proposal.
The Supervisory Board therefore approves the financial statements of A.S. Création Tapeten AG and the consolidated financial statements
REPORT OF ThE SUPERVISORY BOARD
 19

20
 REPORT OF ThE SUPERVISORY BOARD
prepared by the Managing Board for the year ended December 31, 2014. The financial state- ments are therefore adopted. The Supervisory Board also supports the Managing Board’s profit appropriation proposal.
In accordance with the corresponding recom- mendation of the German Corporate Govern- ance Code, the Supervisory Board members of A.S. Création Tapeten AG immediately disclose any conflicts of interest to the Supervisory Board. There were no potential conflicts of interest in the fiscal year which would have had to be disclosed to the Supervisory Board and be reported to the Annual General Meet- ing of Shareholders.
In response to the changes that will result from the departure of Mr Kämper on March 31, 2016, the Supervisory Board, at its meeting on March 16, 2015, appointed Mr Roland Werner Bantel additional member of the Managing Board with effect from April 1, 2015, based on the corresponding recommendations made by the Committee for Managing Board Matters. Mr Bantel joined A.S. Création in 1997 and is responsible for the DIY stores segment. Until March 31, 2016, Mr Bantel will share respon- sibility for Sales and Marketing with Mr Kämper and assume sole responsibility as of April 1, 2016. The Supervisory Board intends to appoint Mr Maik Holger Krämer, Director of Finance and Controlling, new Chairman of the Mana- ging Board with effect from April 1, 2016.
The Supervisory Board would like to thank the members of the Managing Board and all em- ployees for their successful commitment to the company, its customers and its share- holders.
Gummersbach, March 16, 2015
Franz Jürgen Schneider
Chairman of the Supervisory Board
 
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE STATEmENT AND REPORT ON CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE STATEmENT AND REPORT ON CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
 21

22
 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE STATEmENT AND REPORT ON CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
Introduction
In the present statement, the Managing Board and the Supervisory Board of A.S. Création Tapeten AG report on corporate governance in accordance with Article 289a of the Ger- man Commercial Code (Handelsgesetzbuch HGB) and Section 3.10 of the German Corpo- rate Governance Code.
Good and responsible corporate governance is today defined by nationally and internation- ally recognised standards. Efficient coopera- tion between the Managing Board and the Supervisory Board, respect of shareholders’ interests as well as open and transparent cor- porate communication are key aspects of good corporate governance. The Managing Board and the Supervisory Board of A.S. Création Tapeten AG have traditionally been commit- ted to these standards.
German Corporate Governance Code
The German Corporate Governance Code (here- inafter referred to as the “Code”) was pub- lished by the Government Commission of the same name in 2002. The Code is normally re- viewed once a year against the background of national and international developments and amended if required. The latest amend- ments were decided by the Government Com-
mission on June 24, 2014. The current version of the Code can be viewed at www.dcgk.de/en/.
While the cross-industry and cross-company recommendations and suggestions of the Code are not binding, Article 161 of the German Stock Corporation Act (Aktiengesetz AktG) and Article 285 (16) of the German Commer- cial Code (Handelsgesetzbuch HGB) require an annual declaration by the Managing Board and the Supervisory Board in connection with the publication of the financial statements as to which recommendations of the Code have been and are being complied with and which recommendations have not been and are not being applied (“declaration of conformity”). The latest declaration of conformity issued by the Managing Board and the Supervisory Board of A.S. Création Tapeten AG can be found below.
The Managing Board and the Supervisory Board of A.S. Création Tapeten AG consider the recommendations and suggestions of the Code an integral element of their work for the company. They regularly review the relevance of these standards, so that adequate compli- ance with the standards is ensured for the shareholders, the employees and, last but not least, for the company itself.

Declaration of conformity pursuant to Article 161 of the German Stock Corporation Act (Aktiengesetz AktG)
The latest declaration of conformity was issued on March 16, 2015 and had the fol- lowing wording:
The Managing Board and the Supervisory Board of A.S. Création Tapeten AG declare that the company complied with the German Corporate Governance Code as amended on May 13, 2013 in the period from March 13, 2014 to June 24, 2014, save for the excep- tions listed in last year’s declaration of con- formity dated March 13, 2014, and has since complied with the German Corporate Gov- ernance Code as amended on June 24, 2014 save for the following exception:
Pursuant to Section 5.4.1 of the Code the Supervisory Board shall specify concrete objec- tives regarding its composition which take into account, among other things, an age limit for the members of the Supervisory Board and diversity. These concrete objectives shall, in particular, stipulate an appropriate degree of female representation. The Supervi- sory Board of A.S. Création Tapeten AG is con- vinced that the proposals for the election of Supervisory Board members should be based exclusively on the functional and personal suitability of the candidates. As this suitabil-
ity does not depend on formal criteria such as age and gender, the Supervisory Board does not comply with this recommendation of the Code.
work of the managing Board and the Supervisory Board
A.S. Création Tapeten AG is a joint stock com- pany under German law. One of the fundamen- tal principles of German Stock Corporation Law is the dual management system compri- sing a Managing Board and a Supervisory Board, each of which has its own authorities. When it comes to managing and supervising the company, the Managing Board and the Supervisory Board of A.S. Création Tapeten AG cooperate closely and in a spirit of trust.
The members of the Managing Board are ap- pointed by the Supervisory Board, which may also appoint a Chairman of the Managing Board. The Managing Board of A.S. Création Tapeten AG currently consists of the follow- ing members, whose individual and collective responsibilities are regulated by the rules of internal procedure:
• Jörn Kämper (Chairman), Sales and Marketing
• Maik Holger Krämer,
Finance and Controlling
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE STATEmENT AND REPORT ON CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
 23

24
 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE STATEmENT AND REPORT ON CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
• Antonios Suskas, Production and Logistics
The tenure of the current Board members will end on March 31, 2016. Mr Kämper has in- formed the Supervisory Board that he will not renew his expiring contract. In response to these upcoming changes, the Supervisory Board has appointed Mr Roland Werner Bantel as additional member of the Managing Board with effect from April 1, 2015. Until March 31, 2016, Mr Bantel will share responsibility for Sales and Marketing with Mr Kämper. The Su- pervisory Board intends to appoint Mr Krämer new Chairman of the Managing Board with effect from April 1, 2016.
The Managing Board is responsible for mana- ging the company with the due diligence of a prudent businessman.
The Supervisory Board advises and supervises the Managing Board in managing the compa- ny. For major transactions, e.g. large invest- ment projects or changes in the corporate structure, the Managing Board requires the prior approval of the Supervisory Board. The transactions requiring approvals are listed in the rules of internal procedure of the Mana- ging Board.
The Managing Board informs the Supervisory Board about the course of the business and
the situation of the company by monthly written reports as well as by oral and written reports presented at the Supervisory Board meetings. Extraordinary events are addition- ally reported to the Supervisory Board in wri- ting. In addition, the Chairman of the Super- visory Board is regularly informed by the Mana- ging Board in personal meetings.
In accordance with the law and the statutes, the Supervisory Board of A.S. Création Tapeten AG consists of four members who are elected by the General Meeting of Shareholders and two members who are elected by the work- force. The Supervisory Board elects a Chair- man and a Vice Chairman from among its members. The Supervisory Board currently has the following members:
• Franz Jürgen Schneider, Chairman • Dr. Rüdiger Liebs, Vice Chairman • Jella Susanne Benner-Heinacher • Jochen Müller
• Peter Mourschinetz, employee representative
• Rolf Schmuck,
employee representative
The terms of office of all Supervisory Board members will expire at the end of the General Meeting of Shareholders that will ratify their acts for fiscal 2015, i.e. presumably in spring 2016. Dr. Liebs informed the Supervisory Board

of his wish to resign from the Supervisory Board at the end of the 2015 ordinary Annual General Meeting of Shareholders for reasons of age. It shall therefore be proposed to the Annual General Meeting of Shareholders to elect Dr. Volker Hues new Supervisory Board member. Dr. Hues is Chief Financial Officer of Jungheinrich AG, Hamburg.
The Supervisory Board of A.S. Création Tapeten AG formed three committees:
• the Committee for
Managing Board Matters
Members: Mr Schneider (Chairman), Dr. Liebs and Mr Müller
• the Audit Committee Members: Dr. Liebs (Chairman), Mr Schneider and Mr Schmuck
• the Nomination Committee Members: Mr Schneider (Chairman), Ms Benner-Heinacher and Mr Müller.
The committees prepare the resolutions passed by the Supervisory Board as well as the topics to be discussed by it. In addition, the Super- visory Board has transferred certain decision- making powers to the committees within the limits of what is legally permissible. The indi- vidual tasks and powers are laid down in the rules of internal procedure of the Supervisory Board which also ensure that the full Super- visory Board is informed of the findings and
decisions of the committees. The Committee for Managing Board Matters prepares the personnel decisions of the Supervisory Board, especially the appointment and discharge of Managing Board members and the renewal of their terms of office. It also prepares the resolutions passed by the Supervisory Board with regard to the fixing of the total compen- sation of the Managing Board.
The Audit Committee is responsible for moni- toring the accounting process and reviewing the effectiveness of the internal control, risk management and audit systems. It also deals with the audit of the annual accounts and addresses compliance issues. The Chairman of the Audit Committee is an independent financial expert and has special knowledge and experience in accounting and auditing.
The task of the Nomination Committee is to propose suitable candidates for the share- holder representatives for elections to the Supervisory Board. It is exclusively composed of Supervisory Board members elected by the shareholders.
Shares held by the managing Board and the Supervisory Board
As of the balance sheet date, members of the Managing Board held 4,983 shares, while
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE STATEmENT AND REPORT ON CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
 25

26
 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE STATEmENT AND REPORT ON CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
members of the Supervisory Board held 886,046 shares in A.S. Création Tapeten AG. The Managing Board and the Supervisory Board thus hold 29.70% of the share capital of A.S. Création Tapeten AG.
Accounting and audit
The consolidated financial statements and the consolidated interim financial statements of A.S. Création Tapeten AG are prepared by the Managing Board on the basis of the Interna- tional Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS) as adopted by the European Union. The financial statements of A.S. Création Tapeten AG are prepared in accordance with the German Commercial Code (Handelsgesetzbuch HGB). The consolidated financial statements and the financial statements are audited by the auditors and the Supervisory Board. The con- solidated interim financial statements are neither audited nor reviewed by the auditors but are discussed by the Managing Board and the Audit Committee prior to their publication.
The General Meeting of Shareholders of the year 2014 elected Ernst & Young GmbH Wirt- schaftsprüfungsgesellschaft, Cologne, (Ernst & Young). Prior to the election, Ernst & Young issued a statement of independence as recom- mended by the German Corporate Governance Code. This statement has not given rise to any
doubt about the independence of Ernst & Young as an auditor. It was contractually agreed with the auditor that the Supervisory Board would be informed immediately of
• any grounds for disqualification or impartiality arising during the audit,
• any findings or incidents arising during the audit that are material for the tasks of the Supervisory Board and
• any findings indicating that the declaration issued by the Managing Board and the Supervisory Board with regard to the German Corporate Governance Code is incorrect.
Transparent corporate communication
Open and transparent corporate communica- tion is an important aspect of good corporate governance. Apart from clear and comprehen- sible contents, this aspect also calls for all stakeholders to have equal access to compa- ny information. A.S. Création attaches great importance to the Internet as an information medium that is freely accessible irrespective of time and place. The website of A.S. Création (www.as-creation.com) therefore provides a wealth of well-structured company informa- tion for interested users, e.g. in the “Investor Relations” section, which contains comprehen- sive financial information on A.S. Création

such as annual and interim reports as well as ad-hoc and press releases. All information is simultaneously available in German and English.
The planned dates of major regular events, i.e. the publication dates of the Annual Report and the interim reports as well as the date of the General Meeting of Shareholders, are compiled in a financial calendar. It is published sufficiently in advance and posted on the website of A.S. Création.
Gummersbach, March 16, 2015
A.S. Création Tapeten AG
For the Supervisory Board
Franz Jürgen Schneider
Chairman of the Supervisory Board
For the Managing Board
Jörn Kämper
Chairman of the Managing Board
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE STATEmENT AND REPORT ON CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
   27

GROUP mANAGEmENT REPORT
GROUP mANAGEmENT REPORT
 33

34
 GROUP mANAGEmENT REPORT
1. General corporate information
The A.S. Création Group comprises two Divi- sions (segments), the Wallpaper Division and the Furnishing Fabrics Division. The Wallpaper Division produces and markets wallpapers and borders on a global scale; accounting for approx. 93% of 2014 Group sales, it is the larger of the two Divisions. The wallpapers are primarily produced in Germany at A.S. Création Tape- ten AG and – since the end of 2012 – in Russia at OOO A.S. & Palitra. The other entities that form part of the Wallpaper Division are pure sales and trading companies without their own production facilities. They are based in the UK, the Netherlands, France and Russia. The Fur- nishing Fabrics Division markets curtains and furnishing fabrics and has no manufacturing resources of its own. The two entities of this division are headquartered in Germany. The corporate structure remained unchanged from the previous year.
The operating result (earnings before interest and taxes EBIT) as well as the EBIT margin play an important role for controlling the Group. The cost of materials and personnel expenses are the biggest and the second big- gest expense item, respectively, for both the Wallpaper Division and the Furnishing Fabrics Division. Accordingly, both expense types have a material impact on earnings before interest and taxes. This means that, besides the EBIT margin, the gross profit margin (gross profit
as a percentage of total output) and person- nel expenses as a percentage of total output play an important function in managing and controlling operations.
As the Russian production company, A.S. & Palitra, is a joint venture in which A.S. Création Tapeten AG holds a 50% interest, i.e. no majority, the share in the result for the year that is attributable to A.S. Création is shown under “financial result” in the consolidated financial statements. This share in the result is therefore not inclu- ded in the consolidated operating result but in A.S. Création’s consolidated earnings before taxes. Accordingly, earnings before taxes (EBT) and the EBT margin are also important perfor- mance indicators of the Group.
The most important output markets of A.S. Création are in Europe. In the fiscal year 2014, the countries of the European Union (EU) accounted for 76.5% of the Group’s gross sales revenues (previous year: 74.1%), while non-EU Eastern European countries accoun- ted for 16.4% (previous year: 18.2%). Repre- senting 38.0% (previous year: 34.8%), Ger- many is the company’s single most important market.
The company’s product portfolio is clearly positioned in the consumer goods sector - over 90% of the wallpapers are used for renovation purposes, while less than 10% are used for new buildings. Because of their use,

furnishing fabrics also qualify as consumer goods. A.S. Création thus operates in consu- mer goods markets which are influenced by colour and design trends and by the general trend in private consumption.
Given that wallpapers and furnishing fabrics are not technical products but fashion-driven products, the research and development acti- vities of A.S. Création primarily focus on the development of new designs. In the fiscal year 2014, the company spent € 2.6 million (pre- vious year: € 2.8 million) in these creative activities. These expenses are not capitalised as the criteria of IAS 38 are not met.
2. Economic report
2.1. macroeconomic environment
The eurozone’s gross domestic product in- creased by 0.8% in 2014. After the previous declines of 0.6% in 2012 and 0.4% in 2013, this economic recovery is very good news. Against the background of the deep recession in which the eurozone was caught during the 2008/2009 financial crisis, this upward trend is much too weak, however, as eurozone GDP has not yet reached pre-crisis level again. On the upside, the jobless rate dropped to 11.6% in 2014 – having hit 12.0%, the highest level since the inception of the common currency area, in the previous year. This was probably one reason for the improved consumer climate,
which was reflected in an 0.9% increase in private consumption in the eurozone in 2014, compared to a decline by 0.6% in the previous year. This trend was supported by the slump in the oil price, as the lower energy costs brought relief to private households. While the corporate sector also benefited from these developments, it was adversely affected by the Ukraine crisis at the same time. The depreci- ation of important Eastern European curren- cies against the euro and the economic sanc- tions imposed by the west put a damper on exports. Accordingly, companies’ spending propensity declined materially in the course of 2014; consequently, spending on plant and equipment was up by only 1% on the low level of the previous year. There are still no signs of a sustainable acceleration in economic growth in the eurozone.
The optimistic growth forecasts published for Germany for 2014 had to be downgraded in the course of 2014, as the German economy lost momentum, especially in the second half of the year. Full-year GDP in 2014 was never- theless up by 1.5% on the previous year, which had seen only marginal growth of 0.1%. This development was largely supported by capital spending on plant and equipment, which ex- ceeded the prior year level by 3.1% and led to a moderate improvement in employment. As a result, the jobless ratio declined from 6.9% in the previous year to 6.7% in 2014. With the consumer climate in Germany also
GROUP mANAGEmENT REPORT
 35

36
 GROUP mANAGEmENT REPORT
better than in the rest of the eurozone in 2014, which is why consumer spending was up by
1.1% on the previous year.
With the gross domestic product grow- ing by 0.6%, economic growth in Russia
– A.S. Création’s most important output market in Eastern Europe – came almost to
a standstill in 2014. Besides the economic sanctions imposed on Russia in the context of the Ukraine crisis, the Russian economy, still dominated by commodity-based, export- oriented sectors, primarily suffered from the low oil price. On the other hand, the dramatic depreciation of the Russian rouble against the US dollar and the euro made imports much more expensive; this was increasingly reflec- ted in rising inflation, among other things, in the course of 2014. The inflation rate for the full year 2014 reached 7.9% (previous year: 6,8%). In this negative environment prevailing in 2014, capital spending declined by 3.6%, while consumer spending, a driver of the Rus- sian economy in the past, was up by only 2.0% on the prior year level (previous year: 4.7%).
Prices in the international commodity and energy markets declined in 2014. According to the Hamburg Institute of International Eco- nomics (HWWI), global commodity and ener- gy prices, having already declined by 5.1% in 2013, dropped by another 7.0% on a euro basis in 2014. This was primarily due to the sharp drop in the oil price, which fell from
between USD 105 and 110 in the first half of 2014 to approx. USD 46 dollar at the end of the year. This represents a reduction by over 50%. This slump was the result of the excess supply in the international oil market; the sharp increase in oil production resulting from the heavy use of fracking in the USA was not offset by commensurately higher demand due to the weaker economy. The downward trend in commodity and energy prices also benefited A.S. Création in 2014, although the decline in the prices of the raw materials used by A.S. Création was much lower.
2.2. Industry-specific environment
Every year since the 2009 financial and eco- nomic crisis, the members of the Association of German Wallpaper Manufacturers (VDT) had been able to increase their sales revenues. This positive trend came to a (temporary) end in 2013, when the VDT members recorded a 4.1% decline in sales revenues. This downward trend unfortunately continued in 2014, when the industry suffered another 6.5% drop in revenues.
As the export markets play an important role for German wallpaper manufacturers – about two thirds of their sales revenues are gener- ated outside Germany – the German wallpa- per industry suffered particularly strongly from the adverse economic conditions pre- vailing in the main foreign markets in 2014.

This negative trend is primarily attributable to the poorer export possibilities to Russia and Ukraine resulting from the Ukraine crisis and the depreciation of the local currencies against the euro. Accordingly, export sales declined at a much higher rate (9.3%) than domestic sales, which were down by only 0.6% on the previous year in 2014.
2014 was a disappointing year for German wallpaper manufacturers also for another rea- son. While wallpaper sales had often shown a much more positive trend than consumer spending in the past years, the VDT members were unable to benefit from growing consu- mer spending in 2014.
A 5.7% decline in the Wallpaper Division’s sales revenues from € 186.5 million in the previous year to € 175.9 million in 2014 means that A.S. Création performed more or less in line with the German wallpaper industry as a whole and was able to defend its own high market share in 2014.
The renewed drop in sales revenues in 2014 has dashed hopes of a quick recovery of the German wallpaper industry from the slump in revenues of the year 2009. The Managing Board assumes that this also applies to other Western European wallpaper manufacturers, which means that there are material overca- pacities on the production side in Western Europe. The unused production capacity has
led to fierce price competition, thereby inten- sifying the consolidation pressure in the wall- paper industry. The Managing Board expects this trend to continue.
While the year 2013 was marked by a sharp decline in sales revenues, the latest figures published by the Association of German Home Textiles Manufacturers for the first ten months of 2014 show an increase of close to 3% in sales of furnishing fabrics/curtains. This growth was exclusively achieved in foreign markets, whereas domestic demand again remained below the prior year level. However, the mode- rate improvement in the industry-specific framework conditions of the Furnishing Fab- rics Division has not led to a fundamental change in the market situation. Right on the contrary, the industry remains in an ongoing consolidation process on the supplier side. In this competitive environment, the Furnishing Fabrics Division has been among the success- ful market players for years. In the fiscal year 2014, the Division held its revenues steady at € 13.6 million (previous year: € 13.6 million) and clearly improved its profitability.
2.3. Overview of the business trend
The performance of A.S. Création in 2014 – the 40th fiscal year in the history of the compa- ny – was clearly adversely affected by the overall economic environment. In contrast to the previous years, A.S. Création was not able
GROUP mANAGEmENT REPORT
 37

38
 GROUP mANAGEmENT REPORT
to isolate itself from the negative develop- ments and consequently failed to reach the ambitious targets set for 2014. At € 189.1 mil- lion (previous year: € 199.8 million), Group sales revenues for the fiscal year 2014 fell clearly short of the projected € 205 million to € 215 million. There were two main reasons why the company failed to meet the sales projections:
• The effects of the Ukraine crisis led to an unexpected drop in Group sales revenues in non-EU Eastern European countries. Wallpaper exports to Russia and Ukraine, A.S. Création’s most important output mar- kets in this region, dropped sharply. Pri- vate households’ declining consumption propensity in combination with the depre- ciation of the local currencies against the euro led to lower demand for A.S. Création’s German-made wallpapers. At the same time, the Russian distribution company, A.S. Création (RUS), clearly increased sales of Russian-made wallpapers. However, this revenue growth was not sufficient to off- set the reduced export sales.
• Several wallpaper markets within the EU, especially the French market, were in unex- pectedly poor shape in 2014. It is only thanks to the very positive revenue growth
in Germany that Group sales revenues in the EU were only slightly below the prior year level in 2014.
Besides the unsatisfactory sales situation, earnings were also disappointing in the fiscal year 2014. While the company had reported a consolidated net profit after taxes of € 1.3 million in the previous year, it had to post the first consolidated net loss after taxes since
1989 in the fiscal year 2014, at € -9.3 million. This means that the company missed its pro- jections of strong after-tax profit growth by a wide margin. However, these profit projec- tions had explicitly been based on the as- sumption that the Russian rouble would not depreciate materially against the euro until the end of 2014 and that no significant bur- dens exceeding the provisions of € 2.0 million would arise from the antitrust proceedings. Both assumptions failed to materialise. Right on the contrary:
• The rouble exchange rate climbed from RUB/€ 44.97 to RUB/€ 68.34 in the course of 2014, which is equivalent to an appre- ciation of the euro against the rouble (or a depreciation of the rouble against the euro) of 52.0%. Exchange losses totalling € 10.4 million (previous year: € 2.1 million) weighed on the Group’s profit after taxes in 2014.
• After the French antitrust authorities issued penalty notices against companies of the A.S. Création Group in December 2014, the provision established for risks from

the antitrust proceedings in Germany and France was increased from € 2.0 million to € 7.0 million as of December 31, 2014 as a precautionary measure. This shaved off € 5.0 million (previous year: € 2.0 million) from the consolidated earnings after taxes for the fiscal year 2014.
Adjusted for these two extraordinary effects, A.S. Création would have posted a profit after taxes of € 6.1 million for the anniversary year 2014 and would thus have achieved the pro- jected material increase on the previous year’s € 1.3 million. But this is merely hypothetical, as the actual figures show that this target has not been reached. Consequently, the Managing Board is not satisfied with the fiscal year 2014.
3. Net asset, financial and earnings position
3.1. Earnings position
3.1.1. Sales revenues
A.S. Création’s sales revenues declined by € 10.7 million or 5.3% from € 199.8 million in the previous year to € 189.1 million in the fiscal year 2014. An amount of € 2.0 million of this decline is due to changes in exchange rates, especially of the Russian rouble against the euro, which means that sales revenues are
down on the previous year also in exchange rated-adjusted terms.
The reduction in revenues in the fiscal year is attributable to the Wallpaper Division, where- as the Furnishing Fabrics Division’s sales re- venues held steady at the prior year level of € 13.6 million (previous year: € 13.6 million), which is a positive achievement in a difficult market environment. By contrast, the Wallpaper Division’s 5.7% decline in sales revenues from € 186.5 million in the previous year to € 175.9 million in the fiscal year is not satisfactory at all, all the less so as the projections for 2014 had assumed a strong increase in revenues.
The analysis of A.S. Création’s sales revenues shows that the company recorded declining revenues in all regions – except Germany – in 2014. This clearly contrasted with the Mana-
GROUP mANAGEmENT REPORT
 Sales performance in € m
198.9 199.8
2012 2013
189.1 200 150
100 50 0
          2014
 39

40
 GROUP mANAGEmENT REPORT
ging Board’s expectations for the fiscal year 2014, according to which sales revenues were to increase in all regions, especially in Eastern Europe. This means that the sales target of € 205 million to € 215 million projected for 2014 was missed by a wide margin.
Above all, the Ukraine crisis clearly left its marks on A.S. Création’s sales revenues. At € 34.5 million, gross sales revenues in non-EU Eastern European countries were down € 5.6 million or 14.0% on the previous year’s € 40.1 million. Wallpaper exports to Russia and the Ukraine, A.S. Création’s most important out- put markets in the region, dropped sharply. Declining consumption propensity of private households combined with the depreciation of the local currencies against the euro led to reduced demand for A.S. Création’s German- made wallpapers. The depreciation of the local
Gross-Sales by regions 2014
in % €m
currencies made imports more expensive for local customers, making the wallpapers expor- ted from Germany to Russia or Ukraine less competitive. This led to increased demand for locally produced wallpapers. This was one of the reasons why the Russian distribution com- pany, A.S. Création (RUS), was able to raise its sales of locally produced wallpapers signifi- cantly in 2014. However, the level of sales revenues achieved by A.S. Création (RUS) was not sufficient to offset the reduced export sales, which means that A.S. Création’s total Group sales revenues in this region declined.
At € 160.7 million, gross revenues in the EU were down by 1.5% on the previous year’s € 163.2 million. This slight decline is the result of two opposite developments. The sales trend in Germany was positive, as A.S. Création benefited from the takeover of the former Praktiker and Max Bahr stores by other DIY store operators. The restocking of these stores contributed significantly to the 4.1% increase in domestic gross revenues posted by A.S. Création in the fiscal year 2014. Outside the DIY store segment, i.e. in the wholesale and specialist retail segment, A.S. Création generated only moderately higher sales revenues, however. The situation in the rest of the EU was quite different from the situation in Germany, with A.S. Création recording a 6.5% drop in sales revenues in the fiscal year. This was primarily due to the very poor state of the French (wall- paper) market, which is A.S. Création’s second
 38.0 38.5
76.5
16.4
7.1
100.0
79.9 Germany 80.8 EU (excl. Germany)
160.7 European Union (EU)
34.5 Other Eastern Europe
14.9 Other countries 210.1 Sales (gross)
        
most important market behind Germany. The year 2014 saw a renewed contraction in the market volume as well as continued consoli- dation in the sector and a large French retail chain specialising in wallpapers filed for insol- vency in September 2014.
Unlike the previous years, 2014 saw no growth impulses coming from the roughly 70 other countries in which A.S. Création generates sales revenues. Right on the contrary, gross reve- nues in these countries were down by 12.1% on the previous year, with A.S. Création recording lower demand for wallpapers especially in Asia and in the Middle East.
Considering that the decline in sales revenues in 2014 is not attributable to individual coun- tries but affected many regions, 2014 was cer- tainly not a “wallpaper year” in the eyes of the Managing Board. Even the positive sales trend in Germany is primarily due to the extraordinary effects in the DIY store segment described above, meaning that the 4.1% increase in revenues in 2014 should be seen in conjunc- tion with the sharp drop of 6.3% in 2013, which puts it in more relative terms. Overall, the Managing Board is not satisfied with the sales revenues generated in the fiscal year 2014.
As a result of the above-described sales trends in the regions, the breakdown of sales revenues changed in the fiscal year 2014. Because of the sharp drop in sales revenues in non-EU
Eastern European countries resulting from the Ukraine crisis, the region’s importance for A.S. Création’s Group revenues has declined markedly. In the fiscal year, the company gene- rated only 16.4% (previous year: 18.2%) respec- tively € 34.5 million (previous year: € 40.1 million) of its gross revenues in this region. A comparison with the figures reported prior to the financial crisis and the Ukraine crisis reflects the massive changes that took place over the past years. In the fiscal year 2008, gross revenues generated in non-EU Eastern European countries represented 30.7% or € 58.9 million of A.S. Création’s total gross revenues.
The percentage of gross revenues generated in Germany increased from 34.8% in the pre- vious year to 38.0% in 2014. As a result, the percentage of gross revenues generated in the EU rose from 74.1% in 2013 to 76.5% in the fiscal year, which shows that A.S. Création’s Group sales revenues clearly focus on the EU.
In spite of the different sales trends in the two Divisions, the breakdown of Group sales rev- enues by Divisions did not change materially in 2014. The Wallpaper Division accounted for € 175.6 million or 92.8% (previous year: € 186.3 million or 93.3%) of total Group sales in the amount of € 189.1 million (previous year: € 199.8 million), while the Furnishing Fabrics Division accounted for € 13.5 million or 7.2% (previous year: € 13.5 million or 6.7%).
GROUP mANAGEmENT REPORT
 41

   42
 GROUP mANAGEmENT REPORT
 3.1.2. Earnings
A.S. Création posted earnings before interest and taxes of only € 3.3 million for the fiscal year 2014, which represents a decline by 67.7% from the previous year’s € 10.2 million. As a result, the EBIT margin dropped to 1.7% (pre- vious year: 5.1%), the lowest level since the adoption of IFRS in 1998. This means that the notable improvement in EBIT and the EBIT margin projected in last year’s outlook for the fiscal year 2014 was not achieved. However, the Managing Board had explicitly based this fore- cast on the assumption that no significant burdens exceeding the provisions of € 2.0 million would arise from the antitrust pro- ceedings and that the Russian rouble would not depreciate materially against the euro until the end of 2014. As outlined in para- graph 2.3 (“Overview of the business trend”), both assumptions failed to materialise. These extraordinary effects, which may not be sta- ted separately from EBIT according to IFRS, should be taken into account when analysing the poorer earnings position of the fiscal year 2014.
The above-described decline in Group sales revenues by € 10.7 million or 5.3% from the previous year’s € 199.8 million to € 189.1 mil- lion in the fiscal year obviously weighed on A.S. Création’s bottom line. Due to the reduc- tion in sales, the sales process contributed
Earnings before interest and taxes (EBIT) in € m
15.8
2012 2013 2014
15
10
5
  10.2
 3.3
0
  clearly lower earnings compared to the prior year. As a result, gross profit, at € 93.5 million, was down by € 3.5 million on the previous year’s € 97.0 million.
As the cost of materials is the most important expense item in the income statement of A.S. Création, the gross profit margin (gross profit as a percentage of total output) is one of the key indicators to assess the trend in earnings before interest and taxes. This indi- cator improved from 48.3% in the previous year to 50.1% in the fiscal year 2014. This very positive trend partly offset the reduced contribution to earnings made by the lower sales revenues. The following factors contribu- ted to the improved gross profit margin:
• Reduction in inventories
Inventories were reduced by € 2.6 million

in the course of 2014, compared to an in- crease in inventories by € 1.0 million in the previous year. The sale of the products resulted in gains which had a positive impact on the gross profit margin.
• Reduced reject rate
In the course of 2014, A.S. Création Tapeten AG was able to reduce the reject rate to new record lows. This had a positive impact on material consumption and the gross profit margin.
• Declining procurement costs
In 2014, A.S. Création benefited from the general decline in global commodity and energy prices described in paragraph 2.1 (“Macroeconomic environment”), as it re- duced the production costs of the wallpa- pers produced by the company.
• Reduced write-downs of inventories
In the previous year, the more basic wall- paper range marketed by A.S. Création (RUS) during the start-up phase of pro- duction could not be sold in the planned quantities and at the anticipated prices. The company therefore had to offer price discounts to sell these goods in 2013 and write down the remaining inventories, which had an adverse impact on the gross profit margin. These adverse impacts were much lower in the past fiscal year. More-
over, the reduction in inventories, also out- side Russia, led to lower write-downs than in the previous year.
The Managing Board is satisfied that these effects helped to partly offset the negative effects of the increased price competition in both the Wallpaper Division and the Furnish- ing Fabrics Division. As described above, how- ever, gross profit from the sales process fell € 3.5 million short of the level required to cover the other expense items.
Personnel expenses, the second most impor- tant expense item in A.S. Création’s income statement behind the cost of materials, were reduced by 4.1% or € 1.9 million from € 45.1 million in the previous year to € 43.2 million in the fiscal year 2014. In response to the declining revenues and the poorer earnings position, most temporary employment con- tracts expiring in 2014 were not renewed and retiring employees were replaced with existing staff. Redundancies were required only in a few exceptional cases. As a result of these measures, the average headcount de- clined from 837 in the previous year to 822 in 2014, thereby contributing to the above- mentioned reduction in personnel expenses. The lower personnel expenses are also attri- butable to the decline in the performance- linked compensation components resulting from the reduced earnings posted for the
GROUP mANAGEmENT REPORT
 43

fiscal year. By contrast, personnel expenses were adversely affected by the collectively agreed pay rises in 2013 and 2014, which increased the wages and salaries of most domestic employees in 2014. On balance, the 4.1% reduction in personnel expenses in 2014 contrasted with a 7.1% decline in total output. Accordingly, personnel expenses as a percentage of total output deteriorated in the fiscal year to a disappointing 23.2% (pre- vious year: 22.5%).
Other operating expenses showed a rather unusual trend in the fiscal year 2014, as they increased by € 5.4 million or 16.7% from € 32.5 million in the previous year to € 37.9 million in spite of the reduced total output. When analysing this trend, one should take into account two special factors which adversely influenced other operating expenses in 2014. On the one hand, the rouble exchange rate climbed from RUB/€ 44.97 on December 31, 2013 to RUB/€ 68.34 on December 31, 2014; this is equivalent to an appreciation of the euro against the rouble (or a depreciation of the rouble against the euro) of 52.0%. As A.S. Création (RUS) is funded in euros, this exchange rate trend led to translation- related exchange losses. Total exchange los- ses of € 4.5 million (previous year: € 0.6 mil- lion) weighed on A.S. Création’s earnings be- fore interest and taxes in 2014. On the other hand, the provision for risks from the anti-
 44
 GROUP mANAGEmENT REPORT
trust proceedings in Germany and France was increased by € 5.0 million (previous year: € 2.0 million) in the fiscal year. The details are outlined in paragraph 7.2.5. (“Risks from antitrust proceedings”). In accordance with IFRS, this extraordinary expense is included in other operating expenses and thus reduces earnings before interest and taxes. Adjusted for these exchange losses and the risk provi- sion for the antitrust proceedings, other ope- rating expenses declined by € 1.5 million from € 29.9 million in the previous year to € 28.4 million in the fiscal year 2014. This reduction reflects the cost-savings implemented in this area and announced by the Managing Board for 2014. A further improvement in other ope- rating expenses was prevented by an increase in write-downs on trade receivables. The dif- ficult macroeconomic situation led to finan- cial problems for some customers, who even had to file for insolvency in exceptional cases. This increased A.S. Création’s need for write- downs, which were up by € 0.7 million on the previous year.
Between them, the above effects led to the before-mentioned 67.7% or € 6.9 million decline in earnings before interest and taxes from € 10.2 million in the previous year to € 3.3 million in the past fiscal year. Adjusted for the above significant extraordinary effects – increased exchange losses and higher provi- sion for risks from the antitrust proceedings –

earnings before interest and taxes were exactly on a par with the previous year at € 12.8 million (previous year: € 12.8 million) and the EBIT margin improved moderately from 6.4% in 2013 to 6.8% in the fiscal year. Against the background of the € 10.7 million decline in sales revenues in 2014, this means that A.S. Création performed very well in a challenging fiscal year from a purely opera- tional point of view. But the bottom line are actual results, not adjusted results. This is why the Managing Board is not satisfied with the earnings position in the fiscal year 2014.
The translation-related exchange losses resul- ting from the dramatic depreciation of the Russian rouble against the euro also had a strongly adverse impact on earnings of the Russian production company, A.S. & Palitra, in the fiscal year 2014. Given that A.S. Création Tapeten AG and the second shareholder, Kof Palitra, each hold 50% in this company, the Russian production company is accounted for using the equity method, i.e. the share in ear- nings after taxes of the joint venture that is attributable to A.S. Création is recognised in the consolidated financial result. A.S. Création’s pro-rated loss increased by € 3.9 million from € -4.3 million in 2013 to € -8.2 million in the fiscal year 2014. This deterioration in earnings is exclusively attributable to the exchange losses, which represent € -6.8 million of the pro-rated loss after taxes in the fiscal year
(previous year: € -1.6 million). Adjusted for the translation-related exchange losses, the pro-rated start up losses were reduced from € -2.7 million in the previous year to € -1.4 million in the fiscal year 2014. This reflects the success achieved by A.S. & Palitra in im- proving the utilisation of its own production capacity and the continued upskilling of its workforce. A further reduction in the start-up losses in 2014 was prevented by the adverse effects imposed on the gross profit margin in the form of the much more expensive com- modity imports. With the quality of the raw materials for wallpaper production made in Russia not (yet) being sufficient, A.S. & Palitra – and its main competitors – source most of the required materials from Western Europe. As a result of the depreciation of the Russian rouble against the euro, these imported mate- rials became much more expensive, especially in the second half of the fiscal year 2014. On balance, however, the Managing Board of A.S. Création is of the opinion that the Rus- sian production company is well on track to break even.
The increased losses posted by the Russian production company are the main reason for the decline in A.S. Création’s financial result from € -5.0 million in the previous year to € -8.4 million in 2014. This overshadows the very positive trend in net interest expense (difference between interest expenses and
GROUP mANAGEmENT REPORT
 45

 Earnings after taxes in € m 8.9
1.3
–5
–9.3 –10 2012 2013 2014
10 5 0
         46
 GROUP mANAGEmENT REPORT
interest income), which shrank from € -0.7 million in the previous year to € -0.1 million due to the sharp drop in net financial liabilities.
Earnings before interest and taxes and the financial result led to a loss before taxes of € -5.1 million in the fiscal year, compared to a profit before taxes of € 5.2 million in the previous year.
In spite of the loss before taxes, income tax in the amount of € 4.3 million (previous year: € 3.9 million) was incurred in the fiscal year 2014, leading to the unusual effect that the loss after taxes, at € -9.3 million (previous year: earnings after taxes of € 1.3 million), is higher than the loss before taxes. This is main- ly due to the fact that earnings before taxes of the fiscal year 2014 include expense items of € 13.2 million (previous year: € 6.3 million), in the form of the pro-rated losses of the Russian joint venture accounted for using the equity method and the provisions for the risks from the antitrust proceedings, which do not lead to a reduction in the tax assessment base. Adjusted for these non-deductible ex- pense items, the taxable earnings for the fis- cal year amounted to € 8.1 million (previous year: € 11.5 million). In addition, deferred tax assets totalling € 1.4 million (previous year: € 0.0 million) for losses carried forward were value-adjusted or not recognised in order to reflect the increased planning uncertainty resulting from the current macroeconomic environment.
Based on the number of shares outstanding, which remained unchanged at 2,756,351 in 2014, earnings per share amounted to € -3.39 (previous year: € 0.48).
3.1.3. Profit appropriation
The Managing Board of A.S Creation Tapeten AG has always pursued a dividend policy that pro- vides for a high payout ratio as long as this is permitted by the company’s financial situa- tion. In the past years, the payout ratio of A.S. Création settled at a level of about 45%. This means that the dividend policy of A.S. Création is characterised by continuity and reliability.
The fixed payout ratio means that the abso- lute amounts of the dividend payments are not smoothened over time but increase or decrease in line with earnings. Paragraph 3.1.2. (“Ear- nings”) explains in detail that a loss was po-

sted for the fiscal year 2014. In keeping with the dividend policy, this loss for the year 2014 will lead to a cancellation of the dividend. It will therefore be proposed to the Annual Gene- ral Meeting of Shareholders scheduled for May 7, 2015 not to pay out a dividend for the fiscal year 2014. Although this means that no dividend will be paid for the first time since the 1998 IPO, the Managing Board is convin- ced that this approach is in the long-term, sustainable interest of the company.
3.2. Financial position
3.2.1. Capital expenditures
At € 5.1 million, capital expenditures in the fiscal year 2014 were down by € 3.6 million on the previous year’s € 8.7 million. This decline is primarily due to the fact that A.S. Création had to make available an amount of only € 0.6 million (previous year: € 3.0 million) in the form of shareholder loans to finance the joint venture, A.S. & Palitra, in the reporting period. These long-term loans are stated as capital expenditures in the consoli- dated financial statements of A.S. Création. Since the foundation of A.S. & Palitra in 2008, the investments made by the two sharehol- ders have added up to € 40.6 million, of which € 20.3 million relates to A.S. Création. Adjusted for the financing of the joint ven- ture, capital expenditures in the fiscal year 2014 amounted to € 4.5 million, down € 1.2
million on the previous year’s € 5.7 million and primarily related to printing tools for the new wallpaper collections as well as to re- placement investments. As in the previous year, no major investments in new plant capacity were required.
As of the balance sheet date, the company had financial obligations from order commit- ments for investments in tangible fixed as- sets in the amount of € 0.6 million (previous year: € 0.2 million).
3.2.2. Cash flow statement and net financial liabilities
A.S. Création’s high internal financing strength did not suffer from the poorer earnings posi- tion in the fiscal year 2014. Right on the con- trary: While consolidated net profit declined by € 10.6 million from € 1.3 million in the previous year to € -9.3 million in the fiscal
GROUP mANAGEmENT REPORT
 Capital expenditures and depreciation in € m 13.1
9.8
2012
Capex
15 10 5 0
  8.7
      5.1
   2013
9.5
Depreciation
9.3
2014
   47

 Cash flow from operating activities in€m
23.3
25 20 15 10
5 0
       12.6
14.2
       2012 2013 2014
48
 GROUP mANAGEmENT REPORT
year 2014, cash flow from operating activities rose by € 1.6 million from the previous year’s € 12.6 million to € 14.2 million. This increase in cash flow from operating activities is pri- marily attributable to two factors:
• Consolidated net profit for the year 2014 was affected by much higher non-cash expenses than the net profit for the pre- vious year; neither the € 3.9 million increase in the pro-rated loss of the A.S. & Palitra joint venture, which is accounted for using the equity method, nor the € 3.0 million increase in the pro- vision for risks from the antitrust proceed- ings led to an outflow of funds in the fiscal year 2014.
• In 2014, inventories were reduced by € 3.2 million, especially at A.S. Création Tapeten AG, whereas additional capital of € 2.2 million was tied up in inventories in the previous year. The imputed inventory turnover re- mained almost unchanged at 4.2 per year (previous year: 4.3), however, due to the de- cline in sales revenues in the fiscal year 2014.
The increased cash flow from operating acti- vities contrasted with lower financing require- ments in the past fiscal year. On the one hand, capital expenditures in 2014 were down by € 3.6 million on the previous year, as outlined above. On the other hand, the dividend of
€ 0.7 million paid out in May 2014 was € 2.6 million lower than the prior year dividend of € 3.3 million due to the much lower consoli- dated net profit for the fiscal year 2013.
In spite of the reduced earnings, A.S. Création was thus able to further reduce its net finan- cial liabilities (difference between interest-bea- ring financial liabilities and cash and cash equi- valents as well as current financial assets) in the fiscal year 2014. They declined from € 20.3 million on December 31, 2013 by € 8.4 mil- lion to € 11.9 million on December 31, 2014. This overall improvement is composed of a € 6.2 million reduction in interest-bearing financial liabilities and a € 2.2 million increase in cash and cash equivalents and current finan- cial assets. As a result, A.S. Création’s cash and cash equivalents and current financial assets totalled € 8.8 million as of the balance sheet date (previous year: € 6.6 million).

3.2.3. Balance sheet structure
A.S. Création’s conservative financing policy is characterised by long-term debt at fixed interest rates as well as by repayments during the term of the loans and has proven its worth especially in the financial crisis. In the past years, A.S. Création did not face a reduction in credit lines or had to renegotiate the con- ditions of its existing loans. Only where unused credit lines appeared to be too high were they reduced in agreement with the lending banks. The Group has a very robust and sound finan- cial structure, which is reflected in the follow- ing balance sheet figures:
• Due to the loss incurred in the fiscal year 2014, equity declined to € 86.9 million as of December 31, 2014 (previous year: € 93.5 million). As total assets decreased at the same time, the equity ratio stayed at a high level of 59.4% (previous year: 58.8%).
• Equity and long-term debt capital are more than sufficient to finance non-current assets. As of December 31, 2014, the respective ratio stood at 220.4% (previous year: 204.3%), which means that the “golden rule of financing” was more than fulfilled.
• The debt to equity ratio (net financial lia- bilities divided by equity) stood at a low
•
13.7% on December 31, 2014 (previous year: 21.7%).
At 1.9 years (previous year: 1.2 years), the debt repayment period (the quotient of net financial liabilities and cash flow) also reached a very good level in the past fiscal year.
As of December 31, 2014, the Group’s total assets amounted to € 146.2 million (previous year: € 159.1 million), of which 82.3% (pre- vious year: 80.0%) related to property, plant and equipment, inventories, trade receivables, current financial assets as well as cash and cash equivalents. By contrast, intangible as- sets (including goodwill) stated in the balance sheet as of the balance sheet date merely play a minor role and represented only 5.6% (pre-
GROUP mANAGEmENT REPORT
  Total assets and financial structure
€ 161.7 m
2012
Assets
Non-cu..rrent assets
€ 159.1 m
€ 146.2 m
2013 2014
Equity and Liabilities Equity
            42%
25%
40%
59%
 23%
37%
   58%
59%
60%
63%
59%
 23%
   16%
18%
18%
    Curren.t assets
Non-cu.rrent liabilities Curren.t liabilities
   49

50
  Number of employees (average)
837 820
41
377
2012 2013 2014
47
822
Trainees and
    402
403
47
  387
380
395
apprentices
White-collar workers
Blue-collar workers
       GROUP mANAGEmENT REPORT
vious year: 5.1%) of total assets and 9.4% of equity (previous year: 8.8%).
The Managing Board of A.S. Création believes that the net asset and financial position of A.S. Création is robust and sound and will en- able the company to further pursue its growth strategy in spite of uncertain conditions.
4. material non-financial indicators
4.1. Employees
The average headcount of A.S. Création de- clined by 15 people or 1.8% from 837 to 822 in the course of 2014. 750 employees (previ- ous year: 765) worked in the Wallpaper Divi- sion and 72 (previous year: 72) in the Furni- shing Fabrics Division. A majority of 675 peo-
ple or 82.1% (previous year: 688 people or 82.2%) are employed by the domestic Group companies.
Against the background of the declining sales revenues in 2014, A.S. Création Tapeten AG temporarily had to take production lines out of operation. Jobs were also cut in adminis- tration. These measures are only partly reflec- ted in staff numbers, as the capacity adjust- ments were primarily implemented by termi- nating employment relationships with tem- porary workers who were not employed by A.S. Création but by temporary employment firms. The above-mentioned decline in the ave- rage headcount by 15 people or 1.8% in 2014 is primarily attributable to the expiry of tem- porary employment contracts and to employees reaching retirement age. People were made redundant only in exceptional cases.
As the average headcount declined by 1.8% and sales revenues decreased by 5.3% in the past fiscal year, sales per employee dropped from € 0.239 million to € 0.230 million in 2014. Paragraph 3.1.2. (“Earnings”) addresses the increase in personnel expenses as a per- centage of total output and further burdens resulting from the latest collective bargaining agreement. As there are no signs of revenue and earnings growth which could offset these additional expenses, the staff reductions will necessarily continue in 2015.

A.S. Création’s traditionally strong commitment to training young people has not and will not be restricted. In 2014, A.S. Création trained an average of 47 (previous year: 47) young people in one of the eleven occupations for which A.S. Création offers vocational training. The Managing Board of A.S. Création is convinced that the training and further education of its workforce are important factors for the future of the company. Consequently, the training activities were expanded in spite of the eco- nomically challenging conditions prevailing over the past years. Trainees/apprentices mean- while represent 7.0% (previous year: 6.8%) of the domestic workforce.
2014 was no doubt a special year for A.S. Création, as external factors - especially the consequen- ces of the Ukraine crisis - had such an adverse impact on the business of A.S. Création that the company posted a loss for the fiscal year. Needless to say, these difficult conditions and the rationalisation measures taken by the company have caused uncertainty among its workforce, who nevertheless showed a great commitment towards A.S. Création and a readiness to embrace and support the mea- sures initiated by the Managing Board. The Managing Board would like to take this opportunity to thank all employees of A.S. Création for this commitment and this confidence. These thanks also go to the members of the works councils and the
employee representatives on the Supervi- sory Board.
4.2. Product safety and environmental protection
All A.S. Création wallpapers are produced to applicable EN or DIN standards and thus comply with legal provisions. For instance, all wallpapers made by A.S. Création bear a qualified CE mark to EN 15102. This shows that A.S. Création wallpapers have proven to meet the fire protection criteria defined by the EU.
To establish the fundamentals for a uniform and reproducible health-related evaluation of building products in Germany, the Commit- tee for Health-related Evaluation of Building Products (Ausschuss zur gesundheitlichen Bewertung von Bauprodukten - AgBB ) has developed criteria for testing and an evalua- tion scheme for emissions from building pro- ducts suitable for indoor usage. According to these provisions, such building products, which also include wallpapers, must be tested by an independent testing institute. Tested building products meeting the requirements obtain an approval from Deutsches Institut für Bautechnik (DIBT) and may be labelled with the “Ü” sign. The wallpapers of A.S. Création have obtained this approval and are labelled accordingly.
GROUP mANAGEmENT REPORT
 51

52
 GROUP mANAGEmENT REPORT
Emissions from building products for indoor usage are also addressed by a French regu- lation, according to which all building pro- ducts used indoors must be marked with their emission class. The results of an analy- sis performed by an accredited test institute, demonstrate that all wallpapers made by A.S. Création meet the limits of the emission class “A+“ (the lowest class), so that they are all labelled accordingly.
But apart from complying with legal require- ments, A.S. Création offers its customers even greater safety, as the company’s wallpapers meet the more stringent requirements of Ger- many’s “Gütegemeinschaft Tapete e. V. ”, which are documented in RAL GZ-479. Compliance with this standard is reviewed by the interna- tionally renowned Fraunhofer Society on a random basis.
To promote environmental protection and sus- tainability, A.S. Création exclusively uses waterbased paints on its heliogravure print- ing machines. Moreover, the company has used only FSC®-certified papers and non- wovens, which means that all wallpapers carry the FSC® seal. The FSC® (Forest Stew- ardship Council) is a non-governmental, non-profit organisation committed to the environmentally and socially compatible and economically viable management of the world’s forests. The FSC® label tells consum- ers that wood from responsible and sustain-
able forest management was used for the product in question.
Our capital expenditures also reflect our com- mitment to a sparing use of resources. While all capital expenditures required to meet the increasingly stringent legal and regulatory requirements count as direct capital expen- ditures in environmental protection, capital expenditures in modernisation contribute to environmental protection given that the use of advanced technologies usually also entails a higher degree of efficiency with regard to the resources used. Such capital expenditures in modernisation are made continuously by A.S. Création. The same applies to the im- provement of production processes, which also leads to increased efficiency. Consequently, the reject rate and the average energy con- sumption in the production of a wallpaper roll have been reduced over the past years. This trend is to be continued over the next years.
A.S. Création Tapeten AG has a certified en- ergy management system to ISO 50001:2011.
5. Important events in 2014
Since July 1, 2005, the financial statements of capital market oriented companies in Ger- many are audited not only by the auditor

elected by the Annual General Meeting of Shareholders but also by the Financial Report- ing Enforcement Panel - FREP (Deutsche Prüf- stelle für Rechnungslegung e.V. DPR). Compa- nies listed in a stock market index are audited every four to five years and all other compa- nies are audited every eight to ten years on a random sample basis. In addition, FREP con- ducts event-triggered audits if and when there are indications of a violation of accounting regu- lations. FREP audited the consolidated financial statements and the Group management report for the year 2012 of A.S. Création on a random sample basis and informed the company in January 2014 that no accounting errors had been found.
Following on from the search of the offices in November 2010 and the opening of admi- nistrative offence proceedings in November 2011, the German Federal Cartel Office issued penalty notices against the company and some of its employees in February 2014. The penalty imposed on A.S. Création Tapeten AG amounts to € 10.0 million, while the penalties imposed on the responsible persons total € 0.5 million. In November 2014, the German Federal Cartel Office announced that, besides the two alle- gations to which the penalty notices of Febru- ary 2014 relate, no further allegations against A.S. Création Tapeten AG will be pursued. For more details, refer to paragraph 7.2.5. (“Risks from antitrust proceedings”).
Following on from the search of offices in November 2010 and the opening of adminis trative offence proceedings in July 2013, the French antitrust authority issued penalty notices against SCE - Société de conception et d’édition SAS and MCF Investissement SAS, two French companies of the A.S. Création Group, in December 2014. The penalties im- posed on the two companies total € 5.0 mil- lion. For more details, refer to paragraph 7.2.5. (“Risks from antitrust proceedings”).
6. Important events after the end of the fiscal year
The Managing Board is of the opinion that no reportable events occurred after the end of the fiscal year.
7. Opportunity and risk report
7.1. Opportunity management
The company’s product portfolio is clearly positioned in the consumer goods sector. Over 90% of the wallpapers are used for renova- tion purposes, while less than 10% are used for new buildings. Because of their use, fur- nishing fabrics also qualify as consumer goods. A.S. Création thus operates in consumer goods markets which are influenced, on the one hand,
GROUP mANAGEmENT REPORT
 53

54
 GROUP mANAGEmENT REPORT
by the general trend in consumer spending and spending behaviour. On the other hand, demand for such fashionable products as wall- papers and furnishing fabrics depends on the latest colour and design trends. If potential future developments or events which may have a positive impact on the business of A.S. Création are regarded as opportunities, it is critical for the success of the company to identify and exploit such opportunities at an early stage. At A.S. Création, this kind of
“opportunity management” is the responsibi- lity of the management teams of the Group companies. The different local wallpaper and furnishing fabrics markets are characterised by country-specific particularities regarding colour and design trends, the relative impor- tance of the different distribution channels through which the products are marketed and the stage of market consolidation. Accordingly, the opportunities arising in the individual markets may differ significantly. This is why A.S. Création has refrained from installing a standardised global opportunity management system. According to the Managing Board, such a system is not required, as the simple and well-arranged corporate structure of A.S. Création and the company’s direct repor- ting lines ensures that information about opportunities which have been identified and may be relevant for the Group as a whole, are communicated to the Managing Board in a timely manner.
7.2. Risks
7.2.1. Risk management system
Any business activity inevitably entails not only opportunities but also certain risks. As a general rule, these risks can be divided into external risks such as the amendment of legal provisions and internal risks such as the liqui- dity risk. Throughout its company history, A.S. Création Tapeten AG has demonstrated its responsible approach to such risks. In the opinion of the Managing Board, the high qua- lity of our risk management system is an im- portant basis for the successful development of our company.
In the context of the risk management system, potential risks identified at A.S. Création are assessed by the company’s managers with re- gard to two criteria, namely “likelihood” and
“amount of loss/damage”. The amount of the loss/damage is classified as “manageable”, “high” and “very high”. The Managing Board is constantly kept informed of the risks and pays special attention to risks with a high or very high damage potential. The Managing Board is of the opinion that the risk manage- ment system, which is an integral element of A.S. Création’s reporting system, is of a suffi-
cient size. Based on statutory requirements, KPMG AG Wirtschaftsprüfungsgesellschaft, Cologne, examined the early risk identification

system of A.S. Création in the context of last year’s audits and confirmed that risks which may potentially jeopardise the continued exis- tence of the company can be identified by the early risk identification system established in accordance with section 91 AktG and are ad- equately presented in the management report. The early risk identification system was again checked by the new auditors, Ernst & Young GmbH Wirtschaftsprüfungsgesellschaft, Cologne in the context of this year’s annual audit.
In view of the large number of identifiable individual risks captured by the risk manage- ment system – some of which are explained below – it is important to make a realistic assessment of the overall risk. The Managing Board of A.S. Création Tapeten AG considers the overall risk to be relatively low. The likeli- hood of risks materialising that would jeopar- dise the company’s continued existence tends to be low.
7.2.2. macroeconomic and industry-specific risks
Future macroeconomic developments may entail risks for A.S. Création. For instance, a decline in consumer spending resulting from a recession could have an adverse impact on A.S. Création’s sales revenues. The forecasts for the year 2015 currently assume that con-
sumer spending in the eurozone will grow by 1.2%. By contrast, a decline by 6.8% is project- ed for Russia, the world’s largest wallpaper
market next to China. In this respect, the Manag- ging Board sees a high potential risk, which is not existence-threatening, though.
Industry-specific risks result from existing overcapacities in the wallpaper industry. Against the background of the positive trend in demand seen until 2008, new capacities for the production of wallpapers were installed in Western and Eastern Europe in the past years. Due to the sudden drop in demand in 2009 resulting from the global financial and economic crisis, the large European wallpaper manufacturers are currently no longer able to fully utilise their own production capacities. The situation deteriorated even further as a result of the negative impact of the Ukraine crisis on export possibilities to Eastern Europe and demand in local markets. The Managing Board of A.S. Création Tapeten AG believes that substantial overcapacities currently exist in the wallpaper industry. Like other manufac- turers, A.S. Création is not able, at present, to fully utilise its own production capacity. The Managing Board sees the risk of this under- utilisation leading to ruinous price competi- tion and, hence, to a new consolidation pro- cess in the global wallpaper industry. Never- theless, the Managing Board is of the opinion that, should a new consolidation process arise,
GROUP mANAGEmENT REPORT
 55

56
 GROUP mANAGEmENT REPORT
A.S. Création will be able to emerge from it as a winner thanks to its innovation and finan- cial strength. In this respect, the Managing Board sees a high potential risk, which is not existence-threatening, though.
Another high potential risk for the wallpaper industry results from the more stringent legal provisions regarding the use of chemicals in the production of wallpapers. The REACH che- micals regulation, for instance, is applicable throughout the European Union (EU). The acro- nym REACH stands for “Registration, Evalua- tion, Authorisation and Restriction of Chemi- cals”. On the basis of this regulation, the ha- zards which chemicals may pose to human health and the environment are assessed. Sub- stances of very high concern are put on a SVHC list, which means that the use of these chemi- cals may be reportable. In extreme cases, cer- tain substances may be banned throughout the EU. Just like other industries, the wallpa- per industry uses such additives, e.g. plastici- sers, in the production of flat and expanded vinyl wallpapers. Should these substances be banned in general, these types of wallpaper could no longer be produced with current technology. There are two reasons, however, why the Managing Board considers the pro- bability of such a scenario materialising to be low:
• There have been frequent discussions about the potential health hazards posed
by additives such as plasticisers in the past. The theoretical hazard depends on the use of the finished product. If used as intended, wallpapers do not present any hazard. Moreover, in accordance with RAL-GZ 479, A.S. Création exclusively uses non-volatile plasticisers in its wallpapers. The sale of the wallpapers produced by A.S. Création has never been subject to any restrictions and it is unlikely that the risk classification of wallpapers will change in future.
• The above additives are also widely used outside the wallpaper industry. If an addi- tive is likely to be banned or subjected to restrictions, manufacturers will be under great pressure to develop alternative solu- tions. A.S. Création liaises closely with its suppliers and will replace additives with new, state-of-the-art solutions, which is something the company has already done in the past.
In the worst-case scenario of a general pro- hibition of plasticisers, the entire wallpaper industry would be equally affected. Such a change would therefore not lead to any dis- tortions in the competitive situation. A high risk could arise only if a competitor were able to secure exclusive access to an equivalent substitute product for PVC, which would result in a permanent competitive advantage for that competitor. To minimise this risk, A.S. Création is constantly looking at ways of processing

substitute products in its existing production facilities. The Managing Board therefore be- lieves that the likelihood of such a scenario materialising is low.
7.2.3. Risks arising from the functional areas
In view of the special market conditions, a po- tential risk exists with regard to the company’s procurement activities. For A.S. Création as a customer, there are only few suppliers in these markets, and the quantities purchased by the wallpaper industry in general and A.S. Création in particular are relatively small from the suppliers’ viewpoint. In the event of rising raw materials prices, A.S. Création therefore has only limited negotiating clout and few alternatives to choose from. The strategy pursued by A.S. Création aims to prevent long-term pressure on margins with the help of an innovation-driven product policy. However, this strategy entails the risk that price increases on the procurement side can be passed on to customers only with a certain delay. Fluctuations in the gross profit margin in individual fiscal years can there- fore not be ruled out. The long-term analysis shows that these fluctuations stayed within a narrow bandwidth of ± 2.5 percentage points around the 50% mark in the period from 1997 to 2014. 2007, 2008 and 2011 were the only fiscal years in which the company
was unable to maintain the gross profit mar- gin within this bandwidth due to the “explo- sion” in commodity and energy prices. At 45.7% (2007), 44.9% (2008) and 45.8% (2011), the gross profit margin stood at a very low level. In spite of these adverse impacts, A.S. Création still generated positive results and sufficient cash flows to finance the regu- lar capital expenditures also in these years. This is why the Managing Board believes that the rising procurement prices pose a high, but not existence-threatening, risk for A.S. Création.
Another potential risk on the procurement side relates to the availability of raw mate- rials and/ or intermediate products of ade- quate quality. Due to the concentration among the suppliers providing the raw mate- rials and intermediate products required by A.S. Création, the procurement risk increased in the past years. Should A.S. Création be un- able to obtain the required quantities of a raw material or an intermediate product due to a general increase in demand or the loss of a major supplier, this may lead to a temporary production outage. With a view to mitigating this risk, A.S. Création analyses and tests the quality and efficiency of new suppliers. The Managing Board is of the opinion that inade- quate availability of raw materials is a high, but by no means existence-threatening, risk.
In 2008, A.S. Création Tapeten AG and Kof Palitra, Russia’s leading wallpaper manufac-
GROUP mANAGEmENT REPORT
 57

58
 GROUP mANAGEmENT REPORT
turer, established a joint venture under the name of A.S. & Palitra. The purpose of this joint venture is to produce higher-quality wallpapers for the Eastern European mar- ket and the Russian market, in particular. The production facility in Dzerzhinsk was taken into operation at the end of October 2012. To finance this project, the shareholders made equity contributions and granted shareholder loans to A.S. & Palitra. Since the year 2008, the investments made by the two shareholders have added up to € 40.6 million, of which € 20.3 million relates to A.S. Création. The project has increased the risk potential for A.S. Création in several respects. On the one hand, additional production capacities have been built up, which must be utilised. This has not been achieved so far, which means that the joint venture is still making losses. On the other hand, material assets are tied up in a country exposed to much higher economic and political risks than Germany. The Managing Board considers the risk asso- ciated with this investment to be very high but not existence-threatening. The Managing Board believes, however, that the company should take these additional risks in what is the world’s largest wallpaper market next to China, as they are outweighed by the result- ing opportunities.
No major risks currently exist in production and logistics. The production plants represent
the state of the art, necessary capital expendi- tures in replacements and new capacity are made on an ongoing basis and can be funded from the company’s cash flow.
7.2.4. Financial risks
As outlined in the analysis of the financial situation, the traditionally strong cash flow and the robust financial structure mean that no finance and liquidity bottlenecks are ex- pected. Due to the specific structure of the A.S. Création Group, interest rate or currency hedges and financial derivatives play only a minor role. Such hedges are generally taken out only for specific underlying transactions. For details, please refer to No. 30 in the Notes to the consolidated financial statements.
7.2.5. Risks from antitrust proceedings
Risks result from the current investigations by the German and French antitrust authori- ties, which are conducting separate procee- dings to find out whether there have been agreements in restraint of competition in the wallpaper industry. Violations of antitrust law generally pose a risk of significant fines. Also, there is a potential risk of claims for damages being raised by third parties in conjunction with antitrust proceedings as well as with

regard to charges resulting from the release of the company’s directors and officers from poten- tial penalty payments and claims for damages.
Following on from the search of offices in November 2010 and the opening of admini- strative offence proceedings in November 2011, the German Federal Cartel Office issued pen- alty notices against the company and some of its employees in February 2014. The Cartel Office claims that they violated antitrust law in the period from 2005 to 2008. During this time, price fixing practices are said to have occurred between A.S. Création Tapeten AG and other German wallpaper manufacturers. The penalty notices relate to two of the origi- nally five allegations. The other three alle- gations have been dropped by the German Federal Cartel Office after four years of thor- ough investigations. The penalty imposed on A.S. Création Tapeten AG amounts to € 10.0 million, while the penalties imposed on the responsible persons total € 0.5 million. A.S. Création Tapeten AG has released these persons from potential penalty payments with the consent of the Annual General Meeting of Shareholders. A.S. Création Tapeten AG and the persons affected have appealed against the penalty notices.
Following on from the search of offices in November 2010 and the opening of adminis- trative offence proceedings in July 2013, the
French antitrust authority issued penalty notices against SCE - Société de conception et d’édition SAS and MCF Investissement SAS, two French companies of the A.S. Création Group, in December 2014. The French anti- trust authorities accuse the two member com- panies of the A.S. Création Group and other French wallpaper companies of having ex- changed information in violation of antitrust law in the years from 2006 to 2010. The penal- ties imposed on the two companies total € 5.0 million. An appeal has been filed against the penalty notices.
With regard to the drain on liquidity, it should be noted that an appeal against a penalty notice does not have a suspensive effect under French law, which means that the above-ment- ioned € 5.0 million must be paid shortly after receipt of the payment order. The latter is ex- pected to be received in the course of 2015. In Germany, by contrast, a duty to pay the penalties will not arise before a legally enforce- able penalty notice or a final verdict is issued. A.S. Création nevertheless paid part of the penalty in the amount of € 2.0 million in 2014. The payment was made exclusively because of commercial considerations, as it avoids the obligation to pay interest on a potential fine up to this amount. As this payment was made voluntarily and is subject to repayment in the event of a successful appeal procedure, it does not constitute an admission of guilt.
GROUP mANAGEmENT REPORT
 59

60
 GROUP mANAGEmENT REPORT
The maximum penalty fixed by the German and French antitrust authorities is now known to amount to € 15.5 million since no more accusations are pursued. The Managing Board of A.S. Création Tapeten AG and its legal coun- sel are of the opinion that even if the allega- tions were correct, the amount of the penal- ties in both proceedings appears to be out of proportion. Also, the material arguments that speak against a violation of antitrust law have not sufficiently been taken into account by the authorities. The Managing Board there- fore assumes that the amount of the pen- alties will not be confirmed by the courts. Moreover, part of the penalties in the French antitrust proceedings will have to be borne by the former owners of the companies con- cerned, as A.S. Création acquired majority shareholdings in these companies only in December 2008. Due to the uncertainties generally arising from court proceedings, however, a provision has been established for risks arising from the antitrust proceed- ings. As of the balance sheet date, this pro- vision amounted to € 7.0 million (previous year: € 2.0 million). There is a risk that this provision – against today's estimates – may turn out to be insufficient as the proceedings continue.
Against the background of the good financial position of A.S. Création and the fact that the individual penalties will become due at different points in time, the Managing Board
considers the risks associated with the antit- rust proceedings to be very high but not existence-threatening.
7.2.6. Accounting-related internal control and risk management system
The A.S. Création Group is characterised by a clear and manageable corporate structure. Besides A.S. Création Tapeten AG, the basis of consolidation comprises only nine compa- nies, which are fully consolidated, and one company that is accounted for using the equity method.
The accounting process in the A.S. Création Group is decentralised, i.e. the member com- panies of the Group are responsible for pre- paring their individual financial statements in accordance with local GAAP. The individual companies use different accounting programmes, most of which are standard software that is adapted to specific local and corporate require- ments. Standardised bulk processes such as invoicing and payroll accounting are also processed using IT-based systems, which are connected with the accounting systems via interfaces. This way, potential errors in the accounting process are reduced to a minimum.
Internal control of the accounting process is performed on the basis of the “four-eye prin- ciple” and through regular plausibility checks.

Within the A.S. Création Group, internal month- ly reports are derived from the accounting system. As the company does not use imputed or flat charges, the internal controlling system is not based on “artificial” results but on those that are taken from the accounting process. Accordingly, internal control of the accoun- ting process is an integral element of the controlling system.
External control of the accounting process is performed, on the one hand, through the an- nual audit of the financial statements by the auditors. To avoid habituation effects in the audit, the A.S. Création Group has a policy of changing its auditor from time to time. In keeping with this policy, Ernst & Young was appointed the new auditor of the financial statements and the consolidated financial statements for the fiscal year 2014 as succes- sor to the former auditors from KPMG. To en- sure a consistent auditing standard within the A.S. Création Group, A.S. Création has a policy of using as few accounting firms as possible. Accordingly, the financial statements of ten of the eleven Group companies were audited or reviewed by Ernst & Young or by Ernst & Young in cooperation with KPMG in 2014. On the other hand, the internal control systems of the Group companies (and, hence, those that are used in the accounting process) are regularly reviewed by external specialists with a view to refining and updating the pro- cesses. The Supervisory Board of A.S. Création
Tapeten AG – in particular its Audit Commit- tee – is involved in the evaluation of the re- sults of these reviews.
To prepare the consolidated financial state- ments, the Group companies’ financial state- ments are transferred into the Group account- ing system and complemented with additional information to form a reporting package. This standardised reporting package is defined by A.S. Création Tapeten AG for all Group com- panies and is used not only for the financial statements but also for monthly reporting. The data from the reporting packages is trans- ferred via an interface to the consolidation system in which the consolidated financial statements of A.S. Création are prepared. The consolidated financial statements and the consolidated presentations of the Wallpaper and Furnishing Fabrics Divisions are produced centrally. To ensure that consistent and stand- ardised valuation criteria are applied, key parameters such as the discount rate for the calculation of pension provisions are predefined centrally by A.S. Création Tapeten AG. For the same reason, the goodwill impairment test is performed centrally.
At Group level, the internal control systems used to ensure proper Group accounting pri- marily comprise plausibility and completeness checks of the reporting packages received. Whenever required, representatives of A.S. Création Tapeten AG attend the final
GROUP mANAGEmENT REPORT
 61

62
 GROUP mANAGEmENT REPORT
meetings with the auditors of the Group com- panies. In addition, controls of the main con- solidation processes – e.g. debt, income and expenses, capital – are integrated in the soft- ware used. Finally, the consolidated financial statements (and the financial statements of A.S. Création Tapeten AG) are audited by the Supervisory Board and its Audit Committee.
External control of the Group accounting process is performed by the auditors of the Group companies, who check that the report- ing package is fully consistent with the re- spective financial statements and confirm the completeness and accuracy of the information contained therein. Additional controls are performed by the Group auditor, who defines consistent audit standards for the auditors of the individual Group companies. In this context, the Group auditor may take into account a special focus of the audit that may have been defined by the Supervisory Board of A.S. Création Tapeten AG or its Audit Com- mittee for the audit of the consolidated finan- cial statements. The Group auditors also review the compilation of the consolidated financial statements from the financial statements taking the consolidation processes into account.
The above control systems used by A.S. Création for the (Group) accounting process are designed to minimise the risk that important facts are omitted or presented incompletely or incor- rectly in the financial statements or the con-
solidated financial statements. However, they cannot provide absolute certainty that the individual financial statements or the consoli- dated financial statements are free of errors.
8. Forecast report
The World Bank is of the opinion that the world economy has not yet recovered from the effects of the financial crisis and there- fore projects a global growth rate of only 3% for 2015. This comes after a disappointing growth rate of 2.4% for 2014. According to the World Bank, the four biggest risks to the world economy are the persistent weakness of world trade, the high volatility in the financial markets, the losses incurred by the oil-export- ing countries because of the low oil price and the weak economic growth in Japan and the eurozone.
The forecasts for the eurozone are based on the assumption that the region will remain slow in recovering from the deep recession, as some countries are still suffering from unre- solved structural problems which prevent strong, sustainable growth and as the Ukraine crisis will weigh on exports. This is why only a moderate GDP growth rate of 0.8% is pro- jected for 2015, repeating the 0.8% expansion seen in 2014. Consumer spending is expected to grow somewhat more strongly, namely by 1.2%, compared to 0.9% in the previous year.

From A.S. Création’s point of view, it is also positive that the expectations regarding private consumer spending for Germany are better than those for the other eurozone countries. Consumer spending in Germany, which ac- counted for 38.0% of A.S. Création’s total Group sales revenues in 2014, are expected to pick up by 1.6% in 2015.
By contrast, the expectations for the non-EU Eastern European countries are bleak. In view of the low oil prices, the depreciation of the Russian rouble and the economic sanctions imposed on the country in the context of the Ukraine crisis, economic experts expect the gross domestic product of Russia – one of the world’s two largest wallpaper markets next to China – to drop sharply by 5.2% and inflation to rise to 13.1%. Russia would thus slide into a deep recession in 2015. A.S. Création assumes that the associated decline in consumer spen- ding, which is estimated at 6.8%, will have an adverse impact on wallpaper consumption. With the depreciation of the Russian rouble likely to continue in 2015 – between early January 2015 and mid-February 2015 the Rus- sian rouble lost another 5% against the euro – A.S. Création’s export outlook for this region will deteriorate further.
Commodity and energy prices are expected to rise only moderately, if at all, in 2015, as the anticipated weak growth in the world economy will probably not lead to a strong increase in
demand for raw materials and energy. As the slump in the oil price came to a temporary halt in mid-January 2015, it is safe to assume that there will be no renewed slump in 2015. Given that the sharp drop in commodity and energy prices did not start before the second half of 2014, commodity and energy prices are expected to be lower on an annual average in 2015 than in 2014.
The Managing Board of A.S. Création expects to see material structural changes in the inter- national wallpaper industry in the coming years, especially a decline in the importance of Western European manufacturers and a growing importance of Eastern European producers. This trend will be supported by deteriorating export possibilities to the Eastern European wallpaper markets on the one hand and by declining market volumes resulting from economic and political crises on the other hand. Because of this market consolidation, 2015 will probably not be a year of growth for A.S. Création. Under the anticipated market conditions, even stagnat- ing sales revenues would strengthen our com- petitive position.
The Eastern European, and especially the Rus- sian, market will be of major importance for Group sales revenues in the fiscal year 2015. The Managing Board is convinced that the Russian distribution company, A.S. Création (RUS), will significantly increase the sales
GROUP mANAGEmENT REPORT
 63

64
 GROUP mANAGEmENT REPORT
volumes of Russian-made wallpapers in 2015, given that the quality of the product range is improving and the company has expanded its own customer base sustainably in the course of 2014. Moreover, the depreciation of the Russian rouble has made wallpaper imports more expensive. Russian customers are therefore increasingly replacing imported wallpapers with Russian-made wallpapers. As outlined above, A.S. Création (RUS) will bene- fit from the changing conditions unless the ex- pected decline in Russian consumer spending leads to a total collapse of wallpaper consump- tion in Russia. The Managing Board is there- fore confident that the Russian distribution company will – adjusted for potential exchange losses – break even in the fiscal year 2015.
A.S. & Palitra, the Russian production company, will also benefit from the changing conditions. Not only the additional quantities marketed by A.S. Création (RUS) but also the expec- ted increase in the quantities sold by its own sales organisation will lead to much better utilisation of the production capacity. Based on reasonable capacity utilisation and con- tinuous production, the production processes will improve and become more finetuned. The cost of materials, i.e. raw materials and energy, is the biggest expense item in the production of wallpapers, it is important to reduce the reject rate in order to improve the earnings position. In this respect, the first
successes became visible already at the end of 2014, which are due not only to the fact that the Russian staff are becoming increas- ingly experienced but also to the fact that more and more repeat orders are received and produced. The first production run of a new article, referred to as the sampling run, usually entails a higher reject rate, given that colours and machines are fine-tuned during this first run. The parameters defined at this stage are then used for future production, meaning less need for adjustments and less waste at this stage. During the build-up of the product range, all production runs involved new products. As sales increase, the number of repeat orders increases as well. This effect, which could already be seen in 2014, will in- creassingly make itself felt in 2015. With repeat orders expected to account for a growing share of total production in 2015 – and production staff will become increasingly experienced – the reject rate should decline significantly. The Managing Board is confident that the A.S. & Palitra joint venture will – adjusted for potential exchange losses – break even in 2015.
Given that A.S. & Palitra is accounted for using the equity method, only the sales growth achieved by A.S. Création (RUS) will be reflected in Group sales revenues in 2015. This Growth will probably contrast with declining export sales of German-made wallpapers in non- EU Eastern European countries. At this stage,

the size of this decline in sales cannot be reliably estimated. It is theoretically possible that the sales growth at A.S. Création (RUS) will be more than offset by this decline, i.e. that Group sales revenues in this region will decline even further in 2015.
In any case, a decline in exports to Eastern Europe will have an adverse impact on A.S. Création’s wallpaper production capa- city in Germany. It is therefore the primary objective of the Managing Board to increase A.S. Création’s sales in the European Union in order to offset this effect at least partly. Against the background of the moderate eco- nomic expectations for the EU, this will lead to fiercer competition. A.S. Création will con- tinue to face this competition with an in- novation-driven product policy and creative marketing concepts. Given that A.S. Création has strengthened its own sales organisations in the individual countries instead of reducing them, the company is in an excellent position to offer its customers better service than its competitors.
With a loss posted for the fiscal year 2014, the Managing Board will focus on improving the company’s earnings position in 2015. If the above projections for the two Russian compa- nies are met and both companies break even in 2015, this will give a boost to A.S. Création Group’s earnings. The exchange rate trend
of the Russian rouble against the euro is dif- ficult to predict. As outlined above, both A.S. & Palitra and A.S. Création (RUS) are largely financed by euro-denominated share- holder loans. Raising rouble-denominated loans from local banks is virtually impossible at present for companies that have not broken even yet. In the current phase, in which cash flows can hardly be planned, currency hedges are also almost impossible and border on specu- lation. Accordingly, changes in the RUB/EUR exchange rate currently lead to translation- related exchange gains or losses. While these are non-cash items, they influence the result stated. From the point of view of A.S. Création, a depreciation of the rouble by one percen- tage point reduces the Group’s earnings after taxes by € 0.250 million. Besides these trans- lation-related effects, a depreciation of the Russian rouble will make raw materials im- ports more expensive for A.S. & Palitra, which will additionally weigh on earnings if they cannot be offset by higher sales prices.
A.S. Création Tapeten AG in Germany will con- tinue its strategy of optimising production processes and adapting them to the anticipat- ed decline in average production run-length with great determination in 2015. This should be reflected in a further reduced reject rate and increased productivity. In response to the anticipated decline in sales revenues, over- heads will be adjusted in 2015. As the year
GROUP mANAGEmENT REPORT
 65

66
 GROUP mANAGEmENT REPORT
progresses, the Managing Board will decide whether further production capacities will be shut down based on actual sales figures.
With regard to the key performance indicators, the Managing Board expects the following developments for 2015:
• Group sales revenues should amount to between € 175 million and € 185 million in 2015, which would represent decline on the previous year’s € 189.1 million of up to 7.5%.
• The gross profit margin should be slightly lower than in the previous year, as Russian- made products, whose gross profit margins are lower, will account for a greater share of total Group sales revenues. This expec- tation is also based on the assumption that the positive effects resulting from lower commodity and energy costs as well as a reduced reject rate will be offset by the anticipated price competition.
• The collective pay rises implemented and already agreed for 2015 will increase per- sonnel expenses per employee. The planned headcount reduction will be put into prac- tice in the course of the year, which means that the decline in the average headcount in 2015 will probably be lower than the decline in sales revenues. As a result, per-
sonnel expenses as a percentage of total output are projected to deteriorate slightly in 2015.
• Earnings before interest and taxes (EBIT) and the EBIT margin should improve nota- bly in 2015, provided that no significant burdens exceeding the amount of € 7.0 million already recognised as an expense arise from the antitrust proceedings and that the Russian rouble does not depreci- ate extremely against the euro by the end of 2015.
• Provided that the Russian joint venture breaks even in 2015, earnings before taxes should improve disproportionately to ear- nings before interest and taxes in 2015.
Based on the above assumptions, two impor- tant non-tax-deductible expense items that weighed on the bottom line in 2014 - i.e. the risk provisions for the antitrust proceedings and the pro-rated losses from the Russian joint venture - would not recur in 2015. As a consequence, earnings after taxes would in- crease at a much higher rate than earnings before taxes in 2015.
Due to the extraordinary uncertainty surround- ing the factors that will influence earnings in 2015, the Managing Board has decided
– as in the previous year – not to issue a specific

after-tax profit forecast for the fiscal year 2015. As the year progresses, however, the Managing Board intends to issue more pre- cise statements for the full year 2015 as soon as the developments can be predicted more reliably.
This Group management report contains state- ments and projections which relate to the future development of the companies of the A.S. Création Group. These projections repre- sent estimates that were made by the Manag- ing Board on the basis of currently available information. Should the assumptions on which the projections are based be incorrect or should risks such as those outlined in the risk report materialise, the actual results may differ from current expectations. Except for statutory dis- closure duties, the Managing Board is under no obligation to update the information con- tained in this Group management report.
9. Statutory information
9.1. Corporate governance statement and report on corporate governance
The latest corporate governance statement of A.S. Création Tapeten AG pursuant to Arti- cle 289a of the German Commercial Code (Handelsgesetzbuch HGB) and the report on corporate governance are published on the website of A.S. Création (www.as-creation.com)
under ” Investor Relations – Corporate Govern- ance“ and in the chapter “Corporate govern- ance statement and report on corporate governance” of the 2014 Annual Report.
9.2. Compensation report
The annual salaries earned by the Managing Board members comprise performance-linked and non-performance-linked components. The latter consist of a fixed monthly salary and the value of non-monetary compensa- tion that needs to be stated under applicable tax legislation (mainly the use of a company car). Tax on such non-monetary compensa- tion is to be paid by each individual Board member. While all Board members are basically entitled to the same non-monetary compensa- tion, the corresponding value differ depend- ing on the member’s personal circumstances. The Group’s weighted average cash flow from three fiscal years forms the basis of assessment for the calculation of the performance-linked component. Each member of the Managing Board receives a fixed percentage of this basis of assessment. The performance-linked com- ponent may not exceed a total amount of € 2.350 million (“bonus cap”). The new com- pensation scheme for the Managing Board was approved by a vast majority of the share- holders (95.88%) at the Annual General Meeting of Shareholders on May 5, 2011.
GROUP mANAGEmENT REPORT
 67

68
 GROUP mANAGEmENT REPORT
The total compensation of the Managing Board is defined by the Supervisory Board and its amount and structure are regularly reviewed by the same body. The respective decisions are prepared by the Committee for Managing Board Matters.
In accordance with the recommendation to provide incentives for responsible manage- ment, the performance-linked, variable com- ponent has traditionally represented a major portion of the Managing Board compensation paid by A.S. Création Tapeten AG. This means that an improvement or deterioration in the cash flow for compensation purposes, which represents the basis for the calculation of the performance-linked compensation, has a material influence on the Managing Board's total compensation. Due to the poor earnings situation in the fiscal year 2014, the perfor- mance-linked compensation of the Managing Board declined by 57.0% from € 1.167 million in the previous year to € 0.502 million. Together with the non-performance-linked compensa- tion of the Managing Board in the amount of € 0.750 million (previous year: € 0.717 million) this results in a 33.5% reduction in the Manag- ing Board’s annual compensation from € 1.884 million in the previous year to € 1.252 million in the fiscal year 2014.
In the past, the members of the Managing Board additionally benefited from pension
commitments. These are guaranteed fixed amounts that will be payable by the com- pany when the pension entitlements arise. This performance-oriented system entails two imponderables from the company’s point of view. First, it is uncertain, in view of the changing life expectancy, whether the provi- sions that have been established will be suf- ficient when the pension entitlements arise. Second, the outflow of funds is delayed in time, which means that today’s pension com- mitments will limit the financial scope avail- able to the company’s future management.
To mitigate these disadvantages for A.S. Création Tapeten AG, the transfer of the pension com- mitments for the Managing Board members from the performance-oriented system to a contribution-based system was initiated in 2006. Since then, a constant annual amount has been paid to an external relief fund, which will make the future pension payments. Accord- ingly, A.S. Création Tapeten AG’s liabilities under the performance-based commitments are reduced. As a result, pension obligations towards the active Managing Board members and, hence, the respective pension provisions, decreased by € 0.040 million from € 0,093 mil- lion on December 31, 2013 to € 0.053 million on the balance sheet date.
In fiscal 2014, the payments to the external relief fund led to expenses of € 0.060 million

(previous year: € 0.060 million). At the same time, pension provisions in an amount of € 0.040 million (previous year: € 0.054 mil- lion) were released through the profit and loss account. As a result, total pension expen- ses for the members of the Managing Board
Fixed salary
Side benefits
Non-performance-related component Performance-related component (bonus) Annual compensation
Payment to an external relief fund
+/– Addition to / release of pension provisions Pension expenses
The compensation of the Managing Board members is not reported individually, as a clear majority of 86.82% of the shareholders attending the Annual General Meeting of Shareholders on May 5, 2011 voted against this form of disclosure.
The compensation of the Supervisory Board is defined by the Annual General Meeting of Shareholders and is documented in the sta- tutes of A.S. Création Tapeten AG. According to Article 14 of the statutes (as amended on
amounted to € 0.020 million in the fiscal year 2014 (previous year: € 0.006 million).
The table below shows the total compensa- tion of the Managing Board:
2013 € '000
651 66 717 1,167 1,884 60 –54 6 1,890
May 3, 2013), which is relevant for the com- pensation of the Supervisory Board members in the fiscal year 2014, the members of the Supervisory Board receive a fixed compensa- tion in an amount of € 9,000 in addition to the reimbursement of their expenses. The Chairman receives twice that amount and the Vice Chairman 1.5 times that amount. A performance-linked component is not provided for. The members of a committee formed by the Supervisory Board receive an additional compensation of € 4,500 for this
GROUP mANAGEmENT REPORT
 2014 € '000
680
70
750
502
1,252
60
–40
20
1,272
             69

 2014
 € '000
 32
23
13
9
11
7
13
 108
   70
 GROUP mANAGEmENT REPORT
activity, with the total compensation for com- mittee work limited to the amount of the fixed compensation. In accordance with these regu-
Mr Schneider
Dr. Liebs
Mrs Benner-Heinacher
Mr Mourschinetz
Mr Müller (since May 15, 2014) Dr. Schadt (until May 15, 2014) Mr Schmuck
9.3. Information to section 315 para. 4 of the German Commercial Code (handelsgesetzbuch hGB) and explanatory report
According to Article 4 paragraph 1 and Article 18 paragraph 1 of the current statutes of A.S. Création Tapeten AG (as amended on
May 15, 2014), the share capital of A.S. Création Tapeten AG amounts to € 9,000,000 and is divided into 3,000,000 no par value registered shares. Each share has one vote at the General Meeting of Shareholders. This does not apply to own shares held by the company, from which no rights arise to the company.
lations, the compensation of the Supervisory Board members for the past fiscal year totalled € 108,000 and breaks down as follows:
2013
€ '000 32 23 13 9 0 18 13 108
According to the share register and the noti- fications received in the past in accordance with sections 21 and 41 of the German Secu- rities Trading Act (Wertpapierhandelsgesetz WpHG) more than 10% of the voting rights in A.S. Création Tapeten AG are held by Mr Franz Jürgen Schneider, who holds 35.19%, Lins Wall- paper Limited (and indirectly Mr Oleg Dzha- gaev, to whom all shares in Lins Wallpaper Limited are imputable) which holds 15.01% and Mrs Karin Schneider, who holds 10.09%. The 5.67% voting interest held by A.S. Création Tapetenstiftung is also attributable to Mr Schnei- der in addition to his directly held voting interest of 29.52%.
              
According to section 76 and 84 of the Ger- man Stock Corporation Act (Aktiengesetz AktG) and Article 6 of the current statutes of A.S. Création Tapeten AG, the Managing Board must consist of a minimum of two people. The exact number of Managing Board mem- bers is determined by the Supervisory Board of A.S. Création Tapeten AG. The Supervisory Board appoints the members of the Manag- ing Board for a maximum term of five years. A re-appointment is permissible. The Super- visory Board may appoint one member as Chairman of the Managing Board. The Super- visory Board may revoke the appointment of a member or the Chairman for an important reason. Such important reasons are gross breach of duty, inability to manage the busi- ness properly or withdrawal of confidence by the Annual General Meeting of Shareholders.
According to section 179 AktG and Article 18 paragraph 2 of the current statutes of A.S. Création Tapeten AG, the statutes may
be amended by a resolution of the Share- holders’ Meeting with a simple majority of the votes cast. A majority of three quarters of the votes cast is required to change the business purpose of the company.
According to a resolution of the Annual Gen- eral Meeting of Shareholders dated May 7, 2010, the Managing Board is authorised to acquire own shares up to a par value of € 900,000 (which
represents a maximum of 10% of the share capi- tal) until May 6, 2015. The Managing Board is also authorised to call in the shares acquired, to resell them, in which case shareholders’ sub- scription rights may be excluded under certain circumstances, or to use the shares acquired for company acquisitions or equity investments. As of December 31, 2014 the company holds 243,649 own shares. 125,000 of these shares were used as collateral for loans.
According to Article 4 paragraph 3 of the cur- rent statutes of A.S. Création Tapeten AG, the Managing Board is authorised, until May 4, 2016, to increase the share capital, subject to the approval of the Supervisory Board, by up to € 4,500,000 through the issue of new shares against contributions in cash or kind (autho- rised capital). Shareholders’ subscription rights may be excluded in certain cases. As no use has been made of this authorisation so far, the authorised capital still amounted to € 4,500,000 as of December 31, 2014.
A.S. Création Tapeten AG and OOO Kof Palitra established a Russian joint venture under the name of OOO A.S. & Palitra, in which each of the partners holds 50% of the shares. In the event of a material change in the shareholder structure of one of the two founding partners, the partnership agreement grants the respec- tive other party a purchase option for the other party’s shares in the joint venture.
GROUP mANAGEmENT REPORT
 71

72
 GROUP mANAGEmENT REPORT
10. Statement pursuant to section 315 para. 1 sentence 6 of the German Commercial Code (handelsgesetzbuch hGB)
To the best of our knowledge, and in accord- ance with the applicable reporting principles for financial reporting, the consolidated finan- cial statements give a true and fair view of the assets, liabilities, financial position and profit or loss of the Group, and the management report of the Group includes a fair review of the development and performance of the business and the position of the Group, together with a description of the principal opportunities and risks associated with the expected develop- ment of the Group.
Gummersbach, February 20, 2015
A.S. Création Tapeten AG
The Managing Board
Kämper Krämer Suskas

2014: A year of extremes
After the very good stock market years 2012 and 2013, in which the DAX® gained 29.1% and 25.5%, respectively, many capital market participants projected rising share prices also for 2014. These expectations were not met for the full year 2014. The 9,806 points in the DAX® on December 30, 2014 represented a gain of only 2.7% compared to the beginning of the year. The SDAX® and the MDAX®, which cap- ture the share prices of small and medium- sized enterprises, did not exhibit a materially different performance from the large caps. At 5.9% and 2.2%, respectively, their growth rates were much lower than in the previous years as well. But these moderate growth rates hide the fact that share prices went on extreme roller-coaster rides in the course of the year, with strong price gains followed by massive losses. Accordingly, the DAX® passed the “magic”
10,000 points mark several times in 2014 and even hit an - up to then - new all-time high of 10,087 in early December. After having passed the 10,000 points line, however, the DAX® al-
ways dropped sharply to around 9,000 points or below. The performance of the DAX® between mid-September and early December perfectly reflects these extreme movements. In mid-Sep- tember, the DAX® stood at around 9,800 points, then declined by about 13% to an annual low of 8,572 points in October only to soar by some 18% to the above-mentioned high of
10,087 points in the course of only six weeks.
THE SHARE AND OUR SHAREHOLDERS
THE SHARE AND OUR SHAREHOLDERS
    73

74
 THE SHARE AND OUR SHAREHOLDERS
Most of these extreme price movements were triggered by political and macroeconomic factors. The Ukraine crisis had a particularly strong influence on the stock market year 2014. Fears of a military escalation or a second Cold War weighed on the sentiment, as did concern about Russia’s potential default as a result of the much lower oil price, the economic sanc- tions and the dramatic depreciation of the rouble. Because of the close economic rela- tionships between the European Union (EU) - and Germany in particular - and Russia, these events had an adverse impact on the EU economy. This, in turn, had a negative effect on the share prices of European companies.
By contrast, stock markets were driven by the US central bank’s and the European Central Bank’s continued accommodative monetary policies, which sent interest rates falling fur- ther. This made fixed-income bonds even more unattractive as an alternative to shares. The commodity markets, too, saw their attractive- ness suffer from the downward trend in com- modity prices in 2014. The improved economic data coming out of the USA in 2014 provided positive impulses for the stock markets as well.
Against the background of these extreme changes in the overall environment, corporate news lost importance in 2014. Investors were more interested in how a company would be affected by the changes in its environment. As the above-described moderately postive
performance of the stock indices shows, capi- tal market participants saw more arguments speaking in favour of than against stock in- vestments in 2014.
A.S. Création share clearly losing value
Not all companies were able to benefit from the moderately stock market performance in 2014. Unfortunately, the A.S. Création share also moved against the general trend. While the SDAX® small caps index gained 5.9% in 2014, the A.S. Création share lost 27.2%. The chart on the next page compares the perfor- mance of the A.S. Création share with that of the SDAX® in 2014.
On the one hand, the poor price performance of the A.S. Création share is attributable to the fact that Russia is a very important output market for A.S. Création. The recent past saw the company invest in a production facility in Russia, which is why the Ukraine crisis – and above all the depreciation of the Russian rou- ble – had a negative effect on A.S. Création’s earnings. On the other hand, the valuation of the A.S. Création share was adversely affect- ed by the ongoing anti-trust proceedings in Germany and France.
Until mid-February 2014, the A.S. Création share moved more or less in sync with the SDAX® and reached an annual high of € 40.40
 
THE SHARE AND OUR SHAREHOLDERS
 A.S. Création share and SDAX® 2014
Index
120 110
100 90 80
70
60
                     Jan Feb Mar Apr May Jun Jul Aug Sep Oct Nov Dec
A.S.Création share SDAX®-Index
on February 14, 2014. This represented a 12.2% increase on the share price of € 36.00 recorded at the beginning of the year. On February 18, the company issued an ad-hoc announcement according to which its consolidated net profit for 2013 was much lower than expected due to the start-up and exchange losses in Russia and a provision to be established for cartel risks. As a result of this negative news, the price of the A.S. Création share dropped to around € 33 in the course of only a few days. The share price then moved sideways at this level from early March to early August 2014. On August 11, 2014, A.S. Création published the report on the six-month period ended June 30, 2014. This showed a decline in sales revenues due to the reduction in exports to Russia and Ukraine, which prompted the Mana- ging Board to downgrade the sales revenue forecast for the full year 2014. After publica- tion of the report, the price of the A.S. Création
share dropped sharply and hit a low of € 25.37 on August 14, 2014 – down by 29.5% on the € 36.00 posted at the beginning of the year.
The A.S. Création share picked up again as the year progressed. Supported by an improved sales and earnings performance in the third quarter of 2014 and news that the German Federal Cartel Office had dropped three of the originally five allegations and will continue to pursue only the two remaining allega- tions, the price climbed to € 32.50 in early December, down only close to 10% on the previous year.
The depreciation of the Russian rouble against the euro escalated to dramatic proportions in the course of December. The exchange rate climbed from approx. RUB/€ 57 at the end of November to about RUB/€ 90 in mid-Decem- ber 2014. As such an exchange rate will lead
    75

76
  A.S. Création share 2007 – 2014
€
60
50 40 30 20 10
0
                 2007 2008
2009 2010
2011 2012
2013 2014
THE SHARE AND OUR SHAREHOLDERS
to very high translation-related exchange losses for A.S. Création, a profit warning was issued in an ad-hoc announcement on Decem- ber 16, 2014. The next negative news followed only a few days later, on December 23, 2014; the French Competition Authority had issued a penalty notice in the French anti-trust pro- ceedings. This negative news put the price of the A.S. Création share under new pressure and sent it falling to € 26.20 by the end of the year.
Overall, the A.S. Création share lost 27.2% or € 9.80 in the course of 2014 from € 36.00 at the beginning of the year to € 26.20 at the end of the year. The dividend of € 0.25 per share paid out in May 2014 could not change the fact that the share price performance in 2014 was entirely unsatisfactory.
Poorer market valuation
The share price performance in 2014 repre- sents a major setback for the Managing Board, which had set itself the objective to increase the market value of A.S. Création. While the market valuation had improved since the 2008 financial crisis and reached € 99.2 million as of December 31, 2013, it amounted to only € 72.2 million based on the year-end price of € 26.20 and 2,756,351 shares outstanding as of December 31, 2014. This means that the market capitalisation is lower than the equity, which amounted to € 86.9 million on Decem- ber 31, 2014. It goes without saying that the Managing Board is not satisfied with a valua- tion below equity and, hence, below the net asset value, all the less so as the loss incurred in the fiscal year 2014 is attributable to one-

time effects. The loss-making year 2014 has no influence on the strong competitive position of A.S. Création and the positive growth outlook. The company therefore needs to improve its communication with the capital market and to better explain to investors the future pros- pects of A.S. Création.
The analysis of the longer-term share price performance also shows that the performance in 2014 was not satisfactory. On December 31, 2014, the share price was only at the same level as in late 2009, the year after the 2008 financial crisis. The A.S. Création share is still far away from the € 45.50 recorded at the end of 2007 or the 2007 high of € 53.40.
When looking at the share price, however, the deterioration in the earnings position in 2014 and the uncertainty about the conse- quences of the Ukraine crisis should be taken into account. But at least the uncertainty about the maximum profit shortfall that may result from the anti-trust proceedings in Germany and France has been eliminated now that the penalty notices have been issued (for details, please refer to the Group management report). This clarity should have a positive effect on the valuation of A.S. Création, as the burdens resulting from the anti-trust proceedings will be material but manageable and not jeopard- ise the company’s ability to continue as a going concern.
Stable shareholder structure
A.S. Création’s shareholder structure is rela- tively stable and represented in the chart below:
THE SHARE AND OUR SHAREHOLDERS
 Shareholder Structure
Free Float 26.67 %
Argos Investment Managers S.A., Switzerland 4.92 %
A.S. Création Tapeten-Stiftung 5.67 %
Own
shares 8.12 %
No dividend for 2014
Franz Jürgen Schneider 29.52 %
Lins
Wallpaper Ltd., UK 15.01 %
Karin Schneider 10.09 %
               A.S. Creation has always pursued a dividend policy which aims for a high payout ratio as long as this is backed by the company's financial situation. In recent years, dividend payouts have consistently been in the 45% of EPS range, which means that the dividend policy of A.S. Création is characterised by continuity and reliability.
The fixed payout ratio means that the abso- lute amounts of the dividend payments are not smoothened over time but increase or decrease in line with earnings. The earnings
77

  78
  THE SHARE AND OUR SHAREHOLDERS
position of A.S. Création deteriorated in the fiscal year 2014 and the company posted the first loss since the fiscal year 1989. Earnings per share declined from a positive € 0.48 in the previous year to a negative € -3.39 in the past fiscal year.
In keeping with the dividend policy pursued in the past, the loss situation of the fiscal year 2014 would lead to the cancellation of the dividend. It will therefore be proposed to the Annual General Meeting of Shareholders sched- uled for 7 May 2015 not to pay out a divi- dend for the fiscal year 2014. Although this proposal will lead to the dividend being can- celled for the first time since the 1998 IPO,
Key figures of the A.S. Création share
the Managing Board and the Supervisory Board are convinced that this approach is in the long- term, sustainable interest of the company.
 Dividend per share in € 1.20
0.25
2012 2013
2011 2012
1.69 2.67 0.75 1.20 44.4 44.9
1.50 1.00 0.50
       €/share €/share % €/share €/share €/share million pieces € '000 € '000 € % Price-earnings-ratio € Dividend yield %
2010
3.05 1.35 44.3
28.76 34.00 24.68 2.756 2,635
79,273 88,789 89.3 9.4 4.7
0.00 0.00 2014
2013 2014 0.48 -3.39 0.25 0.00 52.1 n.a.
36.00 26.20 44.55 40.40 32.43 25.37 2.756 2.756
Earnings per share Dividend
Payout ratio Year-closing-price High
24.49 34.00
31.00 34.68
16.73 23.86
2.756 2.756
3,851 2,232 1,611 1,213
    Low
Shares outstanding (year end) Average trading volume * Market value (year-end) Equity
Market value/Equity
67,503 93,716 89,553 94,839 75.4 98.8 14.5 12.7 3.1 3.5
99,229 72,216 93,473 86,891 106.2 83.1 75.0 n.a. 0.7 0.0
        * Average daily trading volume of A.S. Création shares at Frankfurt Stock Exchange and via Xetra® (electronic trading system).

CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ACCORDING TO INTERNATIONAL FINANCIAL REPORTING STANDARDS
Consolidated balance sheet 84 Consolidated income statement 86 Consolidated statement of comprehensive income 87 Consolidated statement of changes in equity 88 Consolidated cash flow statement 89 Notes to the consolidated financial statement 90 Auditor's report 128
CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ACCORDING TO IFRS
        This English translation of the annual report 2014 is merely a convenience translation. The German version is the prevailing one.
83
 
31.12.2014
€
33,284,632.90
8,148,599.19
0.00
8,901,389.36
2,843,529.77
574,775.00
511,929.61
54,264,855.83
43,530,834.17
34,702,484.74
7,353,414.07
535,138.14
5,775,086.34
91,896,957.46
146,161,813.29
84
 CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ACCORDING TO IFRS
A.S. Création Tapeten AG, Gummersbach
Consolidated balance sheet as per December 31, 2014
Assets
   Notes No.
31.12.2013
€
38,312,374.45 8,183,867.91 0.00 13,945,927.06 1,539,143.25 830,493.22 1,148,884.65 63,960,690.54
47,606,035.56 34,688,568.89 5,370,919.67 796,638.48 6,643,674.65 95,105,837.25
159,066,527.79
 Tangible fixed assets (1) Intangible fixed assets (2) Investments accounted for at equity (3) Financial assets (4) Other assets (5) Income tax receivables (6) Deferred tax assets (7) Non-current assets
Inventories (8) Trade receivables (9) Other assets (5) Income tax receivables (6) Cash and cash equivalents (10) Current assets
Total assets
                  
Equity and Liabilities
CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ACCORDING TO IFRS
  31.12.2014
€
9,000,000.00
13,756,740.32
70,938,956.29
974,025.94
-9,338,437.95
-4,020,836.57
5,580,503.83
86,890,951.86
16,236,288.89
1,011,007.31
12,626,371.00
2,856,017.94
32,729,685.14
4,518,108.73
15,549,787.24
6,057,771.94
102,000.00
313,508.38
26,541,176.29
146,161,813.29
 Notes No.
31.12.2013
€
9,000,000.00 13,756,740.32 67,043,179.40
6,111,340.62 1,323,008.28 –4,020,836.57 259,102.41 93,472,534.46
 Capital stock
Capital reserves
Revenue reserves
Profit carried forward
Earnings after taxes
Adjustment for own shares
Currency translation differences
Equity (11)
         Financial liabilities (interest-bearing) Other liabilities
Provisions
Deferred tax liabilities
Non-current liabilities
Financial liabilities (interest-bearing) Other liabilities
Trade payables
Provisions
Tax liabilities
Current liabilities
Total equity and liabilities
(12) 19,745,971.66 (13) 978,300.63 (14) 11,706,274.00
(7) 4,753,839.56
37,184,385.85
(12) 7,214,785.58 (13) 11,542,758.10 9,025,847.20 (15) 113,000.00 513,216.60 28,409,607.48
159,066,527.79
                85
 
2014
€
189,127,864.00
-2,623,350.65
186,504,513.35
93,011,195.64
93,493,317.71
802,252.99
94,295,570.70
43,236,771.90
9,339,958.17
506,568.29
37,906,222.00
90,989,520.36
3,306,050.34
993,015.34
-8,219,237.44
1,131,450.29
-8,357,672.39
-5,051,622.05
4,286,815.90
-9,338,437.95
-3.39
86
 CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ACCORDING TO IFRS
A.S. Création Tapeten AG, Gummersbach
Consolidated income statement
for the period from January 1, 2014 to December 31, 2014
Sales
Increase or decrease in unfinished and finished goods
Total output
Cost of materials
Gross profit Other income
Personnel expenses Depreciation
Operating taxes
Other operating expenses Operating expenses
Earnings before interest and taxes (EBIT)
Interest and similar income
Results from investments accounted for at equity Interest and similar expenses
Financial result
Earnings before income taxes
Income taxes
Earnings after taxes Earnings per share
Notes No.
(17)
(18)
(19)
(20) (21)
(22)
2013
€
199,818,101.89
999,340.40
200,817,442.29
103,829,067.26
96,988,375.03
856,562.39 97,844,937.42
45,107,272.47 9,469,158.51 547,326.36 32,482,930.19 87,606,687.53
10,238,249.89
842,811.02 –4,310,032.83 1,538,327.60 –5,005,549.41
5,232,700.48
3,909,692.20
1,323,008.28 0.48
                   (23)
(24)
(25)
      
A.S. Création Tapeten AG, Gummersbach
Consolidation statement of comprehensive income for the period from January 1, 2014 to December 31, 2014
CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ACCORDING TO IFRS
 2014 € '000
-9,338
-2,680
836
-1,844
2,450
2,871
-47
15
5,289
3,445
-5,893
  Earnings after taxes
Items, that will never be reclassified to profit or loss: Actuarial gains/losses from pension provisions Deferred taxes on other comprehensive income
Items, that are or may be reclassified to profit or loss:
Foreign currency translation differences for fully consolidated companies
Foreign currently translation differences for investments accounted for at equity
Change in fair value of interest rate hedges Deferred taxes on other comprehensive income
Other comprehensive income (outside profit or loss) Total comprehensive income
Notes No.
(14)
(30)
(11)
2013 € '000
1,323
350 –110 240
209
39 189 -58 379 619 1,942
            87
 
88
   December 31, 2014 9,000 13,757 70,939 974 -9,338 –4,021 5,580 86,891
  CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ACCORDING TO IFRS
A.S. Création Tapeten AG, Gummersbach
Consolidated statement of changes in equity for the period from January 1, 2014 to December 31, 2014
  January 1, 2013
Earnings after taxes 2012
Dividend payments
Allocation to revenue reserves
Total comprehensive income 2013
December 31, 2013
Earnings after taxes 2013
Dividend payments
Allocation to revenue reserves
Total comprehensive income 2014
Capital Capital stock reserves
€ ’000 € ’000 9,000 13,757
0 0 0 0
0 0 0 0
9,000 13,757
0 0 0 0
0 0 0 0
Revenue reserves
€ ’000 57,886
0 0
8,786 371
67,043
0 0
5,771 1,875
Profit carried forward
€ ’000 9,321
8,884 –3,308
–8,786 0
6,111
1,323 –689
–5,771 0
Earnings after taxes
€ ’000 8,884
-8,884 0
0 1,323
1,323
1,323 0
0 -9,338
Adjust- ment for own shares € ’000
–4,021
0 0
0 0
–4,021
0 0
0 0
Currency translation differences
€ ’000 12
0 0
0 248
260
0 0
0 5,320
Total
€ ’000 94,839
0 –3,308
0 1,942
93,473
0 –689
0 -5,893
           
A.S. Création Tapeten AG, Gummersbach
Consolidated cash flow statement
for the period from January 1, 2014 to December 31, 2014
Operating activities
2013 € '000
1,323 9,469 2,040 4,310
244 –993 16,393 35 -2,246 –638 1,772 -2,731 12,585
–5,679 –2,988 –8,667
0 158 –8,509
–3,308 –1,248 –4,556
-480
-29 7,153 6,644
CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ACCORDING TO IFRS
 2014 € '000
-9,338
9,340
-1,760
8,219
236
-579
6,118
6
3,168
-826
-2,408
8,107
14,165
-4,472
-643
-5,115
-3,050
152
-8,013
-689
-6,206
-6,895
-743
-126
6,644
5,775
   Earnings after taxes
+ Depreciation on tangible and intangible fixed assets +/– Increase/decrease in long-term provisions
–/+ Income/expenses from investments accounted for at equity
–/+ Increase/decrease in present value of corporate income tax credit
–/+ Income/expenses from changes in deferred taxes Cash-flow
–/+ Profit/losses from disposal of tangible and intangible fixed assets
–/+ Increase/decrease in inventories
–/+ Increase/decrease in trade receivables
+/– Increase/decrease in trade payables
–/+ Increase/decrease in other net working capital
Cash-flow from operating activities
Investing activities
Capital expenditures on tangible and intangible fixed assets
– Cash outflows for credits and bonds granted
Capital expenditures
–/+ Cash outflows / proceeds from current financial investments
+ Proceeds from the disposal of tangible and intangible fixed assets Cash-flow from investing activities
Financing activities
Dividends paid to shareholders of A.S. Création Tapeten AG
+/– Raising/repayment of financial liabilities (interest-bearing)
Cash-flow from financing activities
Net change in cash and cash equivalents
+/– Change in cash and cash equivalents due to exchange rate fluctuations + Cash and cash equivalents at January 1
Cash and cash equivalents at December 31
Further information on the cash flow statement are presented in the notes (see No. 26).
          73
                      89
 
90
 CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ACCORDING TO IFRS
A.S. Création Tapeten AG, Gummersbach
Notes to the consolidated financial statement for fiscal year 2014
General
A.S. Création Tapeten AG is a joint stock company registered in the Federal Republic of Germany. The address of the headquarters is Südstrasse 47, D-51645 Gummersbach.
The consolidated financial statements and the Group management report were prepared by A.S. Création Tapeten AG on the basis of the International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS) as adopted by the European Union and the additional requirements pursuant to section 315a (1) of the German Commercial Code (Handelsgesetzbuch HGB).
A.S. Création Tapeten AG has a policy of applying new IFRS as soon as they become effective. The following new or revised standards and interpretations had to be observed in the fiscal year 2014:
• IAS 32 “Financial Instruments: Presentation”
• IFRS 10 “Consolidated Financial Statements”, IFRS 12 “Disclosure of Interests in Other Entities”,
IAS 27 “Consolidated and Separate Financial Statements to IFRS”
• IAS 36 “Impairment of Assets”
• IAS 39 “Financial Instruments: Recognition and Measurement”
• IAS 19 “Employee Benefits”
• Improvements to IFRS 2010-2012
• Improvements to IFRS 2011-2013
The above regulations will have not a material impact on the consolidated financial statements of A.S. Création
The following standards and interpretations have been published and some of them endorsed by the EU but are mandatory for annual periods beginning after January 1, 2014 at the earliest:
• IFRS 14 “Regulatory Deferral Accounts”
• IFRS 11 “Joint Arrangements”
• IAS 16 “Property, Plant and Equipment”
• IAS 27 “Consolidated and Separate Financial Statements to IFRS”
• IFRS 10 “Consolidated Financial Statements” / IAS 28 “Investments in
Associates and Joint Ventures”
• Improvements to IFRS 2012-2014
• IAS 1 “Presentation of Financial Statements”
• IFRS 15 “Revenue from Contracts with Customers”
• IFRS 9 “Financial Instruments”
From today’s point of view, the new or revised standards and interpretations that are applicable in subsequent years, will have no material impact on the consolidated financial statements of A.S. Création. The company is currently reviewing the potential effects of the new IFRS 15 on the consolidated financial statements.
74

For the sake of clarity, individual items have been summarised in the balance sheet, the income statement and the cash flow statement. The summarised items are shown and explained in detail in the notes. Also for reasons of clarity, some amounts are shown in thousand euros.
The type of expenditure format has been chosen for the income statement.
The Group’s business activities mainly comprise the development, production and sale of wall- papers in all main materials and for all main purposes. The spectrum of activities is complemented
by the trade in furnishing fabrics. In line with the Group’s products and services, segment reports according to IFRS 8 are prepared for the Wallpaper Division (segment) and the Furnishing Fabrics Division (segment).
Consolidation principles
75
Capital consolidation is effected using the purchase method. Under this method, the book values of the consolidated subsidiaries are set off against their respective shares in the revalued equity at the time of first consolidation. In the revaluation, the assets and liabilities of the acquired companies are stated at their current market values at the time of first consolidation. Goodwill arising in the first consolidation is capitalised and, in accordance with IFRS 36, subjected to an impairment test on an annual basis or, if special incidents suggest a value impairment, also in the course of a year. According to IFRS, this impairment test must be performed on the basis of the so-called cash generating units to which the goodwill is assigned. In the case of A.S. Création, these are the Wallpaper Division and the Furnishing Fabrics Division. In the context of this impair- ment test, the book value of the division is compared with the so-called “recoverable amount”. This amount is the present value of the future cash flows that will be derived from the division (so-called value in use). If the book value exceeds the recoverable amount, the difference represents the impairment that needs to be stated as extraordinary depreciation in the income statement of the respective financial year. If the book value is lower than the recoverable amount, no impair- ment is required.
Subsidiaries, in which A.S. Création Tapeten AG has the majority of voting rights and, hence, control over the financial and business policy, are fully consolidated. In accordance with IFRS 11 and IRFS 12, jointly controlled companies are accounted for using the equity method. The financial statements of domestic and foreign companies included in the consolidated financial statements were pre- pared using consistent Group-wide accounting and valuation principles in accordance with IFRS regulations.
CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ACCORDING TO IFRS
91
 
92
 CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ACCORDING TO IFRS
Receivables and liabilities, intragroup sales as well as expenses and income are set off against each other. Intercompany profits and losses in tangible fixed assets, in intangible fixed assets and in inventories are eliminated with the effect shown in the income statement. Intragroup value adjustments and provisions are written back.
Where transactions are carried out with a jointly controlled entity, the resulting unrealised gains or losses are eliminated in accordance with the share held in the jointly controlled enterprise.
Where consolidation processes whose effects are shown in the income statement are concerned, the effects on income taxes are taken into account and deferred taxes are established for tempo- rary differences resulting from consolidation processes.
Notes on the basis of consolidation
Next to A.S. Création Tapeten AG, 10 companies are consolidated. The basis of consolidation has remained unchanged compared to the previous year.
The table below shows the fully consolidated companies:
 No. Company, location
Wallpaper Division
1. A.S. Création Tapeten AG, Gummersbach/Germany 2. AS Creation (UK) Limited, Formby/UK
3. A.S. Création (NL) B.V., Werkendam/Netherlands
4. A.S. Création (France) SAS, Lyon/France
held by
No. 1 No. 1 No. 1 No. 4 No. 4 No. 6 No. 1
No. 1 No. 9
Share in %
100.0 100.0 100.0 100.0 100.0 100.0 100.0
100.0 100.0
Nominal capital Dec. 31, 2014
9,000,000 € 100,000 £ 20,000 € 4,000,000 € 460,350 € 2,000,000 € 1,000 €
25,000,000 RUB 500,000 €
550,000 €
      5. MCF Investissement SAS, Ballancourt/France
6. SCE-Sociétédeconceptionetd’éditionSAS,Boves/France
7. SCE Investissements SC, Boves/France
8. OOO A.S. Création (RUS), Moscow/Russia
Furnishing Fabrics Division
9. A.S. Création Textil GmbH, Marienheide/Germany
10. Indes Fuggerhaus Textil GmbH, Marienheide/Germany
       In addition, OOO A.S. & Palitra, Dzerzhinsk/Russia, in which A.S. Création Tapeten AG holds 50.0%, is accounted for using the equity method. This joint venture forms part of the Wallpaper Division.

All financial statements included in the consolidated financial statements were established as of December 31, 2014 and were audited by independent chartered accountants or reviewed by the Group’s auditors.
Currency translation
A.S. Création Tapeten AG’s reporting currency is the euro (€).
Assets and debts denominated in foreign currencies are translated at the exchange rate at the time of addition and adjusted to the respective closing rate at every balance sheet date. Resulting translation differences are shown in the income statement.
In accordance with IAS 21, foreign currencies in the financial statements of consolidated companies in non-EMU countries are translated according to the functional currency concept using the
77
modified closing rate method. Under this method, changes in tangible fixed assets and in intan- gible fixed assets are translated at average annual rates, equity is translated at historical rates and all other balance sheet items are translated at closing rates. Differences referring to tangible fixed assets and intangible fixed assets are itemised in the “Currency translation differences” line. All items in the income statement are translated at the average annual rate. Currency differences are not recognised in the income statement but are allocated to the currency translation differences within the equity.
Translation differences from debt consolidation are recognised in the income statement.
An average annual rate of £ 0.80610/€ (previous year: £ 0.84921/€) and a closing rate of £ 0.77860/€ (previous year: £ 0.83280/€), were used for the pound sterling, while an average annual rate of RUB 50.99281/€ (previous year: RUB 42.39129/€) and a closing rate of RUB 68.34270/€ (previous year: RUB 44.96990/€) were applied for the Russian rouble.
Accounting and valuation principles
Tangible fixed assets are reported at the cost of acquisition or production to be capitalised. If more time is needed to get an asset ready for its intended use, directly attributable borrowing costs incurred during this time are capitalised. Assets acquired under finance leases are shown at
CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ACCORDING TO IFRS
93
 
94
 CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ACCORDING TO IFRS
the lower of their current market value at the beginning of the lease or the present value of the minimum lease payments in accordance with IAS 17.
With the exception of printing tools, tangible fixed assets subject to depreciation are written off using the straight-line method. Depreciation is based on the following useful economic lives:
 Buildings
High-bay warehouses
Large machines
Other machines
Other plant, furniture and fixtures
10 to 30 years 20 years 8 to 15 years 5 to 10 years 3 to 10 years
     Fixed assets are written down on a pro rata temporis basis in the year of acquisition.
Printing rollers and rotary screens are written off using the unit-of-production method over a period of three years. For reasons of simplification it is assumed that the printing tools are disposed from fixed assets after they have been written off completely.
Fixed assets are written down for impairment if the fair value of the asset is below the net carrying amount. If the reasons for the write-downs for impairment no longer apply, the impairment is reversed provided that this does not state the asset at more than amortised original cost.
Intangible fixed assets - with the exception of the goodwill acquired - are valued at cost less scheduled depreciation. They are written off using the straight-line method over their expected useful economic lives of mostly three to five years and no more than ten years.
Acquired goodwill is not written off systematically but is regularly subjected to an impairment test. Accordingly, acquired goodwill is measured at cost less the value impairment potentially resulting from the impairment test.
Development costs for new designs are not capitalised, as the criteria of IAS 38 are not met.
In accordance with IFRS 11 and IFRS 12, jointly controlled entities are recognised using the equity method. The investment is recognised at cost at the time of acquisition and the respective carrying amount of the investment is subsequently increased or decreased to reflect changes in equity of the jointly controlled entity through changes affecting income and through

changes affecting other comprehensive income, provided that these changes relate to the shares of A.S. Création Tapeten AG. The same also applies to long term shareholder's loan in case they belong to net investment of A.S. Création for economic content.
Financial assets are accounted for as of the settlement date.
Raw materials and supplies as well as merchandise are shown at the weighted average cost of acquisition or the lower fair value on the balance sheet date less cost to sell. Finished and unfinished products are reported at the cost of acquisition or production or the lower fair value on the balance sheet date less cost to sell. The cost of production includes not only the directly attributable cost but also the factory overhead as well as depreciation. Interest on borrowings is not included in the cost of acquisition or production.
Receivables are measured at amortised cost using the effective interest method less potential value impairments. The value impairments appropriately reflect the expected risk of default. The allowances are booked in separate allowance accounts. Receivables are written off only in case of an actual default. Where trade receivables are concerned, the risk of default is initially determined by analysing the customer’s historical payment behaviour (itemised allowance). Thereafter, receiv- ables are grouped on the basis of identical risk features and the risk of default of the respective groups is analysed (generalised itemised allowance).
Other assets and cash and cash equivalents are shown at their nominal values.
Provisions are established for contingent liabilities from pension obligations. These are determined in accordance with IAS 19 (rev. 2011) by using the actuarial projected unit credit method. Actu- arial gains or losses are recognised in equity. Interest costs included in the pension expenses are shown in the financial result. All other provisions are reported at the amount likely to be required to cover discernible risks and contingent liabilities
Liabilities under finance leases are reported at the present value using the interest rates on which the individual leasing agreements are based.
Other liabilities are initially recognised at the fair value and subsequently amortised at cost using the effective interest method.
CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ACCORDING TO IFRS
95
 
96
 CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ACCORDING TO IFRS
In accordance with IAS 12, deferred taxes are recognised for different valuations of assets and liabilities to IFRS and in the tax balance sheet, for consolidation processes and for tax losses carried forward. Deferred tax assets are recognised only if there is sufficient likelihood that they can be realised within the next five fiscal years. Expected country-specific tax rates are applied in this context.
Expenses and income are shown at the time of realisation. Sales revenues are realised at the time of the passage of risk, usually upon delivery. The regional breakdown of sales is based on the locations of customers’ headquarters or, if the delivery address differs from the address of the headquarters, on the delivery address. Operating expenses are recognised at the time the under- lying services are used, while advertising and sales promotion expenses as well as other sales related expenses are recognised at the time they are incurred. Interest and other cost of debt are accounted for as expenditure in the accounting period.
To prepare the consolidated financial statements, the Managing Board must make estimates and assumptions that influence the recognition of assets and liabilities as well as income and ex- penses. All estimates and assumptions are made to the best of the Managing Board’s knowledge to give a true and fair view of the net worth, financial and earnings position of the Group. The actual values may nevertheless deviate from the estimates. The following estimates and assump- tions have a material effect on the consolidated financial statements.
In the case of business acquisitions, all acquired assets and liabilities are measured at the fair value at the time of first consolidation (“purchase price allocation”). Material assumptions must be made especially for the measurement of intangible assets, e.g. trademark rights, as the fair value is determined through the present value of the anticipated future cash flows. Insofar, the estimates of the future development of the asset and its useful economic life as well as the choice of the discount factor have a material impact on the fair value.
As outlined under the consolidation principles, goodwill is tested for impairment. The underlying profit projections of the two divisions and the choice of the discount factor constitute estimates that have a material impact on the result of the impairment test. Although the Managing Board believes that the assumptions made are appropriate, an unexpected need for adjustment of these

assumptions may lead to an impairment that has an adverse impact on the net worth, financial and earnings position of A.S. Création.
A.S. Création must examine at every balance sheet date whether there are indications of impair- ment regarding other intangible assets, property, plant and equipment and financial assets. Such impairment may be the consequence of a number of factors including changed competitive conditions, shorter useful economic lives resulting from technological progress or increased capital charges. Accordingly, the Managing Board’s estimates are based on certain assumptions regarding the economic environment. Although the Managing Board believes that the assump- tions made are appropriate, an unexpected need for adjustment of these assumptions may lead to an impairment that has an adverse impact on the net worth, financial and earnings position of A.S. Création.
Pension provisions are recognised for current pension obligations as well as future old age, disability and survivors’ pension commitments. Pension provisions are calculated using actuarial methods. For this purpose, assumptions must be made regarding the discount factor, the anticipated future salary and pension trends and the mortality rate. These actuarial assumptions may deviate materially from actual future developments and may lead to material changes in future obligations and future expenses.
Some companies of the A.S. Création Group are involved in litigations or similar proceedings, whose outcome may have a material impact on the net worth, financial and earnings position of the Group. The Managing Board and the Managing Directors of the Group companies analyse the available information on these cases. External lawyers are consulted as well. As part of the decision on the need to establish provisions, assumptions must be made regarding the likely outcome of the proceedings and a well-founded estimate should be made of the potentially resulting obligations. The disclosure of a litigation or similar proceedings in the Notes or the actual filing of an action or of a claim for damages against a company of the A.S. Création Group do not automatically mean that, a provision has been established for this risk. Further more there is a risk that the provision – against estimations at the time of establishing – turns out to be insufficient in the future.
CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ACCORDING TO IFRS
97
 
  98
 Dec 31, 2014
34,918 78,735 20,012 35
279 76 5,019 130
11 0 24 –35
17 17 3,094 0
0 0 –17 0
35,191 78,794 21,944 130
48 290 4,010 0
0 123 7 –130
0 1,041 3,200 0
0 0 –59 0
35,239 78,166 22,702 0
136,107
16,027 61,215 14,168 0
1,552 3,429 4,314 0
0000
4 8 2,938 0
0 0 –8 0
17,575 64,636 15,536 0
1,536 3,266 4,387 0
0000
0 1,041 3,050 0
0 0 -23 0
Dec 31, 2014 19,111 66,861 16,850 0
102,822
Dec 31, 2014
Land, buildings, and similar rights € '000
Plant and machinery
€ '000
Other fixtures and fittings, tools and equipment € '000
Advance payments and assets under construction € '000
17,616 14,158 6,408 130
16,128 11,305 5,852 0
33,285
CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ACCORDING TO IFRS
Notes to the balance sheet (1) Tangible fixed assets
The table below shows a breakdown of, as well as the changes in, tangible fixed assets:
Gross cost of acquisition or production Dec 31, 2012
Addition
Reclassifications
Disposals
Currency
translation differences
Dec 31, 2013
Addition Reclassifications Disposals
Currency
translation differences
Depreciation
Dec 31, 2012
Addition
Reclassifications
Disposals
Currency
translation differences
Dec 31, 2013
Addition Reclassifications Disposals
Currency
translation differences
Net book value Dec 31, 2013
Tangible fixed assets include assets on the basis of finance leases in an amount of € 5.976 million (previous year: € 6.841 million). The finance leases refer to production and warehouse buildings.
Explanations regarding land charges and assignments of machines are provided in Note No. 12.
Total
€ '000
133,700
5,504 0 3,128
–17
136,059
4,348 0 4,241
–59
91,410
9,295 0 2,950
–8
97,747
9,189 0 4,091
-23
38,312
                                               
(2) Intangible fixed assets
The table below shows a breakdown of, as well as the changes in, intangible fixed assets:
Gross cost of acquisition or production Dec 31, 2012
Addition
Disposals
Dec 31, 2013
Addition Disposals
Depreciation Dec 31, 2012 Addition Disposals
Dec 31, 2013
Addition Disposals
Net book value Dec 31, 2013
Total
€ '000
14,623
175 85 14,713 124 267
6,426
1 7 4 71 6,529 151 259
8,184
CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ACCORDING TO IFRS
               Dec 31, 2014
            Dec 31, 2014
    Dec 31, 2014
Lizences Goodwill and
similar rights
€ '000 € '000
5,347 9,276
175 0
85 0
5,437 9,276
124 0
267 0
5,294 9,276
4,883 1,543
174 0
71 0
4,986 1,543
151 0 259 0
4,878 1,543
 451 7,733
 416 7,733
14,570
6,421
8,149
    The Wallpaper Division and the Furnishing Fabrics Division, respectively, accounted for € 7.581 million and € 0.152 million of goodwill, which remained unchanged at € 7.733 million. The goodwill was subjected to an impairment test. In this context, the value in use was determined as the present value of the future cash flows from the operation. The value in use was determined on the basis of the approved detailed budgets for the fiscal years 2015 and 2016. The cash flow used is the cash flow before interest and taxes less total capital expenditures of the respective year as well as the changed capital tied up in net current assets. For the years from 2017, the budgeted cash flow before interest and taxes of the year 2016 less maintenance and replacement investments was carried as a perpetual annuity. No growth rate was assumed in the calculation of the perpetual annuity. For the purpose of discounting, weighted average costs of capital (before taxes) of 4.7% and 4.4% were applied for the Wallpaper Division and the Furnishing Fabrics Division, respectively. The value in use thus determined exceeded the carrying amounts in both divisions, which means that the impairment tests did not provide any indication of an impairment loss. A discount factor of over 7.0% for the Wallpaper Division and of over 10.9% for the Furnishing Fabrics Division would indicate the need to recognise an impairment loss.
99
 
2014 € '000
0
0
0
0
0
100
 31.12.14 € '000
18,429
6,160
(37)
37,290
(33,073)
2,117
(9)
-14,818
-7,409
11
-233
-7,631
CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ACCORDING TO IFRS
(3) Investments accounted for at equity
This item comprises the investment in OOO A.S. & Palitra. The table below shows the changes in investments accounted for at equity:
   January 1
Additions
Pro-rata changes in equity
Changes affecting income
Changes
December 31
2013 € '000
1,989 0
-2,028 39 0
       The table below shows the financial information of this investment:
Non-current assets Current assets
thereof cash and cash equivalents Non-current liabilities
thereof financial liabilities and deferred tax liabilities Current liabilities
thereof financial liabilities and tax liabilities Net assets (100%)
Group share in net assets (50%)
Capitalised other costs
Elimination of unrealised intercompany profits
Carrying amount
31.12.13 € '000
26,116 7,177 (114) 29,666 (29,666) 7,449 (6,091) -3,822 -1,911 11 -382 -2,282
                
CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ACCORDING TO IFRS
 2014 € '000
13,034
2,267
1,265
-3,294
-16,488
0
-16,488
-8,244
25
-8,219
0
  Sales revenues
Depreciation
Interest expenses
Income taxes
Earnings after taxes
Other earning after taxes
Total comprehensive income (100%)
Total comprehensive income (50 %) Eliminination of unrealised intercompany profits Share in total comprehensive income
Dividend received
2013 € '000
6,587 2 , 0 8 6 1,417
-1,682 -8,680 0 -8,680 -4,340 30 -4,310 0
           Of A.S. Création’s share in total comprehensive income in an amount of € -8.219 million (previous year: € -4.310 million), an amount of € 0 million (previous year: € -2.028 million) was offset against the carrying amount of the investment. Another amount of € -8.219 million (previous year: € -2.282 million) was offset against the shareholder loans, because the latter are attributable to A.S. Création’s net investments taking the economic content into account. As in the previous year, the company had no financial obligations from order commitments for investments.
(4) Financial assets
This item comprises the shareholder loans that A.S. Création Tapeten AG granted to the joint venture OOO A.S. & Palitra.
The table below shows the changes in financial assets:
January 1
Additions
Currency adjustment Pro-rata changes in equity
Changes affecting income
Changes affecting other comprehensive income
December 31
2013 € '000
13,240 2,988 0
-2,282 0 13,946
 2014 € '000
13,946
643
-340
-8,219
2,871
8,901
          101
 
31.12.14 € '000
6,644
3,050
503
10,197
31.12.13 € '000
6,300
610
6,910
0
Remaining term of up to 1 year
31.12.14 € '000
3,800
3,050
503
7,353
31.12.13 € '000
4,761
610
5,371
0
31.12.14 € '000
2,844
2,844
0
0
102
 31.12.14 € '000
388
38
34
52
512
CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ACCORDING TO IFRS
(5) Other assets
A breakdown of other assets by type and maturity is shown below:
Total
Miscellaneous other assets Current financial investments Deferred charges
Miscellaneous other assets include, among others, supplier credits as well as VAT refund claims.
Current financial investments comprise fixed deposits with a remaining term of more than three months.
(6) Income tax receivables
The non-current income tax receivables in an amount of € 0.575 million (previous year:
€ 0.830 million) refer to that portion of the capitalised corporate income tax benefit that will not be refunded in the following year.
(7) Deferred taxes
Deferred taxes are calculated using country-specific tax rates pursuant to IAS 12. The total tax rate in Germany, which comprises trade tax, corporate income tax and solidarity surcharge, was 31.06% (previous year: 31.06%).
Deferred tax assets break down as follows:
31.12.13 € '000
Realisable future reductions in tax payments
resulting from losses carried forward 872
Differences between the tax balance sheet and the commercial balance sheet 9 Adjustments of individual financial statements to IFRS 242 Consolidation processes 26
1,149
   Remaining term of over 1 year
31.12.13 € '000
1,539 0 0 1,539
                   
Losses carried forward for corporate income tax and solidarity surcharge in an amount of € 0.219 million (previous year: € 0.439 million) exist in Germany. In addition, tax losses carried forward in an amount of € 6.539 million (previous year: € 3.869 million) exist abroad. The increase is primarily attributable to tranlsation-related exchange losses from foreign currency liabilities at the Russian sales organisation. No deferred tax assets were recognised for the losses car- ried forward in the amount of € 5.097 million (previous year: € 0.0 million) as their realisa- tion is not sufficiently certain from today’s point of view.
Deferred tax liabilities break down as follows:
Differences between the tax balance sheet and the commercial balance sheet
Adjustments of individual financial statements to IFRS Consolidation processes
Deferred taxes refer to the following balance sheet items:
€ ’000 6 61 Inventories 212
Trade receivables and other assets Provisions for pensions
Other provisions
Other liabilities
Tax losses carried forward
Set-off* –2,750
1,149
CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ACCORDING TO IFRS
 31.12.14 € '000
–920
2,637
1,139
2,856
 31.12.13 € '000
–1,140 4,142 1,752 4,754
31.12.13
Deferred Deferred tax tax assets liabilities
       31.12.14
Deferred Deferred tax tax assets liabilities € ’000 € ’000
12 5,993
48 109
235 143
79 244
2,341 0
10 0
1,049 17
388 0
4,162 6,506
–3,650 –3,650
512 2,856
   Tangible fixed assets Intangible fixed assets
€ ’000 7,018 124 94 80 253 1,496 0 14 0 1,158 15 872 0 3,899 7,504
         –2,750
4,754
   * According to IAS 12, deferred tax assets and deferred tax liabilities should, under certain conditions, be offset if they relate to income taxes levied by the same taxation authority.
103
 
31.12. 14 € '000
3,932
262
39,337
43,531
104
 2014 € '000
1,986
1,103
196
160
-5
2,728
CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ACCORDING TO IFRS
(8) Inventories
Inventories comprise the following:
Raw materials and supplies Unfinished products
Finished goods and merchandise
31.12. 13 € '000
3,909 374 43,323 47,606
        Inventories with carrying amounts of € 10.248 million (previous year: € 10.394 million) are recognised at the fair value less cost to sell. Impairments of inventories in an amount of € 0.694 million (previous year: € 0.528 million) were recognised as an expense in the past fiscal year.
(9) Trade receivables
€ 0.052 million (previous year: € 0.434 million) of the trade receivables have a remaining term of more than one year.
The table below shows the allowances on trade receivables:
2013 € '000
As of January 1 1,875 Allocation 412 Use 262 Release 39 Currency adjustment 0 As of December 31 1,986
Of the total allowances, an amount of € 1.095 million (previous year: € 0.737 million) refers to itemised allowances and an amount of € 1.633 million (previous year: € 1.249 million) refers to generalised itemised allowances.
          
The table below shows the maturity structure of the receivables for which no itemised allowances were established as of the balance sheet date:
CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ACCORDING TO IFRS
  Trade receivables
€ '000
(10) Cash and cash equivalents
thereof without itemised allowances and
not past due
€ '000
past due within 90 days
€ '000
past due bet- ween 91 and 180 days
€ '000
past due bet- ween 181 and 360 days
€ '000
past due in more than 360 days
€ '000
 As of Dec 31, 2013 34,689
30,992 3,411 45 16 3
As of Dec 31, 2014 34,702
31,510 2,633 128 8 2
    Cash and cash equivalents break down as follows:
Cash in banks
Cash on hand, cheques and bills of exchange
31.12. 13 € '000
5,612 1,032 6,644
in equity. 3,000,000
 31.12. 14 € '000
5,269
506
5,775
      Cash in banks include short-term funds with a term of up to three months.
(11) Equity
For the composition of equity, please refer to the consolidated statement of changes
As of December 31, 2014, the share capital amounted to € 9,000,000.00 divided into no par value registered shares.
According to Article 4 paragraph 3 of the current statutes of A.S. Création Tapeten AG (as amended on May 15, 2014), the Managing Board is authorised, subject to the approval of the Supervisory Board, to increase the capital stock by up to € 4.500 million (so called authorised capital) until May 4, 2016 through the issue of new shares against a contribution in kind or in cash. Shareholders’ subscription rights may be excluded in certain cases. Given that no use has been made of this authorisation so far, the authorised capital amounted to € 4.500 million on December 31, 2014.
105
 
106
 As of Dec 31, 2014
Financial derivative
€ '000
Deferred taxes
€ '000
Pension provisions
€ '000
Deferred taxes
€ '000
Foreign currency translation differences from
–781 241 –2,611 806 98 –86
189 –58 350 –110 209 39
–592 183 –2,261 696 307 –47
-47 15 -2,680 836 2,450 2,871
–639 198 –4,941 1,532 2,757 2,824
fully consolidated companies
€ '000
companies accounted for at equity
€ '000
1,731
CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ACCORDING TO IFRS
As in the previous year, capital reserves include € 13.752 million in premiums from the issue of shares of A.S. Création Tapeten AG and, in accordance with IAS 32, an equity share of € 0.005 million from the purchase and sale of own shares.
Revenue reserves include undistributed profits of the Group companies as well as changes in equity not affecting income.
According to a resolution passed by the General Meeting of Shareholders dated May 7, 2010, the Managing Board is authorised to acquire own shares up to a par value of € 0.900 million (which represents a maximum of 10% of the share capital) until May 6, 2015. The Managing Board is also authorised to cancel the shares acquired, to resell them, or to use the shares acquired for company acquisitions or equity investments. Based on previous authorisations granted between 1999 and 2008, A.S. Création Tapeten AG repurchased 243,649 own shares. Since then, no sales or purchases have occurred, which means that A.S. Création Tapeten AG held 243,649 own shares in a nominal amount of € 0.731 million or 8.12% of the share capital as of the balance sheet date. An offsetting item in the amount of the cost of acquisition of own shares was established, which remained unchanged from the previous year at € 4.021 million.
In view of the consolidated loss posted in the fiscal year, it will be proposed to pay no dividend. A dividend of € 0.25 per share was distributed for the previous year, which added up to a total payout of € 0.689 million.
Under IFRS, some items are not recognised as income and expenses in the income statement but are recognised directly in equity. This so-called "other comprehensive income", which is included in revenue reserves and the balancing item for currency translation differences, is shown in the table below:
Total
€ '000 –2,333 619 –1,714
3,445
    As of Jan 1, 2013
Other comprehensive income 2013
As of Dec 31, 2013
Other comprehensive income 2014
       
(12) Financial liabilities (interest-bearing)
The breakdown and remaining terms of the interest-bearing financial liabilities are shown below:
CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ACCORDING TO IFRS
    Total
Remaining term of over 5 years
31.12.13 € ’000
2,229
0 0 0
2,229
 31.12.14 € ’000
18,372
2,636
-254
2,382
20,754
31.12.13 € ’000
24,116
3,257
–412
2,845
26,961
Remaining term of up to 1 year
31.12.14 € ’000
4,045
613
-140
473
4,518
31.12.13 € ’000
6,752
621
–158
463
7,215
Remaining term
of over 1 up to 5 years
31.12.14 € ’000
13,084
2,023
-114
1,909
14,993
31.12.13 € ’000
15,135
2,636
–254
2,382
17,517
31.12.14 € ’000
1,243
1,243
0
0
0
     Financial liabilities (without finance lease) Liabilities from
finance lease
Gross value Discounting Present value
       The finance lease agreements include a purchase option at the end of the minimum term, whose value at the time the option is exercised is usually lower than the asset’s current market value. The agreed purchase prices are therefore included in the finance lease obligations.
Interest-bearing financial liabilities are secured by land charges of € 33.418 million (previous year: € 34.418 million) as well as assignments of machines with gross acquisition costs of € 6.176 million (previous year: € 11.711 million). 125,000 (previous year: 125,000) own shares were also used as collateral.
Interest-bearing financial liabilities of € 20.754 million (previous year: € 26.961 million) include € 20.707 million (previous year: € 24.040 million) from credit agreements at fixed interest rates and € 0.047 million (previous year: € 2.921 million) from credit agreements at variable interest rates. An amount of € 11.098 million (previous year: € 13.299 million) of the interest-bearing financial liabilities is covered by an interest rate hedge. The breakdown of credit agreements at fixed interest rates by the remaining term and the weighted average interest rates based on the book value is shown below:
 Average interest rate 2014 %
Book value 31.12.14 € '000
2.9 4,471
3.0 14,993
2.8 1,243
20,707
 Remaining term
of up to 1 year
of over 1 year up to 5 years of over 5 years
Average interest rate 2013 %
3.0 3.1 2.8
Book value 31.12.13 € '000
4,294 17,517 2,229 24,040
      107
 
31.12.14 € ’000
5,025
736
860
1,110
4,979
3,851
16,561
31.12.13 € ’000
5,963
842
531
1,575
3,610
12,521
0
Remaining term of up to 1 year
31.12.14 € ’000
4,755
736
860
1,110
4,979
3,110
15,550
31.12.13 € ’000
5,662
842
531
1,575
2,933
11,543
0
31.12.14 € ’000
270
741
1,011
0
0
0
0
108
 CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ACCORDING TO IFRS
(13) Other liabilities
The breakdown and remaining terms of the other liabilities are shown below:
   Total
Remaining term of over 1 year
31.12.13 € ’000
301 0 0
0
0 677
978
     Liabilities to employees
Liabilities due to social security charges
Liabilities due to other taxes
Liabilities due to bonuses/discounts
Liabilities due to antitrust proceedings
Miscellaneous other liabilities
        Following on from the search of offices in November 2010 and the opening of administrative offence proceedings in July 2013, the French antitrust authorities issued penalty notices against SCE - Société de conception et d’édition SAS and MCF Investissement SAS, two French companies of the A.S. Création Group, in December 2014. The French antitrust authorities accuse the two member companies of the A.S. Création Group and other French wallpaper manufacturers of having exchanged information in violation of antitrust law in the years from 2006 to 2010. The penalties imposed on the two companies total € 4.979 million. An appeal has been filed against the penalty notices. Under French law, this appeal does not have a suspensive effect on the pay- ment of the penalty. A current liability of € 4.979 million (previous year: € 0.0 million) has there- fore been recognised.

(14) Long-term provisions
The breakdown of long-term provisions is shown below:
Pension provisions Other provisions
31.12.13 € '000
9,706
2,000
11,706
CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ACCORDING TO IFRS
 31.12.14 € '000
12,626
0
12,626
      Pension provisions are recognised for current pension obligations as well as future old age, disability and survivors’ pension commitments. Commitments vary from Group company to Group company depending on the legal and economic situation. The majority of Group employees are granted a service-life-linked defined benefit pension plan related to a fixed monetary amount.
The amount of the defined benefit obligations is determined using actuarial methods in accord- ance with IAS 19 (rev. 2011) and equals the present value of future pension payments. For the majority of pension obligations it is determined based on the following parameters:
31.12.13 %
Projected interest rate (discount rate) 3.10 Projected pension trend 2.00 Projected rate of fluctuation 5.00
For employees of German Group companies the assumptions for mortality and disability are based on the RICHTTAFELN 2005 G from Prof. Dr. Klaus Heubeck.
An isolated change in the actuarial assumptions would have main impact on the present value of the pension obligation:
 31.12.14 %
1.80
2.00
5.00
       Projected interest rate (discount rate)
Projected pension trend
Increase in the Change in parameter present value % € '000
1.00 -2,148 0.25 402
Reduction in the parameter %
1.00 0.25
Change in present value € '000
2,884 -383
  109
 
2014 € '000
9,888
-300
262
302
2,685
-5
12,832
110
 2014 € ’000
182
18
0
6
0
206
CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ACCORDING TO IFRS
If the life of the persons entitled to pension were extended by one year, the pension obligation would increase by another € 0.498 million.
The duration of the pension obligation, i.e. the anticipated average capital tie-up period, is 20.1 years.
The table below shows the changes in the defined benefit obligations:
2013 € '000
As of January 1 10,200 Pension payments –531 Current service cost 258 Interest cost 312 Actuarial losses from changes in the discount rate 0 Other actuarial gains (-) or losses (+) -351 As of December 31 9,888
Of the defined benefit obligations, an amount of € 0.332 million is expected to be paid out in the following fiscal year.
A small portion of the defined benefit obligations is financed under re-insurance policies, which qualify as plan assets. The table below shows the changes in the fair value of the plan assets:
2013 € ’000
As of January 1 184 Employer contributions 39 Benefit payments –46 Expected return on plan assets 6 Actuarial losses –1 As of December 31 182
Re-insurance contributions are expected to amount of € 0.018 million in the following fiscal year.
The present value of the plan assets (re-insurance) is offset against the defined benefit obliga- tions and the net obligations are stated as pension provisions in the balance sheet.
                     
The table below shows the changes in pension provisions:
CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ACCORDING TO IFRS
 2014 € ’000
9,706
-318
558
2,680
12,626
 2013 € ’000
 As of January 1 10,016 Pension payments and employer contributions -524 Allocation through profit/loss 564 Allocation/release through equity -350 As of December 31 9,706
The allocation to pension provisions through profit/loss, i.e. net pension expenses for the pension commitments, are comprised as follows and are included in the respective items of the income statement:
       2014 € ’000
262
296
558
  Current service cost and benefit payments Interest cost
Income statement 2013 € ’000
Personnel expenses 258 Financial result 306 564
    The following actuarial gains (+) / losses (-) were recognised in equity:
 2014 € '000
-2,685
-4
9
-2,680
 2013 € '000
 Change in the discount factor 0 Change in the biometric assumptions 9 Experience adjustement 341
350
Besides these commitments from defined benefit plans, some Group companies make contributions to company pension schemes in some cases. In these cases, a defined annual amount is paid to an external relief fund or a comparable institution for the duration of the employment relationship. These defined contribution plans are not recognised in pension provisions. Instead, the contributions paid are included in the personnel expenses of the respective fiscal year (see Notes No. 20).
     111
 
2014 € ’000
113
113
0
102
102
112
 31.12.14 € ’000
219
789
560
607
2,175
31.12.13 € ’000
461
1,104
673
187
2,425
Remaining term of up to 1 year
31.12.14 € ’000
219
371
278
607
1,475
31.12.13 € ’000
461
417
292
187
1,357
Remaining term of over 1 year up to 5 years
31.12.14 € ’000
418
282
700
0
0
31.12.13 € ’000
613
381
994
0
0
31.12.14 € ’000
0
0
0
0
0
CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ACCORDING TO IFRS
The provision for the risks from the antitrust proceedings in Germany of € 2.000 million was recognised under other non-current provisions (for details, please refer to Note No. 14 to the consolidated financial statements for 2013) in the previous year. In the past fiscal year, the amount established as a provision was paid out. Due to this payment, the provision amounted to € 0.0 mil- lion as of the balance sheet date (previous year: € 2.000 million). The payment was made exclusively because of commercial considerations, as it avoids the obligation to pay interest on a potential fine up to this amount. There is a risk that these € 2.0 million – against today's estimates – may turn out to be insufficient as the proceedings continue.
(15) Short-term provisions
Short-term provisions mainly refer to potential losses from pending transactions and warranties. The table below shows the changes in short-term provisions:
   As of January 1 Use
Release Allocation
As of December 31
16) Other financial liabilities
2013 € ’000
103 103 0 11 3 113
      The table below shows the other disclosable financial liabilities and their remaining terms:
    Total
Remaining term of over 5 years
31.12.13 € ’000
0 74 0
0
74
      from loan contracts from building rents from operating leases
from order commitments for investments in tangible fixed assets
      
Notes to the income statement (17) Sales
A breakdown of Group sales by region is provided below:
CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ACCORDING TO IFRS
    Wallpaper Division
Group
76,730
86,428 163,158 40,131 16,961 220,250 –20,432 199,818
 2014 € ’000
69,064
78,502
147,566
33,952
14,448
195,966
-20,082
175,884
2013 € ’000
66,209
84,316
150,525
39,215
16,434
206,174
–19,642
186,532
Fabrics Division
2014 € ’000
11,151
2,383
13,534
553
465
14,552
-927
13,625
2013 € ’000
10,735
2,229
12,964
916
527
14,407
–790
13,617
Consolidation
2014 € ’000
-315
-68
-383
-383
-381
0
0
2
2013 € ’000
–214
–117
–331
–331
–331
0
0
0
2014 € ’000
79,900
80,817
160,717
34,505
14,913
210,135
-21,007
189,128
    Germany
EU (excl. Germany) European Union (EU) Other Eastern Europe Other countries
Sales (gross) Reduction in revenues Sales (net)
(18) Cost of materials
2013 € ’000
          The cost of materials includes:
Cost of raw materials, consumables and supplies and purchased materials
Cost of purchased services
(19) Other income
2013 € ’000
99,573 4,256 103,829
 2014 € ’000
88,941
4,070
93,011
        Other income includes, among other things, income from the release of allowances for doubtful receivables and income from the expiry of obligations. It also includes income from disposals of tangible and intangible fixed assets in an amount of € 0.047 million (previous year: € 0.044 million) as well as foreign exchange gains in an amount of € 0.102 million (previous year: € 0.061 million).
113
 
2014 € ’000
35,234
8,003
43,237
114
 2014 Persons
395
380
47
822
CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ACCORDING TO IFRS
(20) Personnel expenses
Personnel expenses are comprised as follows:
Wages and salaries
Social security contributions and pension expenses
2013 € ’000
36,656 8,451 45,107
       Social security contributions and pension expenses include contributions to state pension insurance institutions in an amount of € 2.881 million (previous year: € 2.977 million), allocations to pension provisions in an amount of € 0.262 million (previous year: € 0.258 million) as well as payments to external relief funds and similar pension organisations due to defined contribution plans in an amount of € 0.191 million (previous year: € 0.185 million).
The table below shows the Group’s average headcount in the fiscal year (full time equivalents) excluding the three members of the Managing Board:
2013 Persons
Blue-collar workers 403 White-collar workers 387 Trainees and apprentices 47
837
(21) Depreciation
A breakdown of depreciation is provided in the notes to tangible and intangible fixed assets (see No. 1 and No. 2 above). Of the total depreciation, an amount of € 0.865 million (previous year: € 0.865 million) relates to assets capitalised on the basis of finance leases. As in the previous year, no write-downs for impairment occurred in the fiscal year.
        
(22) Other operating expenses
Other operating expenses mainly include expenses on freight out, advertising, rental and operating leases, maintenance and insurance policies. Moreover, they include losses from disposals of tan- gible and intangible fixed assets in an amount of € 0.053 million (previous year: € 0.079 million), foreign exchange losses in an amount of € 4.604 million (previous year: € 0.660 million) as well as expenses on potential claims from the anti-trust proceedings in an amount of € 4.979 million (previous year: € 2.0 million).
(23) Financial result
The financial result includes interest expenses of € 0.296 million (previous year: € 0.306 million), which result from the allocation to pension provisions. For details see No. 14 above.
(24) Income taxes
Income taxes include the taxes on income and earnings paid or due in the individual countries as well as deferred taxes. Income taxes are comprised as follows:
2013 € ’000
Current income tax expenses 4,903 Deferred taxes –993 3,910
At € 4.287 million (previous year: € 3.910 million), tax expenses exceeded the expected tax expenses of € -1.569 million (previous year: € 1.625 million) that would have arisen based on the overall German tax rate of 31.06% (previous year: 31.06%) by € 5.856 million (previous year: € 2.285 million). The difference between expected and effective income tax expenses in the Group is due to the following:
CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ACCORDING TO IFRS
 2014 € ’000
4,866
–579
4,287
      115
 
2014 € ’000
-1,569
543
-65
-388
1,927
1,367
–92
2,553
11
4,287
-84.86%
116
 2014
2,756,351
-9,338,438
-3.39
CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ACCORDING TO IFRS
  2013 € ’000
Expected income tax expenses 1,625
Tax rate differentials to the overall German tax rate 239 Income from reimbursement of corporate income tax credit –56 Taxes unrelated to the accounting period 32 Non-tax-deductible expenses 819 Non-recognition and allowances from losses carried forward 0 Non-taxable income –91 Results from investments accounted for at equity 1,339 Other tax effects 3 Effective income tax expenses 3,910 Effective income tax rate 74.72%
The change in the effective tax rate is attributable to increased pro-rated losses from the Russian joint venture, non-tax-deductible expenses relating to the antitrust proceedings and valuation allowances on losses carried forward.
              (25) Earnings per share
Earnings per share are calculated as follows:
Number of shares outstanding (weighted average) Earnings after taxes
Earnings per share
shares
€ €/share
2013
2,756,351 1,323,008 0.48
       Given that no stock options or similar equity instruments exist that may lead to a change in the number of shares (so-called "capital dilution"), earnings per share represent both basic and diluted earnings per share.

Complementary information (26) Cash flow statement
Cash flow from operating activities includes the following payments:
CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ACCORDING TO IFRS
 2014 € '000
18
725
4,584
0
 2013 € '000
 Interest received 23 Interest paid 1,093 Income tax paid 6,533
   Dividends received
Interest paid primarily relates to investment financing.
The changes in financial liabilities shown under cash flow from financing activities are composed as follows:
0
  2014 € '000
1,271
0
-7,014
-463
–6,206
 2013 € '000
Raising of financial liabilities (excl. financial lease) 7,388 Raising of liabilities under financial lease contracts 0 Repayment of financial liabilities (excl. financial lease) -8,183 Repayment of liabilities under financial lease contracts -453
–1,248
(27) Segment reporting
According to IFRS 8, segment reporting must reflect the Group's internal organisational and reporting structures. Based on A.S. Création's products and services, the corporate structure comprises two segments, i.e. the Wallpaper Division and the Furnishing Fabrics Division. Prices charged for intragroup deliveries and services are set in line with general market prices.
       117
 
2014 € '000
175,612
175,884
272
11,963
6.8%
2,781
1.6%
1,100
-8,291
1,086
-5,424
-3.1%
4,168
4,967
9,182
5,687
128,907
(51,946)
21,172
750
2013 € '000
186,342
186,532
190
19,243
10.3%
9,927
5.3%
974
-4,310
1,492
5,099
2.7%
3,862
8,484
9,316
16,157
142,502
(60,718)
20,084
765
Fabrics Divison
2014 € '000
13,516
109
13,625
702
5.2%
521
3.8%
154
368
2.7%
118
148
181
450
7,258
(1,294)
1,916
72
1
0
2013 € '000
13,476
141
13,617
561
4.1%
396
2.9%
178
219
1.6%
72
278
165
331
7,452
(1,348)
1,800
72
1
0
Consolidation
2014 € '000
-381
-381
-19
-108
–108
–23
–19
–450
(–61)
–368
0
4
0
4
1
0
0
2013 € '000
–331
–331
–97
–85
–132
–132
–85
–24
–95
–12
–95
–307
(–85)
–224
0
0
0
2014 € '000
189,128
189,128
12,646
6.7%
3,306
1.7%
993
-8,219
1,132
-5,052
-2.7%
4,287
5,115
9,340
6,118
135,715
(53,179)
22,720
822
0
118
 CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ACCORDING TO IFRS
A breakdown of key figures by segments is provided below:
    Wallpaper Divison
Group
2013 € '000
199,818 0 199,818 19,707 9.9% 10,238 5.1% 843
-4,310 1,538 5,233 2.6% 3,910 8,667 9,469
16,393 149,647 (61,981)
21,660 837
          External sales
Intra-Group sales
Total sales
EBITDA1
EBITDA-margin
EBIT2
EBIT-margin
Interest income
Results from investments accounted for at equity
Interest expenses
Earnings before income taxes Return on sales (before taxes) Income taxes
Capital expenditures3 Depreciation
Cash-flow3
Segment assets4
thereof non-current assets Segment liabilities5 Employees (average)
                     1 EBITDA is the common international abbreviation of earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortisation. 2 EBIT is the common international abbreviation of earnings before interest and taxes. It is equivalent to the segment
result.
3 Capital expenditures and cash flow correspond with the item which is shown in the consolidated cash flow statement.
4 Segment assets are the total assets of the segment less interest-bearing intercompany loans, cash and cash equivalents, deferred tax assets and other tax receivables.
5 Segment liabilities are the business segment's total liabilities less shareholders' equity, long-term provisions, tax liabilities, deferred tax liabilities and financial liabilities.

EBIT and EBIT-margin are the main key figures for corporate controlling.
The breakdown of Group sales by region is show in paragraph 17 (Sales).
The table below shows a breakdown of the Group's assets by regions and maturities:
Total
Remaining term of over 1 year
31.12.13 € '000
34,937 13,027 14,017 61,981
CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ACCORDING TO IFRS
    31.12.14 € '000
96,823
26,244
12,648
135,715
31.12.13 € '000
102,097
28,104
19,446
149,647
Reamaining term of up to 1 year
31.12.14 € '000
64,745
14,134
3,657
82,536
31.12.13 € '000
67,160
15,077
5,429
87,666
31.12.14 € '000
32,078
12,110
8,991
53,179
    Germany
EU (excl. Germany) Other Eastern Europe
     (28) Research and development expenses
In the past fiscal year, € 2.619 million (previous year: € 2.827 million) were spent on the development of new designs.
(29) Audit expenses
In the past fiscal year, € 0.203 million (previous year: € 0.224 million) were spent on the audit of the financial statements of the fully consolidated companies as well as on the audit of the consolidated financial statements. The Group auditor received € 0.183 million (previous year: € 0.136 million) as well as an additional € 0.0 million (previous year: € 0.058 million) for tax consulting services and € 0.002 million (previous year: € 0.024 million) for other services.
(30) Risks from financial instruments
Only € 0.047 million or 0.2% (previous year: € 2.921 million or 10.8%) of the total interest- bearing financial liabilities of € 20.754 million (previous year: € 26.961 million) represent variable-rate loans. Accordingly, a rise in interest rates by one percentage point would increase interest expenses by € 0.0 million and reduce earnings after taxes by € 0.0 million. Most
of the fixedinterest loans are medium term or long-term loans and are repaid during their terms (see No. 12 above). Overall, A.S. Création is not subject to a material interest rate risk.
119
 
120
 CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ACCORDING TO IFRS
At the operating level, currency risks may occur whenever procurement and/or sales activities are not nominated in euros but in foreign currencies. Such foreign currency transactions are still negligible in the A.S. Création Group, so that operations are not exposed to a material currency risk. But this risk will increase as the activities in Russia are expended. By contrast very high cur- rency risks result from the financing activities, i.e. from loans in foreign currencies. These exist at the Russian Group companies, which are mostly financed with euro-denominated share- holder loans. A depreciation of the rouble against the euro leads to translation-related non- cash exchange losses. A depreciation of the rouble by one percent would reduce earnings after taxes by approx. € 0.250 million.
Due to the specific structure of A.S. Création, interest rate or currency hedges as well as financial derivatives play only a minor role. Such hedges are generally taken out only for specific under- lying transactions. Two interest rate hedges (interest rate swaps) whose term ends on Decem- ber 30, 2018 and March 31, 2021 respectively existed on the balance sheet date. This interest rate hedge was signed together with a long-term variable-rate loan. Both transactions form an economic unit and thus represent a long-term fixed-rate loan (synthetic fixed rate loan). In this case, however, IAS 39 does not provide for the cash flows from the two transactions to be offset against each other but requires a separate valuation of the interest rate swap at fair market value (hedge accounting). Accordingly, the negative market value of the two interest rate hedges (after deferred taxes) in the amount of € -0.441 million (previous year: € -0.409 million) was recognised in equity as at the balance sheet date. Of this total amount, € -0.032 million (previous year: € 0.131 million) is shown in other comprehensive income. Going forward, the interest rate swaps will have no impact on the earnings after taxes.
Credit and default risks from financial instruments arise from the possibility that a contractual partner may fail to meet their (payment) obligations towards A.S. Création. The creditworthiness of the contractual partner therefore plays an important role in assessing the default risks. At the operational level, default risks primarily result from trade receivables. A.S. Création’s risk policy aims to limit the inherent risk. The company therefore uses available means such as credit insur- ance and bank guarantees to transfer the risk to third parties. These instruments do not always make economic sense, as they entail costs, and are not always available. Great importance is there- fore attached to the monitoring of the agreed payment deadlines and credit lines in the context of internal debtor management. Despite these measures, not all default risks can be eliminated.

The residual default risk is mitigated by allowances on trade receivables. The potential effects which a default could have on the net worth, financial and earnings position of A.S. Création can be assessed on the basis of the concentration of debtors. In this context, A.S. Création has identi- fied no potential risk that could jeopardise its continued existence. Of the total trade receivables in an amount of € 34.702 million (previous year: € 34.689 million), € 9.710 million or 28.0% (previous year: € 6.890 million or 20.1%) were accounted for by the five largest debtors. At the financial level, default risks mainly relate to cash with banks and to the financing of the joint venture, OOO A.S. & Palitra. To minimise the default risk, A.S. Création only cooperates with banks that have excellent credit ratings and/or are connected to a deposit guarantee fund. The shareholder loans of € 16.531 million (previous year: € 16.228 million) granted to A.S. & Palitra constitute that material assets are tied up in a country exposed to much higher economic and political risks than Germany. The Managing Board believes, however, that the company should take these additional risks in what is the world’s largest wallpaper market as they are out- weighed by the resulting opportunities and the size of the additional risk is not considered to jeopardise the company’s continued existence.
The liquidity risk is the risk of the company being unable to meet existing or future payment obligations due to a lack of cash or cash equivalents. To ensure that A.S. Création is able to meet its payment obligations, sufficient credit lines and cash and cash equivalents are maintained on the basis of the financial planning and systematic liquidity monitoring. As of the balance sheet date, the company had cash and cash equivalents and short-term deposits in the amount of € 8.825 million (previous year: € 6.644 million) and unused credit lines of € 16.513 million (previous year: € 13.390 million). In view of the high cash flow and the sound financial structure, financing and/or liquidity bottlenecks are not expected.
CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ACCORDING TO IFRS
121
 
31.12.14 € '000
8,901
34,702
8,123
5,775
57,501
18,373
1,244
6,058
25,675
639
0
31.12.13 € '000
13,946
34,689
4,301
6,644
59,580
24,116
1,763
9,026
34,905
592
0
Amount recognised according to IAS 17
31.12.14 € '000
2,382
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
31.12.13 € '000
2,845
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
Carrying amount
31.12.14 € '000
8,901
34,702
8,123
5,775
57,501
18,373
1,244
6,058
25,675
639
2,382
31.12.13 € '000
13,946
34,689
4,301
6,644
59,580
24,116
1,763
9,026
34,905
592
2,845
31.12.14 € '000
8,901
34,702
8,123
5,775
57,501
16,943
1,244
6,058
25,245
639
2,560
122
 CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ACCORDING TO IFRS
(31) Additional disclosures on financial instruments
The table below shows the carrying amounts and the amounts recognised as well as the fair values of the financial instruments:
    Amount recognised according to IAS 39
Fair value 31.12.13
€ '000 13,946 34,689
4,301
6,644
59,580
23,852 1,763 9,026
34,641 592
3,014
          Financial assets
Trade receivables
Other receivables
Cash and cash equivalents
Loans and receivables
Financial liabilities (without finance lease)
Other liabilities
Trade payables
Financial liabilities measured at amortised cost
Financial derivative
Liabilities from finance lease
               The balance sheet items correspond to the classes of financial assets and liabilities, as the instruments combined in the balance sheet items have the same properties and characteristics.
The loan to OOO A.S. & Palitra is shown under financial assets. As part of this loan was granted at a market inter- est rate only in the past financial year, the carrying amount on the balance sheet date was largely equivalent to the fair value.
Trade receivables, other receivables and cash mostly have short remaining maturities. As a result, the carrying amounts on the closing date approximate the fair values.
The fair values of the financial liabilities and the liabilities from finance leases are equivalent to the present values of the payments under the underlying contracts. The current long-term capital market interest rate plus a company-specific surcharge is used as the discount factor.

Due to the short remaining maturities of most of the trade payables and the other liabilities, the carrying amounts on the closing date approximate the fair values.
The financial derivatives are interest rate swaps (see Note No. 30), which, like the other financial instruments, are measured according to level 2 as defined in IFRS 7.27A(b), i.e. at a derived far value.
In the fiscal year, net losses of € 1.105 million (previous year: € 0.500 million) resulted from bad debts and the change in bad debt write-downs
Interest income totalling € 0.993 million (previous year: € 0.843 million) and interest expenses totalling € 0.821 million (previous year: € 1.220 million) resulted from the financial instruments in fiscal year.
(32) Disclosures on capital management
The financial policy of A.S. Création is aimed at securing the company’s ability to meet its pay- ment obligations at all times as well as at minimising financial risks. Accordingly, A.S. Création has a high equity ratio, which stood at 59.4% on December 31, 2014 (previous year: 58.8%). When it comes to raising debt capital, the financing policy of A.S. Création generally provides for long-term loans with fixed interest rates and repayments during the term of the loans. As a result, A.S. Création’s equity capital and debt capital are more than sufficient to finance assets that are tied up in the long term. As of December 31, 2014, the debt-to-equity ratio was 220.4% (previous year: 204.3%). Under its financial policy, A.S. Création additionally maintains liquidity reserves and free credit lines to be able to cover short-term financing requirements arising from its operating activities.
(33) Managing Board
The Managing Board had the following members in FY 2014:
Jörn Kämper Chairman
Maik Holger Krämer Antonios Suskas
Member of the supervisory body
Meffert AG Farbwerke, Bad Kreuznach
– -
CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ACCORDING TO IFRS
   Responsible for
Sales and Marketing
Finance and Controlling
Production and Logistics
    123
 
Profession practised
Businessman
Lawyer
Lawyer and Vice Managing Director of the DSW e. V., Düsseldorf (a German Shareholders's Association)
Works council member released from productive working duties
Managing Board Member
Businessman
Works council member released from productive working duties
124
 CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ACCORDING TO IFRS
As of the balance sheet date, members of the Managing Board held 4,983 shares (previous year: 4,983 shares) in the company.
(34) Supervisory Board
In FY 2014, the Supervisory Board was comprised as follows:
Franz Jürgen Schneider Chairman
Dr. Rüdiger Liebs Vice Chairman
Jella Susanne Benner-Heinacher
Peter Mourschinetz Employee representative
Jochen Müller
(since May 15, 2014)
Supervisory Board member
–
Deutsche Investitions- und Vermögenstreuhand AG (DIVAG), Düsseldorf (Chairman)
Dierig Holding AG, Augsburg (Vice Chairman)
K+S AG, Kassel
–
LSG Sky Chefs Frankfurt International GmbH, Frankfurt (Chairman),
LSG Sky Chefs Frankfurt ZD GmbH, Frankfurt (Chairman),
LSG Sky Chefs München GmbH, München (Chairman),
LSG Sky Chefs Supply Chain Solutions Inc., Wilmington/USA,
SCIS Air Security Corp., Arlington/USA Alpha LSG Ltd., Manchester/UK
– –
         Dr. Dieter Schadt (until May 15, 2014
Rolf Schmuck
Employee representative
  
As of the balance sheet date, members of the Supervisory Board held 888,046 shares (previous year: 888,046 shares) in the company.
(35) Compensation of Supervisory Board and Managing Board
The annual salaries of the Managing Board members in fiscal 2014 totalled € 1.252 million (previous year: € 1.884 million). In addition, the payments to a relief fund and the reversal of pension provisions resulted in net expenses in an amount of € 0.020 million (previous year: € 0.006 million).
The compensation of the Supervisory Board members in fiscal 2014 totalled € 0.108 million (previous year: € 0.108 million).
Details of the compensation of the Supervisory Board and the Managing Board are presented in the management report.
No credit agreements with members of the Supervisory Board or the Managing Board existed as of the balance sheet date.
Provisions for pensions for former members of the Managing Board and their descendants amounted to € 2.393 million (previous year: € 1.990 million) as of the balance sheet date. Pension payments to former members of the Managing Board amounted to € 0.113 million (previous year: € 0.110 million).
(36) Related party transactions
All business relations with related parties are contractually agreed and conducted on an arm’s length basis.
In the fiscal year, A.S. Création maintained business relations with OOO A.S. & Palitra (also see note No. 3), which is accounted for using the equity method. In this context, shareholder loans were granted, services were provided to the company and goods were acquired by the company. In accordance with the loan agreements, interest payments that become due during the start-up phase until Descember 31, 2015 are deffered until the end of the agreement. The resuling receiv- able has been discounted accordingly. Details of the business relationship are shown below:
CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ACCORDING TO IFRS
125
 
2014 € '000
322
7,271
975
31.12.14 € '000
15,632
2,421
1,057
126
 CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ACCORDING TO IFRS
   Sales Purchases Interest income
Shareholder loans Receivables Liabilities
2013 € '000 761 6,537 820
31.12.13 € '000 16,228 1,488 1,544
         Franz Jürgen Schneider is Chairman of the Managing Board of A.S. Création Tapeten-Stiftung, a charitable foundation established by him. In the past fiscal year, A.S. Création Tapeten-Stiftung received a donation of € 0.015 million (previous year: € 0.030 million) from A.S. Création Tapeten AG in support of its work.
A.S. Création Tapeten AG has signed agreements with Franz Jürgen Schneider as well as with the two Managing Board members, Jörn Kämper and Maik Holger Krämer, under which they are released from potential penalties and claims for demages in conjunction with the anti-trust proceedings. Moreover, the company has undertaken to bear any defence counsel and/or court expenses. These release agreements were approved by the Annual General Meeting of Shareholders on May 3, 2013. A provision of € 0.030 million (previous year: € 0.0 million) was established for this in the fiscal year.
(37) Declaration of conformity with the German Corporate Governance Code
On March 13, 2014, the Managing Board and the Supervisory Board issued the declaration of conformity for FY 2014 in accordance with section 161 of the German Stock Corporation Act (Aktiengesetz AktG), which has been made permanently available to the company’s shareholders on its website. The declaration of conformity for FY 2015 will be discussed and adopted at the Supervisory Board meeting on March 16, 2015. This declaration will be published on the company’s

website and in the chapter “Corporate governance statement and report on corporate governance” of the 2014 Annual Report.
(38) Post balance sheet events
No events that require reporting have occurred.
The Managing Board of A.S. Création Tapeten AG has today released the consolidated financial statements and the group management report for being passed on to the Supervisory Board. The latter has the task to review the consolidated financial statements and the group manage- ment report and to declare whether it approves the consolidated financial statements and the group management report.
Gummersbach, February 20, 2015
A.S. Création Tapeten AG The Managing Board
Kämper Krämer Suskas
CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ACCORDING TO IFRS
127
 
128
 CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ACCORDING TO IFRS
Auditor ́s report
We issued the following opinion on the consolidated financial statements and the group management report:
“We have audited the consolidated financial statements prepared by A.S. Création Tapeten AG, Gummersbach, comprising the balance sheet, the income statement, the statement of comprehensive income, the notes to the consolidated financial statements, the cash flow statement and the statement of changes in equity, together with the group management report for the fiscal year from 1 January 2014 to 31 December 2014. The preparation of the consolidated financial statements and the group management report in accordance with IFRSs [International Financial Reporting Standards] as adopted by the EU and the additional requirements of German commercial law pursuant to Sec. 315a (1) HGB [“Handelsgesetz- buch”: German Commercial Code] is the responsibility of the Company’s management. Our responsibility is to express an opinion on the consolidated financial statements and on the group management report based on our audit.
We conducted our audit of the consolidated financial statements in accordance with Sec. 317 HGB [“Handelsgesetzbuch”: German Commercial Code] and German generally accepted standards for the audit of financial statements promulgated by the Institut der Wirtschaftsprüfer [Institute of Public Auditors in Germany] (IDW). Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit such that misstatements materially affecting the presentation of the net assets, financial position and results of operations in the consolidated financial statements in accordance with the applicable financial reporting framework and in the group management report are detected with reasonable assurance. Knowledge of the business activities and the economic and legal environment of the Group and expectations as to possible misstatements are taken into account in the determination of audit procedures. The effectiveness of the accounting-related internal control system and the evidence supporting the disclosures in the consolidated financial statements and the group management report are examined primarily on a test basis within the framework of the audit. The audit includes assessing the annual financial statements of those entities included in consolidation, the determination of entities to be included in

CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ACCORDING TO IFRS
consolidation, the accounting and consolidation principles used and significant estimates made by management, as well as evaluating the overall presentation of the consolidated financial statements and the group management report. We believe that our audit provides a reasonable basis for our opinion.
Our audit has not led to any reservations.
In our opinion, based on the findings of our audit, the consolidated financial statements comply with IFRSs as adopted by the EU and the additional requirements of German commercial law pursuant to Sec. 315a (1) HGB and give a true and fair view of the net assets, financial position and results of operations of the Group in accordance with these requirements. The group management report is consistent with the consolidated financial statements and as a whole provides a suitable view of the Group’s position and suitably presents the opportunities and risks of future development.”
 Cologne, March 3, 2015
Ernst & Young GmbH Wirtschaftsprüfungsgesellschaft
Gockel Wirtschaftsprüfer (German Public Auditor)
Galden Wirtschaftsprüfer (German Public Auditor)
129
 
March 25, 2015 May 7, 2015 May 7, 2015
August 6, 2015 November 5, 2015
CORPORATE CALENDAR
Analyst presentation
Interim report for the three-month period ended March 31, 2015 Annual General Meeting of Shareholders
Interim report for the six-month period ended June 30, 2015 Interim report for the nine-month period ended September 30, 2015
CORPORATE CALENDAR
131
 
imPRiNT
 Print
Druckhaus Gummersbach PP GmbH, Gummersbach
A.S. Création Tapeten AG Südstraße 47
D-51645 Gummersbach-Derschlag Germany
phone +49 (0) 2261/542-0 fax +49 (0) 2261/55883 e-mail contact@as-creation.de www.as-creation.de
The paper, used for the annual report, is certified following the regulations of the Forest Stewardship Council® (FSC®)
 
 Cover photo: DEKORA NATUR
With its diverse mix of natural and genuine-looking wood, stone and floral designs combined with fascinating surface structures the „DEKORA NATUR“ collection presents „pure“ inspiration for natural ideas of habitation.
(Original sample item no. 95914-1)

             