                           ANNUAL REPORT 2011 A.S. CRÉATION TAPETEN AG
                                                        
  A.S. CRÉATION: KEY FIGURES
  Sales
Earnings before interest and taxes (EBIT) Earnings before income taxes
Net profit
Cash-flow
Capital expenditures
Depreciation
Non-current assets
Shareholders' equity
Non-current liabilities
Total assets
Earnings per share
Dividend
Number of employees (average)
¤ '000 ¤ '000 ¤ '000 ¤ '000 ¤ '000 ¤ '000 ¤ '000 ¤ '000 ¤ '000 ¤ '000 ¤ '000
¤ /share ¤ /share
2007
167,633 15,005 14,562
9,982 17,926 11,232 8,397 54,007 76,901 27,922 124,557 3.59 1.60 675
2008
176,216 13,502 12,856
8,925 18,058 23,893
8,215 73,247 80,288 54,336
171,730 3.22 1.40 719
2009
181,325 13,428 10,834
7,499 17,568 5,771 9,864 68,866 83,774 51,688 161,835 2.72 1.20 787
2010
184,603 14,318 12,352
8,395 19,027 6,826 10,504 64,460 88,789 39,689 161,625 3.05 1.35 772
2011 192,262 9,587 7,325 4,650 14,338 19,667 9,933 67,763 89,553 43,436 157,327 1.69 0.75 796
              
  TABLE OF CONTENT
   Foreword 8
 Managing Board and Supervisory Board 12
 Highlights 2011 13
 Report of the Supervisory Board 14
 Corporate Governance Statement and Report on Corporate Governance 19
 Group Management Report 31
 The share and our shareholders 62
 Consolidated financial statements according to IFRS 73
 Profit Appropriation Proposal 117
 Corporate Calendar 121
 This English translation of the annual report 2011 is merely a convenience translation. The German version is the prevailing one.

  8
FOREWORD
FOREWORD
Dear readers, dear shareholders,
Our review of the past year shows that 2011 was something of a mixed bag for A.S. Création. With sales revenues growing by 4.1% from € 184.6 million in the previous year to € 192.3 million in 2011, A.S. Création marked a new record and underlined its position as the leading wallpaper manufacturer in Europe. The build-up of the new wallpaper production facility in Russia is continuing at a fast pace. This im- portant project is being implemented in the context of a joint venture with our partner Kof Palitra, the leading wallpaper manufacturer in Russia. With the main buildings and halls completed last year before the start of winter, we currently expect production to start in autumn 2012. These products will be marketed by our Russian subsidiary, A.S. Création (RUS), which is building up and expanding its local sales organisation as planned. As expected, the start-up costs incurred in building up these activities in Russia weighed on the company’s bottom line in 2011. The adverse impacts arising from the increased commodity and energy prices were much stronger than expected. We were unable to offset these negative effects through better sales prices of our own products and internal productivity increases. This is pri- marily reflected in A.S. Création’s gross profit margin, which declined from 48.5% in 2010 to
45.8% in 2011. In terms of total output in the past fiscal year, this decline represents a short- fall in earnings of € 5.2 million. As a result, earnings before interest and taxes, at € 9.6 million, were down by € 4.7 million or 33.0% on the previous year's level of € 14.3 million. In the eyes of the Managing Board, this deterioration in the earnings position of A.S. Création is not acceptable. As mentioned before, the March 2011 increase in our sales prices was insufficient. In response to the higher commodity and energy prices, we have therefore announced a further adjustment of our prices with effect from February 1, 2012.
The deterioration in the earnings position described above is reflected in a decline in earnings per share from € 3.05 in the previous year to € 1.69 in 2011. We want to maintain our dividend policy which provides for a pay- out ratio of between 40% and 45% and will propose to the General Meeting of Shareholders to pay out a dividend of € 0.75 for the fiscal year 2011 (2010: € 1.35).
The price of the A.S. Création share fell by 14.8% from € 28.76 to € 24.49 in the course of the year. At 14.5%, the decline in the SDAX was almost the same. If the dividend of € 1.35 per share paid out to the shareholders of A.S. Création in May 2011 is taken into

account, however, the A.S. Création share lost 10.2% in 2011. Even though this means that A.S. Création outperformed the SDAX, the share price is not satisfactory. Besides the general downward movement in share prices, the A.S. Création share was adversely affected by two incidents, i.e. the profit warning pub- lished in October 2011 and the administrative offence proceedings initiated by the Federal Cartel Office, about which the company in- formed in November 2011. The Federal Cartel Office’s accusation letter shows that Tapeten- fabrik Gebr. Rasch GmbH & Co. KG, the com- petitor who lost its market leading position
in Germany to A.S. Création in the past years, is a leniency applicant in the proceedings. We have meanwhile thoroughly examined the accusations made against us and have ob- jected to all accusations in a detailed letter in January 2012. At this stage, we cannot pre- dict the outcome of the proceedings.
From the point of view of Sales, the fiscal year 2011 started quite spectacularly at the Heim- textil show in Frankfurt where the entire wall- paper industry exhibited its products and concepts in the attractive new Hall 3.1 for the first time. A.S. Création presented its new products at a new exhibition booth in the most prominent position in this hall. Two important projects were completed in the further course of the
year. First, we presented our first flagship store, which opens up entirely new marketing per- spectives for wallpaper retailers. The store format presents wallpapers as fashion and lifestyle products and is more reminiscent of a brand store than of a traditional wallpaper department. Second, our touch-screen module “tapeten-bestellshop”, which was developed as a customer consulting tool for retail stores, was optimised once more. In particular, the new module offers greatly enhanced possibili- ties for simulating the effect the wallpapers selected by the customer will have on a given room. This highly successful software has meanwhile been installed on over 500 devices and helps retailers worldwide present and sell wallpapers from A.S. Création.
The new products and innovative marketing concepts formed the basis for the increase in sales revenues generated by A.S. Création in the course of 2011. In this context, we should mention our still young digital printing products, which represent an exciting addition to our range for our established partners but also helped us winning new customer groups. We primarily owe this success to our “Architect Paper” sales team and their commitment to this new technology.
We are especially pleased with our sales growth
FOREWORD
 9

 in Germany, where we were able to increase our revenues with existing customers while winning attractive new customers at the same time. Business in the export markets was more challenging, and we are not satisfied with our performance in these markets. While the German market was virtually immune to the general financial and economic crisis and the consumer climate remained bright, the most important Western European wallpaper markets such as France, the UK and the Benelux countries, clearly suffered from customers’ spending restraint. Also, growth rates in non-EU Eastern European countries fell short of expectations.
Irrespective of the disappointing operating result, A.S. Création used the year 2011 to expand its leading market position in the wallpaper segment. We again invested heavily in new, innovative product lines as well as in our marketing and sales organisation - a strategy which is apparently very much appreciated by our customers. In the annual customer survey conducted by leading trade magazine “BTH” in December 2011, A.S. Création scored the best results. We made first place in as many as six categories, i.e. product marketability, friendli- ness, reliability of deliveries, speed of deliveries, innovation and future prospects. A survey among all 325 store managers of the DIY-chain toom Baumarkt made A.S. Création win the “toom
 Baumarkt Supplier Award 2011” for the fourth time in seven years (No. 2 of 160 suppliers). We are very pleased about these awards recognis- ing our work.
To expand its leading market position,
A.S. Création continues to rely on cooperations with renowned external designers and well- known fashion brands. Two top brands were added to our highly successful licensed brand portfolio. The first wallpaper collection of the famous PORSCHE DESIGN STUDIO premiered at Heimtextil 2012. We are also working on the first VERSACE wallpaper collection. We expect both collections to be successful at the national and international level.
The good market position we achieved over the past years offers excellent possibilities for continued profitable growth. An important task in the year 2012 will be the start-up of wallpaper production in Russia. A.S. Création will be responsible for defining an appropriate brand policy and putting in place an effective sales organisation, while our partner, Kof Palitra, will be in charge of building up and organising production in Russia. In addition, we will closely address the Western European markets, espe- cially France, in order to return to the growth track. Our product development activities of the year 2011 should have laid the basis for
 10
FOREWORD

FOREWORD
 higher sales also in the Eastern European markets. Accordingly we target consolidated sales revenues of between € 195 million and € 205 million for the fiscal year 2012; reaching this target will largely depend on the further trend in consumer spending. Although the activities in Russia will lead to start-up losses also in 2012 and the risk of a further increase in com- modity and energy prices is far from over, we are confident that we will be able to improve the earnings position of A.S. Création and to generate a net profit of between € 6.0 million and € 7.0 million.
I would like to take this opportunity to thank all employees of the A.S. Création Group for their commitment in the past fiscal year. It is our shared objective to further consolidate and expand the market leading position of A.S. Création in the coming year. Our team’s quality and will to deliver make us optimistic that this objective will be achieved.
I thank you, dear shareholders, for your support and the confidence you have placed in us. I would be happy if you would stay with our company on this challenging and exciting journey.
 Gummersbach, February 2012
Jörn Kämper
Chairman of the Managing Board
  11

 12
MANAGING BOARD AND SUPERVISORY BOARD
MANAGING BOARD
AND SUPERVISORY BOARD
Managing Board
Jörn Kämper Chairman
Sales and Marketing
Karl-Heinz Hallwig (from April 1, 2011) Production and Logistics
Maik Holger Krämer Finance and Controlling
Bernhard Wagner (until March 31, 2011) Production and Logistics
Supervisory Board
Franz Jürgen Schneider 1),2),3) Chairman
Dr. Rüdiger Liebs 1),2) Vice Chairman
Jella Susanne Benner-Heinacher 3)
Peter Mourschinetz Employee representative
Dr. Dieter Schadt 1),3)
Rolf Schmuck 2) Employee representative
1) Member of Committee for Managing Board Matters 2) Member of Audit Committee
3) Member of Nomination Committee

January
February
April
May November
The A.S. Création share starts the year at a price of € 28.76.
At the “Heimtextil” exhibition in Frankfurt am Main, wallpaper manufacturers exhibit their products in the attractive Hall 3.1 for the first time. A.S. Création’s all-new exhibition booth presents the collections for the year 2011.
The “Tapetenshop“ app provides convenient iPad access to the world of wallpapers.
The “Architects Paper” sales team and the digital printing department move into their new premises in Wiehl-Bomig.
The A.S. Création share hits an annual high of € 31.00 on May 19. A.S. Création presents the livingwalls Flagship Store, an all-new
wallpaper marketing concept for specialist retailers. The new store format presents wallpaper as a fashion and lifestyle product.
HIGHLIGHTS 2011
HIGHLIGHTS 2011
  December
The Cartel Office opens administrative offence proceedings against A.S. Création Tapeten AG.
The A.S. Création share hits an annual low of € 16.73 on November 25.
A.S. Création is voted the best wallpaper manufacturer in a customer survey con-
ducted by leading trade magazine “BTH“.
The A.S. Création share closes the year 2011 at € 24.49 on December 30.
13

 In the fiscal year 2011, the Supervisory Board held four ordinary meetings on March 18, May 5, September 7 and December 8. No Super- visory Board member attended less than half of the meetings.
The composition of the Supervisory Board remained unchanged in 2011 as compared to the previous year. The regular Supervisory Board elections returned all incumbent mem- bers to the Supervisory Board of A.S. Création Tapeten AG for a full term of office. At the constituent meeting of the re-elected Super- visory Board, which was held after the ordi- nary Annual General Meeting on May 5, 2011, Mr Schneider was re-elected Chairman and Dr. Liebs was re-elected Vice Chairman of the Supervisory Board.
The Supervisory Board has set up the follow- ing three committees to ensure that its tasks are performed efficiently:
• the Committee for Managing Board Matters,
• the Audit Committee and
• the Nomination Committee.
The committees prepare the resolutions to be passed by the Supervisory Board as well as the topics that need to be addressed by the full Supervisory Board. In addition, the Supervisory
 14
REPORT OF THE SUPERVISORY BOARD
REPORT OF THE SUPERVISORY BOARD

Board has transferred decision-making powers to the committees within the limits of what is legally permissible. It has been ensured that the full Supervisory Board is kept informed of the findings and decisions of the committees.
The Committee for Managing Board Matters, which is responsible for the preparation of the Managing Board contracts as well as for other personnel matters, met on March 18, 2011 and on December 8, 2011. The Committee’s activity focused on the signing of a consulting agree- ment between the company and former Managing Board member Mr Wagner as well as the renewal of the existing consulting agree- ment between the company and Mr Schneider. The Committee members also discussed the appropriateness of the Managing Board com- pensation (especially with regard to horizontal and vertical comparability). Finally, the Committee for Managing Board Matters addressed the ongoing anti-trust proceedings and the accu- sations raised in this context against individual company officials. The Committee for Managing Board Matters is chaired by the Chairman of the Supervisory Board.
The Audit Committee, which is primarily res- ponsible for auditing the financial statements and the consolidated financial statements and the quarterly reports as well as for monitoring the effectiveness of the risk management system, met two times in the fiscal year, on March 9
and on July 22, 2011. The two meetings were attended by the representatives of the audi- tors and by the CFO. In the fiscal year, the Audit Committee focused on the audit of the finan- cial statements and the consolidated financial statements for the year 2010, the supervision of the accounting process, the effectiveness of the internal control system (including the results of the relevant examinations at A.S. Création (France) SAS) and on planning the audit for the fiscal year 2011. At its meeting on July 22, 2011, the Managing Board also provided the Audit Committee with detailed information on the compliance measures initiated and planned by A.S. Création Tapeten AG, especially in the export sector. In addition, the Audit Committee discussed the half-year report and the quarterly reports with the Managing Board prior to their publication. The Audit Committee is chaired by the Vice Chairman of the Supervisory Board.
The Nomination Committee, whose tasks include proposing suitable candidates for the election of new shareholder representatives to the Supervisory Board, did not meet in the past fiscal year. In view of the election of new share- holder representatives to the Supervisory Board in the fiscal year, the Nomination Committee had already decided on September 10, 2010 to propose to the Supervisory Board the incum- bent shareholder representatives as candidates for re-election by the Annual General Meeting
REPORT OF THE SUPERVISORY BOARD
 15

 16
REPORT OF THE SUPERVISORY BOARD
of Shareholders. Against this background, there was no need for the Nomination Committee to convene during the fiscal year 2011.
The full Supervisory Board regularly advised
the Managing Board on the management of
the company and monitored its management
activities. The Supervisory Board was directly
involved in all decisions that were of funda-
mental importance for the company. It was
informed about the course of business and the
situation of the company in written monthly
reports as well as in oral and written reports
presented by the Managing Board at its meet-
ings. Additional written reports were sub-
mitted on all special events. In addition, the
Chairman of the Supervisory Board was regu-
larly informed by the Managing Board in per-
sonal meetings. SAS,
The Supervisory Board reviewed important individual transactions and decided on all transactions requiring its approval by law, under the statutes or under the Managing Board’s rules of internal procedure.
In the past fiscal year, the activities of the Supervisory Board focused on the following:
• analysis and discussion of the financial statements and the consolidated financial statements for the year ended December 31, 2010,
• consultation on the measures to be taken with regard to the administrative offence proceedings initiated against the company by the Federal Cartel Office and the accu- sations raised in this context and discus- sion of the potential impacts of the pro- ceedings on the balance sheet and the financial position,
• approval of the corporate plan and the capital expenditure budget for fiscal year 2012 and
• discussion of the future strategic develop- ment of the company’s two divisions against the background of increased commodity costs and of the competitive challenges in the company’s foreign out- put markets,
• discussion of the development of the Russian Joint Venture OOO A.S. & Palitra, and the progress achieved in building up a wallpaper manufacturing organisation in Russia,
• discussion and decision on a capital increase at A.S. Création (France) SAS to finance the acquisition of the remaining shares in MCF Investissement SAS and SCE – Société de conception et d’édition

• discussion about the recommendations and proposals of the German Corporate Governance Code.
The Supervisory Board and the Managing Board jointly issued a declaration of conformity and explained which recommendations of the German Corporate Governance Code have not been adopted.
In the fiscal year 2007, the Supervisory Board already decided to successively subject all internal control systems to an external review. This is not a review for a specific reason but an internal review in the context of the Group-wide risk management efforts. In the context of the consolidated financial statements for the year 2011, SCE SAS and MCF Investissement SAS were subjected to such a review. As in the previous years, these reviews were performed by (local) KPMG subsidiaries specialising in such matters. Overall, KPMG’s assessment of the companies’ internal control systems was positive. The results of the review, including the respective reports, were submitted to the Audit Committee and discussed by the latter.
The financial statements of A.S. Création Tapeten AG and the consolidated financial statements for 2011 as well as the manage- ment report of A.S. Création Tapeten AG and the Group management report were made available to the Supervisory Board. They were
audited by KPMG AG Wirtschaftsprüfungs- gesellschaft, Cologne, and received their unqualified audit opinion.
The audit assignment for the financial year 2011 was awarded by the Audit Committee of the Supervisory Board on the basis of the resolution adopted at its meeting on July 22, 2011. In accordance with the recommendations made by the German Corporate Governance Code, the Supervisory Board, which was rep- resented by the Chairman of the Audit Committee, obtained a statement from the auditor stating which professional, financial and other relations between the auditors and the company exist that might raise doubts about their independence before awarding the audit assignment. The statement also covers other services provided to the company in the past fiscal year. The statement issued by the auditors to the Supervisory Board raised no doubts about their independence.
The Audit Committee decided that the main focus of the audit of the financial statements of A.S. Création Tapeten AG for the fiscal year 2011 should be the goodwill impairment test.
The auditors’ reports were submitted to the Supervisory Board members in good time. They were discussed in detail at the meeting of the Audit Committee on March 6, 2012 and at the Supervisory Board’s annual accounts meeting
REPORT OF THE SUPERVISORY BOARD
 17

 18
REPORT OF THE SUPERVISORY BOARD
on March 15, 2012. The Chairman of the Audit Committee reported to the full Supervisory Board on the Audit Committee’s analysis and discussion of the financial statements and the consolidated financial statements. Both the Audit Committee meeting and the Supervisory Board’s annual accounts meeting were attended by representatives of the auditors, who reported on the key results of their audit. In the context of their audit, the auditors noted, among other things, that potential developments that may jeopardise the continued existence of the company and the Group are identified and recorded by the risk management system implemented in accordance with Article 91 (2) of the German Stock Corporation Act (Aktien- gesetz AktG) and are properly presented in the management report of A.S. Création Tapeten AG and the Group management report. The results of the audit were approved by the Audit Com- mittee and the Supervisory Board.
No objections were raised following the Super- visory Board’s own review of the financial statements, the consolidated financial state- ments, the two management reports and the profit appropriation proposal.
The Supervisory Board therefore approves the financial statements of A.S. Création Tapeten AG and the consolidated financial statements prepared by the Managing Board for the year ended December 31, 2011. The financial state-
ments are therefore adopted. The Supervisory Board also supports the Managing Board’s profit appropriation proposal.
The Supervisory Board would like to thank the members of the Managing Board and all employees for their successful commitment to the company, its customers and its share- holders.
Gummersbach, March 15, 2012
Franz Jürgen Schneider
Chairman of the Supervisory Board
 
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE STATEMENT AND REPORT ON CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE STATEMENT AND REPORT ON CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
 19

 20
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE STATEMENT AND REPORT ON CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
Introduction
In the present statement, the Managing Board and the Supervisory Board of A.S. Création Tapeten AG report on corporate governance in accordance with Article 289a of the German Commercial Code (Handelsgesetzbuch HGB) and Section 3.10 of the German Corporate Governance Code.
Good and responsible corporate governance is today defined by nationally and internationally recognised standards. Efficient cooperation between the Managing Board and the Super- visory Board, respect of shareholders’ interests as well as open and transparent corporate communication are key aspects of good cor- porate governance. The Managing Board and the Supervisory Board of A.S. Création Tape- ten AG have traditionally been committed to these standards.
German Corporate Governance Code
The German Corporate Governance Code (hereinafter referred to as the “Code”) was published by the Government Commission of the same name in 2002. The Code is normally reviewed once a year against the back- ground of national and international develop- ments and amended if required. The latest
amendments were decided by the Govern- ment Commission on May 26, 2010. The current version of the Code can be viewed at www.corporate-governance-code.de.
While the cross-industry and cross-company recommendations and suggestions of the Code are not binding, Article 161 of the German Stock Corporation Act (Aktiengesetz AktG) and Article 285 (16) of the German Commercial Code (Handelsgesetzbuch HGB) require an annual declaration by the Managing Board and the Supervisory Board in connection with the publication of the financial statements as to which recommendations of the Code have been and are being complied with and which recommendations have not been and are not being applied (so-called declaration of con- formity). The latest declaration of conformity issued by the Managing Board and the Super- visory Board of A.S. Création Tapeten AG can be found below.
The Managing Board and the Supervisory Board of A.S. Création Tapeten AG consider the recommendations and suggestions of the Code an integral element of their work for the company. They regularly review the relevance of these standards, so that adequate com- pliance with the standards is ensured for the shareholders, the employees and, last but not least, for the company itself.

Declaration of conformity pursuant to Article 161 of the German Stock Corporation Act (Aktiengesetz AktG)
The latest declaration of conformity was issued on March 15, 2012 and had the following wording:
The Managing Board and the Supervisory Board of A.S. Création Tapeten AG declare that the company has complied, and will continue to comply, with the German Corporate Govern- ance Code as amended on May 26, 2010 subject to the following exceptions since March 18, 2011, the date of last year’s decla- ration of conformity:
• Agreement of a severance payment cap (pursuant to Section 4.2.3 of the Code) The Code recommends fixing a cap for severance payments in Managing Board contracts in the event of premature ter- mination of a contract without serious cause. The old Managing Board contracts of A.S. Création Tapeten AG, which were signed before the coming into force of this recommendation and were in force until March 31, 2011, did not include such a cap. In the new contracts, which came into effect on April 1, 2011, the recom- mendation of the Code has been taken into account.
• Specification of concrete objectives
for the composition of the Supervisory Board
(pursuant to Section 5.4.1 of the Code) The Supervisory Board shall specify con- crete objectives regarding its composition which take into account, among other things, an age limit for the members of the Supervisory Board and diversity. These concrete objectives shall, in particular, stipulate an appropriate degree of female representation. The Supervisory Board of A.S. Création Tapeten AG is convinced that the proposals for the election of Supervisory Board members should be based exclusively on the functional and personal suitability of the candidates. This suitability does not depend on formal criteria such as age and gender.
• Introduction of a performance-related compensation for the Supervisory Board (pursuant to Section 5.4.6 of the Code) The current statutes of A.S. Création Tapeten AG stipulate fixed compensation and no performance-related compensa- tion. In the opinion of the Managing Board and the Supervisory Board it is not clear if and to what extent performance-related compensation would have a positive effect on the work of a Supervisory Board and the company’s economic success. Accord-
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE STATEMENT AND REPORT ON CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
 21

 22
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE STATEMENT AND REPORT ON CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
ing to recent press reports, this is also the result of discussions within the Corporate Governance Commission, which has come to the conclusion that the Corporate Governance Code should be amended accordingly. A.S. Création Tapeten AG does therefore not intend to introduce performance-related compensation for the Supervisory Board.
Work of the Managing Board and the Supervisory Board
A.S. Création Tapeten AG is a joint stock com- pany under German law. One of the fundamental principles of German Stock Corporation Law is the dual management system comprising a Managing Board and a Supervisory Board, each of which has its own authorities. When it comes to managing and supervising the com- pany, the Managing Board and the Supervisory Board of A.S. Création Tapeten AG cooperate closely and in a spirit of trust.
The members of the Managing Board are appointed by the Supervisory Board, which may also appoint a Chairman of the Managing Board. The Managing Board of A.S. Création Tapeten AG currently consists of three members, whose individual and collective responsibilities are regulated by the rules of internal procedure:
• Jörn Kämper, Chairman (Sales and Marketing)
• Karl-Heinz Hallwig (Production and Logistics)
• Maik Holger Krämer (Finance and Controlling)
The tenure of the current Board members will end on March 31, 2016 (Mr Kämper and Mr Krämer) and on March 31, 2013 (Mr Hallwig), respectively.
The Managing Board is responsible for manag- ing the company with the due diligence of a prudent businessman.
The Supervisory Board advises and supervises the Managing Board in managing the company. For major transactions, e.g. large investment projects or changes in the corporate structure, the Managing Board requires the prior approval of the Supervisory Board. The transactions requiring approvals are listed in the rules of internal procedure of the Managing Board.
The Managing Board informs the Supervisory Board about the course of the business and the situation of the company by monthly written reports as well as by oral and written reports presented at the Supervisory Board meetings. Extraordinary events are additionally reported

to the Supervisory Board in writing. In addi- tion, the Chairman of the Supervisory Board is regularly informed by the Managing Board in personal meetings.
In accordance with the law and the statutes, the Supervisory Board of A.S. Création Tapeten AG consists of four members who are elected by the General Meeting of Shareholders and two members who are elected by the workforce. The Supervisory Board elects a Chairman and a Vice Chairman from among its members. The Supervisory Board currently has the following members:
• Franz Jürgen Schneider, Chairman
• Dr. Rüdiger Liebs, Vice Chairman
• Jella Susanne Benner-Heinacher
• Peter Mourschinetz,
employee representative
• Dr. Dieter Schadt
• Rolf Schmuck, employee representative.
The terms of office of all Supervisory Board members will expire at the end of the General Meeting of Shareholders that will ratify their acts for fiscal 2015, i.e. presumably in spring 2016.
The Supervisory Board of A.S. Création Tape- ten AG formed three committees:
• the Committee for Managing Board Matters (Members: Mr Schneider (Chairman),
Dr. Liebs and Dr. Schadt),
• the Audit Committee
(Members: Dr. Liebs (Chairman),
Mr Schneider and Mr Schmuck) and
• the Nomination Committee (Members: Mr Schneider (Chairman), Ms Benner-Heinacher and Dr. Schadt).
The committees prepare the resolutions passed by the Supervisory Board as well as the topics to be discussed by it. In addition, the Supervisory Board has transferred certain decision-making powers to the committees to the extent this is permissible under applicable laws. The indi- vidual tasks and powers are laid down in the rules of internal procedure of the Supervisory Board which also ensure that the full Super- visory Board is informed of the findings and decisions of the committees.
The Committee for Managing Board Matters prepares the personnel decisions of the Super- visory Board, especially the appointment and discharge of Managing Board members and the renewal of their terms of office. It also prepares the resolutions passed by the Supervisory Board
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE STATEMENT AND REPORT ON CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
 23

 24
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE STATEMENT AND REPORT ON CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
with regard to the fixing of the total com- pensation of the Managing Board (including potential reductions).
The Audit Committee is responsible for moni- toring the accounting process and reviewing the effectiveness of the internal control, risk management and audit systems. It also deals with the audit of the annual accounts and addresses compliance issues. The Chairman of the Audit Committee is an independent finan- cial expert and has special knowledge and experience in accounting or auditing.
The task of the Nomination Committee is to propose suitable candidates for the sharehold- er representatives for elections to the Super- visory Board. It is exclusively composed of Supervisory Board members elected by the shareholders.
Compensation of the Managing Board and the Supervisory Board
The basic elements of the compensation schemes and the amount of the compensation received by the Managing Board and the Supervisory Board are published in the annual compensation report, which, pursuant to the provisions of the German Commercial Code, forms part of the management report.
Directors’ dealings
According to Article 15a of the German Secu- rities Trading Act (Wertpapierhandelsgesetz WpHG), the members of the Managing Board and of the Supervisory Board of A.S. Création Tapeten AG as well as other persons who have regular access to insider information and who are authorised to take significant corporate decisions are obliged to report their own deal- ings in A.S. Création shares or related financial instruments (i.e. so-called directors’ dealings) if these dealings exceed a total of € 5,000 in a calendar year. This obligation also applies to persons and legal entities that are closely related to one of the aforementioned persons. A.S. Création Tapeten AG complies with its obligation to publish all reports received with- out delay and has a policy of posting these reports also on its website. A.S. Création Tape- ten AG received no such reports in the fiscal year 2011.
As of December 31, 2011 members of the Managing Board and members of the Super- visory Board held 4,983 shares and 888,046 shares respectively. The Managing Board and the Supervisory Board thus hold a combined 29.8% of the A.S. Création shares.

Accounting and audit
The consolidated financial statements and the consolidated interim financial statements
of A.S. Création Tapeten AG are prepared by the Managing Board on the basis of the Inter- national Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS) as adopted by the European Union. The financial statements of A.S. Création Tapeten AG are prepared in accordance with the German Com- mercial Code (Handelsgesetzbuch HGB). The consolidated financial statements and the financial statements are audited by the auditors and the Supervisory Board. The consolidated interim financial statements are neither audited nor reviewed by the auditors but are discussed by the Managing Board and the Audit Com- mittee prior to their publication.
The Annual General Meeting of Shareholders of the year 2011 elected KPMG AG Wirtschafts- prüfungsgesellschaft, Cologne, (KPMG) as auditors of the consolidated financial statements and the financial statements. Prior to the election, KPMG issued a statement of independence as recommended by the German Corporate Gov- ernance Code. This statement has not given rise to any doubt about the independence of KPMG as an auditor.
It was contractually agreed with the auditor that the Supervisory Board would be informed immediately of
• any grounds for disqualification or impartiality arising during the audit,
• any findings or incidents arising during the audit that are material for the tasks of the Supervisory Board and
• any findings indicating that the declara- tion issued by the Managing Board and the Supervisory Board with regard to the Germany Corporate Governance Code is incorrect.
Transparent corporate communication
Open and transparent corporate communication is an important aspect of good corporate governance. Apart from clear and compre- hensible contents, this aspect also calls for all stakeholders to have equal access to company information. A.S. Création attaches great im- portance to the Internet as an information medium that is freely accessible irrespective of time and place. The website of A.S. Création (www.as-creation.de) therefore provides a wealth of well-structured company information for interested users, e.g. in the “Investor Relations” section, which contains comprehensive finan- cial information on A.S. Création such as annual and interim reports as well as ad-hoc and press releases. All information is simultaneously available in German and English.
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE STATEMENT AND REPORT ON CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
 25

 26
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE STATEMENT AND REPORT ON CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
The planned dates of major regular events, i.e. the publication dates of the Annual Report and the interim reports as well as the date of the Annual General Meeting of Shareholders, are compiled in a financial calendar. It is published sufficiently in advance and posted on the website of A.S. Création.
Gummersbach, March 15, 2012
A.S. Création Tapeten AG
For the Supervisory Board
Franz Jürgen Schneider
Chairman of the Supervisory Board
For the Managing Board
Jörn Kämper
Chairman of the Managing Board
  
Introduction
The A.S. Création Group comprises two Divisions (segments), the Wallpaper Division and the Furnishing Fabrics Division. The Wallpaper Division produces and markets wallpapers and borders on a global scale; accounting for 93% of 2011 Group sales, it is the larger of the two Divisions. The Furnishing Fabrics Division mar- kets curtains and furnishing fabrics and has no manufacturing resources of its own.
As had been expected, the fiscal year was marked by a difficult macroeconomic envi- ronment. In the euro-zone - which, accounting for 78% of total Group sales, is the most im- portant output market of A.S. Création – the constant discussion about the effects of the euro crisis caused uncertainty among consumers. Accordingly, private consumption provided no material stimulation. A.S. Création benefited from the positive stimuli coming from the export markets only to a limited extent, as they mostly related to other product groups, e.g. capital goods. By contrast, the company felt the negative effect of the commodity and energy prices, which again picked up markedly in 2011 following the sharp rise in 2010. In this environment, sales revenues and earnings of A.S. Création moved in different directions:
• Group sales grew by 4.1% from € 184.6 million in the previous year to € 192.3
GROUP MANAGEMENT REPORT
million, which was almost in line with the company’s plans for 2011, which had pro- vided for sales between € 195 million and € 205 million.
• By contrast, net profit declined by 44.6% from the previous year’s € 8.4 million to
€ 4.6 million. This was a stronger reduction than had been expected, not least because of the higher commodity and energy prices. According to the company’s plans, net profit was to come in at between € 6.5 million and € 7.5 million in fiscal 2011.
GROUP MANAGEMENT REPORT
 31

 32
GROUP MANAGEMENT REPORT
Accordingly, the Managing Board of A.S. Création is not satisfied with the performance in fiscal 2011. Improving the company’s profitability will be the main goal in the coming years. 2012 will no doubt be a challenging year in this respect. On the one hand, the Managing Board expects the macroeconomic environment to deteriorate in 2012, which means that no positive stimulation will come from this side. On the other hand, the start-up of a wallpaper production facility in Russia is to be completed in the course of 2012, with the factory sched- uled to start production in autumn 2012. This means that start-up losses arising from this strategic project in the current fiscal year will weigh on the company’s bottom line. In spite of all these uncertainties, the Managing Board is convinced that A.S. Création is in a very good position to continue its growth strategy.
Macroeconomic environment
The excessive government debt in many coun- tries of the euro-zone - which is the most im- portant output market of A.S. Création - had shifted into the focus of the capital markets already in the course of 2010. As a result, doubts about the general stability of the euro-zone were expressed. While some smaller highly indebted countries, e.g. Greece and Ireland, were no longer able to raise finance in the capital markets but were dependent on support
from other euro countries already in 2010, the year 2011 was marked by concern and doubts about the stability of other euro countries such as Italy and Spain. This resulted in a real confidence crisis, which dominated the public debate under the headings of “euro crisis” or
“sovereign debt crisis” in 2011. The resulting uncertainty had a clearly adverse impact on economic activity in the euro-zone and led to a marginal increase of only 0.2% in consumer spending. Capital spending showed a more positive trend and was up by 2.1% on the pre- vious year. One of the reasons for the increase in capital spending are the pent-up effects of necessary (replacement) investments, which had been postponed in 2010. Also, some sectors such as mechanical engineering and the car industry benefited from higher demand in their export markets (primarily in the emerging countries) and made investments in new plant capacity. In conjunction with increased exports, the high level of capital spending in 2011 led to a 1.5% increase in euro-zone GDP, which was only slightly lower than the previous year’s
1.8%. But the overall figures conceal the fact that the situation within the euro-zone differs materially, as the member countries are affected by the sovereign debt and euro crisis to highly different degrees. On the one hand, there are countries like Greece, Ireland, Portugal and Spain, and more recently also Italy, whose public debt forces them to take strict consolidation measures, which make growth virtually im-

possible. On the other hand, there are countries such as Germany, which are highly competitive and therefore benefit significantly from the increased demand, e.g. from the emerging markets, and which recorded strong capital spending activity (both spending on plant and equipment and construction spending). Accordingly, Germany’s gross domestic product, which had increased by an impressive 3.7% already in 2010, rose by another 3.0% in 2011. As a result, some sectors in Germany reported sales revenues that exceeded the pre-crisis levels already in 2011. The major differences between the euro-zone economies are also reflected in the jobless rates, which picked up in countries such as Italy and Spain and declined in others, above all in Germany. At
10.1%, the jobless rate for the euro-zone as a whole remained unchanged from the previous year. In the course of the year, economic activ- ity in the euro-zone slowed down markedly, though. Quarterly GDP growth rates declined and jobless rates picked up. Accordingly, some economic researchers already stated a mild recession for the euro-zone at the turn of the year 2011/2012.
The economy in Russia – A.S. Création’s most important output market in Eastern Europe – remained virtually unimpressed by the euro and sovereign debt crisis in the west. As in the previous year, Russia benefited from growing global demand for commodities and energies
and, hence, from rising prices. China has become Russia’s most important trading partner, as Chinese demand for Russian commodities and energies continues to grow. Besides the higher exports, the fact that consumer spending picked up against the background of declining inflation and a lower jobless rate also had a positive impact on the economy. With GDP growing by 4.3% in 2011, Russia’s economic situation in the fiscal year deserves to be called positive. However, this reduces the pressure on government officials to push ahead the transformation of the Russian economy, which continues to be dominated by commodity- based sectors (oil, gas, minerals and metals). In the absence of internationally competitive industries outside the commodities sector, Russia risks being hit particularly hard by another global economic crisis. In the 2009 financial and economic crisis, Russia was the industrialised country whose GDP dropped most sharply, namely by 7.9%. Russia’s accession to the World Trade Organization (WTO), which was decided on December 16, 2011, should provide positive stimulation to the Russian economy. The WTO organises international trade relationships through binding rules on the basis of free trade, provides procedures for settling disputes and monitors and scrutinises its members’ trade policies and practices. In particular, trade between the European Union (EU) and Russia could benefit from lower cus- toms tariffs and the harmonisation of product
GROUP MANAGEMENT REPORT
 33

 34
GROUP MANAGEMENT REPORT
standards and certifications. It remains to be seen whether this will ultimately even lead to a free trade zone between the EU and Russia.
As mentioned before, the prices of commodi- ties and energy increased sharply in the past fiscal year. According to the Hamburg Institute of International Economics (HWWI), global commodity prices (excluding energy) increased by another 12.4%, while global energy prices rose by 25.0% (on a euro basis), following growth rates of 41.5% and 36.4%, respectively, in 2010. The recession-related price declines of the year 2009 have thus been more than offset in the meantime, and the prices of the main commodities and energy sources reached their historic highs in the course of 2011. In the wake of the economic slowdown mentioned above, commodity and energy prices declined moderately in the final quarter of 2011. How- ever, this decline was insufficient to offset the increases of the first nine months, which means that commodity and energy prices were up on the previous year in the year 2011 as a whole. This sharp price increase also affected the main raw materials used by A.S. Création such as PVC, paints, paper and non-wovens as well as energy.
Conclusion: As had been expected, 2011 was marked by a difficult economic environment. On the one hand, economic growth in the mar- kets that are relevant for A.S. Création was
driven primarily by capital spending and exports and not so much by consumer spending. Wall- papers and furnishing fabrics being consumer goods, A.S. Création was unable to benefit from the economic trend to the same extent as companies from other sectors. On the other hand, the rising prices of commodities and energies heavily weighed on A.S. Création’s bottom line.
Industry-specific environment
The members of the Association of German Wallpaper Manufacturers (VDT) reported a 7.4% increase in sales revenues in 2011. In spite of this growth, sales revenues, at € 445.6 million, were still 6.6% below the € 477.2 million reported in 2008. This means that the German wallpaper industry has not yet fully recovered from the crisis of the year 2009.
In Germany the VDT members expanded their sales revenues by 3.1%, which means that, as in the previous years, wallpaper sales increased at a higher rate than consumer spending, which picked up by only 1.5% in Germany
in 2011. This comparison shows that wallpaper is a product that enjoys great popularity and is very much en vogue. In the management reports for the years 2009 and 2010, the Managing Board already reported that trend researchers have identified a trend towards

homing or cocooning, which they see as a response to an environment that is increasingly being perceived as uncertain and fast-lived. This trend has been accelerated by the fact that, in view of the turbulent capital markets, many people prefer to invest in real assets, which also include renovation and refurbish- ment and the related value increase or preser- vation of one’s own home. These trends are no doubt positive for wallpaper products.
Wallpaper manufacturers’ export sales increased by 9.9%, which means that sales growth exceeded the increase in consumer spending also in the international markets. But this growth rate must be seen against the back- ground of the 25.7% drop in sales suffered by the wallpaper industry in 2009. Accordingly, the trend in export sales in 2011 was not satis- factory. The large wallpaper markets in Eastern Europe such as Russia and Ukraine play an important role for the export-oriented German wallpaper industry. In these markets, the depreciation of the local currencies in 2009 led to a shift in demand to locally produced products and a commensurate decline in the VDT members’ sales revenues. In spite of an improved exchange rate trend (and the result- ing better export conditions), German wallpaper manufacturers were unable to regain the market shares lost to local manufacturers in these countries.
The Managing Board of A.S. Création is of the opinion that the employment situation in the wallpaper industry improved in 2011, although the large Western European wallpaper manu- facturers were not able to fully utilise their production capacity. The Managing Board’s view is supported by the fact that there con- tinues to be fierce price competition in spite of the increased commodity and energy prices. A.S. Création was able to expand its output in 2011 but did not return to full capacity utili- sation. Apart from winning new customers, A.S. Création also benefited from the fact that the two French wholesalers acquired at the end of 2008, SCE – Société de conception et d’édition SAS and MCF Investissement, replaced additional parts of their respective product ranges with products made by A.S. Création Tapeten AG.
The Wallpaper Division of A.S. Création gener- ated sales revenues of € 180.3 million in 2011, up 4.4% on the previous year’s € 172.7 million. While A.S. Création remains the largest wall- paper manufacturer in the European Union, the growth rate was below the VDT average in 2011.
The Furnishing Fabrics Division again faced difficult sector-specific conditions in the year 2011. According to the Association of German Home Textiles Manufacturers, sales in the two market segments in which A.S. Création oper- ates, namely furnishing fabrics and curtains,
GROUP MANAGEMENT REPORT
 35

 Sales performance in € m
184.6
192.3 200
150
100
50
0
   181.3
       2009 2010 2011
 36
GROUP MANAGEMENT REPORT
were down by 0.4% and 4.3%, respectively, on the previous year. As in the previous years, the Furnishing Fabrics Division of A.S. Création was able to isolate itself from the general market trend and reported a 0.8% increase in sales from € 12.6 million in the previous year to € 12.7 million in 2011.
• In the German market, A.S. Création was able to increase its gross revenues by 13.8% (2010: 6.3%), primarily by winning new customers in the DIY store segment,
and isolate itself from the general market trend. Accordingly, the German market was one of the main growth drivers for A.S. Création in the past fiscal year. Even though this sales growth includes one-off effects that are related to the first-time deliveries to the new customers, the Managing Board is very satisfied with the sales performance in the domestic market.
• The company achieved double-digit sales growth also in countries outside (Western and Eastern) Europe, where gross revenues increased by 15.0% (2010: 32.7%) on the previous year. This trend primarily reflects the dynamic growth in some Asian markets such as China.
• In the non-EU Eastern European countries, gross sales revenues were up by 4.5% (2010: 7.3%) on the previous year. This growth was mainly attributable to increa- sed business with existing customers, for whom specific products were developed. The Managing Board nevertheless considers the growth rates currently achieved by A.S. Création in this region to be not yet satisfactory, as they are insufficient to offset the sales declines of the past. Sales
Sales
2011 was another fiscal year in which A.S. Création was able to increase its Group revenues. At € 192.3 million, sales revenues were up by 4.1% on the previous year’s € 184.6 million. Following an increase of only 1.8% in the pre- vious year, A.S. Création thus achieved much more dynamic growth, which is attributable to the following factors:

revenues generated by A.S. Création in non-EU Eastern European countries in 2011 were still about 44.1% below the pre-crisis level of the year 2008. Also, the other wallpaper manufacturers that are members of the German Wallpaper Industry Association were able to increase their exports to non-EU Eastern European mar- kets more strongly than A.S. Création in 2011.
In the other EU countries, the euro crisis seems to be having a stronger effect on general con- sumer sentiment and wallpaper consumption than in Germany. Accordingly, A.S. Création reported another 2.6% drop in sales revenues in this region, following a decline by 5.9% in 2010. According to the Managing Board, the sales trend in this region is disappointing and the current level of revenues is unsatisfactory. On the upside, the downward trend in sales has slowed down markedly from 11.3% in the second half of 2010 to 3.6% in the first six months of 2011 to 1.4% in the second half of 2011. The Managing Board nevertheless believes it is too early to speak of a turnaround, as the signs, especially from France, the largest wall- paper market in the EU, are still not giving much cause for optimism. As had been planned, SCE – Société de conception et d’édition SAS and MCF Investissement SAS, the two French wallpaper wholesalers acquired in late 2008, continued to replace part of their product
ranges with products of A.S. Création Tapeten AG. While this resulted in better capacity utilisa- tion, it did not lead to rising Group sales in France due to the decline in external sales.
Given that the sales growth in Germany more than offset the declines in other EU countries, the above factors did not lead to material shifts in the regional breakdown of Group sales. Accounting for 77.9% (2010: 78.4%) of Group sales, the European Union remains the largest output market of A.S. Création. Non-EU Eastern European countries contributed 15.6% to Group sales in 2011 (2010: 15.7%). The other markets, including Asian countries such as China, are currently playing only a minor role for A.S. Création, which is reflected in con- tribution to total Group sales of only 6.5% (2010: 5.9%). This percentage is expected to increase, though.
Gross-Sales 2011 by regions
GROUP MANAGEMENT REPORT
  in %
36.8 41.1
77.9
15.6
6.5
100.0
€ m 77.5
86.7 164.2
32.9
13.7 210.8
Germany EU (excl. Germany)
European Union (EU)
Other Eastern Europe Other countries Sales (gross)
        37

 Number of employees (average)
787
772
796
42
335
42
337
Trainees and apprentices
White-collar workers
Blue-collar workers
     393
2009 2010 2011
39
359
 410
398
     38
GROUP MANAGEMENT REPORT
Both divisions contributed to the 4.1% increase in sales revenues from € 184.6 million to € 192.3 million, which is the highest level reached in the history of A.S. Création. While the Wallpaper Division accounted for 4.4% of this growth, the Furnishing Fabrics Division contributed 0.8%. The company thus almost met its sales projections, which provided for sales revenues of between € 195 million and € 205 million in the fiscal year 2011.
Employees
The average headcount of A.S. Création increased by 24 people or 3.1% from 772 in 2010 to 796 in 2011. 726 employees (2010: 706) worked in the Wallpaper Division and 70 (2010: 66) in the Furnishing Fabrics Division. As in the previous year, approx. 82% of the employees work at domestic Group companies, while about 18% are employed abroad.
The increase in the average headcount in the past fiscal year is mainly attributable to two factors. First, additional employees were required in Germany to manage the increased sales, especially in conjunction with the first-time deliveries to the new DIY store customers. Second, the Russian sales organisation continued to be expanded as planned so as to be able to market the locally manufactured wallpapers starting
September 2012. As the increase in the head- count was only slight lower than the rise in sales, staff productivity improved only moderately in the fiscal year, with sales per employee reach- ing € 0.242 million (2010: € 0.239 million). Staff productivity is thus still below the € 0.248 million reported in 2007.
A.S. Création’s long tradition of training young people should be seen against the background of the long-term development of the company. The Managing Board of A.S. Création is con- vinced that the training and further education of its workforce are important factors for the future of the company. Accordingly, the com- pany decided to expand its training activities already back in 2007. This decision was not questioned even under the difficult economic conditions prevailing in the past years. The fact that the number of trainees and appren- tices declined nevertheless from 42 to 39 in

the fiscal year is due to the revision of the examination regulations for some commercial professions. This was the reason why fewer industrial trainees were employed in the course of 2011. These uncertainties have been eliminated in the meantime, which means that more trainees will again be taken on in the next fiscal year. Trainees and apprentices accounted for 5.9% (2010: 6.6%) of the German work- force, which is still a good level in spite of the decline in the number of trainees and appren- tices.
The Managing Board would like to take this opportunity to thank the employees of A.S. Création for their commitment in the past fiscal year, which helped both divisions to per- form well in a difficult market and competitive environment. Our thanks also go to the mem- bers of the Staff Council and the employee representatives on the Supervisory Board for the trusting cooperation, which was marked by the will to contribute to both the well-being of the staff and the successful and secure future of A.S. Création.
Capital expenditures
At € 19.7 million (2010: € 6.8 million), capital expenditures in 2011 reached the second highest level in the history of A.S. Création, the highest
level having been reached in 2008. The high capital expenditures are attributable to two factors:
• In July 2011, A.S. Création (France) SAS acquired the remaining shares in SCE – Société de conception et d’édition SAS and MCF Investissement SAS at a total price of € 7.0 million (2010: € 0 million). The acquisition of the remaining shares had been firmly agreed at the time of the original takeover in 2008 but became effective only in the past fiscal year.
• In 2008, A.S. Création Tapeten AG and OOO Kof Palitra, Russia’s leading wallpaper manufacturer, established a joint venture under the name of OOO A.S. & Palitra. The purpose of this joint venture is to produce higher-quality wallpapers for the Eastern
GROUP MANAGEMENT REPORT
 Capital expenditures and depreciation in € m 19.7
20
  9.9
2009
Capex
10.5 9.9 10
    5.8
6.8
  0
 2010 2011 Depreciation
   39

 40
GROUP MANAGEMENT REPORT
European market and the Russian market, in particular. Following the initial pre- paratory work in 2010, the building shells were erected in 2011 and the first plant and machinery ordered. To finance these measures, the share capital of OOO A.S. & Palitra was increased and shareholder loans were granted in the past fiscal year. The share of € 7.2 million (2010: € 0.9 million) that is attributable to A.S. Création Tapeten AG is stated as capital expendi- tures in the consolidated financial state- ments for the year 2011.
Adjusted for these two one-time effects, capital expenditures in the fiscal year totalled € 5.5 million and primarily related to replace- ment investments and to investments in print- ing tools for the new wallpaper collections. As in the previous year, no major investments in new plant capacity were required.
Product safety and environmental protection
All A.S. Création wallpapers are produced to applicable EN or DIN standards and thus com- ply with legal provisions. But A.S. Création offers its customers even greater safety, as our products meet the stricter requirements of “Gutegemeinschaft Tapete e.V.”, which are documented in RAL-GZ-479. Compliance with this standard is regularly examined by the
internationally renowned Fraunhofer-Society on a random sample basis.
Pursuant to EN 15102, which implements EU Directive 89/106/EEC, all wallpapers, which are now regarded as construction products, must bear a CE mark starting January 1, 2011. Products which have proven to meet defined fire protection criteria are marked with the fire protection class and the number of the institute that has carried out the required tests in addition to the CE mark. In the course of 2010, A.S. Création had its own product groups tested by an authorised and inde- pendent test institute, so that all wallpapers produced by A.S. Création since January 1, 2011 bear a certified CE mark.
To promote environmental protection and sustainability, A.S. Création exclusively uses water-based paints on its heliogravure printing machines. Moreover, the company uses only FSC®-certified papers and non- wovens, which means that all wallpapers carry the FSC® seal. Established in 1993, the FSC® (Forest Stewardship Council) is a non- governmental, not-for-profit organisation committed to the environmentally and socially compatible and economically viable manage- ment of the world’s forests. For this purpose, the FSC® has defined minimum standards for forest management. Every forest owner is checked for compliance with the FSC® stan-

dards by an independent auditor on an annual basis. Only after having passed the test may forest owners market their products using the FSC® label. Further tests down the process chain ensure that FSC® wood is not illegally mixed with non-certified wood. The latter tells con- sumers that wood from responsible and sus- tainable forest management was used for the product in question.
Our capital expenditures also reflect our com- mitment to a sparing use of resources. While all capital expenditures required to meet the increasingly stringent legal and regulatory requirements count as direct capital expendi- tures in environmental protection, capital expenditures in modernisation also contribute to environmental protection given that the use of advanced technologies usually also entails a higher degree of efficiency with regard to the resources used. The high level of capital expen- ditures aimed at ensuring growth as well as the company’s future viability mean that A.S. Création is in a good position also in this respect.
Important events in FY 2011
After many years in office, Mr Bernhard Wagner resigned from the Managing Board of A.S. Création with effect from March 31, 2011 for reasons of age. His successor, Karl-Heinz Hallwig, had been appointed by the Supervisory
Board already in 2010. He joined the Managing Board of A.S. Création Tapeten AG with effect from April 1, 2011 and is in charge of Produc- tion and Logistics.
In the context of the regular Supervisory Board elections, all incumbent members of the Supervisory Board were re-elected for a full term of office in 2011. At the constituent meeting of the newly elected Supervisory Board, Mr Schneider was elected Chairman and Dr. Liebs was elected Vice Chairman of the Supervisory Board.
As reported under “Capital expenditures”, A.S. Création (France) SAS acquired the remain- ing shares in SCE – Société de conception et d’édition SAS and MCF Investissement SAS at a total price of € 7.0 million in July 2011.
Following on from the search of the company’s premises in November 2010, Germany’s Federal Cartel Office formally notified A.S. Création Tapeten AG in November 2011 that adminis- trative offence proceedings had been opened. The Cartel Office has raised several allegations of what it perceives to have constituted anti- competitive behaviour by A.S. Création Tapeten AG and individual company executives. Apart from A.S. Création Tapeten AG, administrative offence proceedings have been opened against four other renowned German wallpaper manu- facturers as well as the German Association
GROUP MANAGEMENT REPORT
 41

of Wallpaper Manufacturers (VDT). As a leniency applicant, who is exempt from potential fines, Tapetenfabrik Gebr. Rasch GmbH & Co. KG has caused the investigations by the Federal Cartel Office.
Earnings position
The earnings position of A.S. Création deterio- rated in the fiscal year 2011. While declining results had been projected, the actual reduction was much more pronounced than expected. Instead of the projected € 6.5 million to € 7.5 million, net profit for the year 2011 came in at only € 4.6 million, down 44.6% on the previous year’s € 8.4 million. The detailed profit analysis shows that the operating result as well as the financial result and the tax ratio had an adverse impact on the company’s bottom line in 2011.
 Earnings before interest and taxes (EBIT) in € m
14.3 13.4
15
9.6 10
      2009 2010 2011
5
0
   42
GROUP MANAGEMENT REPORT
 The main reason for the poorer earnings posi- tion is the disappointing operating result of € 9.6 million, which was down by € 4.7 million on the previous year’s € 14.3 million in spite of the € 7.7 million increase in sales revenues. Accordingly, the EBIT margin reached only 5.0% in 2011 (2010: 7.8%), which was the lowest level since 1998, the year in which the company adopted International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS). This development is attribut- able to the following factors:
• Increased procurement costs
As described under “Macroeconomic environment”, global commodity prices (excluding energy) increased by 12.4% and energy prices by 25.0% in 2011. These price increases also affected important raw materials used by A.S. Création such as paper, non-wovens, PVC and paint as well as energy purchases, which led to a rise in production costs by € 5.7 million. The procurement prices of merchandise such as furnishing fabrics increased as well and also weighed on the margins. A.S. Creation pursues a product policy of compensating these price increases on the procurement side by successively expanding the per- centage of higher-quality products in the wallpaper range. In response to the sharp rise in commodity and energy prices in the year 2010, A.S. Création had additionally announced an extraordinary price increase

with effect from March 1, 2011. In spite of these measures, the gross profit margin (quotient of gross profit and total output) declined by 2.7 percentage points from 48.5% in the previous year to 45.8% in 2011. In relation to the increased total output of € 193.5 million, the decline in the margin means that € 5.2 million less in earnings was available to cover other expenses. The comparison with earnings before interest and taxes of € 9.6 million illustrates the strong negative impact of the increased commodity and energy prices on the company’s bottom line.
• Increased personnel expenses
As explained under “Employees”, staff productivity did not improve materially in the fiscal year 2011 due to the increase in the company’s headcount. Sales per employee amounted to € 0.242 million in the fiscal year, compared to € 0.239 in the previous year. Accordingly, A.S. Création was unable to offset the collective pay rise; as a result, personnel expenses as a percentage of total output deteriorated moderately from 21.1% in the previous year to 21.3% in 2011.
• Adverse trend in other operating expenses
The increased utilisation of the company’s production capacity led to an improved
cost situation, as the fixed costs were spread over a higher total output. However, this contrasted with higher marketing and sales costs and increased expenses in conjunction with the first-time deliveries to the new DIY customers. Moreover, higher freight rates and a trend towards customers ordering smaller quantities per order led to a disproportionate increase in transport costs. As a result, other operating expenses as a percentage of total output deteriorated from the previous year’s 14.6% to 14.8%.
As the rise in commodity and energy prices in 2011 could not be offset by increases in the company’s own prices and internal productivity improvements, earnings before interest and taxes declined, as mentioned above, by 33.0% from € 14.3 million in the previous year to € 9.6 million in 2011.
The financial result also had an adverse impact on the bottom line and deteriorated from € -2.0 million in the previous year to € -2.3 million in 2011. As in the previous year, the discount factor used for the actuarial calcula- tion of the pension provisions had to be adjusted to reflect the developments in the capital market and was reduced from 4.9% to 4.6%. This led to an actuarial increase in pension pro- visions by € 0.3 million, which was recognised as interest expense. In the fiscal year 2010, the
GROUP MANAGEMENT REPORT
 43

 Earnings per share in €
3.05
4
3 2
1 0
   2.72
  1.69
   2009 2010 2011
 44
GROUP MANAGEMENT REPORT
adjustment of the discount factor from 5.0% to 4.9% led to interest expenses of € 0.1 million. As the Russian joint venture, A.S. & Palitra, continued to build up a production facility in Russia, the related start-up losses increased. The start-up losses attributable to A.S. Création amounted to € -0.2 million (2010: € -0.1 million) and are included in the financial result as loss from investments accounted for at equity.
The operating result and the financial result led to earnings before taxes of € 7.3 million, down 40.7% on the previous year’s € 12.4 million. Due to the increase in the imputed tax ratio from 32.0% in 2010 to 36.5% in the past fiscal year, net profit declined more strongly than earnings before taxes, namely by 44.6% from € 8.4 million in 2010 to € 4.6 million in 2011. The higher imputed tax ratio is primarily attributable to two factors. First, the pro-rated loss for the year of the joint venture, A.S. & Palitra, which is recognised in the financial result in the income statement (and hence in earnings before taxes), does not lead to reduced consolidated tax expenses. Second, the tax audit carried out at A.S. Création Tapeten AG in 2011 for the fiscal years from 2006 to 2009 resulted in tax payments for prior years, which increased the imputed tax ratio for the fiscal year.
Based on the number of shares outstanding, which remained unchanged at 2,756,351 in
2011, earnings per share amounted to € 1.69 (2010: € 3.05).
Financial position
Due to the poorer earnings position, cash flow declined by 24.6% or € 4.7 million from the previous year’s € 19.0 million to € 14.3 mil- lion. The reduced cash flow contrasted with greatly increased funding requirements, which were primarily attributable to the higher capital expenditures. As outlined under “Capital expenditures”, the latter amounted to € 19.7 million in the past fiscal year, up € 12.9 million on the previous year’s € 6.8 million due to the acquisition of the remaining shares in SCE – Société de conception et d’édition SAS and MCF Investissement SAS as well as to the start-up of wallpaper production in Russia.

Fortunately, A.S. Création was able to release capital tied up in current assets in the past fiscal year. Given that a major portion of the assets of A.S. Création is tied up in inventories and trade receivables, the company has tradi- tionally kept a close eye on these items. The analysis of the underlying figures shows that the capital tie-up in relation to sales revenues improved on balance in 2011. The imputed receivables collection period declined markedly from 70 days in the previous year to 65 days in fiscal 2011, while the imputed inventory turnover remained unchanged from the pre- vious year at 4.2 times per year.
In spite of these positive factors, A.S. Création’s internal financing capability was insufficient to finance the exceptionally high capital expenditures of the year 2011. Accordingly, net financial liabilities (difference between interest- bearing financial liabilities and cash and cash
equivalents) increased from € 16.3 million on December 31, 2010 by € 13.1 million to € 29.4 million on the balance sheet date. As € 8.4 million of this increase related to the use of cash and cash equivalents, the interest-bearing financial liabilities of A.S. Création rose by only € 4.7 million in the course of 2011 to € 31.8 million on December 31, 2011 (2010: € 27.1 million). The increase in net financial liabilities had already been anticipated in the Group’s budget for 2011.
A.S. Création’s conservative financing policy, which is characterised by long-term debt at fixed interest rates as well as by repayments during the term of the loans, has proven its worth especially in the financial crisis. Unlike other companies, A.S. Création did not face a reduction in credit lines or had to renegotiate the conditions of its existing loans. Only where unused credit lines appeared to be too high were they reduced in agreement with the lending banks. The Group has a very robust and sound financial structure, which is reflected in the following balance sheet figures:
• Based on equity capital of € 89.6 million as of December 31, 2011 (2010: € 88.8 million), the equity ratio reached a high level of 56.9% (2010: 54.9%).
• Equity capital and long-term debt capital are more than sufficient to finance non-
GROUP MANAGEMENT REPORT
 Cash-flow in € m 19.0
17.6
20
14.3 15 10
5
0
           2009 2010 2011
 45

 Total assets and financial structure
€ 161.8 m
2009
€ 161.6 m
2010
€ 157.3 m
2011
Equity and Liabilities Equity
          43%
52%
40%
43%
      57%
32%
60%
55%
25%
57%
57%
28%
   16%
20%
15%
  Assets
Non-current assets
    46
GROUP MANAGEMENT REPORT
Current assets
Non-current liabilities Current liabilities
The Managing Board also considers the net asset position of A.S. Création to be very sound. As of December 31, 2011, the Group’s total assets amounted to € 157.3 million (2010: € 161.6 million), of which 82.4% (2010: 87.8%) related to property, plant and equipment, inventories, trade receivables as well as cash and cash equi- valents. Goodwill recognised in the consolidated financial statements represented only 4.9% (2010: 4.8%) of total assets and 8.6% (2010: 8.7%) of the equity capital.
The Managing Board of A.S. Création believes that the net asset and financial position of A.S. Création is robust and sound and will enable the company to continue its growth strategy, which provides, among other things, for the start-up of a wallpaper production facility in Russia.
Profit appropriation
The Managing Board of A.S Creation Tapeten AG has always pursued a dividend policy that provides for a high payout ratio as long as this is permitted by the company’s financial situation. In the past years, the pay- out ratio of A.S. Création settled at a level of 40% to 45%.
In spite of the uncertain environment prevai- ling in 2012 and the financing requirements resulting from the start-up of a wallpaper
   current assets. As of December 31, 2011, the respective ratio stood at 196.3% (2010: 199.3%), which means that the “golden rule of financing" was more than fulfilled.
• While the debt to equity ratio (net finan- cial liabilities divided by equity) increased because of the higher liabilities, it was still low at 32.9% on December 31, 2011 (2010: 18.3 %).
• Due to the increased liabilities and the reduced cash flow, the debt repayment period (the quotient of net financial liabilities and cash flow) also deteriorated in the past fiscal year, when it reached 2.1 years (2010: 0.9 years).

production facility in Russia, the Managing Board and the Supervisory Board support a continuation of the existing dividend policy. This step is to ensure the consistency and the reliability of the company’s dividend policy.
As explained under “Earnings position”, the net profit for the year decreased from € 8.4 million (or € 3.05 per share) in the previous year to € 4.6 million (or € 1.69 per share) in fiscal 2011. In accordance with the traditional dividend policy, the lower profit will be reflected in a lower dividend. Accordingly, the Managing Board will propose payment of a dividend of € 0.75 (2010: € 1.35) per share to the General Meeting of Shareholders, which is scheduled for May 3, 2012. This represents a payout ratio of 44.4% (2010: 44.3%). Based on the number of 2.756 million shares outstanding as of December 31, 2011, this will result in a total dividend volume of € 2.1 million (2010: € 3.7 million).
Compensation report
The compensation earned by the Managing Board members comprises a performance- linked and a non-performance-linked com- ponent. The latter consists of a fixed monthly salary and the value of non-monetary compen- sation that needs to be stated under applicable tax legislation (mainly the use of a company car). Tax on such non-monetary compensation
is to be paid by each individual Board member. While all Board members are basically entitled to the same non-monetary compensation, the corresponding amounts differ depending on the member’s personal circumstances. In the context of the renewal of the contracts of the Managing Board members, which became effective on April 1, 2011, the performance- linked component of the compensation system was fundamentally revised. At the same time, the compensation structure was geared to sustainable corporate development as provided for under the German Act on the Appropri- ateness of Executive Remuneration (Gesetz zur Angemessenheit der Vorstandsvergütung VorstAG). Since this date, the Group’s weighted average cash flow from three fiscal years has formed the basis of assessment for the calcu- lation of the performance-linked component. Each member of the Managing Board will receive a fixed percentage of this basis of assessment. The adjustment of the basis of assessment has resulted in two major improve- ments. First, the cash flow, unlike the consoli- dated net profit, reflects the company’s cash situation. Purely accounting-induced non-cash changes in the earnings position, such as changed depreciation standards or the effects of changes in the tax rates on deferred taxes, no longer have an impact on the amount of the Managing Board bonus. Second, the focus is no longer placed on the (short-term) economic performance of only one year but on a longer
GROUP MANAGEMENT REPORT
 47

 48
GROUP MANAGEMENT REPORT
three-year period. The new compensation scheme for the Managing Board, which became effec- tive on April 1, 2011, was approved by a vast majority of the shareholders (95.88%) at the Annual General Meeting of Shareholders on May 5, 2011.
The performance-linked variable component
of the Managing Board compensation has traditionally been of great importance to A.S. Création Tapeten AG and this has not changed as a result of the new compensation scheme. Of the total compensation of € 1.917 million received by the Managing Board in 2011 (2010: € 2.219 million), 68.5% or € 1.313 million (2010: 75.3% or € 1.672 million) related to the performance-linked component, while only 31.5% or € 0.604 million (2010: 24.7% or € 0.547 million) related to the fixed compensation. The compensation of the Managing Board members is not reported indi- vidually, as a clear majority of 86.82% of the shareholders attending the Annual General Meeting of Shareholders on May 5, 2011 voted against this form of disclosure.
The total compensation of the Managing Board is defined by the Supervisory Board and its amount and structure are reviewed regularly by the same body. The respective decisions are prepared by the Committee for Managing Board Matters. Due to the changes on the
Managing Board and the adjustment of the compensation system for the Managing Board members in the course of 2011, the Managing Board compensation of the year 2011 cannot be compared directly with that of the year 2010. However, the decline in the Managing Board compensation in 2011 is primarily attributable to the deterioration in the earnings position of A.S. Création.
In addition, the members of the Managing Board benefit from pension commitments. These are guaranteed fixed amounts that will be payable by the company when the pension entitlements arise. As of the balance sheet date, provisions in an amount of € 0.091 million (2010: € 0.299 million) had been established for these pension obligations. This performance-oriented system entails two imponderables from the company’s point of view. First, it is uncertain, in view of the chang- ing life expectancy, whether the provisions that have been established will be sufficient when the pension entitlements arise. Second, the outflow of funds is delayed in time, which means that today’s pension commitments will limit the financial scope available to the company’s future management.
To mitigate these disadvantages for A.S. Création Tapeten AG, the transfer of the pension com- mitments for the Managing Board members

from the performance-oriented system to a contribution-based system was initiated in 2006. Since then, a constant annual amount has been paid to an external relief fund, which will make the future pension payments. As a result, A.S. Création Tapeten AG’s liabilities under the performance-based commitments will decline in the coming years, i.e. the respective pension provisions can be reduced gradually.
In fiscal 2011, the payments to the relief fund led to expenses of € 0.063 million (2010: € 0.072 million). At the same time, pension provisions in an amount of € 0.026 million (2010: € 0 million) could be released with the effect recognised in the profit and loss account. As a result, total pension expenses for the members of the Managing Board amounted to € 0.037 million in the fiscal year 2011 (2010: € 0.072 million).
The compensation of the Supervisory Board is defined by the Annual General Meeting of Share- holders and in the statutes of A.S. Création Tapeten AG. According to Article 14 of the cur- rent statutes (as amended on May 5, 2011) the members of the Supervisory Board receive a fixed compensation of € 9,000 in addition
to the reimbursement of their expenses. The Chairman receives twice that amount and the Vice Chairman 1.5 times that amount. A per- formance-linked component is not provided
for. The members of a committee formed by the Supervisory Board receive an additional compensation of € 4,500 for this activity, with the total compensation for committee work limited to the amount of the fixed compensa- tion. In accordance with these regulations, the compensation of the Supervisory Board members for the past fiscal year totalled € 108,000, as in the previous year. Of this amount, Mr Schneider received € 31,500, Dr. Liebs received € 22,500, Dr. Schadt received € 18,000, Mrs Benner- Heinacher and Mr Schmuck each received € 13,500, while Mr Mourschinetz received € 9,000.
In addition, Supervisory Board Chairman Mr Schneider signed an agreement with A.S. Création Tapeten AG – with the consent of the Supervi- sory Board – for advice on and the realisation of certain projects that are important for the future of the company. In the fiscal year 2011, the fee for these advisory services amounted to € 0.120 million (2010: € 0.119 million).
Information to section 315 para. 4 of the German Commercial Code (Handelsgesetz- buch HGB) and explanatory report
According to Article 4 paragraph 1 and Article 18 paragraph 1 of the current statutes of A.S. Création Tapeten AG (as amended on May 5,
GROUP MANAGEMENT REPORT
 49

 50
GROUP MANAGEMENT REPORT
2011), the share capital of A.S. Création Tapeten AG amounts to € 9,000,000 and is divided into 3,000,000 no par value shares. Each share has one vote at the Annual General Meeting of Shareholders. This does not apply to own shares held by the company, from which no rights arise to the company.
According to the notifications received in accor- dance with sections 21 and 41 of the German Securities Trading Act (Wertpapierhandels- gesetz WpHG), more than 10% of the voting rights in A.S. Création Tapeten AG are held by Mr Franz Jürgen Schneider, who holds 29.10%, and Ms Karin Schneider, who holds 10.04%.
According to section 76 and 84 of the German Stock Corporation Act (Aktiengesetz AktG) and Article 6 of the current statutes of A.S. Création Tapeten AG, the Managing Board must consist of a minimum of two people. The exact number of Managing Board members is determined by the Supervisory Board of A.S. Création Tapeten AG. The Supervisory Board appoints the members of the Managing Board for a maximum term of five years. A re-appointment is permissible. The Supervisory Board may appoint one member as Chairman of the Managing Board. The Supervisory Board may revoke the appointment of a member or the Chairman for an important reason. Such important reasons are gross breach of duty, inability to manage the business
properly or withdrawal of confidence by the Annual General Meeting of Shareholders.
According to section 179 AktG and Article 18 paragraph 2 of the current statutes of A.S. Création Tapeten AG, the statutes may be amended by a resolution of the Annual General Meeting of Shareholders with a simple majority of the votes cast. A majority of three quarters of the votes cast is required to change the business purpose of the company.
According to a resolution of the Annual General Meeting of Shareholders dated May 5, 2010, the Managing Board is authorised to acquire own shares up to a par value of € 900,000 (which represents a maximum of 10% of the share capital) until May 6, 2015. The Managing Board is also authorised to call in the shares acquired, to resell them, in which case share- holders’ subscription rights may be excluded under certain circumstances, or to use the shares acquired for company acquisitions or equity investments. As of December 31, 2011 the com- pany holds 243,649 own shares. 125,000 of these shares were used as collateral for loans.
According to Article 4 paragraph 3 of the cur- rent statutes of A.S. Création Tapeten AG, the Managing Board is authorised, until May 4, 2016, to increase the share capital, subject to the approval of the Supervisory Board, by

up to € 4,500,000 through the issue of new shares against contributions in cash or kind (authorised capital). Shareholders’ subscription rights may be excluded in certain cases. As no use has been made of this authorisation so far, the authorised capital still amounted to € 4,500,000 as of December 31, 2011.
A.S. Création Tapeten AG and OOO Kof Palitra established a Russian joint venture under the name of OOO A.S. & Palitra, in which each of the partners holds 50% of the shares. In the event of a material change in the shareholder structure of one of the two founding partners, the partnership agreement grants the respective other party a purchase option for the other party’s shares in the joint venture.
Information to section 315 para. 2 No. 5 of the German Commercial Code (Handelsgesetzbuch HGB)
The A.S. Création Group is characterised by a clear and manageable corporate structure. Besides A.S. Création Tapeten AG, the basis of consolidation comprises only nine companies, which are fully consolidated, and one company that is accounted for using the equity method.
The accounting process in the A.S. Création Group is decentralised, i.e. the member companies
of the Group are responsible for preparing their individual financial statements in accordance with local GAAP. The individual companies use different accounting programmes, most of which are standard software that is adapted to specific local and corporate requirements. Standardised bulk processes such as invoicing and payroll accounting are also processed using IT-based systems, which are connected with the accounting systems via interfaces. This way, potential errors in the accounting process are reduced to a minimum.
Internal control of the accounting process is performed on the basis of the “four-eye principle” and through regular plausibility checks. Within the A.S. Création Group, internal monthly reports are derived from the accounting system. As the company does not use imputed or flat charges, the internal controlling system is not based on “artificial” results but on those that are taken from the accounting process. Accordingly, internal control of the accounting process is an integral element of the control- ling system.
External control of the accounting process is performed, on the one hand, through the annual audit of the financial statements by the auditors. To ensure a consistent auditing standard within the A.S. Création Group, A.S. Création has a policy of using as few
GROUP MANAGEMENT REPORT
 51

 52
GROUP MANAGEMENT REPORT
accounting firms as possible. Accordingly, the financial statements of ten of the eleven Group companies were audited or reviewed by KPMG in 2011. On the other hand, the internal control systems of the Group companies (and, hence, those that are used in the accounting process) are regularly reviewed by external specialists with a view to refining and updating the pro- cesses. The Supervisory Board of A.S. Création Tapeten AG – in particular its Audit Committee – is involved in the evaluation of the results of these reviews.
To prepare the consolidated financial statements, the Group companies’ financial statements are transferred into the Group accounting system and complemented with additional information to form a reporting package. This standardised reporting package is defined by A.S. Création Tapeten AG for all Group companies and used not only for the financial statements but also for monthly reporting. The data from the reporting packages is transferred via an inter- face to the consolidation system in which the consolidated financial statements of A.S. Création are prepared. The consolidated financial state- ments and the consolidated presentations of the Wallpaper and Furnishing Fabrics Divisions are produced centrally. To ensure that consistent and standardised valuation criteria are applied, key parameters such as the discounting factor for the calculation of pension provisions are
predefined centrally by A.S. Création Tapeten AG. For the same reason, the goodwill impairment tests are also performed centrally.
At Group level, the internal control systems used to ensure proper Group accounting pri- marily comprise plausibility and completeness checks of the reporting packages received. When- ever required, representatives of A.S. Création Tapeten AG attend the final meetings with the auditors of the Group companies. In addition, controls of the main consolidation processes – e.g. debt, income and expenses, capital - are integrated in the software used. Finally, the consolidated financial statements (and the financial statements of A.S. Création Tapeten AG) are audited by the Supervisory Board and its Audit Committee.
External control of the Group accounting process is performed by the auditors of the Group companies, who check that the reporting package is fully consistent with the respective financial statements and confirm the complete- ness and accuracy of the information contained therein. Additional controls are performed by the Group auditor, who defines consistent audit standards for the auditors of the individual Group companies. In this context, the Group auditor may take into account a special focus of the audit that may have been defined by the Supervisory Board of A.S. Création Tapeten AG

or its Audit Committee for the audit of the consolidated financial statements. The Group auditors also review the compilation of the consolidated financial statements from the individual financial statements taking the consolidation processes into account.
The above control systems used by A.S. Création for the (Group) accounting process are designed to minimise the risk that important facts are omitted or presented incompletely or incorrectly in the financial statements or the consolidated financial statements. However, they cannot provide 100% certainty that the individual financial statements or the consolidated finan- cial statements are free of errors.
Opportunities and risks to the future development
Any business activity inevitably entails certain risks. Throughout its company history, however, A.S. Création Tapeten AG has demonstrated its responsible approach to such risks. In the opinion of the Managing Board, the high quality of our risk management system is an important basis for the successful development of A.S. Création.
A risk management system analyses potential risks by their “likelihood” and their “effect on the company”. The Managing Board pays special
attention to those factors that may have a strong negative effect on the company.
The future development of the economy may lead to risks for A.S. Création. The company’s product portfolio is clearly positioned in the consumer goods sector - over 90% of the wall- papers are used for renovation purposes, while less than 10% are used for new buildings. Because of their use, furnishing fabrics also qualify as consumer goods. A decline in consumer spending in the context of a recession may have a negative effect on A.S. Création’s sales revenues. According to current projections for the year 2012, consumer spending in nearly all countries served by A.S. Création will stagnate or increase moderately. Consumer spending in the euro-zone, for instance, is expected to rise by 0.4%. The Managing Board cannot identify
a structural decline in demand for wallpapers and does therefore see no potential risks that could jeopardise the continued existence of the company.
Industry-specific risks result from existing over- capacities in the wallpaper industry. Against the background of increased demand, new capacities for the production of wallpapers were installed in Western and Eastern Europe in the past years. Due to the sudden drop in demand in 2009 resulting from the global financial and economic crisis, the large Euro-
GROUP MANAGEMENT REPORT
 53

 54
GROUP MANAGEMENT REPORT
pean wallpaper manufacturers are currently no longer able to fully utilise their own production capacities. While capacity utilisation has since improved, the Managing Board of A.S. Création believes that the wallpaper industry is not operating at full capacity yet. This is also true for A.S. Création. The Managing Board sees the risk of this underutilisation leading to ruinous price competition and, hence, to a new consolidation process in the global wallpaper industry. Against the back- ground of the pick-up in demand for wallpapers and the resulting better capacity utilisation, the likelihood of this scenario materialising is considered to be low, however. Should a new consolidation process arise nevertheless, A.S. Création expects to emerge from it as a winner thanks to its innovation and financial strength.
Another potential risk for the wallpaper industry results from the more stringent legal provisions regarding the use of chemicals in the production of wallpapers. Just like other industries, the wallpaper industry uses such additives, e.g. in the production of flat and expanded vinyl wall- papers. Should these substances be banned in general, these types of wallpaper could no longer be produced with current technology. There are two reasons, however, why the Managing Board considers this potential risk to be relatively low:
• There have been frequent discussions about the potential health hazards posed by additives such as plasticisers in the past. The theoretical hazard depends on the use of the finished product. If used as intended, wallpapers do not present any hazard. Moreover, in accordance with RAL-GZ 479, A.S. Création exclusively uses non-volatile plasticisers in its wallpapers. The sale of the wallpapers produced by A.S. Création has never been subject to any restrictions and it is unlikely that the risk classification of wallpapers will change in future.
• The above additives are also widely used outside the wallpaper industry. If an additive is likely to be banned or subjected to restrictions, manufacturers will be under great pressure to develop alternative solutions. A.S. Création liaises closely with its suppliers and will replace additives with new, state-of-the-art solutions, which is something the company has already done in the past.
In the worst-case scenario of a general prohi- bition of plasticisers, the entire wallpaper industry would be equally affected. Such a change would therefore not lead to any distortions in the competitive situation. A high risk could arise only if a competitor were able to secure exclusive access to an equivalent substitute

product for PVC, which would result in a permanent competitive advantage for that competitor. To minimise this risk, A.S. Création is constantly looking at ways of processing substitute products in its existing production facilities.
In view of the special market conditions, a potential risk exists with regard to the com- pany’s procurement activities. For A.S. Création as a customer, there are only few suppliers in these markets, and the quantities purchased by the wallpaper industry in general and A.S. Création in particular are relatively small from the suppliers’ viewpoint. In the event of rising raw materials prices, A.S. Création there- fore has only limited negotiating clout and few alternatives to choose from. The strategy pursued by A.S. Création aims to prevent long-term pressure on margins with the help of an innovation-driven product policy. How- ever, this strategy entails the risk that price increases on the procurement side can be passed on to customers only with a certain delay. Fluctuations in the gross profit margin in indi- vidual fiscal years can therefore not be ruled out. The long-term analysis shows that these fluctuations stayed within a narrow bandwidth of ± 2.5 percentage points around the 50% mark in the period from 1997 to 2011. 2007, 2008 and 2011 were the only fiscal years in which the company was unable to maintain
the gross profit margin within this bandwidth due to the “explosion” in commodity and energy prices. At 45.7% (2007), 44.9% (2008) and 45.8% (2011), the gross profit margin stood at a very low level. In spite of these adverse impacts, A.S. Création still generated positive results and sufficient cash flows to finance the regular capital expenditures also in these years. This is why the Managing Board of A.S. Création sees no risks arising from procurement prices that could jeopardise the company’s continued existence.
Another potential risk on the procurement side relates to the availability of raw materials or intermediate products of adequate quality. Due to the sharp rise in global demand for raw ma- terials, in conjunction with the concentration among the suppliers providing the raw materials and intermediate products required by A.S. Création, the procurement risk increased in the past years. Should A.S. Création be unable to obtain the required quantities of a raw material or an intermediate product due to a general increase in demand or the loss of a major supplier, this may lead to a temporary production outage. With a view to mitigating this risk, A.S. Création analyses and tests the quality and efficiency of new suppliers. This process has already made the supplier structure more international - a trend which the Managing Board expects to continue. In view of the higher
GROUP MANAGEMENT REPORT
 55

 56
GROUP MANAGEMENT REPORT
demand for raw materials as a result of the increased global output, the Managing Board considers the risk of insufficient availability to be higher than in the past.
No major risks exist in production and logistics. The production plants represent the state of the art, necessary capital expenditures in replacements and new capacity are made on an ongoing basis and can be funded from the company’s cash flow.
As outlined in the analysis of the financial situ- ation, the traditionally strong cash flow and the robust financial structure mean that no finance and liquidity bottlenecks are expected. Due to the specific structure of the A.S. Création Group, interest rate or currency hedges and financial derivatives play only a minor role. Such hedges are generally taken out only for specific underlying transactions. For details, please refer to No. 30 in the Notes to the consolidated financial statements.
A potential risk for A.S. Création arises from the current investigation by the German and French anti-trust authorities, which are conduc- ting separate proceedings to find out whether there have been agreements in restraint of competition in the wallpaper industry. On November 30, 2010, the Federal Cartel Office searched the premises of A.S. Création Tapeten AG in Gummersbach-Derschlag and
of four other German wallpaper manufacturers and seized documents. On the same day, the French anti-trust authorities searched the premises of eight wallpaper dealers in France, including two companies of the A.S. Création Group, namely SCE – Société de conception et d’édition SAS and MCF Investissement SAS. In November 2011, Germany’s Federal Cartel Office formally notified the company that administrative offence proceedings have been opened and submitted a letter of accusation, i.e. a list of the offences of which the company is accused. The Cartel Office has raised several allegations of what it perceives to have consti- tuted anti-competitive behaviour by A.S. Création Tapeten AG and individual company executives. While most of these allegations essentially relate to the period from 2005 to 2010, some are related to a period prior to that. Apart from A.S. Création Tapeten AG, administrative offence proceedings have been opened against four other renowned German wallpaper manu- facturers as well as the German Association of Wallpaper Manufacturers (VDT). As a leniency applicant, who is exempt from potential fines, Tapetenfabrik Gebr. Rasch GmbH & Co. KG has caused the investigations by the Federal Cartel Office. Besides raising allegations of price fixing in the context of the German Association of Wallpaper Manufacturers, the Federal Cartel Office has addressed working groups which have been established between the wallpaper manufacturers in conjunction

with supplies to joint customers. A.S. Création Tapeten AG has meanwhile responded in detail to the letter of accusation and objected to all allegations. The Federal Cartel Office has not yet responded to the company’s arguments, which is why the Managing Board of A.S. Création is not in a position to make a reliable assess- ment of the possible outcome of the adminis- trative offence proceedings. The same applies to the two proceedings in France, where the French anti-trust authorities have not sub- mitted the letter of accusation yet. There is generally the risk of significant fines, which would have an adverse impact on the financial position of A.S. Création, as both the German and the French anti-trust laws provide for a maximum fine of 10% of Group sales revenues per each violation of anti trust law. Also, there is a potential risk of claims for damages being made in the follow-up to anti-trust proceedings.
The measures taken to build up a wallpaper production facility in Russia have been addressed in the chapter “Capital expendi- tures”. According to these plans, A.S. Création Tapeten AG will invest about € 14.0 million in the project by late 2012. The project will increase the risk potential for A.S. Création in several respects. On the one hand, additional production capacities will be built up, which must be utilised. It is planned to use the wall- papers produced in Russia to tap market seg-
ments that have not been served at all or only to a limited extent by exports from Germany. On the other hand, this will be the first time in the history of A.S. Création that material assets will be tied up in a country exposed to much higher economic and political risks than Germany. The Managing Board believes, however, that the company should take these additional risks in what is the world’s larg- est wallpaper market as they are outweighed by the resulting opportunities. Moreover, the size of the additional risk is not considered to jeopardise the company’s continued existence.
In the past years, the risk management issue attracted great attention in the public. As men- tioned before, however, any corporate activity necessarily entails certain risks. Against the background of the large number of potential individual risks, it is therefore important not to neglect the overall risk. The Managing Board
of A.S. Création Tapeten AG considers the overall risk to be relatively low. The likelihood of risks materialising that would jeopardise the com- pany’s continued existence is also relatively low. In the Managing Board’s opinion, the scope of the risk management system, which is an integral element of A.S. Création’s reporting system, is sufficient.
KPMG AG Wirtschaftsprüfungsgesellschaft, Cologne, has reviewed the risk management system of A.S. Création Tapeten AG and con-
GROUP MANAGEMENT REPORT
 57

 58
GROUP MANAGEMENT REPORT
firmed that the risks to the future development may be identified and documented by the early risk identification system established in accor- dance with section 91 of the German Stock Corporation Law (Aktiengesetz AktG) and that they have been properly presented in the man- agement report. This year, the risk management system was again reviewed by KPMG in the context of the annual audit.
Important events after the end of the fiscal year
The Managing Board is of the opinion that no reportable events occurred after the end of the fiscal year.
Outlook
Nearly all forecasts for the year 2012 expect the world economy to slow down markedly, primarily because the unresolved debt crisis in the large economies will have an adverse impact on economic activity. As a result, the emerging countries will also see lower growth than in the year 2011, which is why the World Bank, for instance, expects the world economy to grow by only 2.5% in 2012.
The euro-zone economy will probably be hit particularly hard and is projected to report an
0.4% decline in the gross domestic product in 2012. Capital spending, which was the main growth driver in 2011, is expected to decrease by 0.3% this year. As capacity utilisation in the manufacturing sector is likely to decline due to reduced demand, there will be less need for investments in new plant capacity. Moreover, the general uncertainty arising from the euro crisis is having an adverse impact on companies’ propensity to invest. Exports, the second growth driver of the year 2011, are expected to decline as well. Compared to these adverse effects, the projected 0.4% increase in consumer spending will be too low to prevent a reces- sionary trend in the euro-zone in 2012. The only positive aspect from the point of view of A.S. Création is that the expectations regar- ding private consumption expenditures in Germany and France, the company’s two most important output markets, are somewhat better than for the other countries. Private consump- tion expenditures in these two countries are projected to grow by between 0.5% and 1.0%.
The projections for the Eastern European markets that are relevant for A.S. Création, especially Russia, have traditionally been subject to the greatest uncertainty. Factors such as the trend in commodity and export prices, exchange rate parity and the inflation trend will have a material impact on economic growth in these countries. Growth rates of between 4% and

5% are projected for Russia’s GDP in 2012, with consumer spending again being one of the main growth drivers.
Commodity and energy prices will probably be influenced by both economic and political factors in 2012. On the one hand, the slowdown in economic activity in the industrialised countries should lead to reduced demand for commodities and energies and, hence, to declining prices. On the other hand, there are political trends, e.g. national efforts to reserve certain commodities for local economies, as well as the uncertainty about the oil supply arising from the dispute about Iran’s nuclear policy. This is why the forecast of commodity and energy prices represents another factor of uncertainty. This view is supported by the fact that the HWWI Commodity Price Index, which declined in late 2011, picked up sharply again already in January 2012. The Managing Board of A.S. Création tends to believe that com- modity and energy prices will increase further in 2012.
Conclusion: In view of the projected recessio- nary trend in the euro-zone and an only mode- rate increase in private consumption expendi- tures, the Managing Board expects the mac- roeconomic environment in 2012 to be more difficult than in 2011. It remains to be seen whether demand for wallpapers and furnishing
fabrics will be able to isolate itself from this general trend. However, the Managing Board is of the opinion that the trend towards wall- papers remains intact. From today’s point of view, it is uncertain what, if any, impact the anticipated increase in commodity and energy prices will have on the earnings position of A.S. Création.
The Managing Board projects a difficult market environment for the Wallpaper Division in 2012, which will be marked by further increases in the prices of commodities and energies. Even though these price increases will probably be much more moderate than in 2011, these adverse effects must be compensated for in order to prevent a further decline in the gross profit margin. In response to this trend, the company has therefore announced an increase in its own sales prices in the first quarter of 2012. In view of the persistent fierce price compe- tition in the international wallpaper industry, it is by no means certain that this measure will be sufficient. This makes it all the more important for A.S. Création to build its image through products and marketing concepts. In this respect, A.S. Création is very well posi- tioned. The company continued to expand its competitive position in 2011 with the help of continued intensive product development efforts and the refinement of its marketing instruments, e.g. modern shop fitting and pre-
GROUP MANAGEMENT REPORT
 59

 60
GROUP MANAGEMENT REPORT
sentation concepts and innovative visualisation and consulting software that are made available to its retail partners. Moreover, the company has signed up two new, renowned licensors, namely VERSACE and PORSCHE DESIGN STUDIO, who will jointly develop new wallpaper collec- tions with A.S. Création. Against this background, the Managing Board is confident that the Wall- paper Division will increase its sales revenues in 2012. Uncertainties exist with regard to the developments in Western Europe, especially France, where A.S. Création reported declining sales in 2011. The company must strengthen the market position of the three French sub- sidiaries, A.S. Création (France) SAS, SCE – Société de conception et d’édition SAS and MCF Investissement SAS, and win market share in France. Overall, the Managing Board projects internal sales growth in the Wallpaper Division for 2012. Additional contributions to sales will be made by the new wallpaper production facility in Russia which is scheduled to start production in September 2012.
The Furnishing Fabrics Division will also operate in what will be a less favourable market envi- ronment compared to the previous year in 2012. Accordingly, demand for curtains and furnish- ing fabrics is expected to decline or to stagnate at best. At the same time, rising prices for cotton, polyester and silk will continue to weigh on margins in 2012. Given that the German
home textiles sector is highly fragmented, the Managing Board considers the likelihood of company failures to be much higher than in the wallpaper industry. In this uncertain envi- ronment, the Furnishing Fabrics Division of A.S. Création can present itself as a solid and reliable partner to its customers, who has generated profits for the past eight years and is therefore able to make continuous invest- ments in new products. Indes Fuggerhaus Textil GmbH will take advantage of this strength to offer retailers not only attractive products in 2012 but, to a growing extent, also marketing concepts such as shop-in-shop solutions. The Managing Board projects improved sales and earnings for the Furnishing Fabrics Division in 2012.
According to the plans for the fiscal year 2012, the increase in sales in both divisions will be reflected in Group sales of between € 195 million and € 205 million. As explained above, wallpaper production in Russia is scheduled to start in September 2012. Due to the invest- ments to be made up to this date, A.S. Création’s capital expenditures in 2012 are expected to amount to approx. € 13 million, which is above the normal level. The Group’s budget never- theless provides for a reduction in net financial liabilities. No material changes in the net asset position are anticipated. Besides the expected increase in commodity and energy prices, the

start-up losses incurred in Russia will also weigh on the company’s earnings position in the fiscal year 2012. To ensure that production can start as planned in September 2012, the company will begin to hire staff and develop the collec- tions in the course of 2012. Also, the distribu- tion structures required to market the products will continue to be built up as planned. In spite of these adverse impacts on the bottom line, the Managing Board expects the Group’s net profit to increase on the previous year and to reach between € 6.0 million and € 7.0 million. With most of the start-up losses incurred in 2012 and 2013 being the first full fiscal year of operation of the Russian wallpaper production, the Managing Board expects sales revenues to rise sharply to a new high and earnings to clearly exceed the level of 2012 in 2013.
The implementation of these plans will be a major challenge for A.S. Création. The Managing Board nevertheless sees the company in a good position to master this challenge:
• Both Divisions are profitable and have demonstrated their ability to adapt to changing conditions.
• The underlying business model, which focuses on wallpapers and furnishing fabrics, has proven its worth also in the years of the financial and economic crisis,
meaning that no structural weaknesses can be identified at this time.
• The financial situation of A.S. Création is sound and robust, which means that no liquidity bottlenecks are expected.
Statement pursuant to section 315 para. 1 sentence 6 of the German Commercial Code (Handelsgesetzbuch HGB)
To the best of our knowledge, and in accor- dance with the applicable reporting principles for financial reporting, the consolidated financial statements give a true and fair view of the assets, liabilities, financial position and profit or loss of the Group, and the management report of the Group includes a fair review of the develop- ment and performance of the business and the position of the Group, together with a description of the principal opportunities and risks associated with the expected development of the Group for the remaining months of the financial year.
Gummersbach, February 29, 2012
A.S. Création Tapeten AG The Managing Board
Kämper Hallwig Krämer
GROUP MANAGEMENT REPORT
 61

  62
THE SHARE AND OUR SHAREHOLDERS
THE SHARE AND OUR SHAREHOLDERS
 
Political stock markets weigh on share prices
Looking back, 2011 was another turbulent year in the stock market. The European sovereign debt crisis dominated the public debate, causing great uncertainty among investors with regard to the outlook for the world economy. Accord- ingly, the various decisions taken by govern- ments in the course of 2011 to master the euro crisis had a strong impact on share prices. They rose and fell in line with market participants’ view of the appropriateness or inappropriateness of those political decisions. Positive or negative corporate news received relatively little atten- tion, which is why 2011 was also called the year of unpredictable “political” stock markets. Against this background, it is understandable that the shares of banks and insurance compa- nies were hit particularly hard and that share prices in general experienced high volatility. The German stock index DAX reached an annual high of over 7,500 points in early May 2011, only to fall by about 32% to below 5,100 points by September. On balance, the DAX lost 14.7% in the course of 2011. Due to the more favour- able economic situation in Germany, the DAX did not drop quite as sharply as the benchmark indices of other European stock exchanges. The decline in share prices was not confined to the large caps but also affected the small and mid caps. Accordingly, both the MDAX (-12.1%) and the SDAX (-14.5%) declined at similar rates as the DAX.
THE SHARE AND OUR SHAREHOLDERS
 The A.S. Création share lost in value in 2011
The chart on the next page shows that the A.S. Création share was unable to isolate itself from the general market trend but followed the trend in the SDAX until late November 2011. Accordingly, the price of the A.S. Création share initially moved sideways in the first seven months of 2011 and did not pick up significantly from the year’s opening price of € 28.76. While the highest price of the year of € 31.00, which was reached during this period, was up by 7.8% on the year’s opening price, this price level was not maintained. Early August 2011 than saw a slump in global share prices, which was caused by growing doubts about a political solution to the European sovereign debt crisis and concerns about a worldwide recession. The price of the A.S. Création share followed this general trend, dropping within a few days by 17.2% from € 29.00 on August 2, 2011 to € 24.02 on August 9, 2011. The publication of the interim report for the six-month period ended June 30, 2011 on August 4, 2011, in which A.S. Création reported a decline in net income by only 6.5% was unable to halt the decline in the share price but rather matched the depressed general mood in the capital market.
Until the end of October 2011, the price of the A.S. Création share stabilised at around € 25.00. But then A.S. Création had to publish
 63

 A.S.Création share and SDAX 2011
 Jan Feb Mar Apr May Jun
A.S.Création share SDAX
two ad-hoc releases at short notice which had a negative impact on the share price. On October 27, 2011, the Managing Board reported that the earnings projections for the fiscal year 2011 would probably not be met due to the sharp rise in commodity and energy costs. Second, the Federal Cartel Office notified the company that administrative offence pro- ceedings had been opened, of which the Managing Board informed the public on November 15, 2011. As a result, the price of the A.S. Création share slumped and hit an annual low of € 16.73 on November 25, 2011. At this time, the market capitalisation of A.S. Création amounted to only € 46.1 million. This slump in the share price was accelerated by the decision of two major investors, US investment company Royce & Associates LLC and Belgium BNP
   64
THE SHARE AND OUR SHAREHOLDERS
  Index
120
100
80
60
40
Paribas Investment Partners SA to divest their interests in A.S. Création. This led to additional pressure on the share price. Compared to the company’s equity capital - which amounted to € 89.5 million according to the interim report for the period ended September 30, 2011, which was published on November 30, 2011 - the market capitalisation of A.S. Création stood at a very low € 46.1 million. Against the back- ground of this attractive stock market valuation, Lins Wallpaper Ltd., UK, acquired over 5% of the shares in A.S. Création Tapeten AG by December 15, 2011. Lins Wallpaper Ltd. is the majority shareholder of OOO Kof Palitra, the leading Russian wallpaper manufacturer, with whom A.S. Création Tapeten AG has estab- lished a joint venture to build up a wallpaper manufacturing organisation in Russia. In the
                   Jul Aug Sep Oct Nov Dec

THE SHARE AND OUR SHAREHOLDERS
 light of this fact, the Managing Board considers Lins Wallpaper Ltd. a long-term investor and views the company’s investment in A.S. Création very positively. Due to this demand for A.S. Création shares, the share price recovered by the end of the year and reached € 24.49 on December 30, 2011, the last trading day of the year. This was 14.8% below the year’s opening price of € 28.76. At -14.5%, the SDAX declined at almost the same rate during this period. If the dividend of € 1.35 per share distributed to the shareholders of A.S. Création in May 2011 is taken into account, however, the A.S. Création share lost 10.2% in the year 2011. Even if this means that A.S. Création outperformed the SDAX, the share price is not satisfactory.
A.S. Création share 2007-2011
Market valuation remains unsatisfactory
Based on the year’s closing price of € 24.49 and the number of shares outstanding (2,756,351) as of December 31, 2011, A.S. Création’s market capitalisation stood at € 67.5 million. Compared to the balance sheet equity, which amounted to € 89.6 million as of December 31, 2011, this market capitalisation was € 22.1 million or 24.6% below the company’s net asset value. Even a valuation at net asset value, i.e. excluding any positive goodwill, would be equivalent to a price of € 32.49 per share.
The analysis of the longer-term performance of the A.S. Création share also shows that the share price has not reached a satisfactory level yet. On December 31, 2011, the share price was 46.2% below the € 45.50 reported at the end of 2007 and as much as 54.1% below the 2007 high of € 53.40.
   2007 2008
2009 2010
2011
€
70
60
50 40 30 20 10
0
65

 66
THE SHARE AND OUR SHAREHOLDERS
When assessing the share price, the uncertainty about the outcome of the anti-trust proceed- ings, which may take very long, and the marked deterioration in the earnings position of A.S. Création in 2011 must certainly be taken into account. As outlined in the Group manage- ment report, the bottom line in the fiscal year 2011 was adversely affected not only by the increased commodity and energy costs but also by the start-up losses incurred in conjunction with the start-up of production and distribution structures in Russia. The Managing Board is convinced that the start-up of wallpaper production in Russia is an important project to secure the future of A.S. Création, which is why the company must cope with the tempo- rary decline in earnings, which is also taken into account in the Group’s budgets and pro- jections. The Managing Board therefore believes that the present share price does not appro- priately reflect the financial strength and the future outlook of A.S. Création.
Changes in the shareholder structure
As outlined above, material changes in the shareholder structure of A.S. Création occurred in 2011, as both Royce & Associates LLC and BNP Paribas Investment Partners SA divested their interests in A.S. Création. The Managing Board regrets these decisions, as both compa- nies had been shareholders of A.S. Création for several years, which means that A.S. Création has lost two long-term investors. Given that they have been succeeded by another long-term investor, Lins Wallpaper Limited, the Managing Board believes that the shareholder structure of A.S. Création remains stable. According to the Managing Board’s knowledge, the shareholder structure was as follows on the balance sheet date:
The above changes in the shareholder structure led to a marked increase in the trading volume. While 2,635 A.S. Création shares were traded on a daily average in 2010, this number in- creased to 3,851 in 2011.

Shareholder Structure
Free float 41.57 %
Lins Wallpaper Ltd 5.03 %
Own
shares 8.12 %
Consistent dividend policy
A.S. Creation has always aimed for a high divi- dend payout ratio as long as this is permitted by the company’s financial situation. In recent years, dividend payouts have consistently been in the 40% to 45% of EPS range.
In spite of the uncertain environment in 2012 and the further funding requirements resulting from the start-up of wallpaper production in Russia, the Managing Board and the Supervisory Board advocate maintaining the company’s dividend policy to ensure consistency and reliability for the company’s shareholders. Accordingly, a dividend payment of € 0.75 per share will be put forward to the Annual General Meeting of Shareholders, which is scheduled for May 3, 2012. Based on earnings
Franz Jürgen Schneider 29.52 %
Karin Schneider 10.09 %
A.S. Création Tapeten-Stiftung 5.67 %
THE SHARE AND OUR SHAREHOLDERS
                  per share, this proposed dividend represents a payout ratio of 44.4%. Due to the poorer earnings position of A.S. Création in the past fiscal year, the absolute dividend will decline as shown in the chart below:
  Dividend per share in € 1.35
1.50
1.00
0.50
0.00
  1.20
2009
2010
0.75
2011
     67

 68
THE SHARE AND OUR SHAREHOLDERS
 Key figures of the A.S. Création share
€/share €/share % €/share €/share €/share Shares outstanding (year end) million Average trading volume * pieces
2007
3.59 1.60 44.6
45.50 53.40 35.10 2.784 2,429
2008 2009 2010 2011 3.22 2.72 3.05 1.69 1.40 1.20 1.35 0.75 43.5 44.1 44.3 44.4
17.93 25.36 28.76 24.49 45.50 27.10 34.00 31.00 13.91 10.40 24.68 16.73 2.756 2.756 2.756 2.756 2,086 3,167 2,635 3,851
49,421 69,901 79,273 67,503 80,288 83,774 88,789 89,553 61.6 83.4 89.3 75.4 5.6 9.3 9.4 14.5 7.8 4.7 4.7 3.1
 Earnings per share Dividend
Payout ratio Year-closing-price High
     Low
Market value (year-end) Equity (book value) Market value/Equity Price-earnings-ratio Dividend yield
€ '000 € '000 %
126,691 76,901 164.7 12.7 3.5
       %
* Average daily trading volume of A.S. Création shares at Frankfurt Stock Exchange and via Xetra (electronic trading system).
 
CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ACCORDING TO INTERNATIONAL FINANCIAL REPORTING STANDARDS
Consolidated balance sheet 74 Consolidated income statement 76 Consolidated statement of comprehensive income 77 Consolidated statement of changes in equity 77 Consolidated cash flow statement 78 Notes to the consolidated financial statement 79 Auditor's report 114
CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ACCORDING TO IFRS
         This English translation of the annual report 2011 is merely a convenience translation. The German version is the prevailing one.
73

31.12.2011
¤
46,920,848.88
9,001,128.83
6,200,000.00
2,041,657.95
1,493,876.32
1,329,260.01
776,571.49
67,763,343.48
46,415,176.50
33,975,073.44
5,892,747.02
922,420.17
2,358,316.10
89,563,733.23
157,327,076.71
 74
CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ACCORDING TO IFRS
A.S. Création Tapeten AG, Gummersbach
Consolidated balance sheet as per December 31, 2011
Assets
   Notes No.
31.12.2010
¤
50,770,131.52 9,802,703.35 0.00 1,342,895.36 423,474.28 1,563,499.20 557,273.41 64,459,977.12
44,706,348.68 35,715,417.52 5,403,738.17 547,475.64 10,792,065.78 97,165,045.79
161,625,022.91
 Tangible fixed assets (1) Intangible fixed assets (2) Financial assets (3) Investments accounted for at equity (4) Other assets (5) Income tax receivables (6) Deferred tax assets (7) Non-current assets
Inventories (8) Trade receivables (9) Other assets (5) Income tax receivables (6) Cash and cash equivalents (10) Current assets
Total assets
                 
Equity and Liabilities
Capital stock
Capital reserves
Revenue reserves
Profit carried forward
Net profit
Adjustment for own shares
Currency translation differences
Equity (11)
Financial liabilities (interest-bearing) (12) Other liabilities (13) Provisions for pensions (14) Deferred tax liabilities (7) Non-current liabilities
Financial liabilities (interest-bearing) (12) Other liabilities (13) Trade payables
Other provisions (15) Tax liabilities
Current liabilities
Total equity and liabilities
CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ACCORDING TO IFRS
  31.12.2011
¤
9,000,000.00
13,756,740.32
52,169,692.11
14,017,704.07
4,649,896.42
–4,020,836.57
–20,211.28
89,552,985.07
27,787,148.79
1,326,131.93
7,613,124.00
6,709,636.80
43,436,041.52
4,013,125.09
10,482,086.62
9,256,346.76
136,700.00
449,791.65
24,338,050.12
157,327,076.71
 Notes No.
31.12.2010
¤
9,000,000.00 13,756,740.32 48,120,041.27 13,481,797.61
8,394,855.58 –4,020,836.57 55,933.50 88,788,531.71
23,498,719.51 1,357,922.46 7,051,118.07 7,781,722.33 39,689,482.37
3,545,082.77 18,211,033.58 9,352,149.05 134,700.00 1,904,043.43 33,147,008.83
161,625,022.91
                         75

2011
¤
192,261,886.06
1,179,511.08
72,432.75
193,513,829.89
104,863,249.27
88,650,580.62
1,243,091.99
89,893,672.61
41,275,742.88
9,932,699.02
526,593.43
28,571,951.67
80,306,987.00
9,586,685.61
183,249.46
-226,391.41
2,218,355.23
-2,261,497.18
7,325,188.43
2,675,292.01
4,649,896.42
1.69
 76
CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ACCORDING TO IFRS
A.S. Création Tapeten AG, Gummersbach
Consolidated income statement
for the period from January 1, 2011 to December 31, 2011
   Sales
Increase or decrease in unfinished and finished goods
Other own work capitalised
Total output
Cost of materials
Gross profit Other income
Personnel expenses Depreciation
Operating taxes
Other operating expenses Operating expenses
Earnings before interest and taxes (EBIT)
Interest and similar income
Results from investments accounted for at equity Interest and similar expenses
Financial result
Earnings before income taxes
Income taxes
Net profit Earnings per share
Notes No.
(17)
(18)
(19)
(20) (21)
(22)
2010
¤
184,603,379.32
1,983,635.39 2,175.00 186,589,189.71 96,064,012.85 90,525,176.86
1,313,025.00 91,838,201.86
39,335,859.68 10,504,180.96 513,112.74 27,166,808.15 77,519,961.53
14,318,240.33
77,016.42 -88,970.47 1,954,703.90 -1,966,657.95
12,351,582.38
3,956,726.80
8,394,855.58 3.05
                 (23)
(24)
(25)
      
A.S. Création Tapeten AG, Gummersbach
Consolidation statement of comprehensive income for the period from January 1, 2011 to December 31, 2011
Net profit
Foreign currency translation differences for fully consolidated companies Foreign currency translation differences for investments accounted for at equity Change in fair value of an interest rate hedge
Deferred taxes on other comprehensive income
Other comprehensive income
Total comprehensive income
Consolidated statement of changes in equity for the period from January 1, 2011 to December 31, 2011
2010 € ’000
8,395
15 6 -134 41 -72 8,323
Total
€ ’000 83,774 0 –3,308
0 8,323
88,789
0 –3,721
0 4,485
89,553
CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ACCORDING TO IFRS
 2011 € ’000
4,650
21
-98
-127
39
-165
4,485
            Profit forward
€ ’000 12,937 7,499 –3,308
-3,646 0
13,482
8,395 –3,721
-4,138 0
14,018
Adjust- Currency
 December 31, 2009
Net profit 2009 Dividend payments
Allocation to revenue reserves
Total comprehensive income 2010
December 31, 2010
Net profit 2010 Dividend payments
Allocation to revenue reserves
Total comprehensive income 2011
December 31, 2011
€ ’000 € ’000 9,000 13,757 0 0 0 0
0 0 0 0
9,000 13,757
0 0 0 0
0 0 0 0
9,000 13,757
€ ’000 44,567 0 0
3,646 -93
48,120
0 0
4,138 -88
52,170
own differences shares
€ ’000 € ’000 € ’000 7,499 -4,021 35 -7,499 0 0 0 0 0
0 0 0 8,395 0 21
8,395 -4,021 56
-8,395 0 0 0 0 0
0 0 0 4,650 0 -77
4,650 -4,021 -21
Capital Capital Revenue
Stock reserves reserves carried
Net
Profit ment for translation
              77

2011 € ’000
4,650
9,933
562
226
225
–1,258
14,338
–32
–1,724
1,745
-95
-4,256
9,976
–5,474
-6,200
–6,970
-1,023
223
–19,444
–3,721
0
-4,756
1,035
–8,433
-1
10,792
2,358
 78
CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ACCORDING TO IFRS
A.S. Création Tapeten AG, Gummersbach
Consolidated cash flow statement
for the period from January 1, 2011 to December 31, 2011
Operating activities
2010 € ’000
    Net profit 8,395 + Depreciation on tangible and intangible fixed asset 10,504 +/- Increase/decrease in long-term provisions 180
-/+ Income/expenses from investments accounted for at equity 89
-/+ Increase/decrease in present value of corporate income tax credit 216
-/+ Income/expenses from changes in deferred taxes –357 Cash-flow 19,027
-/+ Profit/losses from disposal of tangible and intangible fixed assets –55
–/+ Increase/decreaseininventories –3,701
–/+ Increase/decreaseintradereceivables –87
+/– Increase/decreaseintradepayables -828 –/+ Increase/decrease in other net working capital 432 Cash-flow from operating activities 14,788 Investing activities
Capital expenditures on tangible and intangible fixed assets –5,844
-/+ Cash outflows/repayments for/from extended credits and bonds 0
- Cash outflows for acquisitions of consolidated companies
(less acquired cash and cash equivalents) –85
- Cash outflows for acquisitions of investments accounted for at equity -897
+ Proceeds from the disposal of tangible and intangible fixed assets 107 Cash-flow from investing activities –6,719 Financing activities
Dividends paid to shareholders of A.S. Création Tapeten AG –3,308 - Repayment of liabilities from anticipation of the future acquisition of remaining shares –407 +/- Raising/repaymentoffinancialliabilities(interest-bearing) -4,584 Cash-flow from financing activities –8,299 Net change in cash and cash equivalents –230 +/- Change in cash and cash equivalents due to exchange rate fluctuations 14 + Cash and cash equivalents at January 1 11,008 Cash and cash equivalents at December 31 10,792
Further information on the cash flow statement are presented in the notes (see No. 26).
                                 
A.S. Création Tapeten AG, Gummersbach
Notes to the consolidated financial statements for fiscal year 2011
General
A.S. Création Tapeten AG is a joint stock company registered in the Federal Republic of Germany. The address of the headquarters is Südstrasse 47, D-51645 Gummersbach.
The consolidated financial statements and the Group management report were prepared by
A.S. Création Tapeten AG on the basis of the International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS) as adopted by the European Union and the additional requirements pursuant to section 315a (1) of the German Commercial Code (Handelsgesetzbuch HGB).
A.S. Création Tapeten AG has a policy of applying new IFRS as soon as they become effective. The following new or revised standards and interpretations had to be observed in the fiscal year 2011:
• 2010 improvements to IFRS
• IAS 24 (rev. 2009) “Related Party Disclosures” 73
• Amendment to IAS 32 “Classification of Rights Issues”
• Amendment to IFRIC 14 “Prepayments of a Minimum Funding Requirement”
• IFRIC 19 “Extinguishing Financial Liabilities with Equity Instruments”
The above provisions had no material impact on the consolidated financial statements of A.S. Création.
The following standards and interpretations have been published and partly endorsed by the EU Commission but are mandatory only for annual periods beginning after January 1, 2011:
• Amendment to IFRS 7 “Disclosure Requirements for Transfer Transactions of Financial Assets”
• Amendment to IAS 1 “Presentation of Items in Other Comprehensive Income”
• Amendment to IAS 12 “Deferred Taxes on Investment Property”
• IAS 19 (rev. 2011) “Employee Benefits”
• Amendment to IAS 28 “Investments in Associates and Joint Ventures”
• Amendment to IAS 32 “Offsetting of Financial Assets and Financial Liabilities”
• Amendment to IFRS 7 “Disclosures – Offsetting of Financial Assets and Financial Liabilities”
• IFRS 9 “Financial Instruments”
CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ACCORDING TO IFRS
 79

 80
CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ACCORDING TO IFRS
• IFRS 10 “Consolidated Financial Statements”
• IFRS 11 “Joint Arrangements”
• IFRS 12 “Disclosure of Interests in Other Entities”
• IFRS 13 “Fair Value Measurement”
From today’s point of view, the new or revised standards and interpretations that are applicable
in subsequent years will, with the exception of IAS 19 (rev. 2011), have no material impact on the
consolidated financial statements of A.S. Création. IAS 19 (rev. 2011) provides for all actuarial
gains and losses arising in the calculation of pension provisions to be recognised directly in equity.
Given that A.S. Création currently recognises these gains and losses in the income statement,
IAS 19 (rev. 2011) will lead to a change in the recognition of earnings. If the new standard had
been applied in the past financial year, earnings before taxes would have improved by € 0.403
million, net profit by € 0.279 million and earnings per share by € 0.10. Subject to transposition
into EU law, IAS 19 (rev. 2011) is effective for annual periods beginning on or after January 1, 2012.
74
For the sake of clarity, individual items have been summarised in the balance sheet, the income statement and the cash flow statement. The summarised items are shown and explained in detail in the notes.
The type of expenditure format has been chosen for the income statement.
The Group‘s business activities mainly comprise the development, production and sale of wallpapers in all main materials and for all main purposes. The spectrum of activities is complemented by the trade in furnishing fabrics. In line with the Group‘s products and services, segment reports according to IFRS 8 are prepared for the Wallpaper Division (segment) and the Furnishing Fabrics Division (segment).
Consolidation principles
Subsidiaries, in which A.S. Création Tapeten AG has the majority of voting rights and, hence, control over the financial and business policy, are fully consolidated. In accordance with IAS 31.38, jointly controlled companies are accounted for using the equity method. The financial statements

of domestic and foreign companies included in the consolidated financial statements were prepared using consistent Group-wide accounting and valuation principles in accordance with IFRS regulations.
Capital consolidation is effected using the purchase method. Under this method, the book values
of the consolidated subsidiaries are set off against their respective shares in the revalued equity
at the time of first consolidation. In the revaluation, the assets and liabilities of the acquired
companies are stated at their current market values at the time of first consolidation. Goodwill
arising in the first consolidation is capitalised and, in accordance with IFRS 36, subjected to an
impairment test on an annual basis or, if special incidents suggest a value impairment, also in the
course of a year. According to IFRS, this impairment test must be performed on the basis of the
so-called cash generating units to which the goodwill is assigned. In the case of A.S. Création,
these are the Wallpaper Division and the Furnishing Fabrics Division. In the context of this
impairment test, the book value of the division is compared with the so-called “recoverable
amount”. This amount is the present value of the future cash flows that will be derived from
CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ACCORDING TO IFRS
 the division (so-called value in use). If the book value exceeds the recoverable amount, the difference represents the impairment that needs to be stated as extraordinary depreciation in the income statement of the respective financial year. If the book value is lower than the recoverable amount, no impairment is required.
Receivables and liabilities, intragroup sales as well as expenses and income are set off against each other. Intercompany profits and losses in non-current assets and inventories are eliminated with the effect shown in the income statement. Intragroup value adjustments and provisions are written back.
Where consolidation processes whose effects are shown in the income statement are concerned, the effects on income taxes are taken into account and deferred taxes are established for temporary differences resulting from consolidation processes.
Notes on the basis of consolidation
Next to A.S. Création Tapeten AG, 10 companies are consolidated. The basis of consolidation has remained unchanged compared to the previous year.
75
81

 82
CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ACCORDING TO IFRS
The table below shows the fully consolidated companies:
 No. Company, location
Wallpaper Division
1. A.S. Création Tapeten AG, Gummersbach/Germany
2. A S Creation (UK) Limited, Formby/UK
3. A.S. Création (NL) B.V., Werkendam/Netherlands
4. A.S. Création (France) SAS, Lyon/France
held by
Share in %
Nominal capital Dec. 31, 2011
9,000,000 ¤ 100,000 £ 20,000 ¤
   No. 1 No. 1 No. 1 No. 4 No. 4 No. 6 No. 1
100.0 100.0 100.0 100.0 100.0 100.0 100.0
4,000,000 ¤ 460,350 ¤ 2,000,000 ¤ 1,000 ¤
   5. MCF Investissement SAS, Ballancourt/France
6. SCE-Société de conception et d’édition SAS, Boves/France
7. SCE Investissements SC, Boves/France
8. OOO A.S. Création (RUS), Moscow/Russia
Furnishing Fabrics Division
9. A.S. Création Textil GmbH, Marienheide/Germany 10.IndesFuggerhausTextilGmbH,Marienheide/GermanyNo.9 100.00 550,000¤
   No. 1
In addition, OOO A.S. & Palitra, Dzerzhinsk/Russia, in which A.S. Création Tapeten AG holds 50.0%, is accounted for using the equity method. This joint venture forms part of the Wallpaper Division.
All financial statements included in the consolidated financial statements were established as of December 31, 2011 and were audited by independent chartered accountants or reviewed by the Group’s auditors.
Currency translation
A.S. Création Tapeten AG’s reporting currency is the euro (€).
Assets and debts denominated in foreign currencies are translated at the exchange rate at the time of addition and adjusted to the respective closing rate at every balance sheet date. Resulting translation differences are shown in the income statement.
25,000,000 RUB 100.00 500,000 ¤
    
In accordance with IAS 21, foreign currencies in the financial statements of consolidated companies in non-EMU countries are translated according to the functional currency concept using the modified closing rate method. Under this method, changes in non-current assets are translated at average annual rates, equity is translated at historical rates and all other balance sheet items are translated at closing rates. Differences referring to non-current assets are shown in the development of the Group’s tangible and intangible fixed assets schedule in the “Currency translation” line. All items in the income statement are translated at the average annual rate. Currency differences are not recognised in the income statement but are allocated to the currency translation differences within the equity.
Translation differences from debt consolidation are recognised in the income statement.
An average annual rate of £ 0.86787/€ (2010: £ 0.85796/€) and a closing rate of £ 0.83670/€
(2010: £ 0.86250/€), were used for the pound sterling, while an average annual rate of 77
CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ACCORDING TO IFRS
 RUB 40.88510/€ (2010: RUB 40.14295/€) and a closing rate of RUB 41.68680/€ (2010: RUB 40.47460/€) were applied for the Russian rouble.
Accounting and valuation principles
Tangible fixed assets are reported at the cost of acquisition or production to be capitalised. In accordance with IAS 17, assets acquired under finance leases are shown at the lower of their current market value at the beginning of the lease or the present value of the minimum lease payments.
With the exception of printing rollers and rotary screens, tangible fixed assets subject to depre- ciation are written off using the straight-line method. Depreciation is based on the following useful economic lives:
 Buildings
High-bay warehouses
Large machines
Other machines
Other plant, furniture and fixtures
10 to 30 years 20 years 10 to 15 years 3 to 10 years 3 to 10 years
     83

 CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ACCORDING TO IFRS
 84
Fixed assets are written down on a pro rata temporis basis in the year of acquisition.
Printing rollers and rotary screens are written off using the unit-of-production method over a period of three years. For reasons of simplification it is assumed that the printing tools are disposed from fixed assets after they have been written off completely.
Fixed assets are written down for impairment if the fair value of the asset is below the net carrying amount. If the reasons for the write-downs for impairment no longer apply, the impairment is reversed provided that this does not state the asset at more than amortised original cost.
Intangible fixed assets - with the exception of the goodwill acquired - are valued at cost less scheduled depreciation. They are written off using the straight-line method over their expected useful lives of mostly three to five years and no more than ten years.
Acquired goodwill is not written off systematically but is regularly subjected to an impairment test. Accordingly, acquired goodwill is measured at cost less the value impairment potentially resulting from the impairment test.
Development costs for new designs are not capitalised, as the criteria of IAS 38 are not met.
In accordance with IAS 31.38, jointly controlled entities are recognised using the equity method. The investment is recognised at cost at the time of acquisition and the respective carrying amount of the investment is subsequently increased or decreased to reflect changes in equity
of the jointly controlled entity through changes affecting income and through changes not affecting income, provided that these changes relate to the shares of A.S. Création Tapeten AG.
Financial assets are accounted for as of the settlement date.
Raw materials and supplies as well as merchandise are shown at the weighted average cost of acquisition or the lower fair value on the balance sheet date less cost to sell. Finished and unfinished products are reported at the cost of acquisition or production or the lower fair value on the balance sheet date less cost to sell. The cost of production includes not only the directly

 attributable cost but also the factory overhead as well as depreciation. Interest on borrowings is not included in the cost of acquisition or production.
Receivables are measured at amortised cost using the effective interest method less potential value impairments. The value impairments appropriately reflect the expected risk of default. The allowances are booked in separate allowance accounts. Receivables are written off only in case of an actual default. Where trade receivables are concerned, the risk of default is initially determined by analysing the customer‘s historical payment behaviour (itemised allowance). Thereafter, receivables are grouped on the basis of identical risk features and the risk of default of the respective groups is analysed (generalised itemised allowance).
Other assets and cash and cash equivalents are shown at their nominal values.
Provisions are established for contingent liabilities from pension obligations. These are determined in accordance with IAS 19 by using the actuarial projected unit credit method. Actuarial gains and losses are recognised in full in the income statement in the year in which they occur. Interest costs included in the pension expenses as well as any actuarial gain or loss resulting from a change in the interest rate for discounting purposes are shown in the financial result. All other provisions are reported at the amount likely to be required to cover discernible risks and contingent liabilities.
Liabilities under finance leases are reported at the present value using the interest rates on which the individual leasing agreements are based.
Other liabilities are initially recognised at the fair value and subsequently amortised at cost using the effective interest method.
In accordance with IAS 12, deferred taxes are recognised for different valuations of assets and liabilities to IFRS and in the tax balance sheet, for consolidation processes and for tax losses carried forward, which can be realised within the next five fiscal years. Country-specific tax rates are used. The overall tax rate in Germany, which comprises trade tax, corporate income tax and the solidarity surcharge, is unchanged from the previous year 30.71%.
CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ACCORDING TO IFRS
 85

 86
CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ACCORDING TO IFRS
Expenses and income are shown at the time of realisation. Sales revenues are realised at the time of the passage of risk, usually upon delivery. The regional breakdown of sales is based on the locations of customers‘ headquarters or, if the delivery address differs from the address of the headquarters, on the delivery address. Operating expenses are recognised at the time the underlying services are used, while advertising and sales promotion expenses are recognised at the time they are incurred. Interest and other cost of debt are accounted for as expenditure in the accounting period.
To prepare the consolidated financial statements, the Managing Board must make estimates and assumptions that influence the recognition of assets and liabilities as well as income and expenses. All estimates and assumptions are made to the best of the Managing Board’s knowledge to give a true and fair view of the net worth, financial and earnings position of the Group. The actual values may nevertheless deviate from the estimates. The following estimates and assumptions have a material effect on the consolidated financial statements.
In the case of business acquisitions, all acquired assets and liabilities are measured at the fair value at the time of initial consolidation (“purchase price allocation”). Material assumptions must be made especially for the measurement of intangible assets, e.g. trademark rights and customer relationships, as the fair value is determined through the present value of the anticipated future cash flows. Insofar, the estimates of the future development of the asset and its useful life as well as the choice of the discount factor have a material impact on the fair value.
As outlined under the consolidation principles, goodwill is tested for impairment. The underlying profit projections of the two divisions and the choice of the discount factor constitute estimates that have a material impact on the result of the impairment test. Although the Managing Board believes that the assumptions made are appropriate, an unexpected need for adjustment of these assumptions may lead to an impairment that has an adverse impact on the net worth, financial and earnings position of A.S. Création.
A.S. Création must examine at every balance sheet date whether there are indications of impairment regarding other intangible assets, property, plant and equipment and financial assets. Such impairment may be the consequence of a number of factors including changed competitive

conditions, shorter useful lives resulting from technological progress or increased capital charges. Accordingly, the Managing Board’s estimates are based on certain assumptions regarding the economic environment. Although the Managing Board believes that the assumptions made are appropriate, an unexpected need for adjustment of these assumptions may lead to an impairment that has an adverse impact on the net worth, financial and earnings position of A.S. Création.
Pension provisions are recognised for current pension obligations as well as future old age, disability and survivors’ pension commitments. Pension provisions are calculated using actuarial methods. For this purpose, assumptions must be made regarding the discount factor, the anticipated future salary and pension trends and the mortality rate. These actuarial assumptions may deviate materially from actual future developments and may lead to material changes in future obligations and future expenses.
Some companies of the A.S. Création Group are involved in litigations, whose outcome may have a material impact on the net worth, financial and earnings position of the Group. The Managing Board and the Managing Directors of the Group companies analyse the available information on these cases. External lawyers are consulted as well. As part of the decision on the need to establish provisions, assumptions must be made regarding the likely outcome of the proceedings and a well-founded estimate should be made of the potentially resulting obligations. The disclosure of a litigation or similar proceedings in the Notes or the actual filing of an action or of a claim for damages against a company of the A.S. Création Group do not automatically mean that corresponding provisions have been established for this risk or that the amount of a provision is appropriate.
CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ACCORDING TO IFRS
 87

   88
Dec 31, 2011
33,814 77,830 16,621 390
190 1,009 4,300 90
–84 0 89 –5
0 155 2,281 0
0060
33,920 78,684 18,735 475
592 335 3,716 707
15 37 38 –90
0 202 2,761 0
0010
34,527 78,854 19,729 1,092
134,202
Dec 31, 2011
11,455 51,115 11,402 0
1,557 3,903 3,994 0
–69 0 69 0
0 150 2,233 0
0010
12,943 54,868 13,233 0
1,533 3,745 3,729 0
0000
0 112 2,660 0
0020
14,476 58,501 14,304 0
87,281
Dec 31, 2011
Land, buildings, and similar rights ¤ ’000
Plant and machinery
¤ ’000
Other fixtures and fittings, tools and equipment ¤ ’000
Advance payments and assets under construction ¤ ’000
20,977 23,816 5,502 475
20,051 20,353 5,425 1,092
46,921
CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ACCORDING TO IFRS
Notes to the balance sheet (1) Tangible fixed assets
The table below shows a breakdown of, as well as the changes in, tangible fixed assets:
Gross cost of acquisition or production Dec 31, 2009
Addition
Reclassifications
Disposals
Currency
translation differences
Dec 31, 2010
Addition Reclassifications Disposals
Currency
translation differences
Depreciation
Dec 31, 2009
Addition
Reclassifications
Disposals
Currency
translation differences
Dec 31, 2010
Addition Reclassifications Disposals
Currency
translation differences
Net book value Dec 31, 2010
Total ¤ ’000
128,655
5,589 0 2,436
6
131,814
5,350 0 2,963
1
73,972
9,454 0 2,383
1
81,044
9,007 0 2,772
2
50,770
                                             Tangible fixed assets include assets on the basis of finance leases in an amount of € 8.570 million (2010: € 9.434 million). The finance leases refer to production and warehouse buildings.

(2) Intangible fixed assets
The table below shows a breakdown of, as well as the changes in, intangible fixed assets:
Gross cost of acquisition or production
Total ¤ ’000
CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ACCORDING TO IFRS
       Dec 31, 2009 14,227
Addition 256 Disposals 0 Dec 31, 2010 14,483 Addition 124 Disposals 50
Depreciation
Dec 31, 2009 3,629
Addition 1,051 Disposals 0 Dec 31, 2010 4,680 Addition 926 Disposals 50
Net book value
Dec 31, 2010 9,803
The Wallpaper Division and the Furnishing Fabrics Division, respectively, accounted for € 7.581million and € 0.152 million of goodwill, which remained unchanged at € 7.733 million. The goodwill was subjected to an impairment test. In this context, the value in use was determined as the present value of the future cash flows from the operation. The value in use was determined on the basis of the approved detailed budgets for the fiscal years 2012 and 2013. The cash flow used is the cash flow before interest and taxes less total capital expenditures
of the respective year as well as the changed capital tied up in net current assets. For the years from 2014, the budgeted cash flow before interest and taxes of the year 2013 less maintenance and replacement investments was carried as a perpetual annuity. No growth rate was assumed in the calculation of the perpetual annuity. For the purpose of discounting, weighted average costs of capital (before taxes) of 9.7% and 8.0% were applied for the Wallpaper Division and the Furnishing Fabrics Division, respectively. The value in use thus determined exceeded the carrying amounts in both divisions, which means that the impairment tests did not provide any indication of an impairment loss. A discount factor of over 14.9% for the Wallpaper Division and of over 12.75% for the Furnishing Fabrics Division would indicate the need to recognise an impairment loss.
      Dec 31, 2011
4,951 9,276
256 0
00
5,207 9,276
124 0
50 0
5,281 9,276
14,557
              Dec 31, 2011
2,086 1,543
1,051 0
00
3,137 1,543
926 0
50 0
4,013 1,543
5,556
          Dec 31, 2011
Lizences Goodwill and similar rights
¤ ’000 ¤ ’000
2,070 7,733
1,268 7,733
9,001
  89

2011
¤ '000 1,343
1,023
-226
-98
2,042
 90
CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ACCORDING TO IFRS
(3) Financial assets
In 2008, A.S. Création Tapeten AG and OOO Kof Palitra established a joint venture under the name of OOO A.S. & Palitra. Each founding shareholder holds 50% in the joint venture. OOO A.S. & Palitra is to build up a wallpaper production facility and to produce higher-quality wallpapers for the Eastern European, especially the Russian, market. Following the initial preparatory work in 2010, the building shells were erected in 2011 and the first plant and machinery ordered. Completion of the factory and the start of operations are scheduled for autumn 2012. To finance these measures, the share capital of OOO A.S. & Palitra was increased and shareholder loans were granted in the past fiscal year. The shareholder loan of A.S. Création Tapeten AG in an amount of € 6.200 million will mature on December 31, 2018 and has been recognised as a financial asset.
(4) Investments accounted for at equity
The table below shows the changes in investments accounted for at equity:
2010 ¤ '000 January1 529 Addition 897
Pro-rata changes in equity
Changes affecting income -89 Changes not affecting income 6
December 31 1,343
This item comprises the investment in OOO A.S. & Palitra.
The company’s assets mainly consist of property, plant and equipment in an amount of € 14.639 million (2010: € 1.248 million), other assets in an amount of € 1.106 million (2010: € 1.027 million) as well as cash and cash equivalents in an amount of € 1.171 million (2010: € 0.684 million). As of the balance sheet date, the company primarily funded itself using long-term interest-bearing financial liabilities in an amount of € 12.632 million (2010: € 0 million). Also, the company had other financial liabilities of € 8,565 million from order commitments for investments. The company reported sales revenues of € 0 million (2010: € 0 million) and a net loss for the year of € 0.452 million (2010: € 0.178 million). Due to the shareholder structure, 50% of these start-up losses, i.e. € -0.226 million (2010: € -0.089 million), is attributable to A.S. Création.
          
(5) Other assets
A breakdown of other assets by type and maturity is shown below:
Total
Miscellaneous other assets Deferred charges
Miscellaneous other assets include, among others, supplier credits as well as VAT refund claims.
(6) Income tax receivables
The non-current income tax receivables in an amount of € 1.329 million (2010: € 1.563 million) refer to that portion of the capitalised corporate income tax benefit that will not be refunded in the following year.
CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ACCORDING TO IFRS
   Remaining term of over 1 year
31.12.10 € ’000
423 0 423
 31.12.11 € ’000
6,773
614
7,387
31.12.10 € ’000
5,188
639
5,827
Remaining term of up to 1 year
31.12.11 € ’000
5,279
614
5,893
31.12.10 € ’000
4,765
639
5,404
31.12.11 € ’000
1,494
1,494
0
        (7) Deferred taxes
Deferred tax assets break down as follows:
 31.12.11 € '000
521
16
2
16
222
777
 Realisable future reductions in tax payments
resulting from losses carried forward 337
Differences between the tax balance sheet and the commercial balance sheet 15 Adjustments of individual financial statements to IFRS 0 Consolidation processes 22 Items directly recognized in equity 183
557
Losses carried forward for corporate income tax and solidarity surcharge in an amount of € 0.764 million (2010: € 1.070 million) as well as for trade tax in an amount of € 0.023 million (2010: € 0.338 million) exist in Germany. In addition, tax losses carried forward in an amount of € 1.687 million (2010: € 0.864 million) exist abroad. As in the previous year, deferred tax assets have been recognised for the whole amount of the losses carried forward.
31.12.10 € '000
        91

31.12.11 € '000
–1,180
5,365
2,525
6,710
31.12.11
Deferred Deferred tax tax assets liabilities € ’000 € ’000
10 8,563
68 393
127 0
90 177
895 0
18 0
1,475 4
521 0
3,204 9,137
–2,427 –2,427
777 6,710
 92
CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ACCORDING TO IFRS
Deferred tax liabilities break down as follows:
Differences between the tax balance sheet and the commercial balance sheet
Adjustments of individual financial statements to IFRS Consolidation processes
Deferred taxes refer to the following balance sheet items:
31.12.10 € '000
–1,290 6,081 2,991 7,782
31.12.10
Deferred Deferred tax tax assets liabilities
           € ’000 0
0
€ ’000 9,129 585 0 305 0 0 0 0 10,019 –2,237 7,782
 Tangible fixed assets
Intangible fixed assets
Inventories 106
   0 784 18 1,549 337 2,794 Set-off* –2,237 557
Trade receivables and other assets Provisions for pensions
Other provisions
Other liabilities
    Tax losses carried forward
     * According to IAS 12, deferred tax assets and deferred tax liabilities should, under certain conditions, be offset if they relate to income taxes levied by the same taxation authority.

(8) Inventories
Inventories comprise the following:
Raw materials and supplies Unfinished products
Finished goods and merchandise
31.12. 10 € '000
3,971 251 40,484 44,706
CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ACCORDING TO IFRS
 31.12. 11 € '000
3,798
230
42,387
46,415
       Inventories with carrying amounts of € 11.038 million (2010: € 10.581 million) are recognised at the fair value less cost to sell. Impairments of inventories in an amount of € 0.336 million (2010: € 0.449 million) were recognised as an expense in the past fiscal year.
(9) Trade receivables
€ 0.040 million (2010: € 0.028 million) of the trade receivables have a remaining term of more than one year.
 The table below shows the allowances on trade receivables:
As of January 1 Allocation
Use
Release
As of December 31
2010 € '000
2,779 4 2 7 273 512 2,421
 2011 € '000
2,421
292
274
567
1,872
        Of the total allowances, an amount of € 0.550 million (2010: € 0.711 million) refers to itemised allowances and an amount of € 1.322 million (2010: € 1.710 million) refers to generalised itemised allowances.
93

As of Dec 31, 2010 35,715
29,599 4,633 368 151 109
As of Dec 31, 2011 33,975
30,380 3,136 218 33 2
31.12. 11 € '000
1,828
530
2,358
 94
CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ACCORDING TO IFRS
The table below shows the maturity structure of the receivables for which no itemised allowances were established as of the balance sheet date:
  Trade receivables
¤ '000
(10) Cash and cash equivalents
thereof without itemised allowances and
not past due
¤ '000
past due within 90 days ¤ '000
past due bet- ween 91 and 180 days ¤ '000
past due bet- ween 181 and 360 days ¤ '000
past due in more than 360 days ¤ '000
31.12. 10 € '000
9,749
1,043
10,792
     Cash and cash equivalents break down as follows:
Cash in banks
Cash on hand, cheques and bills of exchange
       Cash in banks include short-term funds with a term of up to three months.
(11) Equity
For the composition of equity, please refer to the statement of changes in equity.
As of December 31, 2011, the share capital amounted to € 9,000,000.00, divided into 3,000,000 no par value shares.
According to Article 4 paragraph 3 of the current statutes of A.S. Création Tapeten AG (as amended on May 5, 2011), the Managing Board is authorised, subject to the approval of the Supervisory Board, to increase the capital stock by up to € 4.500 million (so called authorised capital) until May 4, 2016 through the issue of new shares against a contribution in kind or in cash. Shareholders’ subscription rights may be excluded in certain cases. Given that no use has been made of this authorisation so far, the authorised capital amounted to € 4.500 million on December 31, 2011.

As in the previous year, capital reserves include € 13.752 million in premiums from the issue of shares of A.S. Création Tapeten AG and, in accordance with IAS 32, an equity share of € 0.005 million from the purchase and sale of own shares.
Revenue reserves include inappropriate profits of the Group companies as well as changes in equity not affecting income.
According to a resolution passed by the General Meeting of Shareholders dated May 7, 2010, the Managing Board is authorised to acquire own shares up to a par value of € 0.900 million (which represents a maximum of 10% of the share capital) until May 6, 2015. The Managing Board is also authorised to cancel the shares acquired, to resell them, or to use the shares acquired for company acquisitions or equity investments. Based on previous authorisations granted between 1999 and 2008, A.S. Création Tapeten AG repurchased 243,649 own shares. Since then, no sales or purchases have occurred, which means that A.S. Création Tapeten AG held 243,649 own shares in a nominal amount of € 0.731 million or 8.12% of the share capital as of the balance sheet date. An offsetting item in the amount of the cost of acquisition of own shares was established, which remained unchanged from the previous year at € 4.021 million.
A dividend of € 0.75 per share, which translates into a total profit distribution of € 2.067 million, will be proposed for the fiscal year 2011. A dividend of € 1.35 per share was paid out for the previous fiscal year, resulting in a total distribution of € 3.721 million.
Under IFRS, some items are not recognised as income and expenses in the income statement but are recognised directly in equity. These changes in equity, which are included in revenue reserves and the currency translation differences, are shown in the table below:
Total
¤ '000 As of Dec 31, 2009 –286 Changes recognized directly in equity 2010 –72 As of Dec 31, 2010 –358 Changes recognized directly in equity 2011 –165
CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ACCORDING TO IFRS
         As of Dec 31, 2011
Financial derivative
¤ '000
Deferred taxes
¤ '000
Foreign currency translation differences from
fully companies
consolidated companies ¤ '000
accounted for at equity ¤ '000
–463 142 70 –35
–134 41 15 6
–597 183 85 –29
–127 39 21 –98
–724 222 106 –127
–523
   95

31.12.11 € ’000
28,057
4,347
–604
3,743
31,800
31.12.10 € ’000
22,862
4,952
–770
4,182
27,044
Remaining term of up to 1 year
31.12.11 € ’000
3,567
598
–152
446
4,013
31.12.10 € ’000
3,106
605
–167
438
3,544
Remaining term
of over 1 up to 5 years
31.12.11 € ’000
16,005
3,661
–450
3,211
19,216
31.12.10 € ’000
12,364
2,345
–519
1,826
14,190
31.12.11 € ’000
8,485
8,571
88
-2
86
 96
Average interest rate 2011 %
Book value 31.12.11 € '000
3.9 3,544
3.8 19,217
3.9 8,571
31,332
CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ACCORDING TO IFRS
(12) Financial liabilities (interest-bearing)
The breakdown and remaining terms of the interest-bearing financial liabilities are shown below:
    Total
Remaining term of over 5 years
31.12.10 € ’000
7,392
2,002 -84 1,918
9,310
      Financial liabilities (without finance lease) Liabilities from
finance lease
  Gross value Discounting Present value
     The finance lease agreements include a purchase option at the end of the minimum term, whose value at the time the option is exercised is usually lower than the asset's current market value. The agreed purchase prices are therefore included in the finance lease obligations.
Interest-bearing financial liabilities are secured by land charges of € 34.418 million (2010: € 26.418 million) as well as assignments of machines with gross acquisition costs of € 11.711 million (previous year: € 11.711 million). 125,000 (2010: 125,000) own shares were also used as collateral.
Interest-bearing financial liabilities of € 31.800 million (2010: € 27.044 million) include € 31.332 million (2010: € 27.043 million) from credit agreements at fixed interest rates and € 0.468 million (2010: € 0.001 million) from credit agreements at variable interest rates. An amount of € 8.733 million (2010: € 9.980 million) of the interest-bearing financial liabilities is covered by an interest rate hedge. The breakdown of credit agreements at fixed interest rates by the remaining term and the weighted average interest rates based on the book value is shown below:
  Remaining term
of up to 1 year
of over 1 year up to 5 years of over 5 years
Average Book value interest rate 31.12.10 2010 % € '000
3.9 3,545 3.8 15,108 4.1 8,390
27,043
      
(13) Other liabilities
The breakdown and remaining terms of the other liabilities are shown below:
CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ACCORDING TO IFRS
   Total
Remaining term of over 1 year
31.12.10 € ’000
597
0
0
0
761
1,358
 31.12.11 € ’000
5,774
820
487
1,633
3,094
11,808
31.12.10 € ’000
6,210
716
741
1,894
10,008
19,569
Remaining term of up to 1 year
31.12.11 € ’000
5,257
820
487
1,633
2,285
10,482
31.12.10 € ’000
5,613
716
741
1,894
9,247
18,211
31.12.11 € ’000
517
809
1,326
0
0
0
   Liabilities to employees
Liabilities due to social security charges
Liabilities due to other taxes
Liabilities due to bonuses/discounts
Miscellaneous other liabilities
(14) Provisions for pensions
        Pension provisions are recognised for current pension obligations as well as future old age, disability and survivors’ pension commitments. Commitments vary from Group company to Group company depending on the legal and economic situation. The majority of Group employees are granted a service-life-linked defined benefit pension plan related to a fixed monetary amount.
The amount of the defined benefit obligations is determined using actuarial methods in accordance with IAS 19 and equals the present value of future pension payments. For the majority of the Group companies it is determined based on the following parameters:
2010 %
Projected interest rate (discount rate) 4.90 Projected pension trend 2.00 Projected rate of fluctuation 5.00
For employees of German Group companies the assumptions for mortality and disability are based on the RICHTTAFELN 2005 G from Prof. Dr. Klaus Heubeck.
 2011 %
4.60
2.00
5.00
     97

2011 € '000
7,239
–349
167
346
332
67
7,802
 98
2011 € ’000
188
15
–18
8
–4
189
CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ACCORDING TO IFRS
The table below shows the changes in the defined benefit obligations:
  As of January 1 7,038 Pension payments –318 Current service cost 160 Interest cost 344 Actuarial losses from
changes in the discount rate 143 Other actuarial gains (–) / losses (+) –128 As of December 31 7,239
Of the defined benefit obligations, an amount of € 0.302 million is expected to be paid out in the following fiscal year.
A small portion of the defined benefit obligations is financed under re-insurance policies, which qualify as plan assets. The table below shows the changes in the fair value of the plan assets:
2010 € ’000
As of January 1 167 Employer contributions 14 Benefit payments 0 Expected return on plan assets 8 Actuarial gains (+) / losses (–) –1 As of December 31 188
Re-insurance contributions are expected to amount of € 0.015 million in the following fiscal year.
The present value of the plan assets (re-insurance) is offset against the defined benefit obligations and the net obligations are stated as pension provisions in the balance sheet.
2010 € '000
                   
The table below shows the changes in pension provisions:
CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ACCORDING TO IFRS
 2011 € ’000
7,051
-364
926
7,613
 2010 € ’000
 As of January 1 6,871 Pension payments and employer contributions -332 Allocation 512 As of December 31 7,051
Allocations to pension provisions, i.e. net pension expenses for the pension commitments, were comprised as follows and are included in the respective items of the income statement:
      2011 € ’000
185
338
332
71
926
  Current service cost and benefit payments Interest cost
Actuarial losses from changes in the discount rate
Other actuarial gains (–) / losses (+)
Income statement 2010 € ’000
Personnel expenses 160 Financial result 337
Financial result 143 Personnel expenses –128 512
       The table below shows the pension provisions and the actuarial gains and losses that resulted from experience adjustments:
 2011 € '000
7,613
67
  Pension provision as of December 31
Actuarial gains (-)/losses (+) from experience adjustments
2010 2009 € '000 € '000
7,051 6,871 -129 -24
2008 € '000
6,014 112
2007 € '000
5,800
-94
  Besides these commitments from defined benefit plans, some Group companies make contributions
to company pension schemes in some cases. In these cases, a defined annual amount is paid to an external relief fund or a comparable institution for the duration of the employment relationship. These defined contribution plans are not recognised in pension provisions. Instead, the contributions paid are included in the personnel expenses of the respective fiscal year (see Notes No. 20).
99

2011 € ’000
135
58
60
137
 100
31.12.11 € ’000
3,800
1,532
825
6,191
34
31.12.10 € ’000
1,032
696
503
2,231
0
Remaining term of up to 1 year
31.12.11 € ’000
3,800
813
299
4,946
34
31.12.10 € ’000
564
305
503
1,372
0
Remaining term of over 1 year up to 5 years
31.12.11 € ’000
496
526
1,022
0
0
31.12.10 € ’000
468
391
859
0
0
31.12.11 € ’000
223
223
0
0
0
CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ACCORDING TO IFRS
(15) Other provisions
Other short-term provisions mainly refer to potential losses from pending transactions and warranties. The table below shows the changes in other provisions:
   As of January 1
Use
Allocation
As of December 31
(16) Other financial liabilities and contingent liabilities
2010 € ’000
97
88 1 2 6 135
     The table below shows the other disclosable financial liabilities and their remaining terms:
    from loan contracts from building rents from operating leases
from order commitments for investments in tangible fixed assets
Total
Remaining term of over 5 years
31.12.10 € ’000
0 0 0
0
0
            The current investigations by the German and French anti-trust authorities, which are conducting separate proceedings to establish whether there have been agreements in restraint of competition in the wallpaper industry, may entail contingent liabilities. The German authorities have opened administrative offence proceedings against A.S. Création Tapeten AG. The company has submitted detailed objections to all allegations specified in the letter of accusation. The Federal Cartel Office has not yet responded to the company’s arguments, which is why the Managing Board of A.S. Création is not in a position to make a reliable assessment of the possible outcome of the

administrative offence proceedings. The same applies to the two proceedings in France, where the French anti-trust authorities have not submitted the letter of accusation yet. Consequently no provision has been set aside as of the balance sheet date. There is generally the risk of significant fines as both the German and the French anti-trust laws provide for a maximum fine of 10% of Group sales revenues. Also, there is a potential risk of claims for damages being made in the follow-up to anti-trust proceedings (please refer to the Group Management Report for more details).
Notes to the income statement (17) Sales
A breakdown of Group sales by region is provided below:
CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ACCORDING TO IFRS
    Wallpaper Division
Group
68,100
88,945 157,045 31,518 11,907 200,470 –15,867 184,603
 2011 € ’000
68,449
84,562
153,011
31,797
13,277
198,085
–17,813
180,272
2010 € ’000
59,141
86,888
146,029
30,429
11,450
187,908
–15,255
172,653
Fabrics Division
2011 € ’000
9,353
2,480
11,833
1,129
415
13,377
–705
12,672
2010 € ’000
9,091
2,550
11,641
1,089
457
13,187
–612
12,575
Consolidation
2011 € ’000
–284
–398
–682
–682
–682
0
0
0
2010 € ’000
–132
–493
–625
–625
–625
0
0
0
2011 € ’000
77,518
86,644
164,162
32,926
13,692
210,780
–18,518
192,262
     2010 € ’000
 Germany
EU (excl. Germany) European Union (EU) Other Eastern Europe Other countries
Sales (gross) Reduction in revenues Sales (net)
(18) Cost of materials
         The cost of materials includes:
Cost of raw materials, consumables and supplies and purchased materials
Cost of purchased services
2010 € ’000
93,360 2,704 96,064
 2011 € ’000
101,954
2,909
104,863
      101

2011 € ’000
33,531
7,745
41,276
 102
2011 Persons
398
359
39
796
CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ACCORDING TO IFRS
(19) Other income
Other income includes, among other things, income from the release of allowances for doubtful receivables and income from the expiry of obligations. It also includes income from disposals of tangible and intangible fixed assets in an amount of € 0.065 million (2010: € 0.064 million) as well as foreign exchange gains in an amount of € 0.067 million (2010: € 0.194 million).
(20) Personnel expenses
Personnel expenses are comprised as follows:
Wages and salaries
Social security contributions and pension expenses
2010 € ’000
32,381 6,955 39,336
       Social security contributions and pension expenses include contributions to state pension insurance institutions in an amount of € 2.751 million (2010: € 2.592 million), allocations to pension provisions in an amount of € 0.256 million (2010: € 0.032 million) as well as payments to external relief funds and similar pension organisations due to defined contribution plans in an amount of € 0.187 million (2010: € 0.202 million).
The table below shows the Group’s average headcount in the fiscal year (full time equivalents excluding the three members of the Managing Board):
2010 Persons
Blue-collar workers 393 White-collar workers 337 Trainees and apprentices 42
772
        
(21) Depreciation
A breakdown of depreciation is provided in the notes to tangible and intangible fixed assets (see No. 1 and No. 2 above). As in the previous year, total depreciation of € 9.933 million (2010: € 10.504 million) does not include any unscheduled depreciation.
(21) Other operating expenses
Other operating expenses mainly include expenses on freight out, advertising, rental and operating leases, maintenance and insurance policies. Moreover, they include losses from dis- posals of tangible and intangible fixed assets in an amount of € 0.033 million (2010: € 0.009 million) as well as foreign exchange losses of € 0.178 million (2010: 0.140 million).
(23) Financial result
The financial result includes interest expenses in an amount of € 0.670 million (2010: € 0.480 million), which result from allocations to pension provisions. For details, please refer to No. 14 of the Notes.
(24) Income taxes
Income taxes include the taxes on income and earnings paid or due in the individual countries as well as deferred taxes. Income taxes are comprised as follows:
2010 € ’000
Current income tax expenses 4,314 Deferred taxes -357 3,957
At € 2.675 million (2010: € 3.957 million), tax expenses exceeded the expected tax expenses of € 2.250 million (2010: € 3.793 million) that would have arisen based on the overall German tax rate of 30.71% (2010: 30.71%) by € 0.425 million (2010: € 0.164 million). The difference between expected and effective income tax expenses in the Group is due to the following:
CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ACCORDING TO IFRS
  2011 € ’000
3,933
-1,258
2,675
      103

2011 € ’000
2,250
50
-76
166
0
187
-67
70
95
2,675
36.52%
 104
2011
2,756,351
4,649,896
1.69
CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ACCORDING TO IFRS
  2010 € ’000
Expected income tax expenses 3,793
Tax rate differentials to the overall German tax rate 71 Income from reimbursement of corporate income tax credit -85
    Taxes unrelated to the accounting period
Change in valuation allowances for deferred taxes Non-deductible expenses
Non-taxable income
Results from investments accounted for at equity Other tax effects
Effective income tax expenses
Effective income tax rate
(25) Earnings per share
Earnings per share are calculated as follows:
Number of shares outstanding (weighted average) Net profit
Earnings per share
-2 -41 154 -86 27 126 3,957 32.03%
2010
shares 2,756,351 € 8,394,856 €/share 3.05
                 Given that no stock options or similar equity instruments exist that may lead to a change in the number of shares (so-called "capital dilution"), earnings per share represent both basic and diluted earnings per share.

Complementary information (26) Cash flow statement
Cash flow from operating activities includes the following payments:
CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ACCORDING TO IFRS
 2011 € ’000
65
1,397
5,443
0
 2010 € ’000
 Interest received 77 Interest paid 1,433 Income tax paid 3,347 Dividends received 0
Interest paid primarily relates to investment financing.
The changes in financial liabilities shown under cash flow from financing activities are composed as follows:
2010 € ’000
Raising of financial liabilities (excl. financial lease) 0 Raising of liabilities under financial lease contracts 0 Repaymentoffinancialliabilities(excl.financiallease) -2,925 Repayment of liabilities under financial lease contracts –1,659
-4,584
(27) Segment reporting
According to IFRS 8, segment reporting must reflect the Group's internal organisational and reporting structures. Based on A.S. Création's products and services, the corporate structure comprises two segments, i.e. the Wallpaper Division and the Furnishing Fabrics Division. Prices charged for intragroup deliveries and services are set in line with general market prices.
      2011 € ’000
8,200
0
-3,005
–439
4,756
        105

2011 € ’000
180,046
180,272
226
19,067
10.6%
9,280
5.1%
381
–226
2,127
7,308
4.1%
2,673
19,482
9,787
14,172
144,963
(64,396)
19,712
726
2010 € ’000
172,572
172,653
24,092
14.0%
13,728
8.0%
12,043
7.0%
3,897
6,636
10,364
18,601
141,417
(61,107)
28,043
81
281
–89
1,878
706
Fabrics Division
2011 € ’000
12,216
456
12,672
450
3.6%
305
2.4%
291
15
0.1%
185
146
164
7,156
(1,262)
1,666
70
2
0
2
2010 € ’000
12,031
544
12,575
730
5.8%
590
4.7%
284
309
2.5%
60
190
140
426
7,009
(1,233)
1,272
66
3
0
Consolidation
2011 € ’000
–682
–682
–200
–200
–177
(0)
–177
0
2
2
0
2
0
0
0
2
0
2010 € ’000
–625
–625
–207
–207
–261
(0)
–260
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
2011 € ’000
192,262
192,262
19,519
10.2%
9,587
5.0%
183
–226
2,218
7,325
3.8%
2,675
19,667
9,933
14,338
151,942
(65,658)
21,201
796
0
 106
CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ACCORDING TO IFRS
A breakdown of key figures by segments is provided below:
Wallpaper Division
Group
         External sales
Intra-Group sales
Total sales
EBITDA1
EBITDA-margin
EBIT2
EBIT-margin
Interest income
Results from investments accounted for at equity
Interest expenses
Earnings before taxes
Return on sales (before taxes) Income taxes
Capital expenditures3 Depreciation
Cash-flow
Segment assets4
thereof non-current assets Segment liabilities5 Employees (average)
184,603 0 184,603 24,822 13.4% 14,318 7.8% 77
–89 1,955 12,352 6.7% 3,957 6,826 10,504 19,027 148,165 (62,340) 29,055 772
2010 € ’000
                      A breakdown of Group sales by geographical areas is provided in the notes on sales (see No. 17 above). 1 EBITDA is the common international abbreviation of earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortisation.
2 EBIT is the common international abbreviation of earnings before interest and taxes. It is equivalent to the segment result.
3 Capital expenditures correspond with the item which is shown in the consolidated cash flow statement.
4 Segment assets are the total assets of the segment less interest-bearing intercompany loans, cash and cash equivalents,
deferred tax assets and income tax receivables.
5 Segment liabilities are the total liabilities less shareholders’ equity, pension provisions, tax liabilities, deferred tax liabilities and financial liabilities.

The table below shows a breakdown of the Group’s assets by regions and maturities:
Total
Remaining term of over 1 year
31.12.10 € '000 44,118 16,845 1,377 62,340
CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ACCORDING TO IFRS
    31.12.11 € '000
112,788
29,908
9,246
151,942
31.12.10 € '000
110,729
35,305
2,131
148,165
Remaining term of up to 1 year
31.12.11 € '000
67,046
18,291
947
86,284
31.12.10 € '000
66,611
18,460
754
85,825
31.12.11 € '000
45,742
11,617
8,299
65,658
   Germany
EU (excl. Germany) Other Eastern Europe
     (28) Research and development expenses
In the past fiscal year, € 2.388 million (2010: € 2.545 million) were spent on the development of new designs.
(29) Audit expenses
In the past fiscal year, € 0.189 million (2010: € 0.186 million) were spent on the audit of the financial statements of the companies included in the consolidated financial statements as well as on the audit of the consolidated financial statements. The Group auditor received € 0.101 million (2010: € 0.099 million) as well as an additional € 0.056 million (2010: € 0.032 million) for tax consulting services and € 0.001 million (2010: € 0.001 million) for other services.
(30) Risks from financial instruments
Only € 0.468 million or 1.5% (2010: € 0.001 million or 0.0%) of the total interest-bearing financial liabilities of € 31.800 million (2010: € 27.044 million) represent variable-rate loans. Accordingly, a rise in interest rates by one percentage point would increase interest expenses by € 0.005 million and reduce net profit by € 0.003 million. Most of the fixed-interest loans are medium-term or long-term loans and are repaid during their terms (see No. 12 above). A.S. Création’s overall interest rate risk is manageable.
At the operating level, currency risks may occur whenever procurement and/or sales activities are not nominated in euros but in foreign currencies. Such foreign currency transactions are negligible in the A.S. Création Group, so that operations are not exposed to a material currency risk. Due to the fact that A.S. Création is largely funded in euros, currency risks resulting from the Group’s financing activities are also negligible.
 107

 108
CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ACCORDING TO IFRS
Due to the specific structure of A.S. Création, interest rate or currency hedges as well as financial derivatives play only a minor role. Such hedges are generally taken out only for specific underlying transactions. One interest rate hedge (interest rate swap) whose term ends on December 30, 2018 existed on the balance sheet date. This interest rate hedge was signed together with a long-term variable-rate loan. Both transactions form an economic unit and thus represent a long-term fixed rate loan (synthetic fixed rate loan). In this case, however, IAS 39 does not provide for the cash flows from the two transactions to be offset against each other but requires a separate valuation of the interest rate swap at fair market value (hedge accounting). Accordingly, a negative market value (after deferred taxes) in an amount of € 0.502 million (2010: € 0.414 million) was recognised in equity as at the balance sheet date. Of this total amount, € -0.088 million (2010: € -0.093 million) is show in the statement of comprehensive income. Going forward, the interest rate swap will have no impact on the bottom line.
Trade receivables are exposed to default risks, which relate to the creditworthiness of the individual debtors. A.S. Création’s risk policy aims to limit the inherent risk. The company therefore uses available means such as credit insurance and bank guarantees to transfer the risk to third parties. These instruments do not always make economic sense, as they entail costs, and are not always available. Great importance is therefore attached to the monitoring of the agreed payment deadlines and credit lines in the context of internal debtor management. Despite these measures, not all default risks can be eliminated. The residual default risk is mitigated by allowances on trade receivables. The potential effects which a default could have on the net worth, financial and earnings position of A.S. Création can be assessed on the basis of the concentration of debtors.
In this context, A.S. Création has identified no potential risk that could jeopardise its continued existence. Of the total trade receivables in an amount of € 33.975 million (2010: € 35.715 million), € 7.174 million or 21.1% (2010: € 8.850 million or 24.8%) were accounted for by the five largest debtors.
The liquidity risk is the risk of the company being unable to meet existing or future payment obligations due to a lack of cash or cash equivalents. To ensure that A.S. Création is able to meet its payment obligations, sufficient credit lines and cash and cash equivalents are maintained on the basis of the financial planning and systematic liquidity monitoring. As of the balance sheet date, the company had unused credit lines in an amount of € 17.132 million (2010: € 18.859 million). In view of the high cash flow and the sound financial structure, financing and/or liquidity bottlenecks are not expected.

(31) Additional disclosures on financial instruments
The table below shows the carrying amounts and the amounts recognised as well as the fair values of the financial instruments:
CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ACCORDING TO IFRS
    Amount recognized according to IAS 39
Fair value 31.12.10
¤ '000 0 35,715 2,407 10,792 48,914
22,344 8,913 9,352
40,609 597
4,100
 31.12.11 ¤ '000
6,200
33,975
2,723
2,358
45,256
28,057
1,730
9,256
39,043
724
0
31.12.10 ¤ '000
35,715
2,407
10,792
48,914
22,862
8,913
9,352
41,127
597
0
0
Amount recognized according to IAS 17
31.12.11 ¤ '000
3,743
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
31.12.10 ¤ '000
4,182
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
Carrying amount
31.12.11 ¤ '000
6,200
33,975
2,723
2,358
45,256
28,057
1,730
9,256
39,043
724
3,743
31.12.10 ¤ '000
35,715
2,407
10,792
48,914
22,862
8,913
9,352
41,127
597
4,182
0
31.12.11 ¤ '000
6,200
33,975
2,723
2,358
45,256
26,785
1,730
9,256
37,771
724
3,629
     Financial assets
Trade receivables
Other receivables
Cash and cash equivalents
Loans and receivables
Financial liabilities (without finance lease)
Other liabilities
Trade payables
Financial liabilities measured at amortized cost
Financial derivative
Liabilities from finance lease
                The loan to OOO A.S. & Palitra is shown under financial assets. As this loan was granted at a market interest rate only in the past financial year, the carrying amount on the balance sheet date was largely equivalent to the fair value.
Trade receivables, other receivables and cash mostly have short remaining maturities. As a result, the carrying amounts on the closing date approximate the fair values.
The fair values of the financial liabilities and the liabilities from finance leases are equivalent to the present values of the payments under the underlying contracts. The current long-term capital market interest rate plus a company-specific surcharge is used as the discount factor.
Due to the short remaining maturities of most of the trade payables and the other liabilities, the carrying amounts on the closing date approximate the fair values.
109

 110
CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ACCORDING TO IFRS
The financial derivative is an interest rate swap (see Notes No. 30), which, like the other financial instruments, is measured according to level 2 as defined in IFRS 7.27A(b), i.e. at a derived fair value.
In the past fiscal year, net losses of € -0.221 million (2010: € -0.043 million) resulted from the loans and receivables.
Interest income totalling € 0.183 million (2010: € 0.077 million) and interest expenses totalling € 1.466 million (2010: € 1.475 million) resulted from the financial instruments in fiscal year.
(32) Company acquisitions from previous years
On December 18, 2008, A.S. Création’s Wallpaper Division acquired majority interests in the following companies:
• 70% of the shares in MCF Investissement SAS
• 75% of the shares in SCE – Sociéte de conception et d’édition SAS
• 86% of the shares in SCE Investissements SC, which is a non-operating company
As the acquisition of the remaining shares had been firmly agreed already in 2008, this acqui- sition had to be anticipated according to IAS 32. On December 31, 2010, the fair value of the anticipated payments to the minority shareholders to acquire their shareholdings amounted to € 6.923 million. Accordingly, a current liability of the same amount was booked in anticipation of the future acquisition of the remaining shares. On July 15, 2011, the remaining shares were acquired at a price of € 6.970 million. The difference of € 0.047 million between the amount paid and the anticipated amounted was recognised as other operating expense in the fiscal year.
(33) Managing Board
The Managing Board had the following members in FY 2011:
• Jörn Kämper, Chairman, Sales and Marketing
• Karl-Heinz Hallwig, Production and Logistics (since April 1, 2011)
• Maik Holger Krämer, Finance and Controlling
• Bernhard Wagner, Production and Logistics (until March 31, 2011)
As of the balance sheet date, members of the Managing Board held 4,983 shares (2010: 9,434 shares) in the company.

(34) Supervisory Board
In FY 2011, the Supervisory Board was comprised as follows:
Franz Jürgen Schneider Chairman
Dr. Rüdiger Liebs Vice Chairman
Jella Susanne Benner-Heinacher
Peter Mourschinetz Employee representative
Dr. Dieter Schadt
Rolf Schmuck
Employee representative
Supervisory Board member
–
Deutsche Investitions- und Ver- mögenstreuhand AG (DIVAG), Düsseldorf (Chairman)
Dierig Holding AG, Augsburg
K+S AG, Kassel
–
Lufthansa Service Holding AG, Kriftel
–
CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ACCORDING TO IFRS
 Profession practised
Businessman
Lawyer
Lawyer and Vice Managing Director of the DSW e. V., Düsseldorf (a German Shareholder's Association)
Works council member released from productive working duties
Businessman
Works council member released from productive working duties
          As of the balance sheet date, members of the Supervisory Board held 888,046 shares (2010: 890,546 shares) in the company.
(35) Compensation of Supervisory Board and Managing Board
The compensation of the Managing Board members in fiscal 2011 totalled € 1.917 million (2010: € 2.219 million). In addition, the payments to a relief fund and the reversal of pension provisions resulted in net expenses in an amount of € 0.037 million (2010: € 0.072 million).
The compensation of the Supervisory Board members in fiscal 2011 totalled € 0.108 million (2010: € 0.108 million).
Details of the compensation of the Supervisory Board and the Managing Board are presented in the management report.
111

 112
CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ACCORDING TO IFRS
No credit agreements with members of the Supervisory Board or the Managing Board existed as of the balance sheet date.
Provisions for pensions for former members of the Managing Board and their descendants amounted to € 1.865 million (2010: € 1.523 million) as of the balance sheet date. Pension payments to former members of the Managing Board amounted to € 0.095 million (2010: € 0.094 million).
(36) Related party transactions
A.S. Création Tapeten AG has granted a loan at market interest rates to OOO A.S. & Palitra, which is accounted for using the equity method. The loan, which amounted to € 6.200 million (2010: € 0 million) on the balance sheet date, is recognised as a non-current financial asset. The resulting interest income of € 0.118 million (2010: € 0 million) is included in the financial result. As the interest incurred during the start-up phase is deferred in accordance with the loan agreement, receivables in an amount of € 0.118 million (2010: € 0 million) existed as of the balance sheet date, which are included in other assets.
With the consent of the Supervisory Board, the company has signed an agreement on project consulting and implementation with Franz Jürgen Schneider, Supervisory Board Chairman, in order to use his long-standing experience and his achievements in the wallpaper industry for the company. The remuneration under this consulting agreement is based on market hourly rates against proof of hours actually worked. In the fiscal year 2011, the fee for these consulting services amounted to € 0.120 million (2010: € 0.119 million).
Franz Jürgen Schneider is Chairman of the Managing Board of A.S. Création Tapeten-Stiftung, a charitable foundation established by him. In the past fiscal year, A.S. Création Tapeten-Stiftung received a donation of € 0.030 million (2010: € 0.030 million) from A.S. Création Tapeten AG in support of its work.
(37) Declaration of conformity with the German Corporate Governance Code
On March 18, 2011, the Managing Board and the Supervisory Board issued the declaration of conformity for FY 2011 in accordance with section 161 of the German Stock Corporation Act (Aktiengesetz AktG), which has been made permanently available to the company’s shareholders

on its website. The declaration of conformity for FY 2012 will be discussed and adopted at the Supervisory Board meeting on March 15, 2012. This declaration will be published on the company’s website and in the chapter “Corporate governance statement and report on corporate governance” of the 2011 Annual Report.
(38) Post balance sheet events
No events that require reporting have occurred.
The Managing Board of A.S. Création Tapeten AG has today released the consolidated financial statements and the Group management report for being passed on to the Supervisory Board. The latter has the task to review the consolidated financial statements and the Group management report and to declare whether it approves the consolidated financial statements and the Group management report.
Gummersbach, February 29, 2012
A.S. Création Tapeten AG The Managing Board
Kämper Hallwig Krämer
CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ACCORDING TO IFRS
 113

 114
CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ACCORDING TO IFRS
Auditor ́s report
We have audited the consolidated financial statements prepared by A.S. Création Tapeten AG, Gummersbach - comprising the balance sheet, the income statement, the statement of comprehensive income, the statement of changes in equity, the statement of cash flows and the notes to the consolidated financial statements-- together with the group management report
for the financial year from January 1 to December 31, 2011. The preparation of the consolidated financial statements and the group management report in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRSs), as adopted by the EU, and the additional requirements of German commercial law pursuant to § 315a, para. 1 HGB are the responsibility of the parent company’s management. Our responsibility is to express an opinion on the consolidated financial statements and on the group management report based on our audit.
We conducted our audit of the consolidated financial statements in accordance with § 317 HGB and German generally accepted standards for the audit of financial statements promulgated by the Institut der Wirtschaftsprüfer (IDW). Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit such that misstatements materially affecting the presentation of the net assets, financial position and results of operations in the consolidated financial statements in accordance with
the applicable financial reporting framework and in the group management report are detected with reasonable assurance. Knowledge of the business activities and the economic and legal environment of the Group and expectations as to possible misstatements are taken into account in the determination of audit procedures. The effectiveness of the accounting-related internal control system and the evidence supporting the disclosures in the consolidated financial statements
and the group management report are examined primarily on a test basis within the framework of the audit. The audit includes assessing the financial statements of those entities included in consolidation, the determination of entities to be included in consolidation, the accounting and consolidation principles used and significant estimates made by the legal representatives, as well as evaluating the overall presentation of the consolidated financial statements and the group management report. We believe that our audit provides a reasonable basis for our opinion.
Our audit has not led to any reservations.

CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ACCORDING TO IFRS
 In our opinion, based on the findings of our audit, the consolidated financial statements comply with IFRSs, as adopted by the EU, and the additional requirements of German commercial law pursuant to § 315a, para. 1 HGB and give a true and fair view of the net assets, financial position and results of operations of the Group in accordance with these requirements. The group management report is consistent with the consolidated financial statements and as a whole provides a suitable view of the Group’s position and suitably presents the opportunities and risks of future development.
Cologne, February 29, 2012
KPMG AG Wirtschaftsprüfungsgesellschaft
Clauss Wirtschaftsprüfer (Certified Public Accountant)
Eppink Wirtschaftsprüfer (Certified Public Accountant)
 115

 116
 This page is left blank intentionally for technical reasons.

 PROFIT APPROPRIATION PROPOSAL
 PROFIT APPROPRIATION PROPOSAL
Balance sheet of A.S. Création Tapeten AG according to HGB 118 Profit appropriation proposal 120
   This English translation of the annual report 2011 is merely a convenience translation. The German version is the prevailing one.
117

31.12. 2011
¤
92,485.38
18,023,023.50
30,140,135.91
48,255,644.79
32,173,015.35
24,221,770.71
4,807,530.22
117,965.27
7,665,496.92
289,960.18
69,275,738.65
801,567.55
881,524.33
119,214,475.32
 118
PROFIT APPROPRIATION PROPOSAL
Balance sheet of A.S. Création Tapeten AG according to HGB
as per December 31, 2011
Assets
Fixed and financial assets
Intangible fixed assets Tangible fixed assets Financial assets
Current assets
Inventories
Trade receivable
Receivables from affiliated companies Receivables from investments
Other current assets
Cash and cash equivalents
Prepaid expenses and deferred charges
Deferred taxes
Total assets
31.12. 2010
¤
104,158.75 19,875,590.51 20,630,033.47 40,609,782.73
31,250,431.28 24,702,103.88 2,923,915.34 0.00 6,119,965.20
5,599,125.31
70,595,541.01
598,079.42
906,531.98
112,709,935.14
                      
Equity and Liabilities
Shareholders' equity
Capital stock
Par value of own shares
Capital reserve
Revenue reserves
Unappropriated retained earnings
Provisions
Provisions for pensions Tax provisions
Other provisions
Liabilities
Loans from banks Trade payable Other liabilities
31.12. 2010
¤
9,000,000.00 –730,947.00 8,269,053.00 13,752,488.72 46,032,741.46 7,751,866.25 75,806,149.43
5,532,663.00 1,746,000.00 5,343,628.00 12,622,291.00
17,617,473.00 4,423,596.27 2,240,425.44
24,281,494.71
PROFIT APPROPRIATION PROPOSAL
   31.12. 2011
¤
9,000,000.00
–730,947.00
8,269,053.00
13,752,488.72
50,063,533.86
7,277,961.62
79,363,037.20
5,799,574.00
0.00
4,764,725.00
10,564,299.00
23,663,032.51
3,257,478.62
2,366,627.99
29,287,139.12
119,214,475.32
                     Totalequityandliabilities 112,709,935.14
  119

 120
PROFIT APPROPRIATION PROPOSAL
Profit appropriation proposal
The financial statements of A.S. Création Tapeten AG for the year ended December 31, 2011 show unappropriated retained earnings of € 7,277,961.62.
The Managing Board and the Supervisory Board propose to the General Meeting of Shareholders that the unappropriated retained earnings should be used as follows: payment of a dividend of € 0.75 per dividend-bearing share and allocation of the remaining amount to the revenue reserves of A.S. Création Tapeten AG.
As of December 31, 2011, 2,756,351 of the 3,000,000 shares of A.S. Création Tapeten AG were entitled to dividend. 243,649 shares acquired in the context of the stock repurchase program are held by A.S. Création Tapeten AG. Based on the number of dividend-bearing shares as of December 31, 2011, the profit would be appropriated as follows:
Payment
of a dividend
Allocation to revenue reserves
Unappropriated retained earnings
2,067,263.25 € 5,210,698.37 € 7,277,961.62 €
     The General Meeting of Shareholders of A.S. Création Tapeten AG will be held in Gummersbach on May 3, 2012. The dividend will be payable on May 4, 2012.
Gummersbach, March 15, 2012
A.S. Création Tapeten AG
Jörn Kämper
Chairman of the Managing Board
Franz Jürgen Schneider
Chairman of the Supervisory Board

CORPORATE CALENDAR
 March 22, 2012 May 3, 2012 May 3, 2012 May 4, 2012
August 13, 2012 November 6, 2012
CORPORATE CALENDAR
Analyst presentation
Interim report for the three-month period ended March 31, 2012 Annual General Meeting of Shareholders
Dividend Payment
Interim report for the six-month period ended June 30, 2012 Interim report for the nine-month period ended September 30, 2012
121

 IMPRINT
Print
Druckhaus Gummersbach PP GmbH, Gummersbach
A.S. Création Tapeten AG Südstraße 47
D-51645 Gummersbach-Derschlag Germany
phone +49(0)2261/542-0 fax +49 (0) 2261/55883 e-mail contact@as-creation.de www.as-creation.de

 Cover photo: A fascinating microcosm
Large-scaled structures, cells and membranes in a matt-gloss look and
bold pop-art colours – "Micro" from the Lars Contzen 3 collection stands
for pure joy of life. These stylish wallpapers give a vibrant feel to every room. (Original sample article no.: 2552-42)

                                                                      