ANNUAL REPORT 2018
HIGH POTEN TIAL

KEY PERFORMANCE INDICATORS
To view the key performance indicators in augmented reality, download the
Discover ALSO app onto your smartphone, available in the App Store and the Google Play Store.

REVENUE AND NET PROFIT

RETURN ON INVESTED CAPITAL
(ROIC)

EARNINGS BEFORE INTEREST AND TAXES
(EBIT)

CASH CONVERSION DEVELOPMENT

RETURN ON CAPITAL EMPLOYED
(ROCE)

EQUITY AND RETURN ON EQUITY
(ROE)

PRICE-EARNINGS RATIO
(P/E RATIO)

NET WORKING CAPITAL
(NWC)

ALSO Annual Report 2018

CONTENTS

CONTENTS

1

Letter to shareholders ALSO share and shareholder structure The ALSO Group Goals and strategy

3 9 13 18

STATUS REPORT Income optimization in 2018 Employees and society

26 28

Business development of the group

33

Risk report

38

Outlook

44

ALSO outlook

47

2

Group structure and shareholders Capital structure Board of Directors Group Management

51 52 52 62

CORPORATE Compensation, shareholdings, and loans Shareholders' rights of participation

62 63

GOVERNANCE Change of control and defense measures Auditors

65 65

Information policy

66

Important changes occurring after the balance sheet date

67

3

Principles Changes in the reporting year Compensation system

69 69 69

Responsibilities and procedures for approving

and setting compensation

70

COMPENSATION Compensation for the reporting year Compensation for the prior year

71 73

REPORT Compensation paid to former members of governing bodies Compensation paid to related parties

75 75

Loans and borrowing facilities

75

Report of the statutory auditor to the General Meeting on

the compensation report 2018

76

4

CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Consolidated income statement Consolidated statement of comprehensive income Consolidated statement of financial position

78 79 80

Consolidated statement of changes in equity

82

FINANCIAL Consolidated statement of cash flows Notes to the consolidated financial statements

83 84

REPORT

Report of the statutory auditor to the G eneral Meeting on the consolidated financial statements 2018

146

FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OF ALSO HOLDING AG

Profit or loss statement of ALSO Holding AG

150

Balance sheet of ALSO H olding AG

151

Notes to the financial statem ents of ALSO Holding AG

152

Report of the statutory auditor to the General Meeting on

the financial statements 2018

158

Imprint

162

Financial calendar

163

1
STATUS REPORT

ALSO Annual Report 2018

Status Report

2018 was characterized by fundamental structural optimizations for the ALSO Group. They were made possible due to investments in our enterprise resource planning-system (ERP), business intelligence tools and customer relationship management systems (CRM) as well as the systematic implementation of our projects to improve and optimize our business processes (PIP and POP). The aim we are pursuing is to further develop the company to sustainably enhance our operational excellence, thus being even better geared towards the needs of our customers and the conditions of the market. At the same time, this opens up scope for investments in our Solutions and as-a-Service business model.
ALSO Group's net sales increased from 8.9 billion euros to 9.2 billion euros (+3.2percent) in a slightly expanding market (+1.7percent). 90percent of this growth was organic, primarily in Germany, France, Austria and the Baltics. In particular, IT-as-a-Service posted an increase of 36percent. Adjusted for restructuring costs and currency effects, in 2018 the company generated an EBITDA of 162.4million euros compared to 153.2millioneuros in the previous year (+6.0percent). Without this adjustment, EBITDA decreased from 157.3millioneuros to 152.7millioneuros.
Due to the improved efficiency achieved and the positive development in the strategically important areas for ALSO, we are confident that we will achieve further improvements in earnings in the years to come. Thus, the Board of Directors proposes a distribution to the shareholders from the reserve from contribution in kind of 3.00 Swiss francs per share. The proposal will be submitted to the shareholders for approval at the Annual General Meeting of March 29, 2019.
ALSO ON THE MARKET
The MORE strategy lays the foundation for the steady and long-term development of our company while taking the requirements of all stakeholders into account. In addition to optimizing the transactional Supply business model, ALSO is systematically expanding its portfolio. With a clear focus on the needs of our customers, the two other business models Solutions and as-a-Service have been defined. In the practical development of these three models, we have concentrated internally on the following five levers to optimize income:
3

ALSO Annual Report 2018

Status Report

BUSINESS MODEL MIX
In particular, the development of the as-a-Service business model, with which we now reach 2.3million Seats via the ALSO Cloud Marketplace, of which 1.3million are in the ALSO core countries and 1.0million via our platform partners, was pleasing. In 2018, we started selling further software applications and infrastructure solutions. 53 new services from vendors such as Samsung, Telefónica Germany, Telekom Deutschland, IBM, Symantic, SEPC and others were integrated in the ACMP.
VENDOR MIX
By integrating new vendors in the existing product categories and intensifying the cooperation with existing vendors, we have substantially expanded both vendor and product diversity. The focus was on expanding the vendor portfolio in the Solutions and as-a-Service areas.
PRODUCT MIX
By intensifying and expanding the cooperation with our providers, we have been able to incorporate other new products in the existing product categories. In mid-2018, ALSO entered into a distribution agreement with Materialise, a leading provider of 3D printing software. Materialise bundles a number of software solutions, engineering expertise and printing services that form the backbone of the 3D printing sector. ALSO's quickly growing product range in the Additive Manufacturing area is supported by its own European Center of Competence for 3D printing, which was established at the research location BerlinAdlershof. ALSO has as well secured numerous competitive advantages for itself in the establishment of new product categories; our offerings involving IoT and in the area of security can be listed as examples.
RESELLER MIX
ALSO continued to boost the increase in the share of wallet with its customers (proportion of the total spend of a customer for a specific product group at ALSO) supported by granular data mining in the various categories in 2018. In the segment of the small and mediumsized business (SMB) resellers, we further developed our customer base in a number of countries. In the IT-as-a-Service area, we are represented in more than 80 countries via the ALSO Cloud Marketplace (ACMP) and have tapped other new buyers. This year, a partnership with the IT distributor Treolan was concluded for the Russian market. Via the ALSO Cloud Marketplace, Treolan can offer its more than 2 900 channel partners and their customers a broad range of Software-, Infrastructure- and Device-as-a-Service.
4

ALSO Annual Report 2018

Status Report

OPERATIONAL EXCELLENCE
Our investments mentioned above in a harmonized ERP system (SAP), customer relationship management software, and a business intelligence platform have enabled the team to implement enhanced efficiency and effectiveness faster than expected. Owing to the successful harmonization of IT systems, administrative functions such as product management and order entry were optimized and tailored to customer requirements. By using several AI tools, a significant optimization of our processes has been realized. With these measures, ALSO is not only streamlining its processes, but simultaneously boosting its customer focus and reducing costs. Another key step was to strengthen the individual responsibility of the national sales organizations, which has already resulted in a very positive development in Austria in particular. We have also continued to expand transnational ALSO Centers of Competence.
ORGANIC GROWTH THROUGH THE FURTHER DEVELOPMENT OF OUR BUSINESS MODELS
In the area of Supply, the strategy is primarily concerned with "Maintain" and "Optimize", strengthening and expanding the market position and optimizing the portfolio and processes. In terms of products, the focus is on systematically expanding our vendor portfolio and our product groups. In terms of sales, we are supporting our customers on how to use our webshop and providing them with tailored support for the design and purchase of complex systems via our sales experts. We see many advantages in focusing our business processes on the webshop, for our customers and for us. The order and delivery process can be made quicker and more efficient. Based on the data we have since collected, we can use our business intelligence to indicate emerging requirements and potential cross and upselling opportunities to customers in good time.
The assumption of direct support of larger customers by one vendor slowed the net sales growth in the Solutions business in the first half of 2018. By expanding the customer portfolio, we compensated for this during the course of the fiscal year. To develop individual and customized solutions for every requirement of our customers, the further development and expansion of a vendor-independent business unit within the Solutions business model will also be a focal point of our work in 2019. We generated year-on-year growth of approximately 1.3percent in the Solutions business and about 8.7 percent in our as-a-Service business compared to the last year.
5

ALSO Annual Report 2018

Status Report

NON-ORGANIC GROWTH THROUGH ACQUISITIONS
The acquisition of DistriWan in mid-2018 improves ALSO's product range in the key security solutions and network infrastructure segment with Cisco being the dominant provider. This allows access to an even broader customer base and boosts the content and regional presence on the market.
As a result of the acquisition of DISS, headquartered in Ljubljana and its subsidiaries VAD and Marmis, ALSO has expanded its resources and expertize in relation to data centers, security and solutions. Together with its subsidiaries, the company has focused on product lines that require intense pre-sales support. DISS also offers its customers technical training and individual advice on site.
Since November 2018, ALSO has acquired the sales and service business of Hewlett Packard Enterprise (HPE) in Ukraine, Belarus and Lithuania. The agreement is a new type of service for manufacturers within our Solution and as-a-Service business model and opens additional possibilities with more added value for the two companies.
With RECRO, ALSO acquired one of the largest IT distributors in Croatia shortly after the end of the year. RECRO is well established in the market and places great emphasis on providing high-quality training to employees and professional IT support. With this acquisition, ALSO can further strengthen its market position in the Eastern European Adriatic region, thereby bolstering its presence in a market that is clearly expanding and has significant momentum in terms of investment.
The acquisitions underline ALSO's aim to consolidate or take first or second market position in those countries in which the company operates within Europe.
Since 2011, ALSO has made 14 acquisitions and successfully integrated the companies, providing a strong M&A track record. In the next few years, acquisitions will also be a key component for ALSO's strategic development.
ALSO ON THE CAPITAL MARKET
In Switzerland, the stock market came under pressure in the wake of global turmoil. The Swiss Stock Index SPI decreased by ­9.5percent year-on-year. Technology stocks, in particular, suffered price losses in the reporting year. Thus the technology index SWX ID TECH decreased by ­27.0percent year-on-year. The ALSO share did not manage to escape this negative trend either. As of January 1, 2018, the ALSO share price was 137.60Swissfrancs, closing at 111.40 Swiss francs as of the end of the year, corresponding to a decrease of ­19.0percent as against the start of the year.
6

ALSO Annual Report 2018

Status Report

ALSO SHARE
Due to the sustainable improvement in the ALSO Group's earnings, the free float has climbed steadily to 48.70percent. As a result, the ALSO share has become even more attractive for institutional and small investors, and their numbers have quadrupled from 855 in 2015 to 3424 in 2018. Interest in the ALSO share has steadily increased and the ALSO share is now tracked by several analysts.
OUTLOOK
For the ICT market in the countries in which ALSO operates, customer spending is expected to increase by 0.9percent. Given this background, we expect that the potential for further profitable growth will be possible, organically on the basis of winning market share, constantly expanding the product categories in our portfolio and further developing our business models. We will generate additional growth through acquisitions in the countries in which ALSO is present to further consolidate the market in the traditional distribution business and to invest in companies that operate in the Solutions and as-a-Service business models. We will open up new countries within Europe through acquisitions and partnerships. These will also play an important role in the international rollout of our as-aService platform across Europe and beyond.
We will achieve a further increase in profitability by working intensively on the five levers. Further digitalization of the transactional business is a critical factor for success in the area of operational excellence. We are planning to harmonize our operating systems for the webshop and the ACMP with the aim of using the knowledge gained from our business intelligence to further increase sales and develop customized solutions for our customers, thereby boosting customer loyalty. Furthermore, we are dedicated to continue boosting the expansion of the high-margin Solutions (IT architecture and design) and as-a-Service (Logistics-, IT- and Marketing-as-a-Service) business models.
The anticipated sales increase of ALSO in 2019 should be above the market growth of 0.9 percent forecast by Gartner. For 2019 we are expecting an improvement of the reported EBITDA of 10 to 15 million euros from the increase of gross profit and further cost optimization. In the medium term, the ALSO Group is aiming for net sales of 10 to 14 billion euros and an EBITDA margin of 2.1 to 2.6 percent.
7

ALSO Annual Report 2018

Status Report

THANKS On behalf of the ALSO Group, I would like to thank all our stakeholders, our buyers and providers for the trust they have placed in us and for the opportunity to be their partners. At the same time, we value the flexibility and support of our suppliers. Our performance would not be possible without the great dedication of our employees and their expertise to consistently implement the measures defined in our MORE strategy.
All our activities have been boosted by the valuable discussions that we constantly hold with our customers and by the contributions made by my colleagues on the Board of Directors.
Also in 2018, we sought dialog with analysts and investors who gave us relevant input for sharpening and communicating our portfolio.
Last but not least, I would like to express my gratitude to you, our valued shareholders. Thank you to those of you who invested in us for the first time in 2018 for the trust you have placed in us, and thank you to the long-standing shareholders amongst you for your continuing strong association with the ALSO Group.
GUSTAVO MÖLLER-HERGT CEO AND CHAIRMAN OF THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS

8

ALSO Annual Report 2018

Status Report

ALSO SHARE AND SHAREHOLDER STRUCTURE

KEY FIGURES OF THE ALSO SHARE
Number of registered shares with a nominal value of CHF 1.00 per share Dividend per share (CHF) Earnings per share (CHF) Equity per share (CHF) Highest price (in CHF) Lowest price (in CHF) Market capitalization as of December 31 (CHF million)
1) Proposal of the Board of Directors

2018

2017

2016

2015

2014

12848962 3.001) 7.31 59.26 145.60 103.00 1431

12 848 962 2.75 8.03
56.77 140.00
90.15 1 722

12 848 962 2.25 7.09 47.24
92.50 61.65 1 155

12 848 962 1.90 5.26
41.56 71.00 49.00
884

12 848 962 1.60 5.82
42.49 57.50 47.55
666

SHARE PRICE DEVELOPMENT IN THE REPORTING YEAR
2018 was a tough year on capital markets. Even though stock markets were still in a record mood at the beginning of the year, investor sentiment increasingly began to turn. The drop in prices was triggered primarily by concerns about rising interest rates and fears of a global trade war.

The ALSO share was also caught up in this negative trend. Trading at 137.60 Swiss francs on January 1, 2018, it closed the year at 111.40 Swiss francs, representing a decline of ­19.0percent.
As of December 31, 2018, the total market capitalization of ALSO was 1 431 million Swiss francs (previous year: 1 722 million Swiss francs).

In Switzerland, the stock market also came under pressure in the wake of global turbulence. The Swiss stock index SPI tumbled by ­9.5percent compared with the previous year. Technology stocks in particular suffered price falls in the reporting year. For example, the SWX ID TECH technology index retreated by ­27.0percent year on year.

9

ALSO Annual Report 2018

Status Report

SHARE PRICE DEVELOPMENT 2012­2018
With the systematic implementation of the MORE strategy introduced in the 2012 fiscal year, the share price steadily gained ground until the start of 2018 before correcting in line with global stock markets. On July 1, 2012, the share was being traded for 39.65 Swiss francs, peaking at 145.60 Swiss francs on January 15, 2018 and then closing the year at 111.40 Swiss francs.

LISTING ALSO Holding AG's share have been listed on the SIX Swiss Exchange since 1986 (symbol: ALSN, security no.: 2459027, ISIN: CH0024590272) and are listed in various indices, including: SPI, SPI Extra, SWX ID TECH and UBS 100.

Therefore, the net capital gain resulting from the positive share price performance and the dividend amounts to 209percent for the period from July 2012 to December 2018.

SHARE PRICE CHART 2012­2018

140 120

100 80 60

40 20
2012 ALSO

VONTOBEL SWISS SMALL COMPANIES

2018 SPI

10

ALSO Annual Report 2018

Status Report

DIVIDEND POLICY

NUMBER OF INSTITUTIONAL AND SMALL INVESTORS

The Board of Directors of ALSO Holding AG follows a continuous dividend policy and aims for a payout ratio of 25 to 35percent. Current earnings, financial position, and corresponding outlook are all considered when deciding on the size of the dividend each year. In light of the efficiency increases achieved and progress made in the areas of strategic importance for ALSO, we are confident earnings will continue to improve in subsequent years. Therefore, the Board of Directors proposes a distribution to the shareholders from the reserve from contribution in kind of 3.00Swiss francs per share. This represents a total dividend payment of 38.5million Swiss francs. The proposal will be submitted to the shareholders for approval at the Annual General Meeting of March 29, 2019.

2015
855
2016
1708

In the event that the proposal is accepted by the shareholders, the dividend is tax-free for private Swiss shareholders, as it is paid from the reserve from contribution in kind.

In the previous year, 33percent of the Group net profit was distributed.
DIVIDEND PER SHARE (IN SWISS FRANCS)

2017
2622

2018 2017 2016 2015 2014
1) Proposal of the Board of Directors

3.001) 2.75 2.25 1.90 1.60

2018
3424

11

ALSO Annual Report 2018

Status Report

SHAREHOLDERS
ALSO has a broadly diversified, international and long-term shareholder base with one anchor shareholder, Special Distribution Holding GmbH, with a 51.30percent holding.
The company, with its registered office in Düsseldorf, Germany, is a company of the Droege Group. The Droege Group is an independent consultancy and investment company. With its range of services, the group has been operating for over 30 years as a specialist in tailored transformation programs with the aim of increasing enterprise value. The Droege Group combines a family business structure with a strong capital base to create a family equity business model. The group carries out direct investments with own equity in corporate subsidiaries and medium-sized companies in "special situations" or acts as a "temporary partner" in comprehensive value enhancement projects on the basis of performance-related fees. As an industrial holding company, a diversified portfolio is formed.
Due to the conversion of a convertible bond of the Schindler Group and the sustainable improvement in the ALSO Group's earnings, which have resulted in a consistently high ALSO share price, the free float has climbed steadily to 48.70percent. As a result, the ALSO share has become even more attractive for institutional and small investors, and their numbers have quadrupled from 855 in 2015 to 3424 in 2018.

Moreover, the members of the Group Management are available to answer shareholders' questions at the Annual General Meeting and also in personal meetings during the year. Since October of the reporting year, Dynamics Group AG, a leading service provider in investor relations, has also been available by telephone or via the central email address investor-relations@also.com.

Interest in the ALSO share has risen steadily and the share is now observed and regularly evaluated by various banking institutions and analysts. The management of the ALSO Group keeps interested analysts up to date on the Group's performance within the legal framework. ALSO holds roadshows at regular intervals at which institutional investors and analysts can obtain detailed information about the ALSO Group's strategy and business performance.

In 2018, ALSO was tracked by three analysts, followed by another at the start of 2019. This gives our investors the opportunity to obtain various assessments of the Company's performance.

FINANCIAL CALENDAR

Annual General Meeting

March 29, 2019

Publication of half-year report July 25, 2019

INVESTOR RELATIONS

ALSO informs its shareholders and the capital market openly, comprehensively and promptly about major events and developments. It ensures all stakeholder groups are treated equally in terms of time and content in its periodic and ongoing reporting.

Besides its detailed annual report and the half-year report, ALSO updates shareholders and market participants through ad hoc announcements. Comprehensive information on the Company is available at www.also.com under "Investor Relations". Current and previous reports, ad hoc announcements and investor presentations can also be found here. In the "Investor Relations" ­ "News Subscription" section, it is also possible to subscribe to ad hoc announcements.

12

ALSO Annual Report 2018

Status Report

THE ALSO GROUP

ALSO IN BRIEF
ALSO was founded in 1984 and is now one of Europe's leading service providers for the ICT industry. We bring the providers and buyers in the ICT industry together and offer them services at all levels of the value chain from a single source. We have systematically expanded our business model from a traditional ICT distributor to an end-to-end service provider for the ICT industry. Our goal is to ensure sustainable growth of the Company by increasing our customers' competitiveness and growing their business sustainably and profitably.
ALSO Holding AG has its headquarters in Emmen, Switzerland, and is listed on the Swiss Stock Exchange.

THE TRADITIONAL TRANSACTIONAL BUSINESS MODEL: SUPPLY
Marketing in the ICT industry is largely a three-step process. In a first step, the providers supply the ALSO companies. In a second step, these supply a very heterogeneous selection of buyers, which in a third step serves the end customers.
Because of non-existent scaling effects, small and medium-sized buyers are not always served directly by the providers. Here, ALSO takes over aspects such as fine logistics and financing. Larger buyers, which for economic reasons outsource functions and processes, have the possibility of downloading these from ALSO as modular services.

ALSO is represented in 18European countries and generates total net sales of approximately 9.2billion euros with around 4000 employees.
The basis of ALSO's business models are the two customer categories "providers" and "buyers". The ALSO Group has a portfolio of more than 550 vendors in the ICT product categories of hardware, software, and IT services, including all global market leaders.

For the provider, outsourcing these tasks results in a reduction of complexity, and thereby in easier access to the various channels and regions. Smaller providers, who have no country organization of their own, use ALSO to obtain access to the market.
We offer our customers a comprehensive range of products and services in over 1200 product categories. These categories, 60 of which were added in 2018 alone, range from 3D printing products through IoT applications to security software.

We offer the vendors access to over 100000 buyers, who can call a broad spectrum of other customized services in the logistics, finance, and IT services sectors, as well as traditional distribution services. From the development of complex IT landscapes, the provision and maintenance of hardware and software, right through to the return, reconditioning and remarketing of IT hardware, ALSO offers all services as a one-stop shop.

On the basis of Europe's biggest marketplace for the ICT industry, we enable our customers to sustainably shape and develop their businesses. Our webshop has more than 400000 visitors per month and generated net sales of 1.2 billion euros in 2018.

On the ALSO Cloud Marketplace (ACMP) platform, more than 1600 services are offered, 9500 channel partners are connected, and we now serve around 105000 end customers with over 2300000 Seats are reached. By expanding the offer of the ACMP in the form of a Platform-as-a-Service for our distribution partners in various regions, we can currently, additional to the countries with ALSO presence, reach 65 countries in Europe, the Near and Middle East, Africa, Asia (including China), Russia, and North and Latin America.

13

ALSO Annual Report 2018

Status Report

ICT MARKET MODEL

Providers

SERVICES

SOFTWARE

HARDWARE

2nd tier (42%)

Direct (17%)

1st tier

(AND OTHERS)

1st tier (41%)

Resellers

B2B
(Corporate/SMB/ VAR/ Integrators)

END CUSTOMER BUSINESS
(Retailer/Etailer)

Buyers

LARGE ORGANISATIONS

SMB

END CUSTOMERS

14

ALSO Annual Report 2018

Status Report

NEW BUSINESS MODELS: SOLUTIONS AND AS-A-SERVICE
In recent years, solution-oriented business models have increasingly been added to the traditional, transaction-based business model of Supply. The Solutions business comprises the sale of tailor-made IT equipment which is integrated into complex system solutions. Here, ALSO experts support resellers in IT architecture and design issues. For example, they translate requirements into specific configurations at short notice and deliver the appropriate products for implementation.
Our as-a-Service offering is playing an increasingly important role. This ranges from Logistics-as-a-Service to marketing services to completely cloud-based services, for example in the area of Platform-as-a-Service and Software-as-a-Service, or in combination with hardware components as in the case of Infrastructure-as-a-Service and Workplace-as-a-Service. We pool this business under IT-as-a-Service. Driven by the dynamics

of technological development and the steady evolution of the cloud, it will become considerably more important for the ICT industry and therefore also for ALSO in the future.
OUR GROUP STRUCTURE AND ORGANIZATION
The Board of Directors of ALSO Holding AG is responsible for the highest level of management. It defines the strategic, organizational, and financial goals of the Group. There are also three committees (Compensation and Nomination Committee, Board Committee, and Audit Committee). The Board Committee advises and supervises Group Management.
The Board of Directors has delegated the management of the day-to-day business of the Company to the CEO of the Group. To take account of the rapidly changing requirements in the ICT sector, Group Management expanded the second management level with the Transformation Executive Team.

IT-AS-A-SERVICE

PLAAST-FAO-RSMER-VICE SOAFST-WA-ASREER-VICE INAFRS-AAS-TSREURCVTICUERWE-OASRA-KSSAPO--LASFAE-TCRSEWVE-IRCAVERIEC-E

S

E

A

T

15

ALSO Annual Report 2018

Status Report

TRANSFORMATION EXECUTIVE TEAM 2018
0 1 0 0 1 0 1 0 1 0 1 0 1 0 1 0

Jan Bogdanovich, Chief Transformation Officer, age 33, Riga location / Laurent Mitais, SVP Mergers & Acquisitions, age 56, Paris location / Joachim Streitberg, Chief Information Officer, age 49, Soest location / Thomas Meyerhans, General Counsel, age 38, Düsseldorf location / Michael Gericks, SVP for Consumptional Business Model, age 33, Berlin location / Jorge Gállego Pérez de Larraya, MD of ALSO Sweden, age 36, Sweden location / Volkan Weissenberg, SVP for Vendor Management, age 40, Soest location / Philipp Koch, SVP E-Commerce, age 32, Berlin location / Hanna Osetek-Pasquet, MD of ALSO Poland, age 34, Warsaw location / Reiner Schwitzki, Chief Process Officer, age 51, Soest location / Simone Blome-Schwitzki, MD of ALSO Germany, age 43, Soest location / (all from left to right)

THE TRANSFORMATION EXECUTIVE TEAM
Created in 2017, the 11-member Transformation Executive Team (TET) is tasked with discussing issues relating to the business development and actively advancing the digital transformation of the Company. The composition of the team, consisting of digital natives and experienced employees from the distribution business, will be adjusted as needed.
The matrix organization, which we continuously develop and expand, has proven effective for the efficient daily operating management of the Company.
COMPANY MANAGEMENT

QUALITATIVE PERFORMANCE INDICATORS Customer loyalty: Scientific studies show that there is a strong correlation between corporate success and the Net Promoter Score (NPS). The NPS measures customer loyalty and helps identify areas where action is needed to improve customer satisfaction and loyalty. ALSO uses this key figure because the financial targets set can be achieved only with a loyal and satisfied customer base. The NPS for customers has been measured online continuously since mid-2016. In 2018, a total of 2 827 customers from all business areas and all countries with ALSO locations were included in the survey. If a customer reports a problem, he or she is immediately contacted by a team. The Managing Director of the relevant country manages this process. The NPS amounts to 46.1percent (previous year: 40.4percent).

ALSO uses quantitative and qualitative key figures for the short-, medium-, and long-term management of the Company. The Company aims to maintain a balanced relationship between growth, profitability, and the capital structure. Earnings, growth, and capital ratios are therefore used as quantitative key figures. The management focus is on sustainable improvement of these KPIs.

QUANTITATIVE PERFORMANCE INDICATORS ALSO has defined various KPIs for managing its profitability and capital structure. These are continuously monitored, reported to the management on a regular basis, and can also be called up by the management independently via our IT systems (particularly SAP and BI). For ALSO, EBITDA and earnings before taxes (EBT) are used as a basis for evaluating the success of the various business models, which differ greatly in terms of sales volumes and margins. Their performance is evaluated in several stages.

16

ALSO Annual Report 2018

Status Report

To measure the success of the sales activities, the Company analyzes the performance of the various product categories, market shares by country and manufacturer and change in e-commerce's share of turnover and the customer channels. The resulting gross profit is examined in detail. To determine the success of backend functions, costs are broken down by cost components and cost centers. With regard to monitoring the capital structure, the focus is on controlling net working capital. There is a particular focus here on the inventory-related key figures of days inventory outstanding and the age structure of inventories. Other important key figures in our reporting are overdue receivables, customer breadth, net financial debt and changes in cash flow.
Profitability: The change in EBITDA and EBT on the previous year is analyzed. At the same time, comparisons are made between the individual ALSO companies. In 2018, we generated an EBTIDA, adjusted for currency effects and restructuring costs, of 162million euros representing an improvement of 6.0percent compared with the previous year (153 million euros). The EBITDA margin came to 1.7percent. In 2018 we generated an EBT, adjusted for currenccy effects and restructuring costs, of 127million euros, representing an improvement of 5.8percent in comparison to the previous year (120million euros). The EBT margin came to 1.3percent.
Sustainable growth: ALSO aims to generate sustainable growth. This is monitored and managed on the basis of the sustainable growth rate (SGR). The SGR represents the maximum possible growth in net sales that can be achieved without a deterioration in the financial structure. It is calculated by multiplying the profit margin1), the retention rate2), the capital turnover ratio3), and the equity ratio4). When developing new business areas or acquisitions, the impact on this Group key figure is considered.
Between 2014 and 2018, ALSO grew at slightly below the potential sustainable growth rate on average, also including acquisitions, and thus achieved the goal of a stable financial structure. In 2019, sustainable growth of 8.0percent can be achieved without a deterioration in the Company's financial structure. For investors, this means that while the dividend yield remains constant (previous year: 2.1percent) there is no capital dilution, and they can additionally benefit from the increase in value from the targeted growth.

DEVELOPMENT OF THE SGR

2018 2017 2016
2015 2014
2013
2018 with provisional figures and retention rate at 2017 level.

8.0 10.1 10.0
8.1 9.7 8.4

Capital structure: The Group aims to ensure that it does not generate profit or growth at the expense of changes in the capital structure. One service that ALSO offers its customers is the provision of credit lines. For this reason, the Group's capital requirements are managed with strict monitoring of the different country organizations' liquidity cycles. The country Managing Directors, as well as some Business Unit Managers since the year before last, have specific targets in this regard.
ALSO's total assets are influenced by the high availability of our broad product portfolio and by the payment targets granted to buyers, and reflect the value proposition for our customers, providers and buyers in the ICT industry. At the same time, the high net working capital requirements represent a significant barrier to entry for potential new market players. The steady expansion of our customer base and the continuous optimization and automation of our processes enable us to sell and replace our inventory around ten times per year. This efficient use of capital forms the basis for profitability and sustainable growth.

1) Profit margin: Net profit/net sales 2) 1 minus payout ratio 3) Net sales/total assets 4) Total assets/equity
17

ALSO Annual Report 2018

Status Report

GOALS AND STRATEGY

MORE
The Company's main objective is sustainable profitable growth. The key figures explained in the "Company management" section are the benchmark for this. This means that ALSO attains growth that takes into account the capital structure and profitability of the Company. These pillars define the area where there are conflicting priorities between our activities, and each individual decision is aligned with them.
Within this area of tension, we have defined and prioritized four activities:
M for MAINTAIN stands for securing the transactional business model, based on which the as-a-Service and Solutions business will be further expanded to attain the targeted growth and income goals.
O as in OPTIMIZE stands for continuous optimization of processes, particularly to increase the profitability of the transactional business model. The introduction of our SAP system and Business Intelligence 2.0 will create solid foundations for the Company's future growth.
R stands for REINVENT. ALSO aims to continue growing with the transactional business model while also generating additional growth with solution- and service-oriented business models and resulting offers.
E stands for ENHANCE. The main aim is to consolidate the market in which ALSO does not have a dominant market share and to expand market position through acquisitions in line with Reinvent's objectives in markets where ALSO does have a dominant market position. In markets in which we do not have a presence, but where the framework conditions and the legal ecosystem are in place, we carry out acquisitions or grow in new business models by means of joint ventures and partnerships.
ALSO aligns its activities to markets with long-term profitability and/or growth potential. The goal of the portfolio policy is to attain or hold a dominant market position in all countries.

In summary, new countries and regions will be penetrated based on the following priorities:
Signing cooperation agreements with existing companies to develop new business models.
Moving into new markets with new business models (greenfield).
Acquiring established market providers.
THE MORE STRATEGY PROGRAM
GROWTH

PROFITABILITY

CAPITAL STRUCTURE

MAINTAIN OPTIMIZE REINVENT ENHANCE

18

ALSO Annual Report 2018

Status Report

OUR 3S BUSINESS MODEL: SUPPLY, SOLUTIONS AND AS-A-SERVICE
We enable our customers, suppliers and buyers of hardware, software and services to fully exploit their existing potential and make new business ideas a reality. In order to scale our services, we systematically take advantage of the market opportunities arising from digitalization in particular.

EVALUATION OF DISTRIBUTION METHODS TRANSACTIONBASED
NET SALES

The starting point for our business was and still is the digital workplace or "Seat" and the associated infrastructure. The service offered by ALSO in marketing the Seat may be transactional ­ e.g. associated with a change in ownership of software and/or hardware, expert reports, concepts, etc. ­ or usage-oriented (consumptional/recurrent) with flexible, needs-based delivery and management of these items. This is made possible by the ALSO Cloud Marketplace. New developments in WiFi network infrastructure, edge computing and IoT are opening up completely new opportunities for the ICT industry and ALSO: the implementation, networking and maintenance of "Machine Seat", an analogy of Seats based on the Internet of Things.
Against the backdrop of the broad customer base, the Solutions and as-a-Service business models will be further expanded in order to generate additional growth with higher margins and compensate for potentially falling margins in traditional business. ALSO consequently has a service portfolio that combines the strong net sales of transactional business with the loyalty arising from consultancy expertise and the profitability of long-term, usage-based offers. At the same time, this gives rise to an important strategic differentiating criterion in competition.

SUSTAINABILITY OF NET SALES BARRIERS TO ENTRY AUTOMATION LEVEL CONSULTING CUSTOMER LOYALTY WORKING CAPITAL

high

medium

low

USAGEORIENTED

DISTRIBUTION OF NET SALES & MEDIUM-TERM TARGET FOR DISTRIBUTION OF NET SALES

TODAY

FUTURE

4% 78%
18%

60%

10%

30%

S U P P LY SOLUTIONS AS-A-SERVICE

19

ALSO Annual Report 2018

Status Report

EVALUATION OF THE 3S

NET SALES

OPEX

MARGIN

WORKING CAPITAL

CUSTOMER LOYALTY

SUPPLY
Addressable ALSO market: 54 billion euros (o/w 21 billion
euros distribution)

SOLUTIONS
Addressable ALSO market: 21 billion euros (o/w 10 billion
euros distribution)

AS-ASERVICE
Addressable ALSO market: 176 billion euros

high
20

medium

low

ALSO Annual Report 2018

Status Report

SUPPLY Net sales in the traditional transactional business model (Supply) include business with optimized trading processes and logistics for the IT, consumer electronics, and telecommunication sectors. The business model is characterized by a high number and frequency of transactions, high net sales, high scalability, high working capital requirements, low retention rates, and low margins. In short, it is a model based on economies of scale. Here, growth and profitability can be increased through market displacement, portfolio optimization and improvements in operational efficiency.

The focus in Supply business is the ability to map orders of any size for the reseller rapidly and as simply as possible. ALSO can deliver to its customers ­ or their customers ­ within the same day. Smaller resellers can order any quantity of products from a broad portfolio. Buyers have 24/7 access to the information in ALSO's webshop about our extensive product offerings and ordering methods. Net sales are recognized at the date when a product is sold.

The ALSO value proposition for the providers consists of creating a broad range of customers, providing detailed logistics, and managing complexity. For the buyers, it consists of providing a product portfolio, managing detailed logistics, and providing the credit line.

A NALYZE
Customer satisfaction Customer behavior Market data (price, portfolio, stock)

C R E AT E
Digitalization of project pricing Solution ordering portal Dynamic pricing

EXPAND
Customer purchasing experience Portfolio
Availability of goods

A

C

E

21

ALSO Annual Report 2018

Status Report

SOLUTIONS Designing and implementing complex infrastructure and virtualizing networks, servers, and storage opens up new dimensions in IT but also requires a high level of consultancy expertise in the different fields. In the solutions business, ALSO therefore provides project-based support in particular to small and medium-sized businesses (SMB) on questions of IT architecture and design, rapidly translates requirements into specific configurations, and monitors the status of projects.
The business model, which comprises all net sales from trading business with those products that form part of comprehensive solutions, is characterized by consultancy services across all phases of the project.

For the providers, the value proposition includes the broad range of customers and the provision of first-/second-level support. For the buyers, the focus is on configuration, engineering, proof of concept, provision of the credit line, and delivery of the entire product range required in the specific case.
Net sales are recognized at the date when a product is sold. Specific solutions businesses include performance tests, optimization of the IT environment and after-sales support. ALSO offers resellers the opportunity to present products and solutions to their consumers live in the demo center.

A NALYZE
Market trends Product categories Vendors (push/pool/niche and geographic spread) Current customer base in order to identify verticals
A

C R E AT E
Specific vertical solutions
Solutions using IoT, AI, Robotics Partner program Digital Marketing Engine Solutions Web Site
C

EXPAND
Vendor portfolio Solutions portfolio Current CoCs for Security
and Data Centers Software footprint Value added services and capabilities
E

22

ALSO Annual Report 2018

Status Report

AS-A-SERVICE In this area, ALSO acts as a service provider rather than a seller. The services offered are called up as needed and remunerated with variable payments based on usage. The reported net sales include services from the areas of cloud marketplace, outsourcing, and process (re-)engineering:
Logistics-as-a-Service: supply chain solutions along the complete value chain for providers and buyers.
Marketing-as-a-Service: traditional and digital marketing for providers, in order to widen their customer base.

I T-as-a-Service: Platform-, Infrastructure-, Workplace-, and Software-as-a-Service. This may include reconditioning used hardware and subsequently marketing it (end-to-end).

A NALYZE
Make or Buy Alternatives Acquire Constant user research and agile development Addition of new functionalities
A

C R E AT E
Offers around Microsoft Office 365
Alternative software providers More Seats
C

EXPAND
Platform-as-a-Service (PaaS) more regions
Infrastructure-as-a-Service (IaaS) Device-as-a-Service (DaaS)
Software-as-Service (SaaS) ­ other categories
E

SEAT STRUCTURE

2%

51%

Rented Equipment

13%

IT Service (Voip Services, Small Business Server)

Hardware Notebook via ALSO shop

17%

Other IT Equipment
12% 5%

Standard Software Office Security

Customer Specific Software

TOTAL COST OF A SEAT FOR SMBS (<50 EMPLOYEES)

ALSO's current share of the Seat
130 

5 000 

23

ALSO Annual Report 2018

Status Report

The value proposition for providers consists of tapping a diverse customer base via the ALSO platforms and developing a usagebased ecosystem for their customers, while significantly reducing complexity in distribution. For our buyers, meanwhile, using the platform offers means that they do not have to operate their own infrastructure in order to offer complex usage-oriented services.
The expansion of the service offering around Seats coupled with the continuous geographic expansion through ACMP partnerships worldwide means this area can expect the highest growth of all three business models in the next few years.

Net sales are recognized when the service is performed (brokerage commission) or when the processed product is sold (reconditioning of used hardware) or they are distributed over a period of use (managed print services). Specific types of service business include IT services (ICT services in the areas of recruitment, 2nd-level support, and tele sales), logistics services, training, and marketing.

POTENTIAL FOR INCREASE OF AS-A-SERVICE

WHERE IT STARTS

THE NEXT STEPS

POTENTIAL FOR INCREASE

per month

MICROSOFT 0FFICE 365

SECURITY 5 per month 60 per year

per month 9 per year

BACKUP 6 per month 72 per year

108 

VOIP 10 per month 120 per year

LAPTOP 60 per month 720 per year

PRINTER 10 per month 120 per year

100 

per year

1 200 

24

ALSO Annual Report 2018

Status Report

5 FACTORS FOR SUSTAINABLE RECURRING GROWTH IN «AS-A-SERVICE» BUSINESS MODEL

MONETIZE 1.3 MIO ALSO
SEATS

MONETIZE 1 MIO SEATS OF EXISTING PARTNERS

ADD MORE SEATS AT PARTNERS

2018 130 MIO TURNOVER
1.T2ARGBETN

ADD MORE ALSO SEATS
2018 1.3 MIO SEATS
4.0 MIO TSAERAGTEST

ADD NEW PARTNERS
2018 83 COUNTRIES
>100 COTUANRGTERTIES

2018 1.0 MIO SEATS
6.0 MIO TSAERAGTEST

25

ALSO Annual Report 2018

Status Report

INCOME OPTIMIZATION IN 2018

ALSO steers the continual earnings optimization of the income using the following five levers:
BUSINESS MODEL MIX Systematically expanding and developing the Solutions and as-aService business models.
The ALSO Group began working on extending its services in the direction of usage-based ICT models back in 2012. The area includes as-a-Service offers for Platform-, Infrastructureand Workplace-as-a-Service. Grouped under IT-as-a-Service, ALSO thus provides critical competitive advantages to its resellers, which are able to respond with agility and d ynamism to the constantly changing requirements of the market thanks to the ALSO Cloud Marketplace. The establishment and development of the offers of Seats as a central element of the business model in the context of the PaaS program (Platform-asa-Service) has to be highlighted in particular. In 2018, ALSO offered a total of 2.3 million Seats, over 1 million of which are PaaS Seats for customers.
Since November 2018, ALSO has acquired the sales and services business of Hewlett Packard Enterprise (HPE) in Ukraine, Belarus and Lithuania. Under this service agreement, ALSO has established separate companies in Ukraine, Belarus and Lithuania, which independently distribute HPE offerings and related services. By assuming responsibility for sales, channel management, services and marketing, ALSO uses its local expertise to help HPE strengthen its activities in these countries. The agreement is a new type of offering for manufacturers within our Solutions and as-a-Service business models and creates additional value for both organizations.
At the start of 2017, ALSO began to strategically expand its expertise and product range to participate in the rapid growth of the Internet of Things ("Computing on the Edge", IoT). Here, the Company also acquired two value-added distributors for security and network products, Smartsec in Finland and BeIP in France. The acquisition of DistriWan in June 2018 was the next decisive step along this path. DistriWan mainly serves larger corporate

customers and resellers with a range of network solutions, often based on CISCO products. The Company also has a growing security portfolio consisting of several other brands such as Ekahau and Ucopia. With a dedicated and well-trained pre-sales team, DistriWan offers support in creating the architecture for and design of IT solutions. The acquisition of DistriWan improves ALSO's offering in the relevant security solutions segment, gives it access to an even broader customer base and strengthens its presence in the market both in terms of content and region. By taking over DISS, headquartered in Ljubljana, and its subsidiaries VAD and Marmis, ALSO has expanded its resources and expertise in data centers, security and solutions. Together with its subsidiaries, the value-added distributor has focused on product lines requiring intensive pre-sales support. DISS also offers its customers technical training and customized on-site consulting. Just after the end of the year, ALSO acquired RECRO, one of the largest IT distributors in Croatia. This takeover will allow ALSO to further strengthen its market position in the eastern European Adriatic region. The acquisition will bolster ALSO's presence in a market that is on a clear expansion course and shows clear investment momentum. RECRO is well established in the market and places great importance on high-quality employee training and professional IT support.
VENDOR MIX Securing an attractive supplier portfolio by means of short reaction times to changes in general conditions on the ALSO marketplace.
We built on our existing cooperation with famous vendors such as Microsoft, HPE and Lenovo. We were also able to add numerous new providers to our portfolio. Approximately 20 independent software vendors (ISVs) offered over 50 new services on the ALSO Cloud Marketplace in 2018. Currently, 1 600 vertical cloud services from a total of around 100 ISVs can thus be accessed via the ALSO Cloud Marketplace.

26

ALSO Annual Report 2018

Status Report

PRODUCT MIX Rapidly providing innovative products and services with high growth potential.

RESELLER MIX Focusing on fast-growing buyer groups with perfectly tailored services and connection to the CRM.

In mid-2018, ALSO signed a distribution agreement with Materialise, a leading provider of 3D printing software. Materialise bundles a range of software solutions, engineering expertise and printing services that are the backbone of the 3D printing sector. The 3D printing suite from Materialise Magics is the software of choice for companies around the world to develop state-of-the-art 3D printing applications. The agreement to market Materialise HP Build Processor and Materialise Magics software applies to Europe (excluding the UK and Ireland). Besides pre- and post-sales technical support, ALSO offers value-added resellers a range of services to recruit, train and authorize them to distribute these software packages to end customers. The software distribution has complemented ALSO's successful market entry with the sale of a three-digit number of HP Multi Jet Fusion 3D printers last year alone. ALSO's rapidly growing range of additive manufacturing products is bolstered by its own European center of competence for 3D printing.
ALSO significantly expanded its range of financing and services in 2018 by acquiring a stake in the leasing company ALSO Financial Services GmbH. The offer is aimed at resellers and further rounds off the ALSO Consumptional Business Model. Through the partnership with ALSO Financial Services GmbH, ALSO customers will receive a new, expanded financing offer from a single source. This guarantees faster response times and a flexible, wide range of products. This gives resellers more flexibility and simplified processes to expand their own service offerings to end customers with little effort. The new offering includes equipment rental agreements for end customers that can also bear the reseller's own logo. ALSO Financial Services GmbH offers contract drafting, structuring and management services and can also take on financing and risks. In cooperation with the reseller or a remarketing company, the hardware can be replaced during the term of the contract and an attractive purchase option is available for the reseller at the end of the term. Through its cooperation agreement with ALSO Financial Services GmbH, ALSO initially only offers leasing services in Germany. The offer will be extended in stages to other European countries.

In 2018, we continued consistently to follow the path we set out on in 2016 to develop our international presence through regional partners. For the Russian market, a partnership was concluded with the IT distributor Treolan. Via the ALSO Cloud Marketplace, Treolan can offer its 2 900 plus channel partners and their end customers a wide range of Software-, Infrastructure-, and Device-as-a-Service. With this new partnership ­ the seventh ALSO has agreed since 2015 ­ Treolan's sales partners will be able to manage their end customers' Seats and develop, operate and manage applications. This will eliminate the complexity that would normally be required when operating such infrastructure. Treolan has already launched the Microsoft Cloud Solution Provider (CSP) program for new vertical offerings and is creating new regional access points for ALSO's vendor partners.
In recent years, we have strategically expanded our Platformas-a-Service offering across various regions. With the globally accessible Consumptional Business Model, we are already active in 83 countries and manage 1 million PaaS partner Seats through the ALSO Cloud Marketplace.
OPERATIONAL EXCELLENCE Continuously optimizing structures and processes to reduce operating expense.
Our investments in a harmonized ERP system (SAP), customer relationship management software, and Business Intelligence 2.0 have enabled the team to implement efficiency measures faster than expected. Thanks to the successful harmonization of IT systems, administrative functions such as product management and order entry were optimized and tailored to customer requirements. Through the use of Robotics, our processes were optimized to a considerable extent. With these measures, the Company is streamlining its processes, strengthening its customer focus and simultaneously reducing costs. Another important step was to strengthen the independence of the national sales organizations, which has already had a very positive impact, especially in Austria. We have also pushed ahead with the creation of ALSO centers of competence, such as the center for 3D Printing at the Berlin-Adlershof research site.

All the applications mentioned are given as examples, which should not be regarded as exhaustive, to illustrate the practical work related to the five levers.

27

ALSO Annual Report 2018

Status Report

EMPLOYEES AND SOCIETY

EMPLOYEES

Customers are at the heart of our business activities. But ultimately it is the employees, with their knowledge and their commitment, who make the Company successful. As a result of digital change, new possibilities are emerging for our employees to contribute to shaping their work. We want our employees to complete further training and achieve their professional goals, and we want our managers to motivate talented employees so that we can

create a flexible, dynamic organization that reacts in a rapid and agile way to our constantly changing market.
In 2018, ALSO had an annual average of 3984 employees (corresponding to 3 708 full-time equivalent positions), which is 74 less employees than in the previous year (­2percent). Personnel expenses amounted to 218.9 million euros in the reporting year.

2017
heads Average headcount Headcount at year end

Central Europe Northern/Eastern Europe

2 519 2 556

1 390 1 467

Group functions
149 147

Group
4 058 4 170

SHARE ADMINISTRATION/OPERATIONAL FUNCTIONS

Administration Operational functions

Central Europe Northern/Eastern Europe

21% 79%

17% 83%

Group functions
86% 14%

Group
22% 78%

2018
heads Average headcount Headcount at year end

Central Europe Northern/Eastern Europe

2 445 2 368

1 398 1 494

SHARE ADMINISTRATION/OPERATIONAL FUNCTIONS

Administration Operational functions

Central Europe Northern/Eastern Europe

19% 81%

13% 87%

Group functions 141 135
Group functions 86% 14%

Group 3 984 3 997
Group 19% 81%

28

ALSO Annual Report 2018

Status Report

ALSO conducts a group-wide survey of employee satisfaction (NPS) on a regularly basis. In this way, we obtain valuable results for developing specific improvement measures and integrating them in the organization.
In addition to the interesting sector in which we work, our employees value in particular the innovative strength of the Company. The personal work environment and the tasks assigned to them are also seen in a positive light by employees.

With the web-based Performance Appraisal Tool, the performance of around 200 managers is systematically evaluated twice a year. It also reveals any necessary training measures.
The age structure of our employees is balanced and displays a good mixture between highly qualified employees, internationally experienced managers, and young talents.

AGE STRUCTURE1)
<21 21­30 31­40 41­50 >50
1) As of December 31, 2018

Central Europe
4% 20% 26% 29% 21%

Northern/Eastern Europe
0% 15% 41% 30% 14%

Group functions
0% 12% 26% 33% 29%

Group
2% 19% 31% 29% 19%

Previous year
2% 18% 29% 31% 20%

COMPLIANCE
ALSO sees part of its corporate responsibility in harmonizing its economic objectives with the social requirements as well as the requirements of its customers, employees, investors and partners. For us, this means creating added value while at the same time reducing detrimental effects for people and the environment.
A variety of measures and tools are available to our Company that we can use to embed sustainability and drive that process forward: Approaches to responsible corporate management and to integrity in our conduct. These include for example our corporate governance and compliance structures just as much as defining and monitoring key performance indicators in the field of sustainability and formulating sustainability targets within our areas of responsibility. All ALSO activities are carried out in compliance with the code of conduct. A focus is placed within the national companies on raising the awareness of all employees concerning ecological and social concerns.

The ALSO compliance program is an important element in our risk management and is applied in all countries. A key component of the program is the training of our employees. New employees are familiarized with the contents of the training online and in on-site courses, while refresher courses are conducted regularly for all employees. The training ratio of all employees required to undergo the compliance online training (excluding employees working purely in logistics and temporary staff) amounted to 98.2 percent in 2018.

29

ALSO Annual Report 2018

Status Report

ECOLOGY
The responsible use of resources is an element that is firmly integrated in our business processes. This involves making it possible to quantify, and thus also to control and manage our environmental efforts. We are currently focusing on three main points throughout the Company: Increasing efficiency in the areas of electricity, heating and reducing waste. We also examine our future investments from this perspective.
The following countries currently form the basis for collecting our sustainability figures: Denmark, Germany, Estonia, Finland, France, Latvia, the Netherlands (ALSO International B.V. and

ALSO Nederland B.V.), Norway, Sweden and Switzerland and Lithuania for the first time in 2018. The objective for 2019 is to include Poland and the companies recently added in Slovenia and Croatia when collecting the figures.
IMPROVED EFFICIENCY IN THE USE OF ENERGY
We understand improved efficiency to involve reducing the consumption of electricity and fossil fuels by optimizing the heating and lighting concepts of all buildings as well as installing building insulation, which we are also undertaking in some properties that are not actually owned by the Company.

TREND IN HEATING COSTS
2015 2016 2017 2018 change 2018 vs. 2015
The selection of samples covers >90 percent of the total net sales of ALSO.

kWh p.a.
14 932 546 14 895 230 13 706 098 14 145 202
­5.3%

CO2/kg
3 179 660 3 175 713 2 942 778 3 014 139
­5.2%

CO2/FTE
1 096 1 091
975 921 ­16.0%

TREND IN ELECTRICITY CONSUMPTION
2015 2016 2017 2018 change 2018 vs. 2015
The selection of samples covers >90 percent of the total net sales of ALSO.

kWh p.a.
13 653 601 12 916 234 11 372 628 11 928 711
­12.5%

CO2/kg
2 305 394 2 125 928 1 710 992 1 839 453
­20.2%

CO2/FTE
795 730 567 562 ­29.3%

30

ALSO Annual Report 2018

Status Report

Although as a result of adding Lithuania when collecting the figures, consumption in absolute terms in kWh p.a. and CO2/kg increased year-on-year, consumption per FTE was reduced again in both heating costs and electricity.
TREND IN WASTE/RECYCLING
The objective here is to record and optimize the material and substance flows, to ensure recycling and appropriate disposal, and to avoid waste while systematically considering the environmental requirements at our suppliers and waste disposal partners.

WASTE/RECYCLING

Total waste/ metric tons

2015 2016 2017 2018 change 2018 vs. 2015

4 182 3 907 4 120 4 768

The selection of samples covers >90percent of the total net sales of ALSO.

Recyclable/ metric tons
3 655 3 485 3 700 4 231

Non-recyclable/

Total in %

metric tons

87%

527

89%

422

90%

420

89%

537

Total in %
13% 11% 10% 11%

Waste per delivery/kg
0.579 0.516 0.493 0.507 ­12.4%

By separating waste consistently and more efficiently, we have been able to increase the proportion of recyclable packaging components at the warehouse facilities. It has thus proved possible to further reduce the high level of non-recyclable waste throughout the Group. In addition, more detailed separation of the materials has been implemented.

31

ALSO Annual Report 2018

Status Report

SUSTAINABILITY IN THE SUPPLY CHAIN The ALSO Group has set itself the target of continually improving its CO2 footprint, and in this process the entire supply chain from manufacturer to customer is investigated to see whether there are any possibilities for improvements.

Other projects are planned for 2019 which will contribute to further reduce CO2 emissions in the Group. For example, as part of the Group's transformation, electronic signature technology and digital transaction management services are to be increasingly used for the electronic exchange of signed documents.

In 2018, various projects were implemented that contributed
to reduce CO2emissions in the Group. The following individual initiatives are presented by way of example here:

PROJECT 1 The plan was to switch from conventional lighting to LED lighting in our warehouse facilities in Braunschweig and Soest in Germany. However, the implementation was not realized for technical reasons in Braunschweig. Instead it was decided to implement the switch in the warehouse in Wünnenberg-Haaren.

Days of use Period of use Electricity consumption for lighting, current Saving in % Electricity saving p.a. CO2 saving p.a.

Wünnenberg- Haaren
250 10 h
402 MWh 57%
231 MWh 40 t

Soest
250 13 h
258 MWh 56%
144 MWh 25 t

By switching to LED lighting, the energy demand in both warehouses was reduced by approximately 60percent each.
PROJECT 2 We took a first large step to minimizing our CO2 emissions when we moved into our new warehouse facility in Pirkkala, Finland, in the middle of 2016. Exclusively geothermal energy is used to supply heat for the entire warehouse. In 2018, the procurement of electricity was switched to 100percent wind energy. Compared to 2015 (old warehouse), CO2 emissions were reduced by 99.5 percent in 2018.

32

ALSO Annual Report 2018

Status Report

BUSINESS DEVELOPMENT OF THE GROUP

ICT MARKET OVERVIEW
The market in the devices, data center systems and enterprise application software segments in the countries relevant for ALSO grew by 1.7percent year on year (according to Gartner). The enterprise application software market grew most strongly, at 8.3percent. The data center systems segment grew by 5.3percent. The main driver for this was the server segment (+10.3percent). The enterprise network equipment (+2.5percent), unified communications (+3.4percent) and external controllerbased storage (+3.8percent) market segments also performed well. The devices segment declined (­2.5percent). All three categories contracted: mobile phones ­1.7percent, PCs and tablets ­3.4percent and printers ­2.3percent.
BUSINESS DEVELOPMENT OF THE GROUP
ALSO outperformed the market with growth of 3.2percent. Adjusted for restructuring costs and currency effects, EBITDA rose by 6.0percent to 162.4 million euros in 2018 (previous year: 153.2 million euros). Adjusted EBT improved by 5.8percent to 127.0 million euros (previous year: 120.1 million euros). ALSO has thus achieved its 2018 targets. The increase in sales was market beating and adjusted earnings rose faster than sales growth.

The sales growth of 3.2percent was mainly organic in nature. France, Germany and Austria in particular recorded significant growth. The ITaaS business model also achieved pleasing growth of 36percent.
ADJUSTED EARNINGS
The 2018 earnings were significantly influenced by two factors. Currency effects had a negative impact of 5.0 million euros compared with the previous year. On the other hand, the 2018 financial year included expenses for structural optimization amounting to 8.8 million euros. The following reconciliation shows the adjusted performance for EBITDA and EBT.

in mio eur
EBITDA as reported Foreign currency effect Non-recurring expenses for structural optimizations ebitda adjusted

2018
152.7 ­0.9
­8.8 162.4

2017
157.3 4.1
­ 153.2

EBITDA (INMIO EUR) 2017
157.3 ­4.1

153.2

+9.2
(+6.0%)

162.4

2018
­0.9 ­8.8

152.7

Reported

Foreign currency
effect

Adjusted

Adjusted

Foreign currency
effect

Expenses for structural optimizations

Reported

33

ALSO Annual Report 2018

Status Report

in mio eur
EBT as reported Foreign currency effect Non-recurring expenses for structural optimizations ebt adjusted

2018
117.3 ­0.9
­8.8 127.0

2017
124.2 4.1
­ 120.1

In 2018, our national companies succeeded in implementing efficiency measures that were made possible by our investments in a uniform ERP system, CRM software and a business intelligence platform, for example. Regular consultation with the Transformation Executive Team (TET), which was set up at the end of 2017, accelerated the structural optimization of a large number of different initiatives, particularly in administration and sales functions, while honing the customer focus. The oneoff investment of 8.8 million euros already generated savings of 9.3 million euros in 2018. This almost offset the additional personnel costs from acquisitions and the restructuring costs.
The Group's digital transformation will also be driven forward with support from TET in 2019 and implemented in the national companies; a one-off investment of 12 to 15 million euros is expected overall, and this should lead to savings of around 25 to 30 million euros in the full-year effect.

in mio eur
personnel costs 2017 Savings from structural optimization subtotal Restructuring costs 2018 New personnel costs from acquisitions Other personnel costs 2018

2018
219.3 ­9.3 210.0
8.8 4.8 ­4.7 218.9

In fiscal year 2018, movements on foreign currency markets resulted in income of 1.5million euros reported in total net sales (previous year: expenses of ­5.9million euros) and expenses of 2.4million euros (previous year: income of 10.0million euros) reported in cost of goods sold and services provided. ALSO strives

to neutralize effects on earnings from price changes. Significant effects can arise from reporting date valuations as, for example, opportunities expected to be sold cannot yet be recognized in the income statement due to the valuation being too low.

in mio eur
Foreign currency effects on total net sales Foreign currency effects on cost of goods sold and services provided foreign currency effect

2018
1.5
­2.4 ­0.9

2017
­5.9
10.0 4.1

CENTRAL EUROPE AND NORTHERN/ EASTERN EUROPE MARKET SEGMENTS
The Company is represented in 18 countries, which are grouped into two market segments: the Central Europe market segment (Austria, France, Germany, and Switzerland) and the Northern/ Eastern Europe market segment (Belarus, Belgium, Croatia, Denmark, Estonia, Finland, Latvia, Lithuania, Netherlands, Norway, Poland, Slovenia, Sweden and Ukraine).
In the Central Europe market segment, ALSO posted a year-onyear increase in net sales of 1.6percent from 5 436 million euros to 5 521 million euros. EBITDA increased slightly by 1.7percent from 107.6 million euros to 109.4 million euros. This included restructuring costs. The significant improvement in earnings in Switzerland and slight improvements in France and Germany offset the effects of the restructuring.
In the Northern/Eastern Europe market segment, net sales rose by 3.7percent compared to the previous year, from 3 878 million euros to 4023 million euros. EBITDA fell from 47.2 million euros to 41.3 million euros. In addition to the restructuring costs, currency changes in particular negatively impacted the segment. Better earnings were achieved in Eastern Europe in the Baltics and Poland. In Northern Europe, competition intensified, leading to declines in sales and earnings, particularly in Denmark, Finland and the Netherlands.

34

ALSO Annual Report 2018

Status Report

INVESTMENTS AND ACQUISITIONS
INVESTMENTS
Investments in property, plant and equipment and intangible assets amounted to around 14.2 million euros in 2018 (previous year: 15.5 million euros), of which around 13.6 million euros had an impact on the Group's cash flow. These funds were mainly used to expand buildings and storage facilities for repair services, logistics infrastructure, IT leased to customers as part of IaaS and for the Group's own IT infrastructure. The ratio of investments to EBITDA was 9.3percent (previous year: 9.9percent). Investments were made in particular in the warehouse facilities in Switzerland and the Netherlands. The main investments in intangible assets were the modernization of warehouse management systems, the updating of the ERP system, BI system, the ALSO webshop and the expansion of the in-house development of the ALSO Cloud Marketplace. In Poland, 3 million euros was disinvested in 2018 due to a warehouse sale.
The investments will make a key contribution to achieving the ambitious growth targets. ALSO will continue its investment policy moving ahead as well. To facilitate further growth and achieve synergies, investments in the automation of warehouse systems and support processes through the use of process mining are envisaged for 2019, as are a further homogenization of the ERP systems used by the newly acquired Group companies.

ACQUISITIONS
The funds used for acquisitions amounted to around 14.6 million euros in 2018 (previous year 9.7 million euros) and relate primarily to the purchase price payments for three companies. With the acquisition of Diss d.o.o., ALSO has become the market leader in Slovenia. The company specializes in products from HP and HPE and also has resources and expertise in security and solutions. The outcome is a product portfolio that goes beyond traditional distribution and provides customers with customized services. ALSO thus offers all services covering the various stages of ICT value creation under one roof. ALSO acquired DistriWan S.A.S., a French value-added distributor (VAD), in order to optimize its business model mix and expand its service-focused offering. The company has a growing security portfolio consisting of several brands such as Cisco, Ekahau and Ucopia. To expand its solutions and as-a-Service business models, ALSO acquired the sales and service business of Hewlett Packard Enterprise (HPE) in Ukraine, Belarus and Lithuania. With this acquisition, ALSO is again highlighting its intention to grow in promising markets and regions.
ALSO is still striving to support the ambitious growth targets with value-adding acquisitions. The focus is on acquisitions of Solution and Service activities that can be scaled up based on the ALSO platform, and on acquisitions on European growth markets to expand the ALSO platform. Options on developed European

INVESTMENTS AND ACQUISITIONS IN BRIEF
eur 1000
investments in property, plant and equipment and in intangible assets
Thereof in land and buildings Thereof in warehouse equipment Thereof in other property, plant and equipment Thereof in intangible assets Investments as a percentage of EBITDA acquisitions Diss d.o.o Distriwan S.A.S. Sophela total investments and acquisitions

2018
14 180 562
4 273 5 916 3 429 9.3% 14 623 11 053 2 430 1 140 28 803

2017
15 534 148
1 972 9 012 4 402 9.9% 9 734
25 268

2016
13 351 291
3 218 4 014 5 828 9.2% 3 676
17 027

2015
13 751 854
5 432 4 061 3 404 9.8% 11 346
25 097

35

ALSO Annual Report 2018

Status Report

markets, where ALSO is not represented, are also being considered to expand the platform.
SOLID FINANCING STRUCTURE
ALSO is optimizing the provision of the liquidity needed to finance the Company's operating business on the condition of securing the capital structure. It aims to finance the required maturities at the best possible conditions. As a result of the transactional business, the majority of financing requirements are shortterm. Owing to seasonal effects, working capital is subject to short-term fluctuations. The necessary cash is obtained mainly by selling existing receivables to factoring companies. This is supplemented by bank lines of credit that are available at short notice. In addition, ALSO continuously increased the proportion of long-term financing by placing bonded loans on the capital market. In 2017, the last time round new bonded loans totaling 153.5 million euros were raised with terms of five, seven and ten years. The positive response from investors is a clear sign of confidence in the business model of ALSO. In order to minimize risk, attention was paid to obtaining a diversified term structure

at favorable financing conditions. As a result of this optimization of the financing structure, we will enhance the flexibility of our MORE program and enable the strategic development of the Group also in terms of potential future acquisitions.
The financing structure now offers great flexibility to cover net working capital financing. The long-term financing displays a balanced distribution of the maturity structure over the years 2019 to 2027.
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF CASH FLOWS
The cash flow from operating activities before changes in net working capital amounted to 104.1 million euros (previous year 97.7 million euros). It is available to ALSO for its operational and strategic further development and can be regarded as sustainable cash. The Group net profit in 2018 (calculated at average rates) was lower, but exchange differences in particular were lower on account of the rate on the reporting date of December 31, 2018, at the Group companies that report in CHF and expenses for provisions higher.

MATURITY PROFILE (IN MIO EUR)

50.5 1.5

13.0 17.5

50.0 20.3

77.0 0.3

18.1

60.0 0.3

16.5 0.5

2019

2020

2021

 Non-current bank loans  Bonded loans

2022

2023

2024

2025­2027

36

ALSO Annual Report 2018

Status Report

The amount of the change in net working capital is strongly dependent on seasonal effects, the timing of customer sales and payments and fluctuates between periods. Increasing sales of customer receivables normally result in a positive cash flow from the change in net working capital. After deducting the change in net working capital of ­16.0 million euros, the remaining cash flow from operating activities amounted to 88.1 million euros (previous year 94.9 million euros).
Trade payables increased by 13.4percent year on year. This is mainly due to three reasons. First, at the end of 2018, inventories were increased for planned sales volumes in the first quarter of 2019. The corresponding liabilities had not yet been paid as of December 31, 2018. Second, it was possible to negotiate better payment terms with several manufacturers at short notice and third, at the end of 2018 there was a shift in the manufacturer mix, resulting in longer payment terms compared with the previous year. This led to a cash flow from the increase in trade payables of 151.5 million euros. This amount was offset by the increase in inventories due to an expected shortage of Intel processors in the first quarter of 2019, receivables from factoring and trade receivables. The remaining effect resulted from net other items.

The cash flow was further reduced by investments in the amount of 30.2 million euros. Included here is the purchase price payment of 14.6 million euros arising from the acquisitions, which essentially relates to the companies Diss d.o.o., DistriWan S.A.S. and Sophela. Furthermore, a total of EUR 13.6 million was invested in property, plant and equipment and intangible assets, mainly for the expansion of buildings and the storage of repair services, logistics infrastructure, IT leased to customers as part of IaaS and for the Company's own IT infrastructure.
In the cash flow from financing activities of ­53.0 million euros (previous year 112.9 million euros), there were cash outflows from the distribution to the shareholders of 30.7 million euros. The remaining amount results primarily from the repayment of current bank loans. Adjusted for the addition of financial liabilities of 7.5million euros due to acquisitions, the increase in finance leases of 4.8 million euros and further non-cash changes of 4.2 million euros, the total decrease in financial liabilities in the consolidated balance sheet was 5.8 million euros.
With cash and cash equivalents of 240.4 million euros and bank credits available at short notice of 355.3 million euros, the ALSO Group has a high level of available liquidity.

CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF CASH FLOWS (IN MIO EUR)

81.2

22.9

104.1 ­16.0

88.1

­30.2 ­53.0

­0.1 4.8

Net profit Group

Other items with no effect on liquidity

Subtotal

Changes in net work-
ing capital

Cash flow from
operating activities

Cash flow from
investing activities

Cash flow from
financing activities

Exchange differences

Changes in cash and
cash equiva-
lents

37

ALSO Annual Report 2018

Status Report

RISK REPORT

ORGANIZATION AND PROCESS
ALSO implements a standardized risk management process that is applicable throughout the Group. This ensures that risks are systematically analyzed in all major Group companies and a uniform evaluation carried out. The risk transparency that has been created allows suitable control actions and countermeasures to be derived. The implementation of these measures generally results in reduced potential for damage. At ALSO, the organization of the risk management is the responsibility of Internal Audit. It collects information from the ALSO companies every six months on the risks that have been identified and the countermeasures that have been initiated. To this end, one person is assigned responsibility for each issue in the ALSO companies. The respective risk officers or managing directors are responsible for ensuring that the contents are complete and correct.
Group Management and Internal Audit must be informed immediately by the risk officers and additionally in an ad hoc report if new critical risks emerge.

The principles of the risk management system are defined in the risk management manual of the ALSO Group. The risk management process considers all the relevant risks of the major Group companies. The individual risks are identified, assessed, and consolidated. ALSO classifies the risks into four special risk fields based on the source of the risk (company-related risks, market risks, financial risks, and tax risks).
The individual risks are assessed in terms of their possible effect on profits or liquidity (low to destructive) and their probability of occurrence (low to very high). The classification of the possible effect is determined as a function of the consolidated net profit of the ALSO Group, and an annual review is carried out to assess whether it is necessary to revise the classification. The changes to the risk categories made in 2017 did not have an effect in part until the reporting year. Based on the possible effect as well as the probability of occurrence, the risks are broken down into the categories black, grey, light green and green.

RISK REPORT
Risk Wighting
DESTRUCTIVE JEOPARDIZING EXISTENCE GRAVE SIGNIFICANT AVERAGE MODERATE LOW

Low

PROBABILITY Moderate

High

Very high

L o w  M o d e r a t e  H i g h  V e r y h i g h

38

ALSO Annual Report 2018

Status Report

GENERAL RISK SITUATION
The business performance of the ALSO Group depends significantly on the general economic situation, economic developments, and technological progress, especially as a result of digitalization. In order to prevent a substantial decline in the enterprise value, the ALSO Group is systematically expanding its vendor and buyer structure and investing in the development of the Supply, Solutions, and as-a-Service business segments. The following

picture emerges in the individual risk fields in 2018. The focus is placed on the company-related risks, followed by the market risks. No risk is currently reported as a black risk. There is an grey risk related to the impairment of the goodwill, which is currently estimated to be around 152 million euros. This represents a derived risk, as the impairment of the goodwill depends on the expected future business performance. The risk is countered by the consistent development of the ALSO strategy.

NUMBER OF IDENTIFIED RISKS

2017

32

2018

25

127 157

COMPANY-RELATED RISKS

2017

20

2018

9

27
MARKET RISKS
42

2017 1 7 2018 1 7

20 20

FINANCIAL RISKS

2017 8

TAX RISKS

2018

9

39

ALSO Annual Report 2018

Status Report

The basis for the risk management is illustrated in the following graphic on the risks and opportunities of the business, which is constantly monitored, analyzed and further developed by the management.
TOWS

THREATS
 Channel Shift  National protectionism  Lack of IT Experts  Operative Risks  Cyber Security

OPPORTUNITIES
 Competition  New Business Opportunities  Acquisition Targets  Start-up Mentality

WEAKNESSES
 Image of Industry  Vendor Concentration  Countries Concentration

STRENGTHS
 Clear Strategy  Analytics  Execution  Speed  High scalability  Barrier of Entry

40

ALSO Annual Report 2018

Status Report

SPECIFIC RISK FACTORS
COMPANY-RELATED RISKS
INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY Information security, IT availability and performance are the key prerequisites for successful entrepreneurial activity. IT systems are constantly being monitored and optimized. Hybrid Cloud IT architecture enables fast provisioning of IT capacity to meet new demands. The Cybersecurity department is conducting regular information security risks assessments and penetration tests of the business critical IT systems and processes. The risks are systematically mitigated using controls and code of practices defined in ISO 27001/ISO 27002 standards. New technologies deployed to increase protection level. Business critical IT systems have backup and recovery plan in place with recovery time and recovery point objectives.
LOGISTICS AND STORAGE The business model of ALSO depends to a high degree on the availability of efficient, discrete logistics structures, the security of the stock on hand, and high-performance and cost-effective external logistics partners. The logistics structures are vulnerable to traditional risks of failure, such as fire, flood and theft, as well as risks that prices for transport and the rent for warehouse facilities will change. There are also risks associated with the competitiveness of our logistics structures. There is currently a risk here in a warehouse in the Northern/Eastern Europe market segment. This is to be address with a new concept. The inventory held by ALSO is subject to depreciation risks as a result of the relatively short product lifecycles of IT products. ALSO counters this risk through dedicated, demand-based scheduling of the inventory with the aim of generating higher availability and corresponding inventory turnover times as well as through appropriate rights contained in the agreements with providers (price protection, stock protection, or stock rotation).

PERSONNEL The further development of ALSO depends materially on the knowledge and the dedication of its workforce. ALSO concerns itself with personnel risks and works with systematic staff planning and qualification in order to deploy, promote and retain employees in line with their abilities. Furthermore, active monitoring of employee satisfaction is carried out. The development of our personnel and managers is an important condition for proactively and reliably ensuring our human resources capacities. Despite all our efforts, a shortage of specialists remains a challenge. The in-house possibilities for continuous professional development will therefore continue to be strengthened in order to train our own personnel optimally in the medium and long term and thus counteract the skills shortage. Bottlenecks in the recruitment of appropriately certified employees exist in particular in the Group companies focusing on the Solutions business field. To reach a broad circle of potential new employees, recruitment is carried out with the help of social media tools.
LEGAL AND COMPLIANCE As a Group with international operations, ALSO has to comply with numerous legal and fiscal regulations as well as regulations under antitrust and patent law. The large number of relevant provisions at the local and international levels and their increasing complexity increase the risk that ALSO may incur significant legal and economic risks, such as fines and claims for compensation, in the event that it fails to comply with them. In order to minimize compliance risks, ALSO has set up a compliance management system that is aligned with the usual market standards and accordingly features the key elements. The program stipulates that all new hires joining the Group are trained in good time before they take up their job. These training courses are repeated regularly. The use of an e-learning platform additionally allows employees to be tested about what they have learned. Current and impending legal disputes are continuously identified, analyzed, and evaluated in terms of their legal and financial effects and taken into appropriate consideration in the ongoing risk management process. ALSO Deutschland GmbH faces a risk in connection with copyright fees here. Following the conclusion of a general contract between the industry association BITKOM and the copyright collective ZPÜ (Zentralstelle für private Überspielungsrechte), which ALSO Deutschland GmbH joined, risk from external hard disks has been significantly reduced.

41

ALSO Annual Report 2018

Status Report

MARKET RISKS
GROWTH RISKS A significant increase in delivery volumes at the end of the month could result in critical volume and delivery capacities at certain locations. This would result in constraints on the shipping quality. The further significant increase in the scope of delivery with a larger retailer created an increased risk for ALSO Deutschland GmbH as a result of a failure to meet guaranteed delivery times. Besides short-term aids through changing special orders or manufacturers between the individual locations and permanently optimizing inventory turnover times, our logistics strategy is regularly subjected to a comprehensive review and modification.
COMPETITION RISKS ALSO works to counteract the competition in the ICT industry through its growth strategy. The scaling of the business models and the related increase in volumes result in competitive advantages for ALSO and its resellers. Active engagement with providers and the design of the price structure for buyers are crucial levers to this end. Furthermore, ALSO distinguishes itself within the market through unique selling points in the as-a-Service and Solutions business models.
BUYERS On the buyer side, risks can arise from the dependence on several large customers. In 2018, net sales with the largest individual customer totaled 1011 million euros. Growth will be promoted and targeted at the fourth- to tenth-largest customers of a market in order to avoid concentration risks. By carrying out measures continuously in the area of SMB customers, diversification increases the number of customers and thus reduces the risks. The campaigns carried out in the reporting year focused on the online shop. In its operating business, ALSO is exposed to default risks in customer receivables. A credit check is performed on the customer as early as the quotation phase in order to limit the risk of losses on receivables. Default risks are additionally limited by active receivables management. Active customer monitoring, balance sheet analyses, disclosures, insurance rating, and factoring programs are some of the important measures carried out here. A considerable proportion of the receivables are hedged by commercial credit insurance.

PROVIDERS ALSO works with the major providers of hardware and software especially in the Supply business field. Concentration risks and dependencies on large individual providers result from this. ALSO counters these with active market share management as part of the vendor mix lever. On the ICT market, ALSO constantly monitors the product innovations of the providers so that it can get involved in fields with high potential at an early stage. Large receivables from providers regularly arise as a result of various programs designed to support sales promotion activities by providers (including marketing programs, bonuses, sales discounts, price protection, for example). Complete documentation of the basis of claim is required at all times in order to enforce these claims. ALSO counters the risk with a permanent and efficient process organization for the relevant business transactions. Political developments in recent years have resulted in potential risks in relationships with providers. Increased protectionist and nationalist tendencies could lead to tensions with providers. In recent years, ALSO has increasingly expanded its portfolio of providers in order to reduce such risks. The tariff disputes between the USA and China resulting from nationalist developments could also be an opportunity for European IT companies.
FINANCIAL RISKS
LIQUIDITY RISKS One of the central tasks of ALSO is to guarantee the Group's solvency at all times by providing sufficient funds when necessary as well as by ensuring the profitability through management of the financial risks. The central liquidity risk management system ensures that the Group is always in a position to fulfill its payment obligations promptly. ALSO continuously monitors its liquidity with a detailed cash flow plan on a daily basis. In addition, far-reaching planning ensures that sufficient financial resources are also available in the medium and long term. In the area of financing, ALSO uses a wide variety of financial institutions in order to reduce any dependency on individual banks. ALSO was always able to fulfill all financial obligations also in fiscal year 2018.

42

ALSO Annual Report 2018

Status Report

RISK RELATED TO DEPOSITS ALSO is exposed to a default risk arising from its financing activities. In the financial area, ALSO manages the resulting risk position by the diversification of financial institutions and by verification of the financial strength of each counterparty based on publicly available ratings, as well as on publicly available ad-hoc information about the financial institutions. As a result, ALSO is generally able to keep the credit risks to a minimum. Some larger receivables from financial institutions arise in particular in the factoring area. No losses on receivables have occurred during the long-standing business relationships with the factoring companies. The risk of loss on receivables from factoring partners is not insured with credit insurances. The default risk of loss is minimized by ALSO through regular evaluation of the factoring partners.
INTEREST RATE RISKS ALSO's interest rate risks relate mainly to current financial liabilities with variable interest rates. Interest rate fluctuations cause changes in the interest income and expense of the interest-bearing assets and liabilities. ALSO is particularly exposed to interest rate risks in euros, Swiss francs, Danish kroner and Polish zloty. The interest rate management is handled centrally. Short-term interest rate risks are partially hedged, a material part of interest bearing-liabilities hence remaining exposed to interest rate fluctuations. Taking into account the existing and planned debt structure, interest derivatives are used if necessary to meet the bandwidths recommended by central Group treasury and prescribed by management. Since ALSO uses fixed as well as variable interest-bearing instruments, interest risks may result from an increase as well as a decrease in market interest rates.

EXCHANGE RATE RISKS A material part of the cash flows of the operational companies occurs in currencies which are not the functional currencies of those subsidiaries. ALSO is therefore exposed to foreign currency risks. Foreign currency risks are only hedged if they affect the cash flow of the Group. Exchange rate risks that arise in the consolidated financial statements through the translation of statements of comprehensive income and statements of financial position of subsidiaries are not hedged. In the purchasing area, a certain amount is conducted in foreign currencies, especially euros (where it is not the functional currency) and in US dollars. To hedge this exchange rate risk, Central Treasury hedges the purchasing volumes of the operating companies outside their functional currency. Intercompany loans between subsidiaries with different functional currencies give rise to foreign currency risks. ALSO hedges most of these risks. Speculative borrowing or lending in foreign currencies is not permitted. Transaction-related foreign currency risks are also monitored and the corresponding net exposures in the various currencies are calculated. By regular use of forward contracts, ALSO constantly reduces the exchange rate risk.
TAX RISKS
ALSO's operations are heavily networked and carried out across different locations. The accompanying service relationships contain the risk that the underlying transfer prices will not be recognized for tax purposes. In order to limit this risk, ALSO has worked with specialist tax consultants to design the transfer pricing concept and has the underlying transfer pricing documentation audited at regular intervals. ALSO has some tax loss carry-forwards. There is a risk that these loss carry-forwards will not be used and will lapse as a result of time or other restrictions. ALSO regularly examines whether it is possible to use the loss carry-forwards through tax planning.

43

ALSO Annual Report 2018

Status Report

OUTLOOK

ECONOMIC SITUATION
The economic forecasts produced by UBS Research show that after 3.8 percent in 2018, global economic growth will slow to 3.6 percent in 2019. According to the forecasts the gross domestic product (GDP) of the eurozone will rise by 1.6percent in 2019 (2018: 2.0percent). In the eurozone, solid domestic demand will not be sufficient to offset reduced export growth.
Negative risks clearly predominate for the global economy at present. If the trade disputes between the US and other major

economic areas were to escalate further, the global economy and world trade would slow down faster than assumed in this forecast. Internationally the high level of debt also harbors considerable risks. If monetary policy normalization continues faster than expected, emerging economies in particular could again be affected by capital outflows and currency fluctuations due to rising interest rates.
Political uncertainty remains high in Europe. In particular, it remains unclear what the relationship between the EU and UK will look like once Brexit comes into force in late March 2019.

DEVELOPMENT OF END-USER SPENDING ON IT BY SEGMENT (IN PERCENT)
Segment
Devices Data Center Systems Enterprise Application Software total
Chart created by ALSO based on Gartner Research, Source: Gartner, Inc., Gartner Market Databook, 4Q18 Update Analysts: Lovelock, J.-D. / O'Connell, A. et al. Publication date: January 03, 2019

2018
­2.5% +5.3% +8.3% +1.7%

2019
­3.4% +2.2% +8.9% +0.9%

MARKET OUTLOOK
For the ICT (Information and Communication Technology) market in the ALSO countries1), the Gartner market research institute forecasts an increase in end-user spending of 0.9percent in 2019. All below Gartner data reflects in Euros years 2019 over 2018.
DEVICES
In the devices sector, Gartner anticipates a decrease (­3.4percent) in end-user spending in 2019. A shrinkage of 5.0percent is expected in the mobile phones subsegment in 2019. ALSO assumes that the demand slows because smartphone penetration has peaked. This applies to all device types. The market is

driven by replacement cycles and higher prices. These replacement cycles are also lengthening as users hold onto phones longer in an effort to save money as prices for flagship models continue to increase.
According to Gartner the spending on PCs and tablets is forecasted to go down (­2.2percent) in 2019. ALSO expects different factors negatively impacting PCs and tablets forecast. End consumers demand is waning, and upgrades are delaying so that replacement cycles are extending. Furthermore, consumers prefer better mobility and portability. This takes them away from traditional PCs. Additionally, there is no new PC OS to boost further demand.

1) Austria, Belgium, Denmark, Finland, France, Germany, Netherlands, Norway, Poland, Sweden, Switzerland; excl. Baltics and excl. Slovenia

44

ALSO Annual Report 2018

Status Report

For the printers subsegment Gartner is forecasting a slight decrease by ­0.7percent during 2019. ALSO assumes the market of printing has reached a saturation point with persistent declines in sales of print devices. Device consolidation and cost-optimization trends resulted in organizations cutting their print spending. Digitalization strategies had resulted in a reduction in office page volumes as business workflows moved from paper to a digital format.
ENTERPRISE APPLICATION SOFTWARE
According to Gartner's forecasts for 2019, the enterprise application software sector will post a strong growth of 8.9percent. ALSO expects customer relationship management (CRM) to endure as growth driver and assumes three factors behind that. First one is that end users want to provide better customer experiences, particularly through multichannel approaches to marketing and services. Second one is the enhanced ease of use and effectiveness of CRM solutions, through the application of artificial intelligence and adoption of better user interfaces, have led to increased organizational and unit adoption. And last one is the agility and flexibility provided by SaaS have driven increased cloud adoption within CRM, thereby contributing to growth of this segment.
The subsegment Supply Chain Management is expected to show a strong growth, too. Mainly responsible for this is the faster adoption of cloud Supply Chain Management, especially by midsize enterprises. More organizations are beginning to acquire procurement software applications as early-adopter organizations start reaping the benefits from using such software. In parallel, vendors are delivering better time to value through faster deployments and reduced total cost of ownership by incorporating new technologies.

DATA CENTER SYSTEMS
End-user spending on data center systems is expected to increase by 2.2percent in 2019. Gartner forecasts an increase of 4.6percent in the subsegment enterprise network equipment. ALSO assumes wireless LAN infrastructure continues to be a key growth engine, fueled by growing demand from advanced mobility and internet of things / digital edge applications.
Furthermore, Gartner forecasts a growth of 3.1percent for servers in 2019. ALSO believes this is caused by the strong demand from the hyperscale segment and rebounding demand from enterprises. Hyperscale customers tend to move to the latest technology generations very quickly, for performance and power advantages.
Based on Gartner's report, in 2019 this growth in end-user spending will be partially offset by the subsegment external controller-based storage (­0.8percent). ALSO expects an extension of the life of external controller based storage infrastructure. The main reasons for that are corporate budget constraints, which are resulting in the decline of platform refreshment investments. Furthermore, enterprise IT departments are turning toward alternative storage solutions to drive cost out of the IT infrastructure, dampening overall revenue in 2019.
In addition, the spending on unified communications is forecasted to remain stable (0.0percent). ALSO expects premises-based unified communication prices to rise as suppliers look to recover shrinking margins from rising product costs. Therefore, a part of IT planners will expand the life span of their existing premises-based unified communications solutions.

45

ALSO Annual Report 2018

Status Report

IT SERVICES
In 2019 Gartner forecasts growth of 4.6percent in the IT services sector, where all subsegments are expected to grow ­ with consulting services as the area with the highest growth rate (+7.5 percent). ALSO assumes that the high growth of Infra structure-as-a-Service, Platform-as-a-Service, Software-as-aService, and public and private cloud services will drive demand for cloud-related consulting and implementation services.

HARD- & SOFTWARE
LOGISTICS

TRANSACTIONAL

CONSUMPTIONAL

YES

YES

YES

YES

MARKTING

YES

YES

IT-ARCHITECTURE &

-DESIGN

YES

YES

BUSINESS INTELLIGENCE

YES

YES

ENTRY BARRIER

MODE OF PAYMENT

CUSTOMER LOYALTY

COMPLEXITY AT END CUSTOMER

CAPITAL REQUIREMENT AT CUSTOMER

Disclaimer: The Gartner Report(s) described herein, (the "Gartner Report(s)") represent(s) research opinion or viewpoints published, as part of a syndicated subscription service, by Gartner, Inc. ("Gartner"), and are not representations of fact. Each Gartner Report speaks as of its original publication date (and not as of the date of this Annual Report) and the opinions expressed in the Gartner Report(s) are subject to change without notice.
46

very high yes

high one-off

moderate

low

recurring

very low

ALSO Annual Report 2018

Status Report

ALSO OUTLOOK

COMPANY
Given this market development, we see potential for further profitable growth in net sales, organically as a result of winning market share, as a result of constantly expanding the product categories in our portfolio, and as a result of further developing our business models. We will generate additional growth through acquisitions in the countries in which ALSO is already present in order to further strengthen our market position through market consolidation in the traditional distribution business and/or through investments in companies that work in the Solutions and as-a-Service business models. We will open up new countries within Europe through acquisitions and partnerships. These will also play an important role in the international rollout of our as-a-Service platform across Europe and beyond.
We will achieve a further increase in profitability by working intensively on these five levers. The continuing automation of the transactional business is a critical factor for success in the area of operational excellence. We are planning to harmonize our operating systems for the webshop and the ACMP with the aim of using the findings from our Business Intelligence to further increase sales and develop customized solutions for our customers, thereby intensifying their development. We will also continue to focus intensively on expanding our high-margin Solutions business models (IT architecture and design) and IT-as-a-Service. A manufacturer-independent business unit will be established in the Solutions business model to develop comprehensive solutions for resellers and end customers.
OPERATIONAL EXCELLENCE ALSO sees a future focus of its business activity in the further development of the transactional business model. The aim is to supply customers with all the products and services they need as quickly and flexibly as possible. The business model is characterized by a high turnover speed and a low degree of vertical integration, while the processes are automated to the greatest possible extent. ALSO will therefore continue to work rigorously on automating and simplifying processes in 2019.

As part of the structural analysis carried out in 2018, we will systematically optimize other business structures and processes in our organization in 2019 and thus continue the structural optimization. The examination of the internal business processes will be geared toward the needs of our customers and the requirements and conditions of the market. We are using an upstream best practice comparison to define benchmarks and focal points of the examination. In 2019, ALSO will supplement this with AI tools such as process mining tools. A consistent focus on problems will allows us to identify the factors that will play a part in further increasing effectiveness and efficiency. The centers of competence will also be extended and expanded.
PROVIDER-INDEPENDENT BUSINESS UNIT SOLUTION To develop individual and customized solutions for every requirement of our customers, our work in 2019 will continue to focus on further establishing and expanding a provider-independent business unit within the Solutions business model.
IT-AS-A-SERVICE DEVELOPMENT A focus will be placed on the development of the usage-oriented business, which primarily covers the area of IT-as-a-Service in addition to logistics and marketing. The aim here is to take the strain off our customers, to provide them with the flexibility and simplicity they need to be able to concentrate on their core competences. This business model is characterized by a high degree of consultancy and specially tailored solutions, which results in high added value. The focus of the 1.3 million Seats currently supplied with our cloud platform by ALSO is mainly on Microsoft solutions. In the future, the aim is to offer these customers additional cloud solutions and thus increase value per Seat. In 2019, ALSO will also be aiming to significantly increase the number of Seats it supports. The Company is also expecting an increase in the value per Seat through additional cloud offers for the Seats supported by partners outside the ALSO countries with the ALSO platform as well as a growing number of Seats. Ultimately ALSO expects to win additional partners for the ALSO Cloud Platform in 2019.

Disclaimer: This Annual Report contains forward-looking statements which are based on current assumptions and forecasts of the ALSO management. Known and unknown risks, uncertainties, and other factors could lead to material differences between the forward-looking statements made here and the actual development, in particular the results, financial situation, and performance of the Group. The Group accepts no responsibility for updating these forward-looking statements or adapting them to future events or developments.
47

ALSO Annual Report 2018

Status Report

INTEGRATION ACQUISITIONS Since 2011, ALSO has made and successfully integrated 14 acquisitions and thus set a solid M&A track record. In 2019, the focus will be on integrating the recent acquisitions of Distriwan, Diss, Recro and the sales and services business of Hewlett Packard Enterprise (now Sophela). The integration of these acquisitions into the ALSO platform will bring additional potential. In the case of Eastern Europe, the provider portfolios will be expanded and the opportunities for bundling the tasks of the Eastern European ALSO companies will be exploited to the full. With the new Sophela companies, a new service concept of complete fulfillment for providers in Ukraine, Belarus and Lithuania will be implemented. In the medium term, further offers for other countries and provider will be developed from this.
ACQUISITIONS ALSO is striving to support the growth targets with value-adding acquisitions. The focus is on acquisitions of Solution and Service activities that can be scaled up based on the ALSO platform, and on acquisitions on European growth markets to expand the ALSO platform. Options on developed European markets, where ALSO is not represented, are also being considered to expand the platform.
The planned acquisition of ABC Data in Poland, together with the already completed acquisitions in Slovenia and Croatia and the existing ALSO companies in the Baltics region, will raise ALSO's presence in Eastern Europe to a new level and create the basis for further growth. The cooperation agreements with the Eastern European companies can also help boost earnings.

FINANCIAL OUTLOOK
Including acquisitions, ALSO is aiming for a net sales volume of 10 to 14 billion euros in the medium term. The share of Solutions is expected to be about 30percent, while about 10percent is targeted in the as-a-Service area. These shares will also depend on the weighting of the acquisitions. ALSO expects them to be focused on the areas of Solutions and as-a-Service. In the area of as-a-Service, the focus is on expanding usage-based business models ­ Platform-, Infrastructure-, Workplace-and Softwareas-a-Service. In the area of Supply, the aim is to optimize the provider and buyer composition, product categories, and operating expenses. This, combined with optimization of the proportionate weighting of the business models, will result in an increase in profitability. In the medium term, ALSO is aiming for an EBITDA margin in a range of 2.1percent to 2.6percent of net sales. Despite continuing uncertainties with regard to the economic conditions, ALSO is therefore confident that the targeted measures will take full effect and that an attractive return can be generated in the future, too.
On the basis of the already and yet-to-be implemented structural optimization, we estimate that we will achieve a full-year effect of approximately 25 to 30 million euros compared with the initial situation in 2017, with approximately 12 to 15 million euros in one-off restructuring costs. We will invest some of these savings in new positions in the Solution and as-a-Service segments. The anticipated sales increase in 2019 should therefore be above the market growth of 0.9 percent forecast by Gartner. For 2019 we expect an improvement of the reported EBITDA of 10 to 15 million euros from the increase of gross profit and further cost optimization.

48

ALSO Annual Report 2018

Status Report

49

2
CORPO RATE GOVER NANCE

ALSO Annual Report 2018

Corporate Governance

CORPORATE GOVERNANCE

This Corporate Governance Report contains the information that is stipulated by the Directive on Information Relating to Corporate Governance of the SIX Swiss Exchange and follows its structure.
1.
GROUP STRUCTURE AND SHAREHOLDERS
1.1 GROUP STRUCTURE
ALSO Holding AG is the parent company of the ALSO Group, which directly or indirectly holds all other Group companies and associates. The shares of ALSO Holding AG have been listed on SIX Swiss Exchange since 1986 (symbol: ALSN, valor symbol: 2 459 027, ISIN: CH0024590272). The market capitalization of the ALSO Group amounted to CHF 1 431 million as of December 31, 2018.
Please see page 134 of the annual report for the list of the Group's subsidiaries and equity investments.

The ALSO Group has streamlined and efficient management structures at all levels. The operational Group structure as of December 31, 2018 is as follows: The Board of Directors of ALSO Holding AG is responsible for the highest level of management; see also section 3 of this report. It defines the strategic, organizational, and financial goals of the Group. There are also three committees (Compensation and Nomination Committee, Board Committee, and Audit Committee; see also section 3.4.2 of this report).
In addition to the Board of Directors, there is a two-person Group Management consisting of the CEO and CFO; see also section 4 of this report. The Board of Directors has delegated the management of the day-to-day business of the company to Group Management under the direction of the CEO of the Group. The Board Committee advises and supervises Group Management.
For every country in which ALSO is active, a Managing Director bears the overall operational responsibility. There are also Senior Vice Presidents who are responsible for the Group-wide functional areas of European Key Account, SMB Development, Supply-, Solutions-, Logistics- and Financial-Services, IT Processes, Consumptional Business, Transformation as well as of E-Commerce.

1.2 SIGNIFICANT SHAREHOLDERS

SIGNIFICANT SHAREHOLDERS
Special Distribution Holding GmbH, Dusseldorf (Germany)1) Bestinver Gestion, S.G.I.I.C. S.A., Madrid (Spain) SaraSelect, c/o J. Safra Sarasin Investmentfonds AG, Basel (Switzerland)
Source: Share register as of December 31 (without nominees) 1) Controlling shareholder: Walter P.J. Droege through Droege Group AG 2) Voting rights below the notifiable threshold value of three percent

12.31.2018
51.30%
2)
3.00%

12.31.2017
51.30% 3.17% 3.60%

51

ALSO Annual Report 2018

Corporate Governance

Notifications made during the fiscal year in accordance with Art.120 et seqq. Financial Market Infrastructure Act "FMIA" can be viewed on the website of SIX Exchange Regulation using the following link:
https://www.six-exchange-regulation.com/en/ home/publications/significant-shareholders.html
As regards the value of the percentage voting rights shown, it should be noted that any changes in the percentage voting rights between the notifiable threshold values are not subject to disclosure requirements.
1.3 CROSS-SHAREHOLDINGS
ALSO Holding AG has no cross-shareholdings exceeding 5percent in any company outside the ALSO Group.
2.
CAPITAL STRUCTURE
2.1 ORDINARY SHARE CAPITAL
The ordinary share capital amounts to CHF 12 848 962 as of December 31, 2018. It consists of 12 848 962 fully paid-up registered shares with a nominal value of CHF 1.00 per share. Subject to Art. 5 of the Articles of Association www.also.com/ goto/articlesofassociation, each registered share entitles the shareholder to one vote as well as to a proportionate share of the available earnings and liquidation proceeds.
The company has issued neither participation certificates nor shares with preferential rights.
The company has not issued any profit-sharing certificates.
2.2 AUTHORIZED AND CONDITIONAL SHARE CAPITAL
The company has authorized share capital and conditional share capital of CHF 2 500 000 each as of December 31, 2018. Capital increases from authorized and conditional share capital are mutually restrictive, i.e. the total number of new shares resulting from the authorized and conditional share capital together in accordance with Art. 2a and 2b of the Articles of Association may not exceed 2 500 000 shares. The proportion of new shares assigned to each of the two categories is stipulated by the Board of Directors. The amount of CHF 2 500 000 corresponds to roughly 19%

of the existing share capital. The newly issued shares are subject to the restrictions set out in Art. 5 of the Articles of Association.
The Articles of Association containing the precise wording of the texts relating to authorized and conditional share capital issue in accordance with Art. 2a and 2b of the Articles of Association, specifically details regarding the beneficiaries and the conditions and forms of, can be downloaded as a .pdf document at
www.also.com/goto/articlesofassociation.
2.3 CHANGES IN CAPITAL DURING THE LAST THREE YEARS
There were no changes in share capital in the last three years.
2.4 LIMITATIONS ON TRANSFERABILITY AND NOMINEE REGISTRATIONS
The Board of Directors may refuse to register an acquirer of shares as a full shareholder (i.e. as a shareholder with voting rights) unless the acquirer expressly declares that they have acquired the shares in their own name and on their own account.
There are no specific rules regarding the registration of nominees in the share register.
2.5 CONVERTIBLE BONDS AND OPTIONS
ALSO Holding AG had not issued any convertible bonds or options as of December 31, 2018.
3.
BOARD OF DIRECTORS
3.1 MEMBERS OF THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS, ACTIVITIES, AND VESTED INTERESTS
The Board of Directors, which may have a maximum of eight members, currently has seven members. Except for Gustavo Möller-Hergt, who has been a member of Group Management since 2011, and a member and Chairman of the Board of Directors since March 13, 2014, the Board of Directors is composed of non-executive members.

52

ALSO Annual Report 2018

Corporate Governance

BOARD OF DIRECTORS
Name
Gustavo Möller-Hergt Walter P.J. Droege Rudolf Marty Karl Hofstetter Frank Tanski Peter Athanas Ernest-W. Droege
As of December 31, 2018

Nationality
DE DE CH CH DE CH DE

Position
Chairman Vice Chairman Member Member Member Member Member

Since
2014 2011 1993 1996 2011 2014 2016

None of the members of the Board of Directors, with the exception of Gustavo Möller-Hergt, has been a member of the Group Management of ALSO Holding AG or a subsidiary of the ALSO Group in the three fiscal years preceding the year under review.
Walter P.J. Droege is the majority shareholder of Droege Group AG (the Droege Group). Please see section 6.6 on page 136 of the annual report for details of the business relationships between the ALSO Group and the Droege Group. There are no other material business relationships between the members of the Board of Directors and ALSO Holding AG.
3.2 NUMBER OF PERMISSIBLE ACTIVITIES

3.3 ELECTION AND TERM OF OFFICE
The members of the Board of Directors are elected individually by the Annual General Meeting for a term of office of one year and can be re-elected. The Chairman of the Board of Directors is also elected by the Annual General Meeting for a period of office of one year. There is no limit on the term in office.
The Board of Directors has decided that, as a rule, members should retire at the Annual General Meeting held to approve the Annual Report for the fiscal year in which they reach the age of 70. In exceptional cases, the Board of Directors may decide to waive this rule.

A member of the Board of Directors may exercise a maximum of ten additional activities as a member of the highest management or directorial body of other legal entities that are entered in the Commercial Register, or required by Art. 12 of VegüV to be so entered, and are not controlled by the company. The Board of Directors shall ensure that such activities do not conflict with the exercise of duties to the ALSO Group. Functions in various legal entities that are under joint control, or in entities in which this legal entity has a material interest, are counted as one function.

For information on the first election of the members, please refer to Note 3.1.
3.4 INTERNAL ORGANIZATION
3.4.1 DIVISION OF ROLES WITHIN THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS AND WORKING METHODS

The Board of Directors represents ALSO Holding AG towards third parties. It can delegate the representation powers to one or more of its members or to third parties. The Chairman convenes meetings of the Board of Directors as often as the Group's business requires, but at least four times a year. The Chairman prepares the meetings, chairs them, and draws up their agenda. The Vice Chairman deputies for the Chairman. Any member of the Board can ask for a meeting to be convened and for the inclusion of an item on the agenda.

53

ALSO Annual Report 2018

Corporate Governance

MEMBERS OF THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS
ACTIVITIES AND VESTED INTERESTS

WALTER P. J. DROEGE
Member and Vice Chairman of the Board of Directors of ALSO Holding AG since 2011 and Chairman of the Board Committee. CAREER MILESTONES
Founder and Director of Droege Group AG, Dusseldorf, Germany, which is wholly owned by the Walter P. J. Droege family. EDUCATION
Diploma in Business Management OTHER ACTIVITIES AND VESTED INTERESTS Member of the supervisory boards, CEO, or member of the advisory boards of various subsidiaries within the Droege Group AG; member of the Advisory Board of Deutsche Bank AG, Dusseldorf, Germany; Vice Chairman of the Supervisory Board of Trenkwalder Group AG and of Trenkwalder Beteiligungs GmbH, both in Vienna, Austria; member of the Advisory Board of Weltbild Holding GmbH, Augsburg, Germany.
54

ALSO Annual Report 2018

Corporate Governance

PETER ATHANAS
Member of the Board of Directors of ALSO Holding AG since 2014 and Chairman of the Compensation and Nomination Committee. CAREER MILESTONES
CEO of pa impact GmbH, Baden, Switzerland. Previously Senior Executive Vice President Corporate Development of Schindler Holding AG. Member of the Board of Directors and of the Executive Committee of the Board of the Schindler Group. Chairman of the Board of Directors and CEO of Ernst & Young Switzerland, member of the Global Executive Board and member of the Global Management Group. Partner in the Arthur Andersen organization, CEO of Arthur Andersen Switzerland, and member of the Global Board. EDUCATION Master's degree in Law and Economics and PhD in Economics from the University of St. Gallen, Switzerland. OTHER ACTIVITIES AND VESTED INTERESTS Member of the Board of Cembra Money Bank Ltd, Zurich, Switzer land; member of the Board of Directors of Blackrock Asset Management Schweiz AG in Switzerland; member of the Board of Skuani AG, Zurich, Switzer land; member of the Board of Directors of KONTIVIA AG, Zurich, Switzerland; member of the Board of the Institute of Public Finance and Fiscal Law of the University of St. Gallen, Switzerland, council member of the Foundation for the Promotion of Studies for the Master's Degree in Law and Economics of the University of St. Gallen, Switzerland, and Curator of the Werner Siemens Foundation, Zug, Switzerland. Professor of National and International Tax Law at the University of St. Gallen, Switzerland. Member of the Foundation Board of the Swiss Study Foundation, Zurich, Switzerland. Protector of Brunneria Foundation, Vaduz, Liechtenstein.

ERNEST-W. DROEGE
Member of the Board of Directors of ALSO Holding AG since 2016. CAREER MILESTONES CEO of Droege Group AG, Dusseldorf, Germany. Prior to that, in investment banking at Goldman Sachs AG, Investment Banking, Frankfurt, Germany. EDUCATION Studied industrial engineering in Karlsruhe and Zurich, doctorate in economics at RWTH Aachen. OTHER ACTIVITIES AND VESTED INTERESTS CEO or member of the advisory board of various subsidiaries within the Droege Group AG, including CEO of Droege Group Unternehmer-Beratung GmbH, Dusseldorf, Germany; Chairman of the Supervisory Board of Trenkwalder Group AG and Trenkwalder Beteiligungs GmbH, both in Vienna, Austria.

55

ALSO Annual Report 2018

Corporate Governance

KARL HOFSTETTER
Member of the Board of Directors of ALSO Holding AG since 1996. CAREER MILESTONES Group General Counsel of the Schindler Group until May 2018. For many years a member of the Executive Committee of Schindler Holding AG, Hergiswil, Switzerland. EDUCATION Studies in law and economics at the universities of Zurich, Switzerland, Stanford, UCLA, and Harvard, all USA. Licensed attorney in Zurich and New York. OTHER ACTIVITIES AND VESTED INTERESTS Professor of private and commercial law at the University of Zurich, Switzerland. Member of the Board of Directors of Venture Incubator AG, Zug, Switzerland, and Chairman of the Board of Trustees of the Kuoni and Hugentobler Foundation, Stans, Switzerland. Member of the Board of Trustees of Stichting INPAR, Amsterdam, the Netherlands. Also Chairman of Swiss Holdings (the Federation of Industrial and Service Groups in Switzerland). Member of the University Council of the University of Lucerne, Switzerland, and of the Commission of Experts on Disclosure of the SIX Swiss Exchange; Chairman of the Advisory Committee of the "Program on Comparative Corporate Law, Governance, and Finance" at Harvard Law School, Boston, USA.

RUDOLF MARTY
Member of the Board of Directors of ALSO Holding AG since 1993 and Chairman of the Audit Committee. CAREER MILESTONES Chairman and majority shareholder of Advexo AG, Lucerne, Switzerland. Previously Managing Partner of itopia AG ­ corporate information technology, Zurich, Switzerland. Prior to this Professor for IT at University of Zurich, Switzerland, Head of the IT Research Laboratory and Applications Development of Union Bank of Switzerland SBG, Zurich, Switzerland. EDUCATION MBA and doctorate in Information Technology, Zurich University, Switzerland.

56

ALSO Annual Report 2018

Corporate Governance

GUSTAVO MÖLLER-HERGT

FRANK TANSKI

Member of the Board of Directors of ALSO Holding AG and Chairman since 2014. Chief Executive Officer of the ALSO Group and since 2011 a member of the Group Management. CAREER MILESTONES BEFORE CURRENT POSITION
Chief Operating Officer of the ALSO Group; previously Chief Representative of the Droege Group. CEO and Chief Representative and previously in various positions with the Warsteiner Group. Member of the Supervisory Board of SIAC in Douala, Cameroon, Chairman of the Supervisory Board of CASA Isenbeck in Buenos Aires, Argentina. EDUCATION Diploma in Engineering from the Technical University, Munich, Germany, and graduate of Harvard Business School, Boston, USA. Doctorate from the Technical University, Berlin, Germany, where he lectures on technical management. OTHER ACTIVITIES AND VESTED INTERESTS Member of the Advisory Board of Deutsche Bank, Düsseldorf, Germany, and of the Board of Trustees of the Bamberg Symphony Orchestra, Bamberg, Germany.

Member of the Board of Directors of ALSO Holding AG since 2011. CAREER MILESTONES Managing Director of Droege Capital GmbH and of Special Distribution Holding GmbH, Dusseldorf, Germany. Previously he held a managerial position with a large bank in Germany. EDUCATION Diploma in Business Management.

57

ALSO Annual Report 2018

Corporate Governance

3.4.2 COMMITTEES
The Board of Directors may delegate the preparation and execution of its decisions to committees or to its individual members. The Board of Directors has appointed three standing committees: the Board Committee (BC), the Audit Committee, and the Compensation and Nomination Committee.
For each of the committees, the Board of Directors elects a Chairman from the members of the Board of Directors. The period of office of all committee members is one year. The Board of Directors can dismiss any member of a committee at any time, except for the members of the Compensation and Nomination Committee, whose election and dismissal lie within the competence of the Annual General Meeting.
3.4.2.1 BOARD COMMITTEE (BC)
The Board of Directors appoints a standing BC from among its members. Normally, the BC consists of three members of the Board of Directors who have solid knowledge and extensive experience in the wholesale, financial, corporate governance, and risk control areas.
The BC assists and supports the Board of Directors in the management of the ALSO Group at senior level and in the supervision of the individuals entrusted with running these companies.
The BC reports to the Board of Directors. The Chairman of the BC informs the Board of Directors about the BC's work and decisions at each ordinary board meeting. Exceptional events of major significance are communicated immediately to all members of the Board of Directors.
The BC has among other things the following duties and responsibilities:
Monitoring implementation of the Group strategy by Group Management
Preparation and monitoring of Board of Directors decisions regarding investments, mergers and acquisitions, and other significant projects and transactions carried out by the ALSO Group
Ensuring supervision of the individuals entrusted with the executive management where this function is not performed by the Audit Committee
Assessments and proposals to the Board of Directors regarding potential capital increases or decreases and the issue of bonds by the company

Assessments and proposals to the Board of Directors regarding notification of the legal authorities in the event of over-indebtedness
Decisions on granting significant guarantees, sureties, collateral, and other letters of comfort for the benefit of persons or companies outside the Group
Decisions regarding significant legal disputes Reaching decisions on the necessity and the scope of finan-
cial restructuring of ALSO companies Reaching decisions on significant increases or decreases
in the share capital of ALSO companies (except for ALSO Holding AG) Decisions regarding significant deviations from budget Decisions regarding measures involving all or a substantial number of employees of ALSO companies or concerning consultations with the works council of individual ALSO companies with regard to such measures
The BC is entitled to delegate certain responsibilities to one of its members, to Group Management, to employees of the ALSO Group who hold an important line and/or staff position, or to third parties.

COMPOSITION OF THE BOARD COMMITTEE

Walter P.J. Droege Frank Tanski Peter Athanas
As of December 31, 2018

Chairman Member Member

3.4.2.2 AUDIT COMMITTEE

The Board of Directors appoints an Audit Committee. The Audit Committee generally consists of three members who possess the necessary financial, legal, and technical expertise.

The Audit Committee reports to the Board of Directors. The Chairman of the Audit Committee informs the Board of Directors about the Audit Committee's work and decisions at each ordinary board meeting. The Head of Internal Audit and the Chief Compliance Officer have the right to inform the Chairman of the Audit Committee at any time about situations that are relevant to auditing or compliance. Exceptional events of major significance are communicated immediately to all members of the Board of Directors by memorandum.

58

ALSO Annual Report 2018

Corporate Governance

The Audit Committee has the following specific responsibilities: Monitoring and evaluation of the suitability and effectiveness of internal financial controls; monitoring of adjustments following significant changes in the risk profile Evaluation of the audit strategy adopted by the statutory auditor and verification that shortcomings are corrected and recommendations are implemented Approval of the annual planning of Internal Audit and discussion of the ensuing reporting with the head of Internal Audit Evaluation of the performance and remuneration of statutory auditor and its independence Evaluation of the collaboration between statutory auditor and Internal Audit Evaluation of measures taken by Group Management to ensure appropriate risk management Evaluation of the measures taken to ensure adherence to legal requirements and internal regulations (compliance) as well as of the associated supervisory measures Analysis of financial reporting, evaluation of the accounting principles, and assessment of the most important items Discussion of the year-end closing and annual financial statements with the responsible bodies and submission of a recommendation to the Board of Directors
In the fulfillment of its tasks, the Audit Committee may delegate assignments to other parties, in particular to Group Management, Internal Audit, the Chief Compliance Officer, and the statutory auditor.

COMPOSITION OF THE AUDIT COMMITTEE
Rudolf Marty Frank Tanski Peter Athanas
As of December 31, 2018

Chairman Member Member

3.4.2.3 COMPENSATION AND NOMINATION COMMITTEE
The members of the Compensation and Nomination Committee are elected annually by the Annual General Meeting. The Board of Directors appoints the Chairman.
The Compensation and Nomination Committee prepares all relevant decisions of the Board of Directors relating to the compensation of the members of the Board of Directors and Group Management, and submits proposals to the Board of Directors regarding the type and amount of the annual compensation of the members of the Board of Directors and Group Management, as well as their fringe benefits and the stipulations of their employment contracts. The Board of Directors has also delegated the following other duties to the Compensation and Nomination Committee:
Preparation of decisions of the Board of Directors regarding nomination of the Vice Chairman of the Board of Directors and pre-selection of potential candidates for the Board of Directors
Preparation of decisions of the Board of Directors regarding nomination, promotion, and dismissal of the members of Group Management and Country Managing Directors of the ALSO Group
Preparation of decisions of the Board of Directors regarding the introduction and amendment of employee participation plans
Review of the succession planning and leadership qualifications of the members of the Board of Directors and Group Management, the Country Managing Directors, and other individuals in the ALSO Group who exercise central line and/or staff functions
The Board of Directors may delegate further tasks concerning compensation, human resources, and related areas to the Compensation and Nomination Committee. The organization, working methods, and reporting of the Compensation and Nomination Committee are laid down in a set of regulations.

COMPOSITION OF THE COMPENSATION AND NOMINATION COMMITTEE

Peter Athanas Walter P.J. Droege Frank Tanski
As of December 31, 2018

Chairman Member Member

59

ALSO Annual Report 2018

Corporate Governance

3.4.3 FREQUENCY OF MEETINGS OF THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS AND ITS COMMITTEES
The Board of Directors meets around every two months on average for half-day to full-day meetings, and usually meets with Group management once a year for a joint strategy meeting. The task at these meetings is to analyze the positioning of the ALSO Group in the light of current macro-economic and company-specific circumstances and to review, and if necessary to redefine, the strategic orientation. The meetings of the Board of Directors are sometimes held as conference calls, typically lasting one to two hours. The CFO usually attends the meetings of the Board of Directors as a guest. The representatives of the company's auditor attended one meeting in the reporting year.
The Board of Directors met for a total of seven meetings, including one strategy meeting and three conference calls in 2018.
The BC meets as often as its business requires, normally every two months. Four meetings were held in the year under review, including one conference call.

In particular, the Board of Directors is required to approve, or make decisions, concerning:
The Group's objectives and strategy The list of measures designed to prevent or mitigate poten-
tial loss or damage associated with the main risks Appointing the members of Group Management Defining the organization and appointing those persons
entrusted with the task of representing ALSO Holding AG The proposals to the Annual General Meeting regarding
the compensation of the Board of Directors and Group Management The drafting of the retirement benefit plan for the members of Group Management The Group's budget, plan, and forecast The consolidated annual and interim financial statements of the Group and the annual financial statements of ALSO Holding AG The Group's investment budget Transactions that exceed certain financial amounts Important mergers and acquisitions, joint ventures, and similar transactions The annual report and the compensation report

The Audit Committee meets for half-day or full-day meetings as often as its business requires. The Audit Committee held two meetings concerning the year under review. The CFO, Internal Audit, the compliance officers, and the auditors are usually present as guests at the meetings of the Audit Committee.
The Compensation and Nomination Committee meets as often as its business requires. The Compensation and Nomination Committee held one conference call relating to the year under review.
The agendas for the meetings are defined by their respective chairman. Minutes of the meetings and decisions are recorded. Other members of Group Management or other individuals may attend meetings of the Board of Directors or its committees at the invitation of the respective chairman.
3.5 AREAS OF RESPONSIBILITY
According to the law, the Board of Directors is responsible for the ultimate management and supervision of the Group. It has the inalienable and non-transferable responsibilities in accordance with Art. 716a, Paragraph 1, of the Swiss Code of Obligations. It can also take decisions on all matters that are not allocated to the Annual General Meeting by law or by the Articles of Association
www.also.com/goto/articlesofassociation.

In addition, the Board of Directors has delegated operational management of the company to Group Management. Operational management comprises the obligation to implement all necessary measures, particularly with regard to personnel- and product-related issues, market orientation, monitoring the competition, and planning for the future.
Group Management is responsible for ensuring that the Group achieves the targets set by the Board of Directors. In addition to its overall responsibility for operational management, Group Management has the following main tasks in particular:
The pursuit of strategic objectives and enforcement of these objectives using action plans
Defining HR and compensation policy below Group Management level
Defining the product mix as well as the marketing and sales policy
Concluding and canceling agreements with manufacturers at Group level
Defining sourcing policy Defining basic principles of transfer pricing Defining logistical concepts and structures Approving the budgets, financial results, and investments
of the Group companies Defining the operational information and reporting systems Defining communication policy and outward appearance Regulating and performing risk management

60

ALSO Annual Report 2018

Corporate Governance

The CEO manages the ALSO Group through the members of Group Management, who report to him. He chairs Group Management meetings and supervises the implementation of their decisions. He evaluates the performance and results of the Central Europe and Northern/Eastern Europe market segments. Based on his evaluation, he decides which resources ­ particularly financial and personnel ­ should be allocated to the individual business segments. The CEO is responsible for ensuring that the company develops consistently, in accordance with its defined business practices and strategies. It is the duty of the other members of Group Management to ensure that these measures are implemented at national level or in the areas for which they are responsible.
3.6 INFORMATION AND CONTROL INSTRUMENTS VIS-À-VIS GROUP MANAGEMENT
The Board of Directors supervises Group Management and uses reporting and controlling processes to monitor its operating methods. The ALSO Group has available a comprehensive electronic management information system (MIS). At each of its meetings, the Board of Directors is informed by the CEO, or by another member of Group Management, of the current business and significant events. At these meetings, members of the Board of Directors may ask other members of the Board of Directors or the CEO to provide information about the ALSO Group that they require in order to carry out their duties. All members of the Board of Directors are notified immediately of any exceptional occurrences.

In addition, the Board of Directors is supported by the ALSO Group Internal Audit. The Internal Audit has an unrestricted right to demand information and examine the records of all Group companies and departments. In addition, after consultation with the Audit Committee, Group Management may ask the Internal Audit to carry out special investigations above and beyond its usual remit. The Head of the Internal Audit submits a report to the Audit Committee at half-yearly intervals.
3.7 MEASURES IN ACCORDANCE WITH THE SWISS CODE OF BEST PRACTICE FOR CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
At ALSO, the positions of Chairman of the Board of Directors and CEO are held conjointly. The balance of influence between the Board of Directors and Group Management is safeguarded by three committees that have been established, of which the Chairman of the Board of Directors is not a member, and a clear majority situation. In 2015, the Lead Director concept was introduced as part of an amendment of the Organizational Regulations. In particular, the Lead Director is responsible for heading the meetings of the Board of Directors ­ possibly only for single items of the agenda ­ in the event that the Chairman experiences a conflict of interests. He can convene meetings independently. The Vice Chairman of the Board of Directors, Walter P.J. Droege, serves as the Lead Director.
Currently all members of the Board of Directors are men. Should vacancies occur, the Board of Directors will consider filling them with female members.

The Internal Audit, compliance officers, and auditing bodies assist the Board of Directors in carrying out its controlling and supervisory duties. In addition, the BC and the Audit Committee monitor the performance of Group Management. The scope of this remit is agreed with the Board of Directors of ALSO Holding AG.

The Board of Directors conducts regularly a self-evaluation of its working methods and efficiency.

The BC, the Audit Committee, and the Compensation Committee periodically receive information in the form of Group reports relevant to their needs. These reports are also discussed in depth at regular meetings that take place with the committees involved. The Board of Directors defines and evaluates the Group's most significant risks on the basis of a coordinated and consistent approach to risk management and control. Based on a list of the most important risks, Group Management establishes a list of measures to prevent and mitigate potential loss and damage. The list is presented for assessment and approval to the Board of Directors, which then ensures that the measures are put into practice.

61

ALSO Annual Report 2018

Corporate Governance

4.
GROUP MANAGEMENT
4.1 MEMBERS OF GROUP MANAGEMENT, ACTIVITIES, AND VESTED INTERESTS
The members of the Group Management of ALSO Holding AG are as follows:

MEMBERS OF GROUP MANAGEMENT Name Gustavo Möller-Hergt Ralf Retzko
As of December 31, 2018

Nationality
DE DE

Position
Chief Executive Officer (CEO) Chief Financial Officer (CFO)

Changes in Group Management in the reporting year: Ole Eklund, former Corporate Vice President for Northern/Eastern Europe, left the company as per end of February 2018.
4.2 NUMBER OF PERMISSIBLE ACTIVITIES
A member of Group Management may exercise a maximum of ten additional activities as a member of the highest management or directorial body of other legal entities that are entered in the Commercial Register according to Art. 12 of VegüV, or would be required to be so entered, and are not controlled by the company. The Board of Directors shall ensure that such activities do not conflict with the exercise of duties to the company. Functions in various legal entities that are under joint control, or in entities in which this legal entity has a material interest, are counted as one function.

4.3 MANAGEMENT AGREEMENTS
ALSO Holding AG has not entered into any management contracts with persons outside the Group for the delegation of executive management. According to Art. 6 of VegüV, delegation of the executive management to legal entities is not permitted.
5.
COMPENSATION, SHAREHOLDINGS, AND LOANS
For information on the compensation and shareholdings of members of the Board of Directors and Group Management, and loans to the same, please see the Compensation Report from page 68.

62

ALSO Annual Report 2018

Corporate Governance

6.
SHAREHOLDERS' RIGHTS OF PARTICIPATION
6.1 RESTRICTIONS ON VOTING RIGHTS AND REPRESENTATION
Each share that is entered in the share register entitles the shareholder to one vote.
The rights of shareholders to participate in Annual General Meetings comply with legal requirements and the Articles of Association www.also.com/goto/articlesofassociation. Every shareholder may personally participate in the Annual General Meeting and cast his/her vote(s), or be represented by a proxy appointed in writing, which proxy need not be a shareholder, or be represented by the Independent Proxy. Shareholders may issue their power of attorney and instructions to the Independent Proxy by post or electronically. The Independent Proxy is obliged to exercise the voting rights that are delegated to him by shareholders according to their instructions. Should he have received no instructions, he shall abstain from voting.
On an annual basis, the Annual General Meeting elects the Independent Proxy with the right of substitution. His term of office terminates at the conclusion of the next Annual General Meeting. Re-election is possible. Should the company have no Independent Proxy, the Board of Directors shall appoint an Independent Proxy for the next Annual General Meeting.
6.2 STATUTORY QUORUM REQUIREMENTS
Unless a qualified majority is stipulated by law, the Annual General Meeting makes its decisions on the basis of the relative majority of valid votes cast, regardless of the number of shareholders present or shares represented. Abstentions and blank votes do not count as votes. In the case of elections, the first round of voting is decided by the absolute majority and the second round by the relative majority. The Chairman has the casting vote in the event of a tie.

6.3 CONVENING THE ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING
Annual General Meetings are convened by the Board of Directors or, if necessary, by the auditors or other bodies in accordance with Art. 699 and Art. 700 of the Swiss Code of Obligations. Shareholders who collectively represent at least 10percent of the share capital may convene an Annual General Meeting. When doing so, they must indicate the matters to be discussed and the corresponding proposals.
Annual General Meetings are convened by publication in the Swiss Official Gazette of Commerce at least 20 days prior to the date of the meeting. The shareholders may also be informed in writing (by unregistered letter) or by electronic means.
6.4 DEFINITION OF THE AGENDA
The Board of Directors is responsible for specifying the agenda. Shareholders who together own at least fivepercent of the share capital may request that specific proposals be put on the agenda. The request, including the agenda item and the proposals, must be submitted in writing at least 60 days prior to the date of the Annual General Meeting.
6.5 REGISTRATION IN THE SHARE REGISTER
Only shareholders who are registered in the share register as shareholders with voting rights at the closing date are entitled to attend an Annual General Meeting and to exercise their voting rights. The Board of Directors ensures that the closing date is set as close as possible to the date of the Annual General Meeting, i.e. not more than five to ten days prior to it. The closing date is published together with the invitation to the Annual General Meeting in the Swiss Official Gazette of Commerce. There are no exceptions to the rule regarding the closing date.

63

ALSO Annual Report 2018

Corporate Governance

MEMBERS OF GROUP MANAGEMENT
ACTIVITIES AND VESTED INTERESTS

GUSTAVO MÖLLER-HERGT
Member of the Board of Directors of ALSO Holding AG and Chairman since 2014. Chief Executive Officer of the ALSO Group and since 2011 a member of the Group Management. CAREER MILESTONES BEFORE CURRENT Chief Operating Officer of the ALSO Group; previously Chief Representative of the Droege Group. CEO and Chief Representative and before in various positions with the Warsteiner Group. Member of the Supervisory Board of SIAC in Douala, Cameroon. Chairman of the Supervisory Board of CASA Isenbeck in Buenos Aires, Argentina. EDUCATION Diploma in Engineering from the Technical University, Munich, Germany, and graduate of Harvard Business School, Boston, USA. Doctorate from the Technical University, Berlin, Germany, where he lectures on technical management. OTHER ACTIVITIES AND VESTED INTERESTS Member of the Advisory Board of Deutsche Bank AG, Dusseldorf, Germany, and of the Board of Trustees of the Bamberg Symphony Orchestra, Bamberg, Germany.

RALF RETZKO
Chief Financial Officer of the ALSO Group and since 2011 a member of the Group Management. CAREER MILESTONES BEFORE CURRENT POSITION
Head of Controlling, Commercial Manager and Chief Financial Officer of the Actebis Group. Previously Central Controlling of Karstadt AG, Essen, Germany, and, following his studies, Scientific Assistant at the Institute of Business Information Technology, Göttingen University, Germany. EDUCATION
Studied business management, mathematics, and information technology for business in Göttingen, Germany. Subsequently took a doctorate in business management.

64

ALSO Annual Report 2018

Corporate Governance

7.
CHANGE OF CONTROL AND DEFENSE MEASURES
7.1 DUTY TO MAKE AN OFFER

8.
AUDITORS
8.1 DURATION OF THE MANDATE AND TERM OF OFFICE OF THE AUDITOR IN CHARGE

The obligation to submit a public take-over offer pursuant to Art. 125 paragraph 3 and paragraph 4 FMIA (formerly Art. 32 and Art. 52 of the Swiss Stock Exchanges and Securities Trading Act "SESTA") has been waived ("opting out").
7.2 CHANGE OF OWNERSHIP CLAUSES
There are no change-of-control provisions in favor of any member of the Board of Directors and/or Group Management and/or other management personnel.

The auditors are elected annually at the Annual General Meeting for one year. PricewaterhouseCoopers AG (PwC) have been the statutory auditors of ALSO Holding AG since 2013. The auditor in charge has been responsible for auditing the individual financial statements of ALSO Holding AG as well as the consolidated financial statements of the ALSO Group since fiscal year 2017. The auditor in charge is changed every seven years at the latest as required by law.
The main Group companies are audited by PwC.
8.2 FEES

The fees charged by PwC as the auditors of ALSO Holding AG and of the Group companies audited by them, and their fees for additional services, are as follows:

FEES
chf 1000
Audit Audit related services Tax and other services total

2018
891 185 638 1 714

2017
834 159 399 1 392

65

ALSO Annual Report 2018

Corporate Governance

8.3 INFORMATIONAL INSTRUMENTS PERTAINING TO AN AUDIT
The Audit Committee and the auditors determine the content and scope of the audit each year. Any special duties of the Board of Directors are incorporated into the audit program. The results of the audit are recorded in a comprehensive report supplied to the Board of Directors.
Representatives for the auditor take part in individual meetings or individual agenda items of meetings of the Audit Committee, where they explain their activities and respond to questions. Representatives for the auditor attended two meetings of the Audit Committee in the reporting year. There is also regular contact between the auditors and the members of the Board of Directors, Group management and the Audit Committee of ALSO Holding AG outside meetings.
Each year, the Audit Committee assesses the auditor's performance, fee and independence in addition to the audit strategy. It bases this assessment on key criteria, including in particular technical competence, objectivity, the adequacy of the resources used, the appropriateness of prioritization and the definition of the audit focus, the ability to communicate and coordinate with the Internal Audit department, Group management and the Audit Committee, and the quality of the recommendations and reports submitted. The Audit Committee subsequently reports to the Board of Directors on its assessment.
On the basis of the Audit Committee's assessment, the Board of Directors discusses and reviews the scope and quality of audits. Based on this, it resolves any adjustments or improvements. The Board of Directors held one meeting with the auditors on the subject of the annual financial statements for fiscal year 2018.
Additional service or consulting assignments are delegated to the auditors only if they are permitted by the auditors' code of independence.

9.
INFORMATION POLICY
Detailed financial statements are published in the form of the half-year and annual reports. The published accounts comply with the requirements of Swiss company law, the listing rules of SIX Swiss Exchange, and the International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS).
The ALSO Group also presents its financial statements at its annual results media conference and its Annual General Meeting.
The ALSO Group reports in accordance with the disclosure requirements of Art.124 FMIA and the ad-hoc publication requirements of Art. 53 of the listing rules of SIX Swiss Exchange. At
www.also.com/goto/subscribe, interested parties can register for the free ALSO Holding AG e-mail distribution list in order to receive direct, up-to-date information that may be relevant to the share price (ad-hoc announcements). Ad-hoc announcements may be viewed at www.also.com/goto/mediareleases at the same time as notification to SIX Swiss Exchange and for two years thereafter.
In addition, media releases, presentations, and brochures are published as necessary. These documents are available to all, both electronically at www.also.com and in printed form.
Announcements to the shareholders are made by way of unregistered letters or publication in the Swiss Official Gazette of Commerce (SHAB), unless otherwise stipulated in mandatory legal provisions or in the company's articles of association. The invitation to the Annual General Meeting may also be sent by electronic means.

FINANCIAL CALENDAR
Annual General Meeting Publication half-year report

March 29, 2019 July 25, 2019

66

ALSO Annual Report 2018

Corporate Governance

ALSO Holding AG Meierhofstrasse 5 CH-6032 Emmen Switzerland Tel. +41 41 266 18 00 Email: info@also.com
10.
IMPORTANT CHANGES OCCURRING AFTER THE BALANCE SHEET DATE
No material changes have occurred since the end of the reporting period.

67

3
COMPEN SATION REPORT

ALSO Annual Report 2018

Compensation report

COMPENSATION REPORT

This Compensation Report contains information on the compensation of the members of the Board of Directors and Group Management. The report was prepared in accordance with the provisions of the Ordinance Against Excessive Compensation in Listed Companies (VegüV). It satisfies the requirements of SIX Swiss Exchange for information on corporate governance and the standards stipulated in the "Swiss Code of Best Practice for Corporate Governance" of economiesuisse.

3.
COMPENSATION SYSTEM
3.1 BOARD OF DIRECTORS
The members of the Board of Directors receive a fixed fee for their activities and no performance-related payment.

This Compensation Report will be presented to the next Annual General Meeting of ALSO Holding AG, which will be held on March 29, 2019, for a consultative vote.
1.
PRINCIPLES
The success of the ALSO Group depends largely on the qualifications and commitment of its employees. The purpose of the Group's compensation policy is to attract, motivate, and retain qualified personnel. It is also intended to bring management interests in line with those of ALSO and its shareholders.

The chairmen and members of committees of the Board of Directors receive an additional fixed fee for these functions.
3.2 GROUP MANAGEMENT
The members of Group Management receive compensation consisting of fixed and performance-related (variable) components. Statutory rules regarding the principles of the performance- related (variable) components can be found in Art. 23 Paragraph 3 of the Articles of Association ( www.also.com/goto/ articlesofassociation).

The compensation system is designed so that the compensation is performance-based and market-driven, and so that entrepreneurial thinking and action are encouraged. Compensation decisions should be fair, transparent and therefore understandable for the persons concerned.
2.
CHANGES IN THE REPORTING YEAR

The fixed components consist of a monthly salary and, from caseby-case, a flat-rate vehicle allowance, a company car, or flat-rate representation expenses. Certain fringe benefits may also be paid.
The variable compensation depends on the business success and is paid in the form of a cash bonus. Variable compensation includes a short-term and a long-term component and breaks down as follows:

Ole Eklund, former Corporate Vice President for Northern/Eastern Europe, left the company as per end of February 2018.

Short-term, variable compensation: For the CEO and CFO, it depends entirely on the combined target values of EBT and EBITDA that are defined by the Board of Directors. If the targets are attained, the bonus is calculated according to a progressively increasing percentage of the attained EBT, which is defined in advance by the Board of Directors.

For the other members of Group Management, the bonus was calculated as a fixed percentage of the attained EBT, which was defined in advance by the Board of Directors.

69

ALSO Annual Report 2018

Compensation report

Long-term, variable compensation: A long-term incentive applies to members of Group Management whose contribution has a material influence on the long-term development of the Group. The long-term incentive was agreed with the members of Group Management at the time in 2011. It is designed so that a one-time special premium is paid if long-term financial targets that are defined by the Board of Directors are attained in two successive years. The payment is only made on condition that the recipient is actually employed by the ALSO Group on the date when the payment is made.

Management, and submits proposals to the Board of Directors regarding the type and amount of the annual compensation of the members of the Board of Directors and Group Management, as well as their fringe benefits and the stipulations of their employment contracts.
The Compensation and Nomination Committee can also make proposals to the Board of Directors for amendments to the compensation system.
4.2 BOARD OF DIRECTORS

In the case of exceptional non-recurring events (e.g. acquisitions) that are not the responsibility of Group Management, the Board of Directors may, at its own discretion, adjust the parameters on which the calculation of variable compensation is based.
For exceptional performance, in addition to the target bonus, the Board of Directors may, at its own discretion, award a special bonus, which is reported under "Cash bonus (gross)" in the Compensation Report.
3.3 CAPITAL PARTICIPATION PLAN
In accordance with Art. 25 Paragraph 1 of the Articles of Association ( www.also.com/goto/articlesofassociation), no participations, conversion rights or options are granted to members of the Board of Directors or Group Management.
4.
RESPONSIBILITIES AND PROCEDURES FOR APPROVING AND SETTING COMPENSATION
Responsibilities for compensation-related decisions are governed by the Articles of Association ( www.also.com/goto/ articlesofassociation), the Organizational Regulations and the Regulations of the Compensation and Nomination Committee of ALSO Holding AG.

Under and subject to the approval of the Annual General Meeting, the definitive compensation is determined by the Board of Directors. As a rule, the effective bonus is determined at the proposal of the Compensation and Nomination Committee in the first quarter of the following year. The executive members of the Board of Directors are not present when their compensation is determined. No external consultants were called in during the reporting year.
4.3 GENERAL MEETING
The Annual General Meeting each year approves the following compensation amounts for the respective ongoing fiscal year with binding effect:
Maximum amount for fixed compensation for members of the Board of Directors
Maximum amount for fixed compensation for members of the Group Management
Maximum amount for variable compensation for members of the Group Management
The Annual General Meeting can subsequently increase the compensation already approved at any time.
If the Annual General Meeting refuses its approval, the Board of Directors can submit new proposals at the same general meeting or a new general meeting yet to be convened.

4.1 COMPENSATION AND NOMINATION COMMITTEE
The Compensation and Nomination Committee prepares all relevant decisions of the Board of Directors relating to the compensation of the members of the Board of Directors and Group

The additional amount for the hiring of new members of Group Management after approval by the Annual General Meeting is 30percent of the total compensation approved for the respective period per new member. Approval of this additional compensation by the Annual General Meeting is not required.

70

ALSO Annual Report 2018

Compensation report

5.
COMPENSATION FOR THE REPORTING YEAR
5.1 GENERAL
The disclosed compensation of the members of the Board of Directors and Group Management includes all compensation paid for the entire reporting year, subject to the following amplifications and restrictions:
The disclosed variable compensation elements comprise the accrued variable compensation elements attributable to the completed fiscal year.
The compensation paid to new members of the Board of Directors and Group Management is reckoned from the date on which they take over the respective function.
If a member resigns from the Board of Directors or Group Management, the compensation up to the resignation date, plus any compensation in the reporting year in connection with these activities, are reported together.
In individual cases, members of Group Management may be entitled to a company car. Such benefits are reported under "Non-cash benefits".

Members of Group Management may receive certain fringe benefits in the form of discounts. Provided that such benefits do not exceed the value of CHF 500 per case, and the total of such benefits does not exceed an aggregate value of CHF 20 000 per fiscal year, they are not reported.
Any contributions to post-employment benefit plans, executive insurance plans, or private insurances are reported as "Pension expenses".
The compensation of the members of Group Management was in some cases borne directly by ALSO Holding AG and in other cases indirectly by subsidiaries through intercompany charging.
5.2 AGGREGATE COMPENSATION ­ BOARD OF DIRECTORS
At the Annual General Meeting on March 27, 2018, shareholders approved maximum fixed total compensation of CHF 0.7 million for fiscal year 2018.
The members of the Board of Directors do not receive any variable compensation for their activities.

chf 1000

Fixed, cash (gross)

Pension expenses

Total 2018

Gustavo Möller-Hergt, Chairman/executive member Walter P.J. Droege, Vice Chairman1), 3), 4) Karl Hofstetter Rudolf Marty2), 5) Frank Tanski1), 2), 3) Peter Athanas1), 2), 3), 6) Ernest-W. Droege total compensation Approved at the Annual General Meeting

­

­

­

140

­

140

80

5

85

90

4

94

95

­

95

100

6

106

80

­

80

585

15

600

700

Gustavo Möller-Hergt has been a member of Group Management since 2011 and a member and Chairman of the Board of Directors since March 13, 2014. For his compensation, please refer to the section on compensation of the members of Group Management. All other members of the Board of Directors are non-executive members. 1) Member of the Board Committee 2) Member of the Audit Committee 3) Member of the Compensation and Nomination Committee 4) Including compensation as Chairman of the Board Committee 5) Including compensation as Chairman of the Audit Committee 6) Including compensation as Chairman of the Compensation and Nomination Committee

71

ALSO Annual Report 2018

Compensation report

5.3 AGGREGATE COMPENSATION ­ GROUP MANAGEMENT
At the Annual General Meeting on March 27, 2018, shareholders approved maximum fixed total compensation of EUR 1.5 million and maximum variable total compensation of EUR 3.8 million for fiscal year 2018.

In the reporting period, cash bonus for Gustavo Möller-Hergt was 79 percent (previous year: 78 percent) of his total compens ation. For the members of Group Management, the average cash bonus was 69 percent (previous year: 69 percent).
The Annual General Meeting approves the compensation of the members of Group Management in euros, since the compen sation is paid out mostly in this currency. This allows for deviations between approved and effective compensation as a result of exchange rate changes to be avoided. For this reason, ALSO presents the compensation in EUR as well as in CHF.

AGGREGATE COMPENSATION IN CHF

chf 1000

Cash Non-cash benefits/

(gross)

miscellaneous

Fixed compensation Variable compensation

Pension expenses

Fixed total compensation

Cash bonus (gross)

Group Management total1)

953

52

473

1 478

3 301

Highest individual compensation
Gustavo Möller-Hergt

358

17

258

633

1 952

Translated into CHF using average exchange rates 2018 (EUR/CHF 1.155) 1) Including compensation of all contractual and legal entitlements of one departed member of Group Management during notice period.

Total 2018 4 779 2 585

AGGREGATE COMPENSATION IN EUR

eur 1 000

Cash Non-cash benefits/

(gross)

miscellaneous

Fixed compensation Variable compensation

Pension expenses

Fixed total compensation

Cash bonus (gross)

Group Management

total1)

825

45

410

1 280

Approved at the Annual General Meeting

1 500

Highest individual compensation
Gustavo Möller-Hergt

310

15

223

548

1) Including compensation of all contractual and legal entitlements of one departed member of Group Management during notice period.

2 858 3 800
1 690

Total 2018 4 138 5 300
2 238

72

ALSO Annual Report 2018

Compensation report

6.
COMPENSATION FOR THE PRIOR YEAR
6.1 GENERAL
The disclosed compensation of the members of the Board of Directors and Group Management includes all compensation paid for the entire fiscal year of 2017. The additions and restrictions in 5.1 also apply to compensation for the previous year.

6.2 AGGREGATE COMPENSATION ­ BOARD OF DIRECTORS
At the Annual General Meeting on March 21, 2017, shareholders approved maximum fixed total compensation of CHF 0.7 million for fiscal year 2017.
The members of the Board of Directors did not receive any variable compensation for their activities.

chf 1000

Fixed, cash (gross)

Pension expenses

Total 2017

Gustavo Möller-Hergt, Chairman/executive member Walter P.J. Droege, Vice Chairman1), 3), 4) Karl Hofstetter Rudolf Marty2), 5) Frank Tanski1), 2), 3) Peter Athanas1), 2), 3), 6) Ernest-W. Droege total compensation Approved at the Annual General Meeting

­

­

­

140

­

140

80

5

85

90

4

94

95

­

95

100

6

106

80

­

80

585

15

600

700

Gustavo Möller-Hergt has been a member of Group Management since 2011 and a member and Chairman of the Board of Directors since March 13, 2014. For his compensation, please refer to the section on compensation of the members of Group Management. All other members of the Board of Directors are non-executive members. 1) Member of the Board Committee 2) Member of the Audit Committee 3) Member of the Compensation and Nomination Committee 4) Including compensation as Chairman of the Board Committee 5) Including compensation as Chairman of the Audit Committee 6) Including compensation as Chairman of the Compensation and Nomination Committee

73

ALSO Annual Report 2018

Compensation report

6.3 AGGREGATE COMPENSATION ­ GROUP MANAGEMENT
At the Annual General Meeting on March 21, 2017, shareholders approved maximum fixed total compensation of EUR 1.5 million and maximum variable total compensation of EUR 3.5 million for fiscal year 2017.

AGGREGATE COMPENSATION IN CHF

chf 1000

Cash Non-cash benefits/

(gross)

miscellaneous

Fixed compensation Variable compensation

Pension expenses

Fixed total compensation

Cash bonus (gross)

Group Management total1)

1 043

59

352

1 454

3 239

Highest individual compensation
Gustavo Möller-Hergt

345

16

174

535

1 878

Translated into CHF using average exchange rates 2017 (EUR/CHF 1.1117) 1) Including settlement of all contractual and legal entitlements of one departed member of Group Management

The Annual General Meeting approves the compensation of the members of Group Management in euros, since the compensation is paid out mostly in this currency. This allows for deviations between approved and effective compensation as a result of exchange rate changes to be avoided. For this reason, ALSO presents the compensation in EUR as well as in CHF.

AGGREGATE COMPENSATION IN EUR

eur 1 000

Cash Non-cash benefits/

(gross)

miscellaneous

Fixed compensation Variable compensation

Pension expenses

Fixed total compensation

Cash bonus (gross)

Group Management

total1)

938

53

317

1 308

2 914

Approved at the Annual General Meeting

1 500

3 500

Highest individual compensation
Gustavo Möller-Hergt

310

14

157

481

1 689

1) Including settlement of all contractual and legal entitlements of one departed member of Group Management

Total 2017 4 693 2 413
Total 2017 4 222 5 000 2 170

74

ALSO Annual Report 2018

Compensation report

7.
COMPENSATION PAID TO FORMER MEMBERS OF GOVERNING BODIES
In the reporting year, no compensation was paid to former members of the Board of Directors. An agreed benefit payment of CHF 84925 was made to one former member of Group Management.
A benefit payment of CHF 81741 was made to a former member of Group Management in the previous year.
8.
COMPENSATION PAID TO RELATED PARTIES
Neither in the reporting year, nor in the prior year, was any c ompensation paid by ALSO Holding AG, or any other Group company, to any related parties of present or former members of the governing bodies.

9.
LOANS AND BORROWING FACILITIES
9.1 CURRENT AND FORMER MEMBERS OF THE GOVERNING BODIES
The company does not grant loans or credits to members of the Board of Directors or Group Management according to Art. 25, Paragraph 2 of the Articles of Association ( www.also.com/ goto/articlesofassociation). Neither in the reporting year, nor in the prior year, were any loans or credits granted by ALSO Holding AG, or any other Group company, to any present or former members of the governing bodies, nor were any such loans or credits outstanding at December 31, 2018.
9.2 RELATED PARTIES
Neither in the reporting year, nor in the prior year, were any loans or credits granted by ALSO Holding AG, or any other Group company, to any related parties of present or former members of the governing bodies, nor were any such loans or credits outstanding at December 31, 2018.

75

ALSO Annual Report 2018

Compensation report

Report of the statutory auditor to the General Meeting on the compensation report 2018

We have audited the compensation report of ALSO Holding AG paragraphs 5. to 9. on pages 71 to 75 for the year ended 31 December 2018.

Board of Directors' responsibility

The Board of Directors is responsible for the preparation and overall fair presentation of the compensation report in accordance with Swiss law and the Ordinance against Excessive Compensation in Stock Exchange Listed Companies (Ordinance). The Board of Directors is also responsible for designing the compensation system and defining individual compensation packages.

Auditor's responsibility

Our responsibility is to express an opinion on the accompanying compensation report. We conducted our audit in accordance with Swiss Auditing Standards. Those standards require that we comply with ethical requirements and plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the compensation report complies with Swiss law and articles 14­16 of the Ordinance.

An audit involves performing procedures to obtain audit evidence on the disclosures made in the compensation report with regard to compensation, loans and credits in accordance with articles 14­16 of the Ordinance. The procedures selected depend on the auditor's judgment, including the assessment of the risks of material misstatements in the compensation report, whether due to fraud or error. This audit also includes evaluating the reasonableness of the methods applied to value components of compensation, as well as assessing the overall presentation of the compensation report.

We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our opinion.

Opinion

In our opinion, the compensation report of ALSO Holding AG for the year ended 31 December 2018 complies with Swiss law and articles 14­16 of the Ordinance.

PricewaterhouseCoopers AG

Joanne Burgener Audit expert Auditor in charge

Andreas Wolf Audit expert

Lucerne, 12 February 2019

76

4
FINANCIAL REPORT

ALSO Annual Report 2018

Financial report

CONSOLIDATED INCOME STATEMENT

eur 1000
total net sales Cost of goods sold and services provided gross profit Personnel expenses Other operating expenses Other operating income ebitda Depreciation and amortization operating profit (ebit) Financial income Financial expenses profit before tax (ebt) Income taxes net profit group
Attributable to shareholders of ALSO Holding AG Attributable to non-controlling interests
earnings per share in eur1) Basic earnings per share Diluted earnings per share
1) Attributable to the shareholders of ALSO Holding AG

Note 4.1
4.2 4.4 4.4
5.5 / 5.6
4.5 4.5
4.6

2018
9 175 710 100.0% ­8 633 002
542 708 5.9% ­218 850 ­192 071
20 891 152 678 1.7% ­15 962 136 716 1.5%
2 414 ­21 833 117 297 1.3% ­36 134
81 163 0.9% 81 133
30

2017
8 890 688 100.0% ­8 346 340
544 348 6.1% ­219 256 ­183 879
16 067 157 280 1.8% ­16 320 140 960 1.6%
1 925 ­18 705 124 180 1.4% ­31 653
92 527 1.0% 92 630
­103

5.13

6.33

7.22

5.13

6.33

7.22

The accompanying notes form an integral part of the consolidated financial statements.

78

ALSO Annual Report 2018

Financial report

CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF COMPREHENSIVE INCOME

eur 1000
profit for the year recognized in the consolidated income statement
items that will not be subsequently reclassified to profit or loss Remeasurement of defined benefit plans Tax effects thereof subtotal
items that may be subsequently reclassified to profit or loss Exchange differences Fair value adjustments on cash flow hedges Tax effects thereof subtotal
other comprehensive income
total comprehensive income Attributable to shareholders of ALSO Holding AG Attributable to non-controlling interests
The accompanying notes form an integral part of the consolidated financial statements.

Note

2018 81 163

2017 92 527

289

1 043

4.6

­45

­148

244

895

2 152

­6 619

­2 457

1 655

4.6

865

­239

560

­5 203

804

­4 308

81 967 81 937
30

88 219 88 322
­103

79

ALSO Annual Report 2018

Financial report

CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF FINANCIAL POSITION
ASSETS

eur 1000
current assets Cash and cash equivalents Trade receivables Inventories Prepaid expenses, accrued income and other receivables Derivative financial instruments total current assets
non-current assets Property, plant and equipment Intangible assets Financial assets Derivative financial instruments Deferred tax assets total non-current assets
total assets

Note

12.31.2018

12.31.2017

5.1

240405

235561

5.2

622223

570713

5.3

915309

834123

5.4

337221

257872

6.2

203

70

2115361 89%

1898339 88%

5.5

83512

84169

5.6

165786

165200

6.2

8174

2280

6.2

2227

124

4.6

7201

8392

266900

11%

260165

12%

2382261 100%

2158504 100%

The accompanying notes form an integral part of the consolidated financial statements.

80

ALSO Annual Report 2018

Financial report

LIABILITIES AND EQUITY
eur 1000
current liabilities Financial liabilities Trade payables Accrued expenses, deferred income and other payables Derivative financial instruments Tax liabilities Provisions total current liabilities
non-current liabilities Financial liabilities Provisions Derivative financial instruments Deferred tax liabilities Employee benefits total non-current liabilities
total liabilities
equity Share capital Capital reserves Treasury shares Cash flow hedge reserve Exchange differences Remeasurement of defined benefit plans Retained earnings equity attributable to also shareholders Non-controlling interests total equity
total liabilities and equity

Note

12.31.2018

12.31.2017

5.8

124449

83571

1015 783

851090

5.9

237166

228334

6.2

578

1077

8226

10193

5.10

9094

5050

1395 296 59%

1179 315 55%

5.8

279075

325722

5.10

5035

4592

6.2

7797

4866

4.6

8280

6637

4.3

11049

14077

311236

13%

355894 16%

1706 532 72%

1535 209 71%

9960

9960

104277

134947

5.11

­1 822

­1 822

­3 947

­2 189

333

­1 985

­8 747

­8 991

575469

493187

675523 28%

623107 29%

206

188

675729 28%

623295 29%

2382 261 100%

2158 504 100%

The accompanying notes form an integral part of the consolidated financial statements.

81

ALSO Annual Report 2018

Financial report

CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF CHANGES IN EQUITY

eur 1000

Note

Share capital

december 31, 2017 as reported

Restatement1)

january 1, 2018

Net profit Group

Other comprehensive income

total comprehensive income

Distributions to

shareholders

5.13

Remeasurement of put

options on shares of non-

controlling interests

2.7

december 31, 2018

9960 0
9960 0
0
0
0
0 9960

january 1, 2017

Net profit Group

Other comprehensive income

total comprehensive income

Distributions to

shareholders

5.13

Acquisition of non-con-

trolling interests

3

Remeasurement of put

options on shares of non-

controlling interests

2.7

Measurement adjustment

treasury shares

5.11

december 31, 2017

9960 0 0 0 0 0
0 0 9960

1) See comment on application of IFRS 9 in Note 2.2 2) See Note 5.12

Capital reserves
134947 0
134947 0 0 0
­30 670
0 104277 161896
0 0 0 ­26 949 0
0 0 134947

Treasury shares

Other reserves2)

Retained earnings

Equity attributable
to shareholders

Noncontrolling
interests

Total

­1 822 0
­1 822 0
0
0
0

­13 165 0
­13 165 0
804
804
0

493187 ­231
492956 81133
0
81133
0

623107 ­231
622876 81133
804
81937
­30 670

188 623295

0

­231

188 623064

30

81163

0

804

30

81967

0 ­30 670

0 ­1 822
­1 194 0

0 ­12 361
­8 857 0

1380 575469
403234 92630

1380 675523
565039 92630

0

­4 308

0

­4 308

0

­4 308

92630

88322

0

0

0 ­26 949

0

0

­4 388

­4 388

­12 206
142 ­103

1368 675729
565181 92527

0

­4 308

­103

88219

0 ­26 949

0

­4 388

0
­628 ­1 822

0
0 ­13 165

1711
0 493187

1711
­628 623107

149

1860

0

­628

188 623295

The accompanying notes form an integral part of the consolidated financial statements.

82

ALSO Annual Report 2018

Financial report

CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF CASH FLOWS

eur 1000
net profit group Depreciation and amortization Change of provisions and employee benefits Gains /losses from the sale of non-current assets Other non-cash items subtotal
Change in trade receivables Change in receivables from factoring Change in inventories Change in prepaid expenses, accrued income and other receivables Change in trade payables Change in accrued expenses, deferred income and other payables cash flow from operating activities
Net cash flow from acquisitions of subsidiaries (see Note 3) Payment of contingent consideration from acquisitions of subsidiaries (see Note 3) Additions to property, plant and equipment Additions to intangible assets Disposals of property, plant and equipment Additions/disposals of financial assets cash flow from investing activities
Distributions to shareholders Proceeds from increase of financial liabilities Repayments of financial liabilities Proceeds from factoring liabilities cash flow from financing activities
Exchange differences
change in cash and cash equivalents
cash and cash equivalents at january 1 cash and cash equivalents at december 31
Included in cash flow from operating activities Income taxes paid Interest paid Interest received
The accompanying notes form an integral part of the consolidated financial statements.

2018
81163 15962
1238 ­847 6543 104059
­35 351 ­54 180 ­69 057 ­25 388 151543
16452 88078
­14 623 ­594
­10 150 ­3 429 4489 ­5 870
­30 177
­30 670 3 055
­36 998 11648
­52 965
­92
48 4 4
235561 240405
32628 17238
224

2017
92527 16320 ­4 482
37 ­6 747 97655
72870 11006 ­84 377 ­9 394 ­8 426 15547 94881
­9 734 ­2 763 ­11 002 ­4 402
239 120 ­27 542
­26 949 159407 ­21 505
1947 112900
­155
180084
55477 235561
28425 16127
273

83

ALSO Annual Report 2018

Financial report

NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

1.
CORPORATE INFORMATION
The basis of ALSO's business models are the two customer categories "providers" and "buyers". The ALSO Group has a portfolio of more than 550 vendors in the various ICT product categories of hardware, software, and IT services, including all global market leaders. We offer the vendors access to a broad spectrum of buyers, who can call up further customized services in the logistics, finance, IT, and digital services sectors, as well as traditional distribution services. ALSO offers services along the entire value chain from a single source.
On the basis of a European B2B marketplace, the customers are enabled to sustainably shape and develop their businesses.
2.
ACCOUNTING POLICIES
2.1 BASIS OF PREPARATION
The ALSO Group's consolidated financial statements are prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Swiss Code of Obligations and the International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS), as well as the accounting and measurement principles described below. The consolidated financial statements are prepared on the assumption of a going concern. The consolidated financial statements are prepared on a historical cost basis, except for certain financial assets and liabilities which are measured at fair value. The financial statements are available in German and English, of which the German version is binding.
These consolidated financial statements for the fiscal year 2018 of ALSO Holding AG, Meierhofstrasse 5, CH-6032 Emmen inclusive all of its directly or indirectly controlled subsidiaries are presented in EUR(reporting currency), since the majority of revenues are generated in the euro area. For clarity, all values are presented in thousands of euros (TEUR).

2.2 SIGNIFICANT CHANGES IN THE ACCOUNTING AND MEASUREMENT PRINCIPLES
The accounting policies adopted are consistent with those of the previous fiscal year except for those new and amended standards and interpretations effective from January 1, 2018, which are listed below. A description of the changes and their impact on the consolidated financial statements is provided below if they materially affect the financial position, performance, or cash flow situation of ALSO:
I FRS9 Financial Instruments I FRS15 Revenue from Contracts with Customers  IFRIC22 Foreign Currency Transactions and Advance Con-
sideration Conceptual Framework for Financial Reporting Classification and Measurement of Share-based Payment
Transactions (Amendments to IFRS2) Measuring an associate or joint venture at fair value
(Amendments to IAS28) Transfers of Investment Property (Amendments to IAS40) Making Materiality Judgements (IFRSPractice Statement)
ADOPTION OF IFRS9 FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS Since January 1, 2018, ALSO applied IFRS9 for the first time. The main effects of the new standard are the classification and measurement of financial assets and impairments on financial assets.
CLASSIFICATION AND MEASUREMENT OF FINANCIAL ASSETS
Since January 1, 2018, ALSO has reclassified its financial assets as "at fair value through profit or loss", "at fair value through other comprehensive income" or "at amortized cost". Financial assets were previously classified as "loans and receivables", "at fair value through profit or loss" or "at amortized cost".
The classification is based on the respective business model for managing these financial assets in accordance with the contractually specified cash flows.

The effects of IFRS9 on the corresponding items in the consolidated statement of financial position as of January 1, 2018 are presented below. In accordance with transitional requirements of IFRS9, ALSO has not adjusted its previous year figures.

84

ALSO Annual Report 2018

Financial report

RESTATEMENT ACCORDING TO IFRS 9
eur 1000
Cash and cash equivalents Trade receivables Prepaid expenses, accrued income and other receivables Financial assets Current derivative financial instruments Non-current derivative financial instruments total financial assets
Financial liabilities Trade payables Accrued expenses, deferred income and other payables Current derivative financial instruments Non-current derivative financial instruments total financial liabilities

Classification and measurement as per December 31, 2017 (IAS 39)

Loans and receivables

At fair value through
profit or loss

Amortized cost

Restatement as per January 1, 2018

Classification and measurement as per January 1, 2018 (IFRS 9)

At fair value through
profit or loss

At fair value through OCI

Amortized cost

235561

­

­

­

­

­

235561

570713

­

­

­78

­ 485778

84857

238615

­

2280

­

­

70

­

­153

­

­

­

­

­

­

70

­

238462

­

2280

­

­

­ 1047 169
­ ­

77

­

147

­

621

408672

­

851090

­ ­231
­ ­

77

­

147 485778

­ 561160

621

­

408672

­

­

851090

­

­

80947

­

360

­

­

2750

­

­

­

­

360

­

2750

­

80947

­

­

­

­

­

3731 1340 709

­

3731

­ 1340 709

ALSO primarily covers its financing requirements through the sale of its trade receivables to independent factoring partners. These transactions reduce the trade receivables of the Group if a significant risk transfer takes place. Trade receivables that qualify for sale to independent factoring partners, but were not sold or assigned as of the end of the reporting period, are now classified as "measured at fair value through OCI". Changes in the value on these trade receivables are recognized in other comprehensive income. Changes in provision for bad debts and currency revaluation continue to be recognized in profit or loss.
IMPAIRMENT ON FINANCIAL ASSETS
In accordance with IFRS9, ALSO recognizes impairments on financial assets based on expected losses. ALSO applies the simplified expected credit loss model for its trade receivables, which provides for expected losses over all the remaining lifetime from the recognition date of the receivables.

The credit risk on prepaid expenses, accrued income and other receivables and financial assets is expected to be low. In this case, IFRS9 provides that losses recognized are expected to be incurred over the next 12 months.
The provision for bad debts and receivables from factors (included in prepaid expenses, accrued income and other receivables) were reassessed in accordance with the new impairment model as of January 1, 2018. The provisions necessary subsequently increased by TEUR231. The adjustment was compensated for by the item "retained earnings".
The increase in provision for bad debts of TEUR78 is related to receivables that are not yet due.
Provisions were recognized on receivables from factors (included in prepaid expenses, accrued income and other receivables) in the amount of TEUR153 for the first time. These related to the entire portfolio of receivables.

85

ALSO Annual Report 2018

Financial report

The table below shows the effect of the changes of IFRS9 on provisions for bad debts and prepaid expenses, accrued income and other receivables as of January 1, 2018:

eur 1000
Trade receivables (gross) Provision for bad debts previously (IAS39) Provision for bad debts new (IFRS9) total trade receivables

12.31.2017
574799
­4086 ­
570713

1.1.2018
574799
­ ­4164 570635

eur 1000
Prepaid expenses, accrued income and other receivables (gross) Provision previously (IAS39) Provision new (IFRS9) total prepaid expenses, accrued income and other receivables

12.31.2017
238615 ­ ­
238615

1.1.2018
238615 ­
­153 238462

ADOPTION OF IFRS15 REVENUE WITH CONTRACTS FROM CUSTOMERS Since January 1, 2018, ALSO applies IFRS15. The significant effects of the new standard are in the introduction of a five step model, which has to be used to assess the timing and amount of revenue. The model specifies that revenue should be accounted for at the time of the transfer of control of ALSO's products or services to customers in the amount expected to be available to ALSO.
In accordance with IAS8 and IFRS15, this initial application is retrospective, which basically results in an adjustment being made to previous periods. ALSO has exercised the option of not applying IFRS15 to contracts concluded before January 1, 2017. The customer contracts subject to the major business models do not contain any circumstances that must be accounted for or disclosed differently under IFRS15 than under the previous standards and interpretations, which is why an adjustment of the

previous periods is not necessary. Both for the traditional transactional business models and for trading business with products that form part of comprehensive solutions, there is only a short interval between concluding the contract and performing the service/recognizing net sales. Services performed for customers on the basis of service contracts are of a transactional nature or are provided over short periods that form the basis for billing to customers. Thus, net sales are recognized at a specific date and not over a period.
ADOPTION OF OTHER CHANGES None of the other changes have any material effect on the financial position, performance, or cash flow situation of ALSO.
2.3 PUBLISHED STANDARDS, INTERPRETATIONS, AND AMENDMENTS NOT YET APPLIED
The following standards, interpretations, and amendments which have been issued but not yet applied by ALSO are being constantly analyzed by ALSO for their impact on the consolidated financial statements:
I FRS 16 Leases ­ effective January 1, 2019 I FRIC23 Uncertainty over Income Tax Treatments ­ effec-
tive January 1, 2019 Prepayment Features with Negative Compensation (Amend-
ments to IFRS9) ­ effective January 1, 2019 Long-term Interests in Associates and Joint Ventures
(Amendments to IAS28) ­ effective January 1, 2019 Plan Amendment, Curtailment or Settlement (Amendments
to IAS19) ­ effective January 1, 2019 Remeasurement of previously held interest (Amendments
to IFRS3 and IFRS11) ­ effective January 1, 2019 Income tax consequences of dividends (Amendments to
IAS 12) ­ effective January 1, 2019 Borrowing costs eligible for capitalization (Amendments to
IAS23) ­ effective January 1, 2019 Amendments to References to Conceptual Framework in
IFRSStandards ­ effective January 1, 2020 Sale or Contribution of Assets between an Investor and
its Associate or Joint Venture (Proposed amendments to IFRS 10 and IAS28) ­ date of initial application unknown

86

ALSO Annual Report 2018

Financial report

ADOPTION OF IFRS16 LEASES ALSO applies IFRS16 since January 1, 2019. This standard replaces IAS17 and the corresponding interpretations and clarifications. The main effect on ALSO is that IFRS16 introduces a single lessee accounting model to recognize assets and liabilities for almost all leases.
The initial application is carried out by the simplified transition approach, which means, the comparative amounts will not be restated. Right-of-use assets are measured on transition as if the new rules had always been applied. Lease liabilities reflect the net present value of the remaining lease payments. Due to capitalization of almost all leases, the total assets and financial debt increases, which results in a decrease of the equity ratio. Considering discount effects and accounting options (short-term and low-value leases), ALSO expects an increase of total assets from EUR100 to 140million and a decrease in equity between EUR4 and 7million. For future lease payments, refer to Note 6.4.
ALSO does not expect any material effects on the net profit by the application of IFRS16, due to the replacement of operating lease expenses with depreciation on right-of-use assets and interest expenses. However, this leads to a decrease of other operating expenses while depreciation/amortization and financial expenses increase. Hence, EBIT and especially EBITDA increases. Due to the new disclosure, cash flow from operating activities and cash flow from financing activities will decrease.
ADOPTION OF OTHER CHANGES From today's perspective, the application of other changes will not have any material effects on the capital, financial, income, or cash flow situation of ALSO. ALSO applies the changes for the first time as from the fiscal year following the date stated in the standard.

2.4 KEY ASSUMPTIONS AND ESTIMATES
Preparation of the financial statements in accordance with IFRSrequires management to make certain assumptions and estimates which influence the figures presented in this report. The necessary analyses and assessments are continuously reviewed and modified if necessary. However, the actual results may differ from these estimates. The main items whose amount and presentation materially depend on assumptions and estimates are as follows:
VENDOR BONUSES The accruals of vendor receivables for bonuses contain estimates which are based on various factors such as sales volumes, quantities, stock levels, and other qualitative and quantitative targets. The amount recognized for the bonuses depends mainly on the attainment of the agreed targets. The bonus models vary between the vendors.
IMPAIRMENT OF GOODWILL ALSO tests the capitalized goodwill at least once per year for impairment. This requires an assessment of the value in use of an underlying cash-generating unit or group of cash-generating units. The estimates of factors such as volumes, sales prices, sales growth, gross margin, operating expenses and investments, market conditions, balance sheet structure, and other economic factors, as well as parameters (e.g. discount rates) derived from external data, are based on assumptions that management considers reasonable see Note 5.7.
DEFERRED TAX ASSETS Deferred tax assets are determined on the basis of estimates. The forecasts that are made for this purpose cover a timeframe of several years and include interpretations of existing tax laws and ordinances as well as changes in tax rates see Note 4.6.

SALE OF TRADE RECEIVABLES In various countries, ALSO sells trade receivables to independent factoring companies. The assessment of whether the contractual arrangements of the factoring programs result in a significant transfer of risk, and the associated derecognition of the receivables, has a significant influence on the balance sheet of ALSO
see Note 6.8.

87

ALSO Annual Report 2018

Financial report

EMPLOYEE BENEFITS In various countries there are defined benefit plans. The defined benefit liability is based partly on long-term actuarial assumptions which may differ from actual future developments. Determination of the discount rate, the future development of salaries and pensions, and life expectancy are important components of the actuarial measurement.
2.5 SCOPE OF CONSOLIDATION
These consolidated financial statements include the annual financial statements as of December 31 of ALSO Holding AG and of the companies over which ALSO has control. ALSO controls a subsidiary when ALSO is exposed to the risks of the entity, has rights to variable returns from its involvement in the entity, and can affect these returns through exercise of its power over the entity. By this definition, ALSO controls SINAS Beteiligungs GmbH & Co. Vermietungs-KG, even though less than half of its voting shares are owned by ALSO. With the opening of insolvency proceedings under self-administration, ALSO lost control of ALSO Logistics Services GmbH in 2015. Nevertheless, as a member of the Creditor Committee, ALSO exercises significant influence on ALSO Logistics Services GmbH. Furthermore, ALSO owns 9.9% of the

voting rights of ALSO Financial Services GmbH. ALSO exercises significant influence on the entity and accounts for ALSO Financial Services GmbH using the equity method.
With the opening of insolvency proceedings under self-administration, ALSO lost control of ALSO Digital Holding B.V. on Mai 15, 2018. ALSO Digital Holding B.V. is now under the management of the insolvency administrator. ALSO is not authorized to issue instructions to the insolvency administrator. Despite holding 51% of the voting rights in ALSO Digital Holding B.V., ALSO therefore has no control over this company and its 100% subsidiary ALSO Digital B.V. A gain of TEUR176 resulted from the deconsolidation of ALSO Digital Holding B.V. It is composed of impairment on loans, effects of deconsolidation and accruals for expected costs.
Subsidiaries are fully consolidated from the date on which control is transferred to ALSO and deconsolidated from the date that control ceases. Group companies are listed in Note 6.5.
CHANGES IN 2018 The following companies were acquired by the ALSO Group in 2018 and were included in the scope of consolidation:

Country France Lithuania Slovenia
Ukraine Belarus

Domicile
Dardilly Kaunas Ljubljana Ljubljana Ljubljana Kiev Minsk

Company name
DistriWan S.A.S. UAB "Sophela" DISS d.o.o. VAD d.o.o. Marmis d.o.o. TOB Sophela Sophela OOO

Voting interest
100.00% 100.00% 100.00% 100.00% 100.00% 100.00% 100.00%

88

ALSO Annual Report 2018

Financial report

CHANGES IN 2017 The following companies were acquired by the ALSO Group in 2017 and were included in the scope of consolidation:

Country France Finland Netherlands
Belgium

Domicile
Paris Helsinki Utrecht Utrecht Utrecht Mechelen

Company name
BeIP S.A.S Internet Smartsec Oy All 4 U B.V. Esseko B.V. Five 4 U Nederland B.V. Five 4 U BVBA

Voting interest
51.00% 100.00% 100.00% 100.00% 100.00% 100.00%

2.6 CONSOLIDATION METHOD
The consolidated financial statements are based on the financial statements of the individual Group companies, which are prepared using consistent accounting and measurement policies throughout the Group.
Assets and liabilities, as well as income and expenses, are included at their full amounts, and non-controlling interests in equity and net profit are shown separately.
All intragroup transactions (expenses, income, assets, and liabilities), as well as material unrealized gains from intragroup sales of assets which have not yet been sold to third parties, are eliminated.
2.7 ACQUISITIONS
Acquisitions are accounted for using the acquisition method. If the consideration transferred for the acquisition of an entity exceeds the underlying fair value of the identifiable net assets that are acquired, the excess represents goodwill. For the purpose of impairment testing, goodwill acquired in a business combination is, from the acquisition date, allocated to the cash-generating units that are expected to benefit, or generate future cash flows, from the combination. The goodwill is recognized in the cash-generating unit's functional currency.
Acquisition costs are recognized as expense and reported as other operating expenses.

For each business combination, the acquirer measures the non-controlling interests in the acquired entity either at fair value or in proportion to the identifiable net assets of the acquired entity.
Contingent liabilities that are acquired through the acquisition, and whose fair value can be reliably determined, are recognized in the acquisition balance sheet as liabilities at their fair value.
The results of the acquired companies are recognized from the date on which the Group obtains control. When an entity leaves the scope of the consolidation, the difference between the consideration received and the net assets plus accumulated foreign exchange differences at the date on which the Group loses control of the entity is recognized in the financial result.
If a business combination is achieved in stages, the acquirer's previously held equity interest in the acquiree is remeasured to fair value at each acquisition date and a resulting gain or loss relating to the previously held equity interest is recognized through profit or loss.
If the Group undertakes a business combination with put options that are held by shareholders of non-controlling interests and does not thereby obtain ownership, the non-controlling interests continue to be allocated a share in the profits. At the end of each reporting period, the allocation is recognized as a financial liability as if the acquisition had taken place at this date. Any excess over the reclassified amount, and all changes in the present value of the financial liability, are recognized in retained earnings.
A change in the ownership interest in a subsidiary without loss of control is recognized as an equity transaction.

89

ALSO Annual Report 2018

Financial report

2.8 INVESTMENTS IN ASSOCIATES
Entities over which ALSO has significant influence, but not control, are accounted for by the equity method. ALSO is generally considered to have significant influence if it holds an interest of between 20% and 50% in an entity. Under the equity method, the investment is initially recognized at cost. In subsequent measurements, the carrying amount is increased by the share in profits of the entity and reduced by its share in losses and by dividend payments received from the entity. If the share in losses of the entity equal or exceed its carrying amount, ALSO ceases to recognize its share in losses. Provisions are recognized for any further share in losses if ALSO has a legal or constructive obligation.
The book value of investments in associates consists of the share in net assets and goodwill.
At each reporting date, ALSO tests for objective indications of impairment. Any impairment loss is recognized through profit or loss.
2.9 TRANSLATION OF FOREIGN CURRENCY
Each entity of the Group determines its own functional currency. The functional currency of the Group companies is the normal

currency of their local economic environment. Transactions in foreign currencies are translated into the respective functional currency at the spot rate that applies at the date of the transaction. All exchange gains and losses arising on transactions in foreign currencies, or on translation of monetary assets, are recognized in profit or loss.
Exchange gains on certain loans with equity-like nature are recognized in other comprehensive income provided that repayment of the loan is not planned or intended in the near future. Such exchange gains are recognized in other comprehensive income and only reclassified to the financial result upon loss of control of the entity or repayment of the loan.
The annual financial statements of the foreign operations that have a functional currency different from the Group reporting currency are translated into the Group reporting currency (EUR) as follows:
statement of financial position at year-end rates; income statement and statement of comprehensive income
at average annual rates; statement of cash flows at average annual rates.
Exchange differences arising on the translation of financial statements of entities whose functional currency is not the euro are recognized in other comprehensive income and on eventual loss of control of the subsidiary are reclassified to the financial result.

EXCHANGE RATES (TO EURO)
USA Switzerland Norway Denmark Sweden Poland

USD CHF NOK DKK SEK PLN

2018
1.1450 1.1269 9.9483 7.4673 10.2548 4.3014

Year-end rate 2017
1.1993 1.1702 9.8403 7.4449 9.8438 4.1770

2018
1.1810 1.1550 9.5975 7.4532 10.2583 4.2615

Average rate 2017
1.1297 1.1117 9.3270 7.4386 9.6351 4.2570

90

ALSO Annual Report 2018

Financial report

2.10 TOTAL NET SALES
Total net sales comprise invoiced deliveries of goods and services and other sales-related revenue.
Sales are recognized at a point of time when the control of the products or services has transferred to the customer and the performance obligation is fulfilled. The probability that the economic benefits associated with the transaction will flow to ALSO is taken into account. A customer has taken over control if he has the ability to direct the use of the product or service and obtains substantially all of the remaining benefits. An important indication of this is the transfer of risk and reward to the customer.
Both for the traditional transactional business models and for trading business with products that form part of comprehensive solutions, there is only a short interval between concluding the contract and performing the service/recognizing net sales. Services performed for customers on the basis of service contracts are of a transactional nature or are provided over short periods that form the basis for billing to customers. Thus, net sales are recognized at a specific date and not over a period.
Accruals for discounts and allowances granted to customers are recognized as a reduction in revenue at the time the related revenue is recognized. They are calculated on the basis of the specific terms of the individual agreements and the underlying revenues.
ALSO does not have any material, unsatisfied performance obligations.
2.11 PERSONNEL EXPENSES/EMPLOYEE BENEFIT PLANS
In addition to the actual remuneration for services rendered (wages, salaries, and bonuses), personnel expenses also include ancillary personnel costs and social security contributions. Awards for years of service are also recognized as personnel expenses over the underlying period of service and accrued accordingly.
The companies of the ALSO Group operate various employee benefit plans according to the local conditions and practices in the respective countries.

Defined contribution plans are post-employment plans under which the Group pays fixed contributions into a separate fund and is neither legally nor de facto obliged to pay further contributions.
For defined benefit pension plans, the costs of providing benefits as well as the required provisions are defined actuarily using the projected unit credit method. In the case of plans that provide higher benefit growth in later years (backloading), the benefits that can be acquired are assigned on the basis of the net liability excluding future employee-funded benefit components. The liabilities are backed with assets which are managed by autonomous separately funded benefit plans or with provisions for employee benefits which are recognized in the financial statements of the relevant entities.
A surplus in a defined benefit plan is only recognized to the amount of the future economic benefits that are available in the form of reductions in contributions or repayments, taking into account the upper limit for the asset (asset ceiling). A defined benefit obligation is fully recognized as a provision.
Pension costs are composed of three elements: Service costs, which are part of personnel expenses, and consist of current service costs, past service costs, and gains/losses from plan settlements; Net interest, which is recorded in the financial result, and is determined by applying the discount rate to the net defined benefit liability, or net defined benefit asset, that exists at the beginning of the year; Gains and losses resulting from actuarial remeasurement, which are immediately recognized in other comprehensive income as remeasurements of employee benefits. Remeasurements of employee benefits are not recycled through the income statement at any later point in time.
2.12 CAPITAL PARTICIPATION PLANS
Until February 8, 2011, the ALSO Group granted shares and options of ALSO Holding AG to then members of Group Management.
Under the terms of the share plan, the shares that were granted passed into the ownership of the beneficiaries with all associated rights, but subject to a vesting period of three years during which they may not be sold.

91

ALSO Annual Report 2018

Financial report

Under the terms of the option plan, the beneficiaries received on an annual basis option rights for the purchase of shares of ALSO Holding AG at a predetermined price. The options could only be exercised after a vesting period of three years. Payment in cash is not permitted.
The fair value of the option premiums from the capital participation plan see Note 6.6 as determined according to the HullWhite model was charged to personnel expenses over the vesting period of three years.
2.13 FINANCIAL ASSETS
Financial assets mainly comprise cash and cash equivalents, trade receivables, prepaid expenses, accrued income, and other receivables as well as financial assets.
Financial assets are categorized as follows: "Amortized costs": financial assets that are held for collection of contractual cash flows where those cash flows represent solely payments of principal and interest "At fair value through other comprehensive income": financial assets that are held for collection of contractual cash flows and for selling the financial assets, where the assets' cash flows represent solely payments of principal and interest All other financial assets are recorded "at fair value through profit or loss". In addition, certain financial instruments may also be voluntarily allocated to this category if the relevant conditions are .
The classification depends on the purpose for which the respective financial assets were acquired and on the contractual cash flows. Management determines the classification of financial assets at their initial recognition and reassesses the classification at each reporting date. Financial assets are initially recognized at fair value plus transaction costs. Financial assets in the category "fair value through profit or loss" are recognized exclusively at fair value. Trade receivables are recognized at transaction price. All purchases and sales are recognized on the trade date.

After their initial recognition, financial assets are measured depending on their category as follows:
"Amortized costs": At amortized cost using the effective interest method (equal distribution of cashflows during the term resulting in a zero difference of net present value).
"At fair value through other comprehensive income": At fair value. Any unrealized changes in value are recognized in other comprehensive income, except for interest that was calculated using the effective interest method, impairments and exchange rate fluctuations on borrowing instruments. In the case of sale, or other disposal, the cumulative gains and losses that are recognized in equity are reclassified into the net financial result (financial income, financial expense) of the current reporting period see Note 2.14.
"At fair value through profit or loss": At fair value. If the fair value is not readily available, it must be calculated using a recognized valuation model. Any changes in fair value are recognized in the income statement under net financial result (financial income or financial expense) or cost of goods sold for the respective reporting period.
In accordance with IFRS9, ALSO recognizes impairment losses on financial assets based on expected losses. The application to "trade receivables" is described in Note 2.16.
Default risks on Prepaid expenses, accrued income and other receivables as well as on financial assets are estimated at a low level. In this case, IFRS9 requires the recognition of those losses that are expected to occur within the next 12 months.
2.14 HEDGE ACCOUNTING
To hedge its interest and currency risks that result from its operating activities, financial transactions and investments, ALSO uses derivative financial instruments. The method used to recognize the resulting gain or loss on derivative financial instruments depends on whether the instrument is designed to hedge a specific risk and whether the hedge qualifies for hedge accounting.

92

ALSO Annual Report 2018

Financial report

ALSO uses derivative financial instruments to hedge foreseen transactions or fixed obligations. If the derivative financial instrument that is used qualifies as a cash flow hedge when the contract is entered into, changes in value of the effective component of this derivative are recognized in other comprehensive income. The ineffective component is recognized in profit or loss. At the date of initial recognition of the hedged asset or liability, or expense or income, the changes in value that were recognized in other comprehensive income are included in the respective hedged item.
The purpose of hedge accounting is to offset the changes in the hedged item and the hedging instrument in the income statement. To qualify as hedge accounting, the hedging relationship must meet the requirements regarding eligibility of the hedged item and hedging instrument, formal designation and documentation and effectiveness of the hedging relationship. Both at hedge inception and throughout the lifetime of the hedge, ALSO therefore documents its assessment of whether the hedge is highly effective in offsetting the risks of changes in fair values or cash flows resulting from changes in fair value of the hedging instrument.
Hedge accounting is especially not used for forward contracts, which represent effective hedges both economically and within the Group strategy. Depending on the economic background, changes in the market values of these derivative financial instruments are recognized in the income statement either in the gross margin (currency hedging) or the financial result (interest rate hedging).
2.15 CASH AND CASH EQUIVALENTS
In addition to cash on hand and current account balances, cash equivalents also include time deposits with an original term of up to three months.

The impairment of trade receivables takes place indirectly through a separate impairment account. The impairment charged to the income statement in the reporting period is reported under other operating expenses. Should a trade receivable no longer be collectable, the receivable, along with any impairment that has already been charged, is derecognized. Should a payment subsequently be received, it is credited to other operating income.
2.17 INVENTORIES
Inventories are recognized at the lower of purchase cost and net realizable value. The purchase costs contain all purchase and overhead costs incurred in bringing each product to its present location and condition. The inventories are valued using the weighted-average purchase price method. Value adjustments are made for slow-moving inventories or inventories with purchase cost higher than market value. Unsaleable inventories are written off in full.
2.18 PROPERTY, PLANT AND EQUIPMENT
Property, plant and equipment is valued at acquisition cost minus economically necessary depreciation. Borrowing costs of qualified assets (which means project duration greater than 12 months) are additionally capitalized. Maintenance and repair costs with no added value are not capitalized. Significant investments are broken down into their constituent parts if the estimated useful lives of the separate components differ.
Depreciation is calculated using the straight-line method over the estimated useful life of the asset. Impairments are recognized under depreciation and shown separately in the assets analysis. The depreciation method as well as the estimated residual values and useful lives are reviewed annually.

2.16 TRADE RECEIVABLES
Trade receivables are recognized at face value less provision for impairment. The Expected Credit Loss model is used for this purpose. Default rates based on historical experience are offset against the contractually foreseen payment streams.

Land Buildings Equipment Other property, plant and equipment

Not depreciated Useful life 25 years Useful life 2­15 years
Useful life 4­10years

ALSO applies the simplified Expected Credit Loss model for its trade receivables, which provides for expected losses over all the remaining lifetime from the recognition date of the receivables.

93

ALSO Annual Report 2018

Financial report

2.19 FINANCE LEASES

2.21 IMPAIRMENT

Leasing agreements that transfer to ALSO substantially all of the risks and benefits that are associated with ownership of the leased item are classified as finance leases. Equipment that is financed by leasing agreements is capitalized in the statement of financial position at the lower of market value or the net present value of the future lease payments. Non-current assets arising from finance leases are depreciated over their estimated useful life or the period of the agreement if shorter. Outstanding liabilities arising from finance leases are recognized as current and non-current financial liabilities.

Leases that do not transfer essentially all of the risks and benefits associated with ownership of the leased asset are classified as operating leases and the payments are recognized in the income statement.

2.20 INTANGIBLE ASSETS

Intangible assets comprise goodwill and internally created software, as well as licenses, patents and similar rights, customer lists, brand names, and software, that are acquired from third parties. The amortization of all intangible assets with finite useful lives is calculated by the straight-line method over the expected useful life. Impairment losses are recognized under amortization and disclosed separately in the assets analysis.

Goodwill is not normally amortized but tests for impairment are performed annually as well as whenever there is an indication that the goodwill may be impaired. Material borrowing costs relating to qualifying assets (project duration greater than 12 months) are additionally capitalized.

With the exception of goodwill, no intangible assets with indefinite useful lives are capitalized.

Software Customer lists Other intangible assets

Useful life 3­7 years Useful life 3­5 years Useful life 3 years

Goodwill is tested for impairment each year see Note 5.7. Impairment is determined by assessing the recoverable amount of the cash-generating unit (CGU or group of CGUs) to which the goodwill relates. The recoverable amount of an asset or CGU is the higher of its fair value less costs of disposal and its value in use. To determine the value in use, the cash flows for the next three years are estimated based on detailed budgets; beyond that period, a long-term growth rate is determined to forecast the future cash flows. The cash flows are then discounted at an appropriate discount rate. If the recoverable amount of the CGU is less than its carrying amount, an impairment loss is recognized. An impairment loss that is recognized against goodwill cannot be reversed in subsequent reporting periods.
Other non-current assets are tested for impairment whenever events or changed circumstances indicate a potential impairment. If there are indications of impairment, the recoverable amount of the asset is calculated. The recoverable amount of the non-current asset or CGU is the higher of its fair value less costs of disposal and its value in use. If the carrying amount exceeds the recoverable amount, the asset is written down to that amount. This special write-down (impairment) is reported separately in the assets analysis. An impairment reversal is possible if, at a later date, an impairment test shows that the loss in value no longer exists.
2.22 FACTORING
The ALSO Group has sold or assigned some of its trade receivables to finance companies (factors). The receivables are only derecognized when substantially all of the risks contained in the receivables have been transferred to the purchaser of the receivables. Based on current legal agreements relating to factoring, all or significant portions of the customer default risk are transferred to the receivables purchaser. The interest risk remains with the ALSO Group until the date at which the receivables are received by the purchaser of the receivables or until the contractually agreed latest date. Securitization reserves are reported under other receivables.

94

ALSO Annual Report 2018

Financial report

The credit risk of factoring partners is assessed using ratings from Standard & Poor's see Note 6.7. As the risks are considered to be low, those losses are recorded that are expected to occur in the next 12 months. Receivables from factoring partners and dilution reserves are reported in the category "amortized costs".
Remaining bad debt, interest, and currency risks are recognized as continuing involvement in trade accounts receivable. This continuing involvement is offset by a corresponding liability, which also takes into account the risk of its utilization.
Payment of the purchase price by the factoring company takes place either when the payment is received by the factoring company or with interest at the request of ALSO. The still outstanding part of the purchase price receivable is reported under other receivables.
Interest expense and administration fees resulting from the sale of receivables are recognized in the financial result.
2.23 FINANCIAL LIABILITIES

2.24 PROVISIONS
Provisions are liabilities of uncertain timing or amount. They are recognized if the ALSO Group has a legal or de facto present obligation from a past event, which will lead to a probable outflow of resources, and a reliable estimate can be made of the amount of the obligation.
Warranties in respect of products supplied or services rendered by ALSO give rise to legal or de facto obligations. Provisions for warranty-related costs are recognized at the date when the respective product is sold or service rendered. The amount of the necessary provision is based on historical experience and expected probabilities of future occurrence. The resulting expenses are normally limited to logistical processes for returning the defective products to the vendor. The cost of repair or replacement is borne by the vendor.
Restructuring provisions are only recognized when a detailed restructuring plan is available and its main features have been announced to all those affected by it.

Financial liabilities particularly include trade payables, liabilities to banks, other liabilities, liabilities from finance leases, and derivative financial liabilities.
Financial liabilities are separated into two categories. They are classified either as "at fair value through profit or loss", or as "amortized costs":
"At fair value through profit or loss": At their initial recognition and subsequently, these financial liabilities are measured at fair value. The transaction costs directly identifiable to the purchase of these liabilities are expensed. Derivatives with a negative replacement value are by definition assigned to this category.
"Amortized costs": This category serves as the residual category and mainly comprises financial debt. Financial liabilities are measured at amortized cost using the effective interest method. In addition to actual interest payments, interest expense also includes annual compound interest and pro rata transaction costs.

If the effect of the time-value of money is material, non-current provisions are discounted.
2.25 TAXES
Taxes on income are accrued in the same periods as the revenue and expenses to which they relate, and are reported as tax liabilities. Deferred taxes include the income tax effects of temporary differences between the Group's internal measurement criteria and the local tax measurement guidelines for assets and liabilities (comprehensive liability method). With this method, deferred taxes are created for temporary taxable differences. Deferred taxes are adjusted annually for any changes in local tax legislation. Tax-loss carry-forwards and deductible temporary differences are reported as deferred tax assets if it is sufficiently probable that future taxable profits will be adequate to utilize the respective deferred tax assets see Note 4.6.
Taxes that would have to be paid in the event of a payout of retained earnings in the subsidiaries are not accrued unless this type of payout is expected to be made in the near future.

95

ALSO Annual Report 2018

Financial report

2.26 EQUITY

3.
BUSINESS COMBINATIONS

Equity is composed of share capital, capital reserves, treasury shares, cash flow hedge reserves, exchange differences, remeasurement of defined benefit plans, retained earnings, and non-controlling interests.
The share capital represents the nominal capital of ALSO Holding AG. The capital reserves consist of all contributions to shareholders' equity received from outside the company other than share capital. Gains or losses resulting from the sale of treasury shares are also recognized in the capital reserves. The cash flow hedge reserve contains changes in the fair value of cash flow hedges. Under remeasurement of defined benefit plans, all actuarial gains and losses on the measurement of defined benefit plans are recognized. Under exchange differences, all exchange differences are recognized that result from translation of the financial statements of those Group companies whose functional currency is not the same as the reporting currency. Retained earnings comprise the gains/losses resulting from the decisions of the consolidated entities regarding the application of earnings that are carried forward to the new account and also includes the effects of the firsttime adoption of new IFRSstandards.
The share capital and the capital reserves are translated at historical exchange rates, dividends and other distributions at transactional exchange rates.
Dividends and other distributions to shareholders are charged to equity in the period in which they are declared.

ACQUISITION DISTRIWAN S.A.S.
On July 11, 2018, the ALSO Group acquired 100% of the voting shares in DistriWan S.A.S. DistriWan S.A.S., an unlisted company with registered office in Dardilly, France, is specialized in distributing network solutions. The objective of the acquisition is to strengthen the position of ALSO as supplier of security solutions and the access of an even broader customer basis.
The consideration transferred for 100% of the voting shares was TEUR2900. In the purchase price allocation, a fair value of the net assets of TEUR2214 was identified. Goodwill of TEUR686 was recognized. The goodwill mainly reflects the expected synergy effects from expanding the Solution business. Cash for the amount of TEUR470 was acquired. The fair value of trade receivables amounts to TEUR4618 and consists of gross contractual amounts of TEUR4927 and a provision for bad debts in the amount of TEUR309. No contingent liabilities were recognized. The goodwill is not tax-deductible.
Since information is still outstanding, the purchase price allocation that was performed on July 11, 2018 and revised at the reporting date is provisional.
Since the date of acquisition, DistriWan S.A.S. has contributed TEUR13275 to the net sales and TEUR444 to the net profit of ALSO.
At December 31, 2018, the purchase price of TEUR2900 had been fully paid out.

ACQUISITION DISS D.O.O.

On November 20, 2018, the ALSO Group acquired 100% of the voting shares in DISS Group (consisting of DISS d.o.o., VAD d.o.o., und Marmis d.o.o.). DISS d.o.o., an unlisted company with registered office in Ljubljana, Slovenia, is one of the leading distributors with value-added capabilities and strong focus on Solutions in Slovenia. The objective of the acquisition is to strengthen the presence of ALSO in the region in and around Slovenia.

96

ALSO Annual Report 2018

Financial report

The consideration transferred for 100% of the voting shares was TEUR12000. An additional contingent consideration (earnout) was agreed, which is due as of 2019. The estimated amount of that contingent consideration at the date of acquisition was TEUR1356. The amount of that contingent consideration depends on the operating results of the company.
In the purchase price allocation, a fair value of the net assets of TEUR13904 was identified. A negative goodwill of TEUR548 was recognized in financial income. Cash for the amount of TEUR947 was acquired. The fair value of trade receivables amounts to TEUR19687 and consists of gross contractual amounts of TEUR19766 and a provision for bad debts in the amount of TEUR79. No contingent liabilities were recognized.
Since information is still outstanding, the purchase price allocation that was performed on November 20, 2018 and revised at the reporting date is provisional.
Since the date of acquisition, DISS has contributed TEUR10539 to the net sales and TEUR204 to the net profit of ALSO.
As at December 31, 2018, TEUR12000 of the purchase price of TEUR13356 had been paid out.

CONSEQUENCES OF THE ACQUISITIONS
If the acquisitions had taken place at the beginning of the year, the net sales of ALSO for the period would have been TEUR9272304 and the net profit TEUR83300.
TENDER OFFER FOR ABC DATA S.A.
On December 21, 2018, ALSO signed an agreement with MCI Euroventures, the current majority shareholder of ABC Data S.A. based in Warsaw, Poland, to make a joint tender offer for all publicly held shares of ABC Data S.A., listed on the Warsaw Stock Exchange. The aim is to fully take over the operational activities of ABC Data.
Completion of the acquisition is subject to the approval of the relevant antitrust authorities.
ABC Data operates in six Eastern European countries and is the leading Polish supplier of IT equipment and consumer electronics. The objective of the acquisition is to strengthen the market position in Eastern Europe and to further develop the solutions and service business.

ACQUISITION SALES AND SERVICE BUSINESS OF HEWLETT PACKARD ENTERPRISE (HPE)

On November 1, 2018, the ALSO Group, through its subsidiaries UAB ,,Sophela", TOB Sophela und Sophela OOO, acquired some assets and liabilities of HPE. The objective of the acquisition is the takeover of the sales and service business of HPE in the Ukraine and Belarus as well as Lithuania. With this step, ALSO expands further into growing markets in Eastern Europe.

The consideration transferred for the acquired assets and liabilities was TEUR1140. In the purchase price allocation, a fair value of the net assets of TEUR1140 was identified. No contingent liabilities were recognized.

Since information is still outstanding, the purchase price allocation that was performed on November 1, 2018 and revised at the reporting date is provisional.

Since the date of acquisition, Sophela has contributed TEUR5484 to the net sales and TEUR­161 to the net profit of ALSO.

At December 31, 2018, the purchase price of TEUR 1 140 had been fully paid out.

97

ALSO Annual Report 2018

Financial report

ASSETS AND LIABILITIES FROM BUSINESS COMBINATIONS

eur 1000

DistriWan S.A.S.1)

Fair values at the date of acquisition

DISS1)

Sophela1)

current assets Cash and cash equivalents Trade receivables Inventories Prepaid expenses, accrued income and other receivables total current assets
non-current assets Property, plant and equipment Intangible assets Financial assets Deferred tax assets total non-current assets total assets
current liabilities Financial liabilities Trade payables Accrued expenses, deferred income and other payables Tax liabilities Provisions total current liabilities
non-current liabilities Financial liabilities Provisions Deferred tax liabilities total non-current liabilities total liabilities
Total net assets Goodwill Negative goodwill consideration transferred
analysis of cash flows from the acquisitions Cash acquired Cash paid net cash outflow
1) Provisional amounts.

470 4618 2009 1101 8198
101 272
24 126 523 8721
600 4952
235 463
19 6269
163 ­
75 238 6507
2214 686 ­
2900
470 ­2900 ­2430

947 19687
7574 157
28365
1154 783 ­ 142
2079 3 04 4 4
6911 6891
479 2016
­ 16297
­ 102 141 243 16540
13904 ­
­548 13356
947 ­12000 ­11053

­ ­ 1044 ­ 10 4 4
91 5 ­ ­
96 1140
­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­
­ ­ ­ ­ ­
1140 ­ ­
1140
­ ­1140 ­1140

Total
1417 24305 10627
1258 37607
1346 1060
24 268 2698 40305
7511 11843
714 2479
19 22566
163 102 216 481 23047
17258 686
­548 17396
1417 ­16040 ­14623

98

ALSO Annual Report 2018

Financial report

BUSINESS COMBINATIONS 2017
ACQUISITION OF BEIP S.A.S. On January 6, 2017, the ALSO Group acquired 51% of the voting shares in BeIP S.A.S. BeIP S.A.S., an unlisted company with registered office in Paris, France, offers a wide portfolio of IT technologies and related support services, mainly in the areas of network and security infrastructure. The objective of the acquisition is to strengthen the market position of ALSO in France.
The provisional purchase price allocation as of January 6, 2017 was completed in 2018. There was no change in the measurement of the acquired net assets.

OTHER ACQUISITIONS In 2017, ALSO acquired some assets and liabilities of companies that are active in the printing area and in preinstallation and recycling services. In one of these acquisitions the net assets acquired exceeded the agreed purchase price by TEUR398. This negative goodwill was recognized in 2017 in the income statement as financial income and represented a reduction in the purchase price for the amount of operative cost savings for the seller.
In 2017, ALSO acquired remaining voting shares in ALSO Polska sp. z o.o. for the amount of TEUR2763.

ACQUISITION OF INTERNET SMARTSEC OY On February 2, 2017, the ALSO Group acquired 100% of the voting shares in Internet Smartsec Oy, an unlisted company with registered office in Helsinki, Finland, that offers high-standard security and network products and provides consultation and training in data security and data networks. The objective of the acquisition is to strengthen the market position of ALSO in Finland.

The provisional purchase price allocation as of February 2, 2017 was completed in 2018. There was no change in the measurement of the acquired net assets.

ACQUISITION OF FIVE 4 U B.V. On July 6, 2017, the ALSO Group acquired 100% of the voting shares in Five 4 U Group (consisting of Five 4 U B.V., All 4 U B.V., Esseko B.V. and Five 4 U BVBA). Five 4 U, an unlisted company with registered office in Utrecht, the Netherlands, and Mechelen, Belgium, is one of the leading specialized distributors for hardware and software in the Benelux with Apple products and with graphic arts expertise. The objective of the acquisition is to open up new customer groups in the Netherlands and Belgium and to expand the product portfolio, foremost in the area of graphics.

The provisional purchase price allocation as of July 6, 2017 was completed in 2018. There was no change in the measurement of the acquired net assets.

In 2018, additional purchase price payments in the amount of TEUR594 were due for the acquisition of Five 4 U. This amount was already included in the purchase price allocation as of July 6, 2017.

99

ALSO Annual Report 2018

Financial report

4.
NOTES TO THE INCOME STATEMENT
4.1 SEGMENT INFORMATION

eur 1000

Central Europe

2018

2017

Northern/Eastern Europe

2018

2017

Adjustments

2018

2017

2018

Group 2017

Net sales to third parties
Revenue from services to third parties
Revenue from leases to third parties
Net sales to other segments
total net sales

5255545 5155929 3786022 3600527

­

­ 9041567 8756456

121427

123154

7083

5580

237

243

128747

128977

4536 139972 5521480

4257 152459 5435799

860 228561 4022526

998 270347 3877452

­ ­368 533 ­368 296

­ ­422 806 ­422 563

5396 ­
9175710

5255 ­
8890688

ebitda As% of total net sales Depreciation and amortization

109397 2.0%
­8 695

107646 2.0%
­9 602

41334 1.0%
­4 255

47200 1.2%
­3 626

1947 ­3 012

2434 ­3 092

152678 1.7%
­15 962

157280 1.8%
­16 320

operating profit (ebit) As% of total net sales

100702 1.8%

9 80 4 4 1.8%

37079 0.9%

43574 1.1%

­1 065

­658

136716 1.5%

140960 1.6%

Net financial income/expense

­13 638

­11 295

­10 026

­9 007

4245

3522

­19 419

­16 780

profit before tax (ebt) As% of total net sales

87064 1.6%

86749 1.6%

27053 0.7%

34567 0.9%

3180

2864

117297 1.3%

124180 1.4%

segment assets segment liabilities

1569745 1444134 1006779

1245049 1132141

812658

856630 667139

­194 263 ­351 175

­142 260 ­264 071

2382261 1706532

2158504 1535209

investments
in property, plant and equipment
in intangible assets

6231 1761

6604 1873

3842 340

4252 172

678 1328

276 2357

10751 3429

11132 4402

Average headcount Headcount at year-end

2255

2338

1322

1304

131

148

3708

3790

2148

2350

1455

1373

125

147

3728

3870

The following definitions of headcount apply: ­ Average headcount: average number of full-time equivalent positions excluding temporary employees ­ Headcount at year end: number of full-time equivalent positions excluding temporary employees

100

ALSO Annual Report 2018

Financial report

HEADCOUNT DEVIATION
Headcount at year-end 2017 Reduction in headcount Increase in headcount due to acquisitions headcount at year-end 2018

Northern/ Central Europe Eastern Europe

2 350 ­227
25 2 148

1 373 ­86 168
1 455

Adjustments
147 ­22
­ 125

Group
3 870 ­335
193 3 728

The segment reporting is based on the management approach. The results of the operating segments are regularly reviewed by the Chief Operating Decision Maker (CODM), Gustavo MöllerHergt, CEO, in order to allocate the resources to the segments.
The reconciliation (Adjustments) of the segment results to the consolidated results contains centralized activities of the holding companies in Switzerland, Finland, and Germany (headquarter activities) which are not allocated to the segments. The allocation of the net sales is determined by the place where invoicing occurs. Furthermore, revenues are recognized at a point in time. Revenues, as well as assets and liabilities (mainly trade

receivables and payables), between the segments are eliminated in the "Adjustments" column. The assets and liabilities contain all balance sheet items that are directly attributable to the segments.
Profit before tax (EBT) contains all income and expenses that are directly attributable to the respective operating segments. It also includes direct allocations of centrally occurring expenses. EBT is the main performance indicator in the ALSO Group.
A reconciliation of the management reporting to the segment reporting is not required, since internal and external reporting are based on the same accounting principles.

DETAILS OF THE COLUMN "ADJUSTMENTS" IN THE SEGMENT INFORMATION
eur 1000
Costs for shareholders/mark-up for management fees/other centralized costs total at ebitda level Depreciation and amortization Net financial result total at ebt level
The financial result in the "Adjustments" column in 2018 and 2017 arose from the difference between external financing costs and internal loan conditions.

2018
1947 1947 ­3012 4245 3180

2017
2434 2434 ­3092 3522 2864

101

ALSO Annual Report 2018

Financial report

GEOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION
eur 1000
switzerland 2018 2017
germany 2018 2017
netherlands 2018 2017
others 2018 2017
group 2018 2017
1) Without deferred tax assets and financial assets
CUSTOMERS ACCOUNTING FOR MORE THAN 10% OF GROUP NET SALES ALSO Group generated net sales of EUR 1 011 million (previous year: EUR 974 million) with one customer, which are included in both segments.
CONTRACT ASSETS AND LIABILITIES The acquisition of the sales and service business of Hewlett P ackard Enterprise (HPE) in the Ukraine and Belarus as well as Lithuania see Note 3 may give rise to contract balances. However, there were no significant amounts for 2018.

Total net sales

Non-current assets1)

881942 918354

64867 62741

3671109 3596786

128393 128430

1328753 1170709

4807 6065

3293906 3204839

51231 52133

9175710 8890688

249298 249369

102

ALSO Annual Report 2018

Financial report

4.2 PERSONNEL EXPENSES

eur 1000
Salaries and wages Social and pension costs total personnel expenses

2018
­185 911 ­32 939 ­218 850

2017
­187 753 ­31 503
­219 256

Personnel expenses include restructuring expenses of EUR8.8million.
4.3 EMPLOYEE BENEFITS
The employee post-employment benefit plans of the ALSO Group comply with the legal requirements of the respective countries. There are defined benefit plans in Germany, Netherlands, Austria, and Switzerland. The defined benefit plan in Switzerland (ALSO pension fund) covers 82.3% (previous year: 81.1%) of plan assets and 80.9% (previous year: 79.6%) of the present value of the expected obligations of the ALSO Group.

DEFINED BENEFIT PLAN
eur 1000
Fair value of plan assets Present value of defined benefit obligations
of which financed by funds of which financed by provisions deficit
Reported in the statement of financial position as:
Employee benefit liabilities

ALSO pension fund
48292

Other defined benefit plans
10355

­56 372 ­56 372
0 ­8 080

­13 324 ­13 237
­87 ­2 969

­8 080

­2 969

2018 Total 58647

ALSO pension fund

Other defined benefit plans

51978

12103

­69 696 ­69 609
­87 ­11 049

­62 209 ­62 209
0 ­10 231

­15 949 ­15 866
­83 ­3 846

­11 049

­10 231

­3 846

2017 Total 64081 ­78 158 ­78 075 ­83 ­14 077
­14 077

DEFINED BENEFIT PLAN SWITZERLAND Post-employment benefit plans in Switzerland are governed by the Swiss Federal Law on Occupational Retirement, Survivors' and Disability Pension Plans (BVG), which stipulates that post-employment benefit plans must be managed by independent, legally

autonomous bodies. Post-employment benefit plans are overseen by a regulator as well as by a state supervisory body. The ultimate governing body of a post-employment benefit plan (Board of Trustees) is composed of equal numbers of employee and employer representatives.

103

ALSO Annual Report 2018

Financial report

Plan participants are insured against the financial consequences of old age, disability, and death. The various benefits are defined in regulations, with the BVG specifying the minimum benefits that are to be provided. The employer and the employee pay contributions to the post-employment benefit plan. In case of an underfunding, various measures can be taken, such as adjusting the pension commitment by altering the conversion rates or increasing current contributions. Under certain conditions the employer is obliged to make additional restructuring contributions. The BVG prescribes how the employees and the employer jointly fund any restructuring measures.
The Swiss post-employment benefit plan, the ALSO Pension Fund, has the legal form of a foundation. All actuarial risks are borne by the foundation. These risks consist of demographic risks (primarily life expectancy) and financial risks (primarily the discount rate and the return on the plan assets), which are regularly assessed by the Board of Trustees. In addition, a report is prepared annually in accordance with IFRSrequirements as well

as an actuarial report prepared in accordance with the requirements of the BVG.
The Board of Trustees is responsible for the investment of the assets. It defines the investment strategy as often as necessary ­ especially in the case of significant market developments or changes to the structure of the plan participants ­ and at least once annually. When defining the investment strategy, the Board of Trustees takes account of the foundation's objectives, benefit obligations, and risk capacity. The investment strategy is defined in the form of a long-term target asset structure (investment policy).
The Board of Trustees delegates implementation of the investment strategy and management of the plan assets to an external asset manager. The Board of Trustees monitors compliance with the investment strategy and development of the plan assets several times a year.

NET POST-EMPLOYMENT BENEFIT EXPENSES FOR DEFINED BENEFIT PLANS

eur 1000
Current service cost Past service cost Net interest employee benefit net post-employment benefit expenses

ALSO pension fund

Other defined benefit plans

­2 681 3 495 ­68

­609 344 ­56

746

­321

2018
Total ­3 290
3 839 ­124
425

ALSO pension fund

Other defined benefit plans

­3 458 6 547 ­98

­817 8
­67

2 991

­876

2017
Total ­4 275
6 555 ­165
2 115

In 2018, the number of employees insured at the ALSO pension fund in accordance with the BVG was reduced significantly. This resulted in negative past service cost of TEUR3495.
In 2017, the number of employees insured at the ALSO pension fund in accordance with the BVG was reduced significantly. Furthermore, the ALSO pension fund reduced its conversion rate. This resulted in negative past service cost of TEUR6547.

104

ALSO Annual Report 2018

Financial report

REMEASUREMENT OF DEFINED BENEFIT PLANS

eur 1000
Actuarial gains/losses: Changes in demographic assumptions Changes in financial assumptions
Return on plan assets (excluding interest income) total remeasurement recognized in other comprehensive income

ALSO pension fund

Other defined benefit plans

0 1 522
­1 728
­206

12 824
­341
495

2018 Total

ALSO pension fund

Other defined benefit plans

12 2 346
­2 069
289

0 ­3 581
3 598
17

562 878
­414
1 026

2017 Total
562 ­2 703
3 184 1 043

CHANGE IN FAIR VALUE OF PLAN ASSETS

eur 1000
january 1 Interest income Return on plan assets (excluding interest income) Employee contributions Employer contributions Net benefits (paid) received Exchange differences december 31

ALSO pension fund
51 978 415

Other defined benefit plans
12 103 175

­1 728 1 414 1 942
­7 588 1 859
48 292

­341 258 812
­2 818 166
10 355

2018
Total 64 081
590

ALSO pension fund

Other defined benefit plans

58 574 396

12 975 147

­2 069 1 672 2 754
­10 406 2 025
58 647

3 598 1 635 2 233 ­9 730 ­4 728 51 978

­414 336 812
­1 145 ­608
12 103

2017
Total
71 549 543
3 184 1 971 3 045 ­10 875 ­5 336 64 081

105

ALSO Annual Report 2018

Financial report

CHANGE IN THE PRESENT VALUE OF DEFINED BENEFIT OBLIGATIONS

eur 1000
january 1 Service cost Past service cost Interest cost Actuarial gain/loss Employee contributions Net benefits (paid) received Exchange differences december 31

ALSO pension fund

Other defined benefit plans

62 209 2 681
­3 495 483
­1 522 1 414
­7 588 2 190
56 372

15 949 610
­344 230
­836 258
­2 818 275
13 324

2018
Total
78 158 3 291
­3 839 713
­2 358 1 672
­10 406 2 465
69 696

ALSO pension fund

Other defined benefit plans

75 148 3 458
­6 547 493
3 581 1 635 ­9 730 ­5 829 62 209

17 934 817 ­8 214
­1 440 336
­1 145 ­759
15 949

2017
Total
93 082 4 275
­6 555 707
2 141 1 971 ­10 875 ­6 588 78 158

INVESTMENT STRUCTURE OF PLAN ASSETS

Cash and cash equivalents Equity instruments Bonds Real estate Other investments total
1) Weighted values

ALSO pension fund

Other defined benefit plans1)

2.4% 30.5% 36.7% 14.9% 15.5% 100.0%

0.0% 0.0% 0.0% 0.0% 100.0% 100.0%

2018
Total1)
2.0% 25.1% 30.1% 12.3% 30.5% 100.0%

ALSO pension fund

Other defined benefit plans1)

7.4% 32.6% 34.1% 14.0% 11.9% 100.0%

0.0% 0.0% 0.0% 0.0% 100.0% 100.0%

2017
Total1)
6.2% 27.4% 28.6% 11.8% 26.0% 100.0%

The ALSO benefit plans do not hold any investments in financial instruments or real estate that are owned or used by the ALSO Group.

Investments in bonds are undertaken solely via funds for which there is a quoted market price (Level 1 of the fair value hierarchy). There are no direct investments.

Cash and cash equivalents are invested with financial institutions that possess at least an "A" rating.
Equity instruments are investments in mutual funds for which there is a quoted market price (Level 1 of the fair value hierarchy). No direct investments are made. The assets also do not contain any shares of ALSO Holding AG.

Investments in real estate are undertaken solely via real estate funds. There are no direct holdings of real estate. There is an active market in the real estate funds (Level 2 of the fair value hierarchy).
Other investments mainly comprise investments in hedge funds and private equity as well as reinsurances.

106

ALSO Annual Report 2018

Financial report

MAIN ACTUARIAL ASSUMPTIONS

Discount rate Future salary increases Future pension increases Mortality table
1) Weighted values

ALSO pension fund

Other defined benefit plans1)

1.1% 1.0% 0.0% BVG 2015

1.8% 0.8% 0.4%
n/a

The present value of the defined benefit obligation (DBO) is determined annually by independent actuaries using the projected unit credit method. Actuarial assumptions are required for this purpose.
SENSITIVITIES OF THE MAIN ACTUARIAL ASSUMPTIONS The main actuarial assumptions were identified to be the discount rate and the future development of salaries and wages. The following effects on the DBO can be expected:
An increase/decrease of 0.25percentage points in the discount rate would result in a decrease/increase in the DBO of 5% respectively.
An increase/decrease of 0.25percentage points in the expected development of salaries and wages would result in an increase/ decrease in the DBO of 1% respectively.
The sensitivity analysis is based on realistically possible changes as of the end of the reporting year. Each change in a significant actuarial assumption was analyzed separately as part of the test. Interdependencies were not taken into account.

2018
Total1)
1.2% 1.0% 0.1% BVG 2015

ALSO pension fund

Other defined benefit plans1)

0.8% 1.0% 0.0% BVG 2015

1.3% 0.6% 0.4%
n/a

2017
Total1)
0.9% 0.9% 0.1% BVG 2015

NET PENSION COST FOR DEFINED CONTRIBUTION PLANS eur 1000 Employer contributions

2018 2125

2017 2019

107

ALSO Annual Report 2018

Financial report

4.4 OTHER OPERATING EXPENSES/INCOME
OTHER OPERATING EXPENSES eur 1000 Leasing expenses Maintenance and repair expenses Marketing and administrative expenses Insurance, consulting and other operating expenses total other operating expenses
OTHER OPERATING INCOME eur 1000 Gains on sales of property, plant and equipment Other operating income total other operating income
Other operating income mainly comprises contributions from suppliers, insurance payments, and company-produced assets. 4.5 NET FINANCIAL INCOME/EXPENSE
FINANCIAL INCOME eur 1000 Interest income Fair value adjustments of contingent considerations (Note 6.2) Negative goodwill from acquisitions (Note 3) Other financial income total financial income

2018
­22 256 ­16 103 ­103 288 ­50 424 ­192 071

2017
­21 023 ­15 257 ­101 790 ­45 809 ­183 879

2018
897 19 994 20 891

2017
27 16 040 16 067

2018
466 547 548 853 2414

2017
400 838 398 289 1925

108

ALSO Annual Report 2018

Financial report

FINANCIAL EXPENSES
eur 1000
Interest expenses Factoring fees Net interest employee benefits Exchange losses, net Fair value adjustments of contingent considerations (Note 6.2) Other financial expenses total financial expenses financial result
CURRENCY EFFECTS
eur 1000
Currency effects on financial result Currency effects on cost of goods sold and services provided total currency effects
4.6 INCOME TAXES
The main elements contributing to the difference between the expected tax rate for the Group and the effective tax rate are:
INCOME TAX EXPENSES
eur 1000
Income taxes in the reporting period Income taxes in prior periods total current income tax Changes in deferred tax rate Changes in temporary differences total deferred tax total income tax expense

2018
­15 651 ­2 292 ­124 ­126 ­2 900 ­740
­21 833
­19 419

2017
­14 866 ­2 956 ­165 ­11 0 ­707
­18 705
­16 780

2018
­126 ­2 382 ­2 508

2017
­11 9 968 9 957

2018
­30 559 ­2 512
­33 071
­124 ­2 939 ­3 063
­36 134

2017
­30 364 ­646
­31 010
­11 ­632 ­643
­31 653

109

ALSO Annual Report 2018

Financial report

ANALYSIS OF TAX EXPENSE
eur 1000 profit before tax (ebt) Expected tax rate (weighted) Expected income tax expense Utilization of previously unrecognized tax losses Income tax losses not recognized Income not subject to tax Non-deductible expenses Reduction in deferred tax rate Tax effect from prior periods Withholding tax on Group dividends Other factors effective income tax expense Effective income tax rate
The weighted tax rate is calculated from the income tax rates that are expected to apply for the Group companies in the respective tax jurisdictions. The increase in the effective tax rate from 25.5% in 2017 to 30.8% in 2018 is mainly due to the utilization of previously unrecognized tax losses, the increase in non-deductible expenses and the result of tax audits.
In 2018, in the tax jurisdictions that are relevant for ALSO, there were no material changes in the applicable income tax rates.
TAX EFFECTS IN OTHER COMPREHENSIVE INCOME
eur 1000 Tax effects on items that will not subsequently be reclassified to profit or loss Remeasurement of defined benefit plans subtotal Tax effects on items that may subsequently be reclassified to profit or loss Exchange differences Fair value adjustment on cash flow hedges subtotal total tax effects in other comprehensive income
110

2018
117 297 25.3%
­29 652 799
­1 931 585
­4 591 ­124
­1 154 ­23 ­43
­36 134 30.8%

2017
124 180 25.8%
­31 997 2 672
­1 340 538
­2 356 ­11 15 788 38
­31 653 25.5%

2018
­45 ­45
166 699 865 820

2017
­148 ­148
­172 ­67
­239 ­387

ALSO Annual Report 2018

Financial report

DEFERRED TAXES
eur 1000
Temporary differences Current assets Property, plant and equipment Intangible assets Recognized tax loss carry-forwards Provisions and employee benefits Liabilities Other temporary differences
total Offsetting total deferred taxes

Deferred tax assets

2018

2017

Statement of financial position

Deferred tax liabilities

2018

2017

625 138 276 2 598 3 155 3 927
0 10 719 ­3 518
7 201

543 152 882 3 677 3 308 3 916
0 12 478 ­4 086
8 392

4 461 2 824 1 882
0 504 2 109
18 11 798 ­3 518
8 280

3 893 2 789 1 848
0 493 1 515 185 10 723 ­4 086 6 637

Recognized in income taxes

2018

2017

­733 ­3
102 ­1 074
­214 ­1 310
169 ­3 063
0 ­3 063

­31 298 ­291 ­213 ­373 160 ­193 ­643
0 ­643

CHANGES IN DEFERRED TAXES (NET)
eur 1000
january 1 Effect of acquisitions Changes in temporary differences Exchange differences december 31

2018
1 755 51
­2 244 ­641
­1 079

2017
1 434 1 293 ­1 030
58 1 755

111

ALSO Annual Report 2018

Financial report

TAX LOSS CARRY-FORWARDS
eur 1000
total tax loss carry-forwards Of which recognized as deferred tax assets total tax loss carry-forwards not recognized Tax effect on unrecognized tax loss carry-forwards
Total unrecognized tax loss carry-forwards expiring: in two to five years (weighted tax rate 2018: 21.0%; previous year: 20.0%) in six to ten years (weighted tax rate 2018: 23.3%; previous year: 20.9%)
No expiry (weighted tax rate 2018: 23.5%; previous year: 23.9%)

2018
74 829 ­11 051 63 778
14 402
22 510 7 497
33 771

2017
85 619 ­14 624
70 995 15 613
23 019 14 696 33 280

Reduction of recognized tax loss carry-forwards from TEUR14624 in 2017 to TEUR11051 in 2018 is mainly due to utilization of tax loss carry-forwards in Norway.
In 2018, ALSO did not capitalize any new material deferred taxes.

For tax loss carry-forwards in the amount of TEUR63778, no deferred tax assets are recognized since they cannot be offset against other Group profits and it is unlikely that the entities carrying the tax losses forward will have future taxable profits against which to offset the related tax benefit.

In 2017, ALSO capitalized a deferred tax asset for the amount of TEUR1455 in Germany. This was based on tax losses that had occurred between 2011 and 2016. ALSO regards it as sufficiently probable that in the future taxable profits will occur that are equal to the amount of the deferred tax asset.

As of December 31, 2018, there were no deferred tax liabilities for retained earnings amounting to TEUR10540 (previous year: TEUR9814) in subsidiaries which are liable to tax in the event of a dividend payment. There are no plans for dividend payment in the foreseeable future from those retained earnings.

The loss carry-forwards existing at December 31, 2018 derive mainly from Sweden, Finland, Germany and the Netherlands. 2017, there were also loss carry-forwards in Norway.

112

ALSO Annual Report 2018

Financial report

5.
NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF FINANCIAL POSITION AS AT DECEMBER31
5.1 CASH AND CASH EQUIVALENTS
Cash and cash equivalents in the amount of TEUR240405 (previous year: TEUR235561) consist of cash at banks and on hand.
5.2 TRADE RECEIVABLES
eur 1000
Trade receivables (gross) Effect of acquisitions Provision for bad debts total trade receivables
ALSO has sold or assigned trade receivables to independent factoring partners. Please refer to Note 6.8.
eur 1000
status of bad debt provision as at january 1 as reported Restatement1) status of bad debt provision as at january 1 as restated Effect of acquisitions Exchange differences Creation Release Utilization status of bad debt provision as at december 31
Trade receivables write-offs Income from payments for trade receivables previously written-off
1) See comment on application of IFRS9 in Note 2.2

2018
602 059 24 305 ­4 141
622 223

2017
527 939 46 860 ­4 086
570 713

2018
4 086 78
4 164 388 ­42
1 153 ­553 ­969 4 141
­1 258 255

2017
3 511 ­
3 511 351 5
1 133 ­361 ­553 4 086
­1 644 244

113

ALSO Annual Report 2018

Financial report

5.3 INVENTORIES
eur 1000
Inventories Downpayments to suppliers Inventory provision total inventories

2018
926 608 2 149
­13 448 915 309

2017
846 123 1 027
­13 027 834 123

For most inventories, there are limited-duration price-protection guarantees from the vendors/manufacturers. The ALSO companies usually purchase goods in local currency. A recognizable loss of value due to low inventory turnover, ageing, etc. is taken into account through inventory provisions
In the reporting period, inventory for the amount of TEUR8567346 (previous year: TEUR8283064) was recognized as cost of goods sold in the consolidated income statement. This includes changes in inventory provisions totaling TEUR686 recognized as income. In the previous year, TEUR1935 was recognized as expense.
5.4 PREPAID EXPENSES, ACCRUED INCOME AND OTHER RECEIVABLES
eur 1000
Miscellaneous tax receivables Receivables from factors Other receivables other receivables Prepaid expenses and accrued income total prepaid expenses, accrued income and other receivables

2018
10 966 251 938
66 068 328 972
8 249 337 221

2017
11 662 198 162 40 453 250 277
7 595 257 872

Receivables from factors see Note 6.8 consist of dilution reserves of TEUR147029 (previous year: TEUR138761) from ongoing sales of receivables and within the scope of credit lines callable claims of TEUR104909 (previous year: TEUR59401).

Provisions on receivables from factors amount to TEUR161 (previous year: TEUR153 after restatement as of January 1, 2018).
Other receivables consist mainly of receivables from vendors.

114

ALSO Annual Report 2018

Financial report

5.5 PROPERTY, PLANT AND EQUIPMENT

eur 1000
january 1, 2018 Additions Effect of acquisitions Disposals Reclassifications Depreciation Exchange differences december 31, 2018
overview as at december 31, 2018 Acquisition costs Accumulated depreciation/impairment december 31, 2018
Of which finance leases
january 1, 2017 Additions Effect of acquisitions Disposals Reclassifications Depreciation Exchange differences 31. dezember 2017
overview as at december 31, 2017 Acquisition costs Accumulated depreciation/impairment december 31, 2017
Of which finance leases

Land and buildings
58 848 562
1 092 ­2 993
122 ­2 137
962 56 456
74 851 ­18 395
56 456
0
62 991 148 0 0 361
­2 320 ­2 332 58 848
74 191 ­15 343
58 848
0

Equipment
11 100 4 273 102 ­26 ­101
­2 517 104
12 935

Other property, plant and equipment
14 221 5 916 152 ­747 ­21
­5 527 127
14 121

38 922 ­25 987
12 935
960
10 624 1 972 138 ­17 1 444
­2 868 ­193
11 100

41 948 ­27 827
14 121
0
12 264 9 012 308 ­328
­1 805 ­4 764
­466 14 221

34 318 ­23 218
11 100
966

36 648 ­22 427
14 221
0

Total
84 169 10 751 1 346 ­3 766
0 ­10 181
1 193 83 512
155 721 ­72 209
83 512
960
85 879 11 132
446 ­345
0 ­9 952 ­2 991 84 169
145 157 ­60 988
84 169
966

Land and buildings comprises land and buildings used for operational purposes.
In 2018, additions are mainly a result of investments in equipment and other property, plant and equipment and in "Infrastructure-as-a-Service".

Gains from the sale of property, plant, and equipment are recognized in other operating income and amount to TEUR847 (previous year: TEUR37 loss).

115

ALSO Annual Report 2018

Financial report

5.6 INTANGIBLE ASSETS
eur 1000
january 1, 2018 Additions Effect of acquisitions Disposals Effect of deconsolidation Amortization Exchange differences december 31, 2018
overview as at december 31, 2018 Acquisition costs Accumulated amortization/impairment december 31, 2018
january 1, 2017 Additions Effect of acquisitions Disposals Amortization Exchange differences december 31, 2017
overview as at december 31, 2017 Acquisition costs Accumulated amortization/impairment december 31, 2017

Goodwill
150 029 0
686 0
­520 0
1 890 152 085
152 085 0
152 085
149 658 0
3 417 0 0
­3 046 150 029
150 029 0
150 029

Customer lists Other intangible assets

2 743 0
1 008 0 0
­1 016 ­1
2 734

12 428 3 429 52 ­42 0
­4 765 ­135
10 967

5 856 ­3 122
2 734
2 199 0
1 829 0
­1 279 ­6
2 743

35 858 ­24 891
10 967
12 787 4 402 465 ­49
­5 089 ­88
12 428

4 850 ­2 107
2 743

35 895 ­23 467
12 428

Total
165 200 3 429 1 746 ­42 ­520
­5 781 1 754
165 786
193 799 ­28 013 165 786
164 644 4 402 5 711 ­49
­6 368 ­3 140 165 200
190 774 ­25 574 165 200

In 2018, goodwill was increased by the acquisition of DistriWan S.A.S.
For the effect of deconsolidation please refer to Note 2.5.

With the exception of goodwill, no intangible assets with indefinite useful lives are capitalized. The average residual amortization period for the customer lists is three years. Other intangible assets consist mainly of software and licenses.

116

ALSO Annual Report 2018

Financial report

5.7 IMPAIRMENT TEST
eur 1000
Carrying amount goodwill Central Europe Carrying amount goodwill Northern/Eastern Europe total goodwill
Discount rate (post tax) goodwill Central Europe Discount rate (post tax) goodwill Northern/Eastern Europe Growth rate sales revenue for residual value Central Europe Growth rate sales revenue for residual value Northern/Eastern Europe Expected average EBITDA margin Central Europe (residual value) Expected average EBITDA margin Northern/Eastern Europe (residual value)
Goodwill is monitored and tested for impairment by means of v alue-in-use calculations of two groups of cash-generating units. The value in use is the present value of the discounted cash flows. It is based on planning assumptions over a three-year period, plus residual values which have been approved by Management. The discount rates applied, and the average growth rate in net sales, are set out in the above table.
The value-in-use calculation for the group of cash-generating units is sensitive to assumptions relating to the balance sheet structure, gross margin, and cost structure. The balance sheet structure and gross margin are derived from historical values as well as from strategic and economic changes. The cost structure is adapted to the expected gross margin.
The value in use is substantially higher than the reported net assets. Even a material change in the base data, e.g. a sustained deterioration in the gross margin, or a change in the balance sheet and cost structure, would not cause an impairment of the goodwill.

2018
134 700 17 385
152 085
6.77% 6.84% 1.00% 1.00% 1.70% 1.20%

2017
133 576 16 453
150 029
6.00% 6.13% 1.00% 1.00% 1.70% 1.20%

117

ALSO Annual Report 2018

Financial report

5.8 CURRENT AND NON-CURRENT FINANCIAL LIABILITIES
eur 1000
current financial liabilities Bank loans Bonded loan Finance lease Liabilities from factoring Contingent consideration from acquisitions of subsidiaries Third-party loans total current financial liabilities
non-current financial liabilities Bank loans Bonded loan Finance lease Contingent consideration from acquisitions of subsidiaries Third-party loans total non-current financial liabilities
total financial liabilities

Carrying amount
9316 50486
853 55686
5484 2624 1244 49
57159 215953
5066 74
823 279075
403524

2018 Interest rate
0.4 to 1.4% 2.1 to 2.5% 1.5 to 3.0% 0.5 to 2.4%
1.0 to 3.0%
0.7 to 3.0% 1.0 to 2.8% 1.5 to 3.0%

Carrying amount
3487 16960
559 44021
2341 16203 83571
54213 266259
553 3461 1236 325722
409293

2017 Interest rate
0.4 to 1.3% 2.5 to 2.8% 2.0 to 3.0% 0.5 to 2.5%
0.0 to 3.0%
0.7 to 3.0% 1.1 to 2.8% 2.0 to 3.0%

COVENANTS Certain financial liabilities are subject to covenant clauses, under which stipulated financial key figures must be attained. As of December 31, 2018, all covenants were met.

118

ALSO Annual Report 2018

Financial report

RECONCILIATION OF FINANCIAL LIABILITIES CURRENT FINANCIAL LIABILITIES

eur 1000
january 1, 2018 Net cash flow Effect of acquisitions Value adjustments Other non-cash adjustments Exchange differences december 31, 2018

Bank loans Bonded loan Finance lease

3 487 ­3 200
7 511 0
1 495 23
9 316

16 960 ­17 000
0 0 50 526 0 50 486

559 ­681
0 0 975 0 853

Liabilities from factoring

Contingent consideration
from acquisitions
of subsidiaries

Third-party loans

44 021 11 648
0 0 0 17 55 686

2 341 ­594
0 0 3 705 32 5 484

16 203 ­16 117
0 ­150 2 694
­6 2 624

Total
83 571 ­25 944
7 511 ­150 59 395
66 124 449

NON-CURRENT FINANCIAL LIABILITIES
eur 1000 january 1, 2018 Net cash flow Effect of acquisitions Effect of deconsolidation Value adjustments Other non-cash adjustments Exchange differences december 31, 2018

Bank loans
54 213 3 055 163 0 0
­1 495 1 223
57 159

Bonded loan
266 259 0 0 0 0
­50 306 0
215 953

Finance lease

Contingent consideration
from acquisitions of
subsidiaries

553 0 0 0 0
4 514 ­1
5 066

3 461 0 0 0
­547 ­2 840
0 74

Third-party loans
1 236 0 0
­989 0
569 7
823

Total
325 722 3 055 163 ­989 ­547
­49 558 1 229
279 075

The changes in other non-cash adjustments in bonded loans of TEUR50306 and TEUR50526 respectively, relate to a reclassifiacation from non-current financial liabilities due to repayments due in 2019.

119

ALSO Annual Report 2018

Financial report

CURRENT FINANCIAL LIABILITIES
eur 1000 january 1, 2017 Net cash flow Effect of acquisitions Value adjustments Other non-cash adjustments Exchange differences december 31, 2017

Bank loans Bonded loan Finance lease

20628 ­20 774
439 0
3245 ­51
3487

0 0 0 0 16960 0 16960

611 ­627
0 0 581 ­6 559

Liabilities from factoring

Contingent consideration
from acquisitions of
subsidiaries

Third-party loans

4685 1947 37523
0 0 ­134 4 4021

2763 ­2 763
666 ­712 2387
0 2341

99 5246
32 0
10829 ­3
16203

Total
28786 ­16 971
38660 ­712
34002 ­194
83571

NON-CURRENT FINANCIAL LIABILITIES
eur 1000 january 1, 2017 Net cash flow Effect of acquisitions Value adjustments Other non-cash adjustments Exchange differences december 31, 2017

Bank loans
59613 557 651 0
­3 354 ­3 254 54213

Bonded loan
130222 153500
0 0 ­17 463 0 266259

Finance lease

Contingent consideration from acquisitions of
subsidiaries

1003 0 0 0
­451 1
553

0 0 2840 ­126 747 0 3461

Third-party loans
1793 0 0 0
­519 ­38 1236

Total
192631 154057
3491 ­126 ­21 040 ­3 291 325722

Required repayments of bonded loans in 2018 in the amount of TEUR16960 are displayed as reclassifications in other non-cash adjustments from long-term to short-term financial liabilities.
Other non-cash adjustments in the amount of TEUR10829 in the category third party loans are mainly resulting from reverse factoring of trade payables.

120

ALSO Annual Report 2018

Financial report

5.9 ACCRUED EXPENSES, DEFERRED INCOME AND OTHER PAYABLES
eur 1000
accrued expenses and deferred income
Miscellaneous tax payables Liabilities from factoring (continuing involvement) (see Note 6.8) Accrued interest from factoring Other payables to third parties Other payables to related parties (see Note 6.6) other payables
total accrued expenses, deferred income and other payables
Accrued expenses, deferred income, and other payables are recognized in the statement of financial position at nominal value. They comprise short-term expense accruals and deferred income relating to revenue for subsequent accounting periods already received, as well as accruals for services not yet invoiced. Tax payables include value added and other tax liabilities.

2018
51 637
111 505 60973
1 073 11 610
368 185 529
237 166

2017
47 775
99 612 66 150
1 133 13 448
216 180 559
228 334

121

ALSO Annual Report 2018

Financial report

5.10 PROVISIONS
eur 1000
january 1, 2018 Creation Effect of acquisitions Utilization Release Exchange differences december 31, 2018
Current provisions Non-current provisions total 2018
january 1, 2017 Creation Effect of acquisitions Utilization Release Exchange differences december 31, 2017
Current provisions Non-current provisions total 2017

Guarantees, returned goods,
complaints
3 357 2 800
19 ­2 670
0 1 3 507
2 920 587
3 507
3 274 2 612
0 ­2 531
0 2 3 357
2 670 687
3 357

Litigations
1 219 465 0
­100 ­204
0 1 380
1 380 0
1 380
1 069 182 0 0 ­32 0
1 219
1 219 0
1 219

Restructuring
0 82
0 0 0 0 82
82 0
82

Other provisions
5 066 4 478
102 ­354
­91 ­41 9 160
4 712 4 448 9 160

0

4 357

0

570

0

290

0

­226

0

0

0

75

0

5 066

0

1 161

0

3 905

0

5 066

Total
9 642 7 825
121 ­3 124
­295 ­40
14 129
9 094 5 035 14 129
8 700 3 364
290 ­2 757
­32 77
9 642
5 050 4 592 9 642

There is an existing guarantee provision for the amount of TEUR3507 for the risk of expenses that have not yet occurred but which are expected to occur before the end of the guarantee period that was granted. It is expected that the greater part of the provision will be utilized in the next fiscal year, or at the latest within two years.
The provisions for litigation contain claims for damages as well as legal costs for various pending court cases. For significant parts of the litigation, a settlement is expected in the next fiscal year.

Other provisions contain long-service benefits, other employee allowances, and provisions for various risks. Utilization normally takes place within five years.
The creation of other provisions in 2018 is mainly attributable to the result of tax audits.

122

ALSO Annual Report 2018

Financial report

5.11 EQUITY
As of December 31, 2018, the number of registered shares each with a nominal value of CHF 1.00 per share totaled 12848962. The share capital is unchanged compared to 2017.
Authorized and conditional share capital comprises 2500000 shares with a nominal value of CHF 1.00 per share.
TREASURY SHARES
january 1, 2018 Additions Disposals december 31, 2018
january 1, 2017 Additions Disposals Measurement adjustment december 31, 2017

Number
28 089 0 0
28 089
28 089 0 0 0
28 089

Value eur 1000
1 822 0 0
1 822
1 194 0 0
628 1 822

MAJOR SHAREHOLDERS
Special Distribution Holding GmbH, Düsseldorf (Germany)1) Bestinver Gestion, S.G.I.I.C., S.A. Madrid (Spain) SaraSelect, c/o J. Safra Sarasin Investmentfonds AG, Basel (Switzerland)
Share register as of December 31 (without nominees) 1) Controlling shareholder: Walter P.J. Droege through Droege Group AG 2) Voting rights below the notifiable threshold value of three percent

12.31.18
51.30%
2)
3.00%

12.31.17
51.30% 3.17% 3.60%

REGULATIONS REGARDING THE RESTRICTED TRANSFERABILITY OF SHARES In accordance with Art. 5 of the Articles of Association, the Board of Directors may refuse to register an acquirer of shares as a full shareholder (i.e. as a shareholder with voting rights) unless the acquirer expressly declares that they have acquired the shares in their own name and on their own account.
RETAINED EARNINGS The distribution of retained earnings is subject to restrictions:
Special reserves of ALSO Holding AG can only be distributed after a corresponding resolution by the Annual General Meeting.

The reserves of subsidiaries are first distributed to the parent company in accordance with local tax regulations and legislation.
OPTING-OUT The obligation to submit a public take-over offer pursuant to Art. 125 paragraph 3 and paragraph 4 FMIA has been waived ("opting out").

123

ALSO Annual Report 2018

Financial report

5.12 OTHER RESERVES

eur 1000

Cash flow hedge reserve

december 31, 2017 as reported Restatement1) january 1, 2018 Net profit Group Other comprehensive income total comprehensive income Distributions to shareholders Remeasurement of put options on shares of non-controlling interests december 31, 2018

­2 189 0
­2 189 0
­1 758 ­1 758
0
0 ­3 947

Exchange differences
­1 985 0
­1 985 0
2 318 2 318
0
0 333

january 1, 2017 Net profit Group Other comprehensive income total comprehensive income Distributions to shareholders Acquisition of non-controlling interests Remeasurement of put options on shares of non-controlling interests Measurement adjustment treasury shares december 31, 2017
1) See comment on application of IFRS9 in Note 2.2

­3 777 0
1 588 1 588
0 0
0 0 ­2 189

4 806 0
­6 791 ­6 791
0 0
0 0 ­1 985

Remeasurement of defined benefit plans
­8 991 0
­8 991 0
244 244
0
0 ­8 747
­9 886 0
895 895
0 0
0 0 ­8 991

Total other reserves
­13 165 0
­13 165 0
804 804
0
0 ­12 361
­8 857 0
­4 308 ­4 308
0 0
0 0 ­13 165

124

ALSO Annual Report 2018

Financial report

5.13 EARNINGS PER SHARE/DIVIDEND PER SHARE
net profit group Shares issued (weighted) Less treasury shares (weighted) Available shares weighted for calculation basic earnings per share
diluted net profit group Shares issued (weighted) for calculation Adjustment for dilution from options Diluted shares diluted earnings per share
The company has 28089 treasury shares in its portfolio. In the above table, these treasury shares are deducted from the total number of shares outstanding. The diluted figures include the effect of the option program.
The Board of Directors will propose to the Annual General Meeting on March 29, 2019, that a distribution to shareholders for the amount of TCHF 38 463 (CHF 3.00 per share) be paid for the financial year 2018. In the prior year, a distribution to shareholders was made for the amount of TCHF 35257 (CHF 2.75 per share).
5.14 INVESTMENTS IN ASSOCIATES
eur 1000
january 1 Additions (Note 2.5) december 31
The investment in ALSO Financial Services GmbH is reported under financial assets.

eur Number of shares Number of shares Number of shares
eur
eur Number of shares Number of shares Number of shares
eur

2018
81 133 000 12 848 962
­28 089 12 820 873
6.33
81 133 000 12 820 873
630 12 821 503
6.33

2017
92 630 000 12 848 962
­28 089 12 820 873
7.22
92 630 000 12 820 873
953 12 821 826
7.22

2018
0 17 17

2017
0 0 0

125

ALSO Annual Report 2018

Financial report

6.
FURTHER INFORMATION ON THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
6.1 CONTINGENT LIABILITIES
ALSO Deutschland GmbH has received a written demand for information and payment of copyright fees on external hard disks in connection with a tariff that was published in Germany on November 3, 2011. This was the first time that a tariff was published for this category of device. The tariff related to various products and vendors. The tariff has been applied retrospectively as of January 1, 2008, and related to various different types of products. The amount of the fees ranged from EUR5.00 for simple external hard disks to EUR34.00 for multimedia hard disks.

In June 2018, the Bitkom industry association agreed on tariffs with the collecting societies responsible for the retroactive period and the period after publication. This made it possible to precisely allocate the tariffs to the hard disk types. ALSO Deutschland GmbH is entered into this contract. In view of this, ALSO Deutschland GmbH therefore reassessed the amount of its obligations in the statement of financial position in 2018. This results in income of TEUR4200, which is recognized in the costs of goods sold and services provided.

The demand was decided upon by the responsible arbitration body. The settlement proposal provided for considerably lower tariffs for the period from 2008 to 2010. The settlement proposal has not been accepted by any of the parties to the dispute. An appeal has been lodged and the proceedings has been continued at the Munich Higher Regional Court.

According to the majority opinion of the vendors, distributors, Bitkom (industry association), and their legal advisors, it was unlikely that the tariff can be applied retrospectively. It is highly probable that the legal conditions for a retrospective publication to be effective are not fulfilled. A liability of ALSO Deutschland GmbH for the period from January 1, 2008, to November 3, 2011, has therefore not been recognized in the statement of financial position.

The amount of the tariffs after publication starting from 2011 was also disputed. ALSO Deutschland GmbH has recognized the published tariffs in the statement of financial position for this period.

126

ALSO Annual Report 2018

Financial report

6.2 FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS
HEDGING TRANSACTIONS
eur 1000 Cash Flow Hedge Cash Flow Hedge total december 31, 2018 Cash Flow Hedge total december 31, 2017

Contract value
249 000 75 000
324 000 351 000 351 000

Replacement value

Positive 0

Negative 4 446

2227 2 227
0 0

2 452 6 898
2 786 2 786

Various cash flow hedges (interest rate swaps) became ineffective or had to be restructured in 2016 and in 2015 due to negative interest rates. As a result of this ineffectiveness or restructuring, measurement changes have therefore been recognized directly in financial result since these cash flow hedges became ineffective or were restructured. In 2018 this resulted in financial income of TEUR1051 (previous year: TEUR1716). Furthermore, these hedging transactions were reclassified from equity to financial expenses in the amount of TEUR1030 (previous year: TEUR1619).
For further information about hedging transactions please seeNote6.7.

Risk

Hedging

instruments

Interest Interest

Interest rate swap
Interest rate option

Interest Interest rate swap

127

ALSO Annual Report 2018

Financial report

CLASSES OF FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS 2018

eur 1000
financial assets Cash and cash equivalents Trade receivables (Note 5.2) Prepaid expenses, accrued income and other receivables (Note 5.4) Financial assets Current derivative financial instruments Non-current derivative financial instruments
financial liabilities Financial liabilities (Note 5.8) Trade payables Accrued expenses, deferred income and other payables (Note 5.9) Current derivative financial instruments Non-current derivative financial instruments

At fair value through profit
or loss
203
1 430
66 1 411

At fair value through OCI
505 856

Amortized cost
240 405 116 367 318 006
8 174
402 094 1 015 783
74 024

Hedge accounting

Non-financial instruments

19 215 2 227

512 6 386

163 142

Carrying amount
12.31.2018
240 405 622 223
337 221 8 174 203
2 227
403 524 1 015 783
237 166 578
7 797

In 2018, the net gain from financial instruments measured at fair value through profit or loss (mainly forward exchange contracts, options and contingent considerations from acquisitions) amounted to TEUR1048.
The carrying amount of the financial instruments is essentially the fair value.

128

ALSO Annual Report 2018

Financial report

CLASSES OF FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS AS OF JANUARY 1, 2018 (ADOPTION OF IFRS9)1

eur 1000

At fair value through profit
or loss

At fair value through OCI

Amortized cost

Hedge accounting

Non-financial instruments

Carrying amount 1.1.2018

financial assets Cash and cash equivalents Trade receivables (Note 5.2) Prepaid expenses, accrued income and other receivables (Note 5.4) Financial assets Current derivative financial instruments Non-current derivative financial instruments

485 778

235 561 84 857

238 462 2 280
70

77

235 561 570 635

19 257

257 719 2 280 70

47

124

financial liabilities Financial liabilities (Note 5.8) Trade payables Accrued expenses, deferred income and other payables (Note 5.9) Current derivative financial instruments Non-current derivative financial instruments

621
360 2 750

408 672 851 090
80 947

717 2 116

147 387

409 293 851 090
228 334 1 077
4 866

1)Previous year is based on the classification and measurement after the first-time adoption of IFRS 9 on January 1, 2018 (see Note 2.2 "Significant changes in the accounting and measurement principles")

In 2017, the net gain from financial instruments measured at fair value through profit or loss (mainly forward exchange contracts, options and contingent considerations from acquisitions) amounted to TEUR1154.
The carrying amount of the financial instruments is essentially the fair value.
FAIR VALUE HIERARCHY ALSO applies the following measurement hierarchy to determine the fair value of financial instruments: Level 1: Listed, unchanged market price in active markets. Level 2: Measurement methods in which all assumptions that
have a material impact on the fair value are indirectly or directly available. Level 3: Measurement methods with assumptions that have a material impact on the fair value which are not publicly available.

129

ALSO Annual Report 2018

Financial report

FAIR VALUE OF THE FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS 2018
eur 1000
financial assets Current derivative financial instruments
Forward exchange contracts
Non-current derivative financial instruments Interest rate swaps
financial liabilities Contingent consideration from acquisitions of subsidiaries
Current derivative financial instruments Forward exchange contracts Interest rate swaps Interest rate options
Non-current derivative financial instruments Interest rate swaps Interest rate options Put options on non-controlling interests
total financial liabilities level 3

Level 1

Level 2
203 203 2 227 2 227
­578 ­66
­181 ­331 ­6 386 ­4 265 ­2 121

Level 3

Fair value 12.31.2018

203 203
2 227 2 227

­1 430
­1 411 ­1 411 ­2 841

­1 430
­578 ­66
­181 ­331
­7 797 ­4 264 ­2 121 ­1 411

FAIR VALUE OF THE FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS AS OF JANUARY 1, 2018 (ADOPTION OF IFRS9)1)

eur 1000

Level 1

Level 2

Level 3

Fair value 1.1.2018

financial assets Current derivative financial instruments
Forward exchange contracts

70

70

70

70

Non-current derivative financial instruments Interest rate swaps

124

124

124

124

financial liabilities Contingent consideration from acquisitions of subsidiaries

­621

­621

Current derivative financial instruments Forward exchange contracts Interest rate swaps

­1077 ­360 ­717

­1077 ­360 ­717

Non-current derivative financial instruments Interest rate swaps Put options on non-controlling interests
total financial liabilities level 3

­2116 ­2116

­2750
­2750 ­3371

­4866 ­2116 ­2750

1)Previous year is based on the classification and measurement after the first-time adoption of IFRS9 on January 1, 2018 (see Note 2.2 "Significant changes in the accounting and measurement principles")

130

ALSO Annual Report 2018

Financial report

RECONCILIATION OF FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS WITHIN LEVEL 3
eur 1000
january 1 Recognition of contingent consideration from the acquisition of subsidiaries Fair value adjustments of contingent consideration from the acquisition of subsidiaries recognized in financial result Exercise of put options/call options Fair value adjustments/recognition of put options recognized in equity december 31
In 2018 and 2017 respectively, there were no transfers of financial instruments between Level 1 and Level 2. There were also no transfers into or out of Level 3.
MEASUREMENT TECHNIQUES OF FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS WITHIN LEVEL 2 Forward exchange contracts are measured based on observable forward rates and spot rates and are recognized at their positive or negative replacement value. Interest rate swaps and interest rate options are measured based on the net present value of observable forward rates and recognized in the statement of financial position at their positive or negative replacement value respectively.
MEASUREMENT TECHNIQUES OF FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS WITHIN LEVEL 3 The fair value of contingent considerations from the acquisition of subsidiaries, put options on shares of non-controlling interests and call options is calculated based on contractually agreed measurement methods. These calculations are based on the expected future operating profits of subsidiaries and, therefore, depend on assumptions that are neither directly nor indirectly observable in the market. The expected future operating profits are based on medium-term plans which cover a period of three years. Those plans are reviewed by the management of ALSO.

2018
­3 371 ­1 356
547 0
1339 ­2 841

2017
­2 763 ­1 459
838 2763 ­2 750 ­3 371

131

ALSO Annual Report 2018

Financial report

A change in the underlying expected future profits would have the following effect on the fair value:
SENSITIVITY OF FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS WITHIN LEVEL 3 eur 1000 5% increase in the expected future results 5% reduction in the expected future results
6.3 PLEDGED OR ASSIGNED ASSETS SERVING AS COLLATERAL FOR OWN LIABILITIES
eur 1000 Inventories Property, plant and equipment total assets pledged
The property, plant, and equipment shown above has been pledged as collateral against existing mortgages in Switzerland and Austria. The inventories have been pledged as collateral against trade payables in Finland. 6.4 RENTAL AND LEASING COMMITMENTS PAYMENTS FOR FIXED-TERM CONTRACTS (OPERATING LEASE)
eur 1000 Due in 1st year Due in 2nd ­ 5th year Due from the 6th year onwards
Rental agreements for some buildings of the ALSO Group include options to extend the rental period.
132

2018
­179 175

2017
­242 242

2018
20 873 19 650 40 523

2017
20 877 19 901 40 778

2018
27 330 79 102 13 258

2017
24396 65092 18464

ALSO Annual Report 2018

Financial report

PAYMENTS FOR FIXED-TERM CONTRACTS (FINANCE LEASE)
eur 1000 Due in 1st year Due in 2nd ­ 5th year
Minus interest expense component total financial debt from finance lease (note 5.8) Of which current Of which non-current
The finance leases mainly comprise IT systems and printers in Germany.
CASH RECEIPTS AS LESSOR
eur 1000 Due in 1st year Due in 2nd ­ 5th year Due from the 6th year onwards
Cash receipts as lessor mainly comprise printers in Germany. Individual companies of the ALSO Group act as lessor for office and warehouse space for indefinite terms. The leases can be terminated at 2 or 15 months' notice.

2018
875 5 192 6 067 ­148 5919
853 5 066

2017
579 562 1141 ­29 1112 559 553

2018
625 5177
115

2017
428 860 180

133

ALSO Annual Report 2018

Financial report

6.5 SUBSIDIARIES

Country Switzerland Belgium Denmark Germany
Estonia Finland

Head office
Emmen Emmen Thun Emmen Emmen Mechelen
Tåstrup Soest Osnabrück Osnabrück Osnabrück Straubing Berlin Berlin Soest Soest Soest Staufenberg Pullach i. Isartal
Soest Frankfurt am Main Stuttgart Berlin Berlin
Berlin Soest Soest Seevetal Tallinn Tallinn Tampere Tampere Helsinki Helsinki

Company

Participation1) Participation1) Share capital

12.31.2018

12.31.2017

in 1000 Currency Code

ALSO Holding AG ALSO Schweiz AG NRS Printing Solutions AG Quatec AG Bachmann Mobile Kommunikation AG ALSO Belgium BVBA (formerly Five 4 U BVBA) ALSO A/S ALSO Deutschland GmbH NT plus GmbH SEAMCOM GmbH & Co. KG SEAMCOM Verwaltungs GmbH ALSO MPS GmbH druckerfachmann.de GmbH & Co. KG LumIT GmbH ALSO International Services GmbH ALSO IH GmbH Impaso Online Services GmbH Fulfilment Plus GmbH SINAS Beteiligungs GmbH & Co. Vermietungs-KG2) MEDIUM GmbH Pestinger GmbH

100% 100% 100% 100% 100%
100% 100% 100% 100% 100% 100% 100% 100% 100% 100% 100% 100%
0%
100% 74.8%

100% 100% 100% 100% 100%
100% 100% 100% 100% 100% 100% 100% 100% 100% 100% 100% 100%
0%
100% 74.8%

12 849 100 100 100 100
8 331
39 000 20 000 12 500
203 26
100 200
25 100
25 25 50
9
25 26

CHF

S

CHF D

CHF

S

CHF

S

CHF

S

EUR D

DKK D

EUR D

EUR D

EUR D

EUR

S

EUR

S

EUR

S

EUR

S

EUR

S

EUR

S

EUR

S

EUR

S

EUR

S

EUR D EUR D

Beamer & more GmbH ALSO Enterprise Services GmbH druckerfachmann Verwaltungs GmbH (formerly ALSO bringback GmbH) Webinstore AG ALSO Mobility Services GmbH ALSO Logistics Services GmbH i. L.2) ALSO Financial Services GmbH2) ALSO Eesti OÛ Internet Smartsec OÛ ALSO Nordic Holding Oy ALSO Finland Oy ALSO Cloud Oy ALSO Cloud Solutions Oy

51% 100% 100%
99.99% 100% 100% 9.9% 100%
3)
100% 100% 100% 100%

51% 100% 100%
99.99% 100% 100% ­ 100% 100% 100% 100% 100% 100%

25 100
25
500 25 25 50
192 3
10 000 841 11 3

EUR D

EUR

S

EUR

S

EUR

S

EUR

S

EUR

S

EUR

S

EUR D

EUR D

EUR

S

EUR D

EUR

S

EUR

S

134

ALSO Annual Report 2018

Financial report

Country

Head office

Company

Participation1) Participation1) Share capital

12.31.2018

12.31.2017

in 1000 Currency Code

France

Gennevilliers

ALSO France S.A.S.

Gennevilliers

LAFI Logiciels Application Formation Information S.A.S

Paris

BeIP S.A.S.

Dardilly

DistriWan S.A.S.

Latvia

Mãrupe

SIA ,,ALSO Latvia"

Riga

ALSO Cloud Latvia SIA

Lithuania

Kaunas

UAB ,,ALSO Lietuva"

Kaunas

UAB ,,Sophela"

Morocco

Casablanca

BeIP International

Netherlands

Nijmegen

ALSO Nederland B.V.

Nijmegen

ALSO Digital Holding B.V. in Liquidation2)

Nijmegen

ALSO Digital B.V.2)

Nijmegen

ALSO International B.V.

Utrecht

All 4 U B.V.

Utrecht

Esseko B.V.

Utrecht

Five 4 U Nederland B.V.

Norway

Stokke

ALSO AS

Austria

Gross- Enzersdorf ALSO Austria GmbH

Poland

Warsaw

ALSO Polska sp. z o.o.

Goleniow

MLS sp. z o.o.

Goleniow

Blue Bridge sp. z o.o.

Szczecin

iTerra sp. z o.o.

Sweden

Malmö

ALSO Sweden AB

Slovenia

Ljubljana

ALSO d.o.o.

Ljubljana

DISS d.o.o.

Ljubljana

VAD d.o.o.

Ljubljana

Marmis d.o.o.

Ukraine

Kiev

TOB Sophela

Belarus

Minsk

Sophela OOO

Codes: D = Distribution; S = Service/Holding company

1) Participation equals ALSO Holding AG's direct or indirect voting interest in the company. 2) Regarding the consolidation, please refer to Note 2.5 3) Internet Smartsec OÛ was liquidated in 2018 4) In 2018, All 4 U B.V., Esseko B.V. and Five 4 U Nederland B.V. merged with ALSO Nederland B.V.

100% 100%
51% 100% 100% 100% 100% 100% 100% 100%
51%
100% 100%
4) 4) 4)
100% 100% 99.99% 100% 100% 100% 100% 100% 100% 100% 100% 100% 100%

100% 100%
51% ­
100% 100% 100%
­ 100% 100%
51%
100% 100% 100% 100% 100% 100% 100% 99.99% 100% 100% 100% 100% 100%
­ ­ ­ ­ ­

14 500 400

EUR D

EUR

S

147

EUR D

300

EUR D

1 210

EUR D

100

EUR

S

1 883

EUR D

3

EUR

S

50 MAD D

1 000

EUR D

18

EUR

S

18 18 50 54 10 11 063 100 41 705 5 000 100 3 250 1 000
8 1 710
50 9
96 7

EUR

S

EUR D

EUR

S

EUR D

EUR D

NOK D

EUR D

PLN D

PLN D

PLN

S

PLN D

SEK D

EUR

S

EUR D

EUR D

EUR D

UAH

S

BYN

S

135

ALSO Annual Report 2018

Financial report

6.6 TRANSACTIONS WITH RELATED PARTIES
Existing receivables and payables at the reporting date are unsecured. In 2018 and 2017 respectively, no impairments of receivables were necessary. There are no guarantees, pledges, or other contingent liabilities in favor of related parties. The following transactions and volumes took place with related parties:
TRANSACTIONS WITH PRINCIPAL SHAREHOLDERS
eur 1000
Net sales to Droege Group Net sales to ALSO Financial Services GmbH Operating expenses Droege Group Trade receivables Droege Group Trade receivables ALSO Financial Services GmbH Loan to ALSO Financial Services GmbH Trade payables Droege Group (Note 5.9)
The distributions of TEUR15769 to Droege that were decided at the General Meeting of March 27, 2018 were paid on April 4, 2018.
LIABILITIES TO ALSO PENSION FUND
eur 1000
ALSO Holding AG ALSO Schweiz AG

2018
578 131 ­3 368
53 75 2000 ­368

2017
111 0
­2 595 63 0 0
­216

2018
­4 ­252

2017
0 ­303

136

ALSO Annual Report 2018

Financial report

TRANSACTIONS WITH KEY MANAGEMENT
eur 1000
Salaries1) Contributions to pension plans Anniversary bonuses or other special payments Retirement bonuses Employee shares/options total compensation
1)Fixed compensation (salaries and flat-rate expenses), bonuses, Board of Directors' fees, employer contributions for social security, and other non-monetary benefits/reductions

2018
4274 264 0 0 0
4538

2017
4471 304 1 0 0
4776

OPTION CONDITIONS

Year of issue

Right to

Exercise period

2011 total

Shares

May 1, 2014 to April 30, 2020

1) In the interest of comparability, no conversion to euro was made.

Exercise price in chf1)
45.40

Market price then applicable in chf1)

Open on 12.31.2018 Number

16.88

1006 1006

In the reporting year, 500 options were exercised. At December 31, 2018, 1006 options were exercisable. The options are valued according to the Hull-White model, which explicitly takes account of the effects of the restriction period and of an early exercise of the options. The fair value of the options was recognized in profit or loss, and one third (vesting period) was charged to personnel expenses, lastly in 2013.
6.7 FINANCIAL RISK MANAGEMENT

At regular intervals, the appropriateness of the risk management and the internal control system is reviewed by the Board of Directors and modified if necessary. This ensures that the Board of Directors and the Group Management are completely and promptly informed of material risks. In addition, monthly internal reports on the financial position of the company allow any risks arising from the ongoing business to be recognized as early as possible, and corresponding countermeasures to be initiated. For this purpose, Accounting and Controlling constantly adapt their reporting systems to changing conditions.

PRINCIPLES OF RISK MANAGEMENT In relation to its financial assets and liabilities, ALSO is exposed to special risks arising from changes in exchange rates and interest rates. In addition to these market risks, there are also liquidity and credit risks. The objective of financial risk management is to control and limit these market risks by ongoing operational and financial activities. For this purpose, and depending on the estimated risk, selected hedging instruments are used. Derivative financial instruments are used exclusively as hedging instruments, i.e. they are not used for trading or speculative purposes. To minimize the default risk, the material hedging transactions are only entered into with leading financial institutions.

For optimal cash management, the management of liquidity not required for ongoing operations and the long-term financing of the Group is centralized. The treasury function also records, monitors, and controls financial risks based on information provided by the Board of Directors and Group Management.
CREDIT RISK Credit risk is the risk of economic loss resulting from a counterparty being unable or unwilling to fulfil its contractual payment obligations. Credit risk thus includes not only the immediate default risk, but also the risk of a worse credit rating along with the risk of concentration of individual risks.

137

ALSO Annual Report 2018

Financial report

In its operational business, as well as in some of its financing activities, ALSO is exposed to a default risk. In the financial area, ALSO manages the resulting risk position by the diversification of financial institutions and by verification of the financial strength of each counterparty based on publicly available ratings, as well as on publicly available ad-hoc information about the financial institutions.

CREDIT QUALITY AS OF DECEMBER 31, 2018

eur 1000

Standard

& Poor's

AA­

A+

A

A­

Moody's

Aa3

A1

A2

A3

Cash and cash equivalents (Note 5.1) Receivables from factoring (Note 5.4)

66 724 32 815
20%

20 401 50 640
14%

31 869 132 229
34%

39 544 13 055
11%

Cash and cash equivalents with a rating from Fitch of BB in the amount of TEUR1129 are included in the category "no rating".

BBB+ Baa1
79 323 7 983 18%

BBB Baa2

No rating

Total

97 15 216
3%

2 447 0
0%

240 405 251 938
100%

CREDIT QUALITY AS OF DECEMBER 31, 2017

eur 1000

Standard

& Poor's

AA­

A+

A

A­

Moody's

Aa3

A1

A2

A3

Cash and cash equivalents (Note 5.1) Receivables from factoring (Note 5.4)

93 246 32 747
29%

4 248 41 437
11%

46 728 88 770
32%

47 408 13 409
14%

Cash and cash equivalents with a rating from Fitch of BB in the amount of TEUR2126 are included in the category "no rating".

BBB+ Baa1
37 271 7 480 10%

BBB Baa2
185 14 319
3%

kein Rating

Gesamt

6 475 0
1%

235 561 198 162
100%

The credit quality of financial institutions is displayed based on public ratings by Standard & Poor's or Moody's. The rating code is a letter code that indicates the default risk of a debtor (country, company) and hence allows easy assessment of its creditworthiness. An independent, statistically determinable and validatable probability of default can be assigned to each rating code.

AAA/Aaa Risk of default is virtually zero.

AA/Aa

Safe investment, with slight risk of default.

A The investment is safe provided that no unforeseen

eventualities impair the overall economy or the

industry.

BBB/BaaThe investment is sufficient save but more depen-

dent on economic developments than the above

categories.

<BBB/Baa Mainly investments for which no public rating exists.

Ratings may be modified by the addition of a plus (+) or minus (­) sign or by the numbers 1 to 3 to move the rating up or down within the rating group.
In the operational area, ALSO limits the default risk by constantly monitoring customers' credit ratings and setting credit limits based thereon. The operational companies of the Group have largely insured their open trade receivables by means of credit insurances. The credit insurances generally cover defaults for 85 to 95% of the insured amounts. The residual credit default risk on trade receivables is therefore considered by ALSO to be limited, particularly since it is further minimized by the large number of customers and their wide geographical distribution. In addition, to further reduce default risks, certain receivables were completely sold.

138

ALSO Annual Report 2018

Financial report

Resulting from this sale are receivables from factors amounting to TEUR251938 (previous year: TEUR198162) see Note 5.4, which are spread over several factoring partners. The largest receivable from a single factoring partner is for TEUR62397 (previous year: TEUR47603). During the long-standing business relationships with the factoring companies, no losses on receivables have occurred. The risk of loss on receivables from factoring partners is not insured with credit insurances. The default risk of loss is minimized by ALSO through regular evaluation of the factoring partners.
Receivables which have not been sold, are impaired in general and if necessary by individual amounts. Experience from the past indicates that this risk can be considered to be low see also Note 5.2. The maximum credit risk (including derivative financial instruments with a positive market value) is represented by the carrying amounts of the financial assets. ALSO has not issued any financial guarantees in favor of third parties.
LIQUIDITY RISKS The central liquidity risk management system ensures that the Group is always in a position to fulfil its payment obligations

promptly. ALSO continuously monitors its liquidity with a detailed cash flow plan on a daily basis. Extensive planning ensures furthermore that sufficient liquidity is available in the medium and long term.
ALSO's objective is to obtain liquidity corresponding to the necessary timing. Since the main requirement for finance is to cover the operational business activities, which are subject to large seasonal fluctuations, over the year as a whole most of the sources of funds are short-term. The necessary funds are mainly obtained by selling existing receivables to factoring companies and supplemented by bank lines of credit that are available at short notice. At the reporting date, the unutilized available credit lines with banks amounted to EUR355million (previous year: EUR341million).
The following table shows the financial liabilities of the Group by expiration date. The information is based on contractually agreed undiscounted interest and amortization payments. Forward purchases and sales of foreign currencies are not included in the financial derivatives. Since the forward transactions do not cause any net negative cash flow, they do not present a liquidity risk to ALSO.

FINANCIAL LIABILITIES BY EXPIRATION DATE 2018
eur 1000
Trade payables Other liabilities Loans from banks and third parties and bonded loans Liabilities from factoring Contingent consideration from the acquisition of subsidiaries Finance lease total
derivative financial instruments Put options Interest rate swaps (net) Interest rate options (net)

Carrying amount
12.31.2018

Total cash flow

1 015 783 74 024
336 361 55 686

1 015 783 74 024
352 650 55 742

5 558 5 919 1 493 331

5 558 6 067 1 509 824

Up to 1 year
1 015 783 74 024 66 179 55 742
5 484 875
1 218 087

1 to 5 years
0 0 207 198 0
74 5 192 212 464

More than 5 years
0 0 79 273 0
0 0 79 273

1 411

1 502 11246
2 650

0 1 158
331

1 502 6 599 1 323

0 3 489
996

139

ALSO Annual Report 2018

Financial report

FINANCIAL LIABILITIES BY EXPIRATION DATE 2017
eur 1000
Trade payables Other liabilities Loans from banks and third parties and bonded loans Liabilities from factoring Contingent consideration from the acquisition of subsidiaries Finance lease total
derivative financial instruments Put options Interest rate swaps (net)

Carrying amount
12.31.2017

Total cash flow

851090 80947
358358 44021

851090 80947
379368 44139

5802 1112 1341330

5802 1141 1362487

Up to 1 year
851090 80947 41204 44139
2341 579
1020300

1 to 5 years
0 0 240207 0
2505 562
243274

More than 5 years
0 0 97957 0
956 0
98913

2750

2984 12685

0 1390

2984 6130

0 5165

The table includes all instruments held on December 31, 2018 and 2017 respectively, for which payments had already been contractually agreed. Plan figures for future new liabilities are not included. Foreign currency amounts were translated at the yearend exchange rate. The variable interest payments from the financial instruments were calculated using the interest rates fixed at December 31, 2018 and 2017, respectively. Financial liabilities that can be repaid at any time are always assigned to the earliest maturity date, irrespective of the fact that the greater part of these financial liabilities is revolving.
INTEREST RATE RISKS ALSO's interest rate risks relate mainly to current financial liabilities with variable interest rates. Interest rate fluctuations cause changes in the interest income and expense of the interest-bearing assets and liabilities. ALSO is particularly exposed to interest rate risks in EUR, CHF, PLN and DKK.
The interest rate management is handled centrally. Short-term interest rate risks are only partially hedged, a material part of interest bearing-liabilities hence remaining exposed to interest rate fluctuations. Also see Note 6.2.

Taking into account the existing and planned debt structure, interest derivatives are used if necessary to meet the bandwidths recommended by central Group treasury and prescribed by management. Since ALSO uses fixed as well as variable interest-bearing instruments, interest risks may result from an increase as well as a decrease in market interest rates.
SENSITIVITY ANALYSIS Interest rate risks are evaluated by means of sensitivity analyses. These sensitivity analyses demonstrate the effects of changes in market interest rates on unsecured variable interest expense and income, as well as on equity, when all other variables remain constant.
The change in the market interest rates affects the value and the effectiveness of the hedging instruments and therefore affects equity and the financial result. If the market interest rate on December 31, 2018 and 2017 respectively, had been 100 base points higher/lower, the effect would have been as follows:

140

ALSO Annual Report 2018

Financial report

SENSITIVITY OF INTEREST RATES 2018
eur 1000 Market interest rates +100 bps Market interest rates ­100 bps

Effect on the financial result
­8 736 2 496

Effect on the equity
6 836 ­5 560

SENSITIVITY OF INTEREST RATES 2017
eur 1000 Market interest rates +100 bps Market interest rates ­100 bps

Effect on the financial result
­7 956 2 076

Effect on the equity
7 807 ­6 543

Market interest rates were slightly negative in 2018 and 2017. Because some financing partners do not pass on negative interest rates to ALSO, the financing costs would not be affected to the same extent by a 100 bps decrease as they would be by a 100 bps increase. ALSO concluded new hedging instruments in 2017 that take account of the negative interest rate environment so as to rule out additional negative effects on the financial result. Amongst others, ALSO uses interest rate options to protect itself against increasing interest rates in the mid-term. However, those instruments do not have an impact on the financial result in the above disclosed sensitivity of interest rates. The measurement of hedging instruments is purely a valuation effect that does not result in any outflow of cash for ALSO.
This analysis is based on the assumption that the amount at the respective reporting date corresponds closely to the average amount utilized during the year.
EXCHANGE RATE RISKS A material part of the cash flows of the operational companies occurs in currencies which are not the functional currencies of those subsidiaries. ALSO is therefore exposed to foreign currency risks. Foreign currency risks are only hedged if they affect the cash flow of the Group. Exchange rate risks that arise in the consolidated financial statements through the translation of income statement and statements of financial position of subsidiaries are not hedged.

In the purchasing area, a certain amount is conducted in foreign currencies, especially EUR(where it is not the functional currency) and in USD. To hedge this exchange rate risk, Central Treasury hedges the purchasing volumes of the operating companies outside their functional currency.
Group-internal loans between subsidiaries with different functional currencies give rise to foreign currency risks. ALSO hedges most of these risks. Speculative borrowing or lending in foreign currencies is not permitted. Transaction-related foreign currency risks are also monitored and the corresponding net exposures in the various currencies are calculated.
By regular use of forward contracts, ALSO constantly reduces the exchange rate risk so that there is no material exchange rate risk to the Group. The table below shows the main unsecured net exposures of the Group at the end of 2018 and 2017 respectively. These usually reflect the open risks over the year.

141

ALSO Annual Report 2018

Financial report

UNHEDGED NET EXPOSURE

eur 1000
December31,2018 December31,2017

EUR / USD
53 462 20 609

EUR /CHF
18 312 12 008

EUR /PLN
26 376 43 506

EUR /DKK
2 224 13 058

EUR /NOK
11 499 10 039

EUR /SEK
6 254 8 519

EUR /GBP
490 7 206

SENSITIVITY ANALYSIS If, on December 31, 2018 and 2017 respectively, the EURhad been 10% stronger/weaker relative to the reporting date balances in those currencies, and all other variables had remained unchanged, the income statement and shareholders' equity (net, after tax) would have been TEUR7178 higher/lower (previous year: TEUR8989). The disclosed net exposures are mainly offset by inventories which are held in foreign currencies. Those inventories will be sold within a short period of time and would therefore largely compensate the effects explained above on the income statement.
Exchange differences resulting from the translation of entities whose functional currency is not the Euro are not included in the sensitivity analysis.

CAPITAL MANAGEMENT The overriding objective of capital management at ALSO is to maintain an appropriate equity base in order to preserve the trust of investors, customers, and the market, and to support future developments in the core business. The internal target value for the ratio of equity to total assets has been defined as 25 to 35%.
The capital management serves to maintain an optimal Groupwide capital structure which not only gives ALSO sufficient financial flexibility, but also maintains a high credit rating.
The equity structure can be maintained or modified by means of the dividend policy, capital repayments, and, if necessary, capital increases.
The capital structure is monitored on the basis of the net financial debt and reported equity. Net financial debt comprises interest-bearing financial liabilities less cash and cash equivalents.

eur 1000
Current financial liabilities Non-current financial liabilities total financial liabilities (note 5.8) ./. Cash and cash equivalents (Note 5.1) Net financial debt Reported equity Equity and net financial debt total liabilities and equity

12.31.2018

124 449 279 075 403 524 ­240 405 163 119 675 729 838 848 2 382 261

7% 28% 35% 100%

12.31.2017

83 571 325 722 409 293 ­235 561 173 732 623 295 797 027 2 158 504

8% 29% 37% 100%

142

ALSO Annual Report 2018

Financial report

6.8 FACTORING
ALSO has sold or assigned trade receivables to independent factoring companies. To the extent that a significant transfer of risk takes place, these transactions reduce the total receivables of the Group.
RECEIVABLES FULLY DERECOGNIZED IN THE STATEMENT OF FINANCIAL POSITION: If the sale of trade receivables transfers all material rewards and risks to the factoring company, under IFRS9 these receivables are fully derecognized and a corresponding receivable from the factoring company is recognized see Note 5.4.
Due to the contractual terms of the factoring program, ALSO is exposed to certain residual risks even after the trade receivables are sold. For the time period between maturity and payment of the sold receivables, ALSO is obliged to pay interest to the factoring company (interest risk for late payments).
RESIDUAL RISKS OF FULLY DERECOGNIZED RECEIVABLES
eur 1000
Interest risk for late payment total december 31, 2018
Interest risk for late payment total december 31, 2017

Carrying amount/fair value of loss risk
119 119
123 123

Theoretical maximum loss risk
2 069 2 069
1 978 1 978

Taking into account ongoing creditworthiness checks, the large number of customers, and their historical payment behavior, as well as the known time period between maturity and payment of the sold receivables, ALSO expects that interest of TEUR119 (previous year: TEUR123) for late payments will be due on sold receivables at December 31, 2018. Corresponding accruals for these amounts were therefore made at December 31, 2018 and 2017, respectively.

Should the theoretical case occur of default on payment of all receivables that have been sold, ALSO would have to pay interest to the factors for the time period between maturity of the sold receivables and a contractually agreed latest date. As of at December 31, 2018, the theoretical maximum value at risk from this loss was estimated at TEUR2069 (previous year: TEUR1978).

143

ALSO Annual Report 2018

Financial report

RECEIVABLES NOT FULLY DERECOGNIZED IN THE STATEMENT OF FINANCIAL POSITION: In some agreements, neither complete transfer nor complete retention of the rewards and risks of the receivables can be assumed. Under these agreements, the trade receivables are not fully derecognized, and a residual amount remains recognized in the statement of financial position. Under IFRS9, this residual amount represents a so-called "continuing involvement".
The trade receivables of TEUR622223 (previous year: TEUR570713), see Note 5.2 therefore contain a continuing involvement for the amount of TEUR60698 (previous year: TEUR65867).This is composed of the residual interest risk for late payments of TEUR1499 (previous year: TEUR4902), the residual credit risk of TEUR52973 (previous year: TEUR51647), and the residual exchange rate risk of TEUR6226 (previous year: TEUR9319).
Due to the continuing involvement, there is a corresponding obligation for the amount of TEUR60698 (previous year: TEUR65867), which is recognized in accrued expenses, deferred income and other payables. In addition, there is an accrual for the amount of TEUR156 (previous year: TEUR160) for the fair value of the residual risk of the continuing involvement. Only the change in the true uncollectibility and interest risk is recognized through profit or loss.
NET OBLIGATION 2018
eur 1000
Asset from continuing involvement Obligation from continuing involvement net obligation at december 31, 2018
NET OBLIGATION 2017
eur 1000
Asset from continuing involvement Obligation from continuing involvement net obligation at december 31, 2017
At the reporting date, the gross amount of these sold receivables with continuing involvement was TEUR553396 (previous year: TEUR628189).
144

Carrying amount/fair value 60 698 60 854 ­156
Carrying amount/fair value 65 867 66 027 ­160

ALSO Annual Report 2018

Financial report

LIABILITY FROM FACTORING 2018
eur 1000 Receivables fully derecognized Receivables not fully derecognized december31,2018 (note 5.9)

Fair value of the remaining risk
119 156 275

Obligation from continuing involvement
0 60 698 60 698

LIABILITY FROM FACTORING 2017
eur 1000 Receivables fully derecognized Receivables not fully derecognized december31,2017 (note 5.9)

Fair value of the remaining risk
123 160 283

6.9 EVENTS AFTER THE REPORTING PERIOD
No material events occurred after the reporting period.
6.10 APPROVAL OF THE ALSO GROUP CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
These consolidated financial statements were released for publication by the Board of Directors of ALSO Holding AG on February 12, 2019, and will be submitted to the Annual General Meeting of March 29, 2019, for approval.

Obligation from continuing involvement
0 65 867 65 867

Total liability from factoring
119 60 854 60 973
Total liability from factoring
123 66 027 66 150

145

ALSO Annual Report 2018

Financial report

Report of the statutory auditor to the General Meeting on the consolidated financial statements 2018
Report on the audit of the consolidated financial statements

Opinion

We have audited the consolidated financial statements of ALSO Holding AG and its subsidiaries (the Group), which comprise the consolidated income statement and consolidated statement of comprehensive income for the year ended on 31 December 2018, the consolidated statement of financial position as at 31 December 2018, consolidated statement of changes in equity and consolidated statement of cash flows for the year then ended, and notes to the consolidated financial statements, including a summary of significant accounting policies.

In our opinion, the consolidated financial statements pages 78 to 145 give a true and fair view of the consolidated financial position of the Group as at 31 December 2018 and its consolidated financial performance and its consolidated cash flows for the year then ended in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS) and comply with Swiss law.

Basis for opinion

We conducted our audit in accordance with Swiss law, International Standards on Auditing (ISAs) and Swiss Auditing Standards. Our responsibilities under those provisions and standards are further described in the "Auditor's responsibilities for the audit of the consolidated financial statements" section of our report.

We are independent of the Group in accordance with the provisions of Swiss law and the requirements of the Swiss audit profession, as well as the IESBA Code of Ethics for Professional Accountants, and we have fulfilled our other ethical responsibilities in accordance with these requirements. We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our opinion.

Our audit approach
Overview

Overall materiality: EUR 5 800 000

senthkeit

Materiality

We concluded full scope audit work and audit work of one and more account balances at 14 reporting units in 11 countries. Our audit scope addressed over 90 % of the Group's net sales, 86 % of the assets and 81 % of the profit of the Group.

nders htige ungshveralte

Audit scope
Key audit matters

In addition, we concluded reviews at a further 4 reporting units in 4 countries, which addressed an additional 8 % of the Group's net sales, 5 % of the assets and 12 % of the profit of the Group.
As a key audit matter, the following area of focus has been identified:
Impairment testing of goodwill

ctère ficatif

146

ALSO Annual Report 2018

Financial report

Materiality
The scope of our audit was influenced by our application of materiality. Our audit opinion aims to provide reasonable assurance that the consolidated financial statements are free from material misstatement. Misstatements may arise due to fraud or error. They are considered material if, individually or in aggregate, they could reasonably be expected to influence the economic decisions of users taken on the basis of the consolidated financial statements.
Based on our professional judgement, we determined certain quantitative thresholds for materiality, including the overall Group materiality for the consolidated financial statements as a whole as set out in the table below. These, together with qualitative considerations, helped us to determine the scope of our audit and the nature, timing and extent of our audit procedures and to evaluate the effect of misstatements, both individually and in aggregate, on the consolidated financial statements as a whole.

Overall Group materiality
How we determined it Rationale for the materiality benchmark applied

EUR 5 800 000
5 % of profit before tax We chose profit before tax as the benchmark because, in our view, it is the benchmark against which the performance of the Group is most commonly measured, and it is a generally accepted benchmark.

We agreed with the Audit Committee that we would report to them misstatements above EUR 580 000 identified during our audit as well as any misstatements below that amount which, in our view, warranted reporting for qualitative reasons.
Audit scope
We tailored the scope of our audit in order to perform sufficient work to enable us to provide an opinion on the consolidated financial statements as a whole, taking into account the structure of the Group, the accounting processes and controls, and the industry in which the Group operates.
The audit strategy for the audit of the consolidated financial statements was determined taking into account the work performed by the Group auditor and the work performed at Group components by auditors in the PwC network and by third parties. All significant subsidiaries of the Group were audited by PwC. Where audits were performed by component auditors, we ensured that, as Group auditor, we were adequately involved in the audit in order to assess whether adequate sufficient appropriate audit evidence was obtained from the work of the component auditors to provide a basis for our opinion. The involvement of the Group auditor included telephone conferences with the component auditors and an investigation of the risk assessment.

147

ALSO Annual Report 2018

Financial report

Key audit matters

Key audit matters are those matters that, in our professional judgement, were of most significance in our audit of the consolidated financial statements of the current period. These matters were addressed in the context of our audit of the consolidated financial statements as a whole, and in forming our opinion thereon, and we do not provide a separate opinion on these matters.

IMPAIRMENT TESTING OF GOODWILL

Key audit matter

How our audit addressed the key audit matter

Impairment testing of goodwill was deemed a key audit matter for the following two reasons:
Goodwill represents a significant amount on the balance sheet. It amounts to a total of EUR 152.1 million (6.4 % of total assets), of which EUR 134.7 million relates to the Central Europe cash-generating unit and EUR 17.4 million relates to the North/Eastern Europe cash-generating unit.
In addition, there is significant scope for judgement in determining the assumptions relating to future business results and the discount rate applied to forecasted cash flows.
Please refer to page 87 (key assumptions and estimates), page 94 (accounting standards for intangible assets and impair-
ment) and page 117 (notes to the consolidated financial statements).

We assessed the impairment tests carried out by the Group by performing the following audit procedures: ·For the forecasted cash flows, we assessed the budget process,
especially whether Group Management and the Board of Directors monitored this process and challenged the assumptions made. ·We tested whether the values used for the impairment tests were in line with the budget approved by the Board of Directors. ·We discussed with Group Management how the country-specific assumptions concerning revenue growth and long-term growth rates have been established. ·We compared the assumptions relating to the prior year's revenues and results with those for the year under review in order to identify, in retrospect, any assumptions that were too optimistic regarding the budgeted revenues and results. ·We assessed the reasonableness of the forecasts relating to investments and to the change in net working capital. ·For each cash-generating unit (CGU), we compared the discount rate used with its cost of capital. ·In addition, using sensitivity analyses, we tested whether a significant change in each of the key assumptions (the discount rate, the EBITDA margin and the long-term growth rate) resulted in the impairment of the goodwill. ·We discussed the results of these tests with Group Management in terms of both the headroom available before the goodwill would be impaired and the probability of such a change in the assumptions occurring.

In performing the audit procedures listed above, we addressed the risk of the impairment of the goodwill. We have no findings to report.

Other information in the annual report
The Board of Directors is responsible for the other information in the annual report. The other information comprises all information included in the annual report, but does not include the consolidated financial statements, the stand-alone financial statements and the remuneration report of ALSO Holding AG and our auditor's reports thereon.
Our opinion on the consolidated financial statements does not cover the other information in the annual report and we do not express any form of assurance conclusion thereon.

148

ALSO Annual Report 2018

Financial report

In connection with our audit of the consolidated financial statements, our responsibility is to read the other information in the annual report and, in doing so, consider whether the other information is materially inconsistent with the consolidated financial statements or our knowledge obtained in the audit, or otherwise appears to be materially misstated. If, based on the work we have performed, we conclude that there is a material misstatement of this other information, we are required to report that fact. We have nothing to report in this regard.

Responsibilities of the Board of Directors for the consolidated financial statements

The Board of Directors is responsible for the preparation of the consolidated financial statements that give a true and fair view in accordance with IFRS and the provisions of Swiss law, and for such internal control as the Board of Directors determines is necessary to enable the preparation of consolidated financial statements that are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error.

In preparing the consolidated financial statements, the Board of Directors is responsible for assessing the Group's ability to continue as a going concern, disclosing, as applicable, matters related to going concern and using the going concern basis of accounting unless the Board of Directors either intends to liquidate the Group or to cease operations, or has no realistic alternative but to do so.

Auditor's responsibilities for the audit of the consolidated financial statements

Our objectives are to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the consolidated financial statements as a whole are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error, and to issue an auditor's report that includes our opinion. Reasonable assurance is a high level of assurance, but is not a guarantee that an audit conducted in accordance with Swiss law, ISAs and Swiss Auditing Standards will always detect a material misstatement when it exists. Misstatements can arise from fraud or error and are considered material if, individually or in the aggregate, they could reasonably be expected to influence the economic decisions of users taken on the basis of these consolidated financial statements.

A further description of our responsibilities for the audit of the consolidated financial statements is located at the website of EXPERTsuisse http://expertsuisse.ch/en/audit-report-for-public-companies. This description forms part of our auditor's report.
Report on other legal and regulatory requirements

In accordance with article 728a paragraph 1 item 3 CO and Swiss Auditing Standard 890, we confirm that an internal control system exists which has been designed for the preparation of consolidated financial statements according to the instructions of the Board of Directors.

We recommend that the consolidated financial statements submitted to you be approved.

PricewaterhouseCoopers AG

Joanne Burgener Audit expert Auditor in charge

Andreas Wolf Audit expert

Lucerne, 12 February 2019

149

ALSO Annual Report 2018

Financial report

PROFIT OR LOSS STATEMENT OF ALSO HOLDING AG

chf 1000
Service revenue Investment revenue Other operating income Service expenses Personnel expenses Other operating expenses Depreciation Financial income Financial expenses Direct tax expenses net profit

2018
24 136 54 859
0 ­14 108
­6 663 ­7 681 ­3 764 11 349 ­9 041
0 49 087

2017
20 313 50 336
213 ­10 297
­5 951 ­7 715
0 10 088 ­4 692
­377 51 918

150

ALSO Annual Report 2018

Financial report

BALANCE SHEET OF ALSO H OLDING AG
ASSETS
chf 1000
Cash Other current receivables
from Group companies Prepaid expenses and accrued income total current assets
Loans to Group companies Investments total non-current assets
total assets

LIABILITIES AND EQUITY
chf 1000
Liabilities to banks (interest-bearing) Other current payables
to third parties to Group companies (interest-bearing) Accrued expenses and deferred income total current liabilities
Liabilities to banks (interest-bearing) total non-current liabilities
Total liabilities
Share capital Legal capital reserves
capital contribution reserve share-premium reserve Legal reserves general reserve Special reserve Retained earnings balance brought forward net profit Treasury shares total shareholders' equity
total liabilities and equity

12.31.2018
51
358 046 232
358 329 152 670 528 833 681 503 1 039 832

12.31.2017
18
342 622 273
342 913 157 665 516 587 674 252 1 017 165

12.31.2018 56 893
1 015 82 915 21 456 162 279 243 357 243 357 405 636
12 849
195 121 8 618
1 100 90 000
278 961 49 087 ­1 540
634 196 1 039 832

12.31.2017 19 847
21 43 236 22 117 85 221 311 578 311 578 396 799
12 849
230 378 8 618
1 100 90 000
227 043 51 918 ­1 540
620 366 1 017 165

151

ALSO Annual Report 2018

Financial report

NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATE MENTS OF ALSO HOLDING AG

GENERAL
The financial statements of ALSO Holding AG, with registered office in Emmen, Switzerland, comply with the requirements of the Swiss Code of Obligations (SCO).
BASIS OF PREPARATION
Assets are valued at no higher than acquisition cost. All changes in value are recognized in the profit or loss statement. Due to their similarity investments are usually grouped together and tested for impairment once a year. Intangible assets are amortized over five years. Gains and losses from disposals of treasury shares, including transaction costs, are recognized directly in legal reserves. Liabilities are valued at nominal value.

All current assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies are translated according to the exchange rates applicable on the balance sheet date. For non-current assets and liabilities the imparity principle is applied. Income and expenses denominated in foreign currencies and all foreign exchange transactions are translated using the exchange rates as of the transaction dates. Resulting foreign exchange differences are recognized in the profit or loss statement.
Derivatives with positive replacement values are recognized at their acquisition cost. Derivatives with negative replacement values are recognized at their fair values.

CAPITAL
Subscribed capital Authorized capital increase (unclaimed) Conditional capital increase (unclaimed)
Capital is unchanged compared to previous year. TREASURY SHARES
january 1, 2017 Additions Disposals Revaluation december 31, 2017 Additions Disposals Revaluation december 31, 2018

Total in CHF 12.31.2018
12848 962 2500 000 2500 000

Number of shares

Nominal value per share in CHF

12848 962 2500 000 2500 000

1.00 1.00 1.00

Date 12.31.2017 12.31.2018

Number Value in TCHF

28 089 ­ ­
28 089 ­ ­
28 089

1 540
­ 1 540
­ 1 540

Price in CHF 89.90
134.00
111.40

Treasury shares are measured at their historic cost.

152

ALSO Annual Report 2018

Financial report

MAJOR SHAREHOLDERS
Special Distribution Holding GmbH, Düsseldorf (Germany)1) Bestinver Gestion, S.G.I.I.C. S.A., Madrid (Spain) SaraSelect, c/o Sarasin Investmentfonds AG, Basel (Switzerland)
Share register as of December 31 (without nominees) 1) Controlling shareholder: Walter P.J. Droege through Droege Group AG 2) Voting rights below the notifiable threshold value of three percent
CONTINGENT LIABILITIES
chf 1000 Conditional liabilities towards third parties Letters of comfort total
The contingent liabilities of ALSO Holding AG cover the conditional liabilities for bank guarantees, borrowing arrangements and delivery commitments of the Group companies.
LIABILITIES TO DEFINED BENEFIT PLANS
chf 1000 ALSO pension fund total
NUMBER OF FULL-TIME EQUIVALENT POSITIONS In 2018, the average number of full-time equivalent positions was 7 (previous year: 11). DEPRECIATION In 2018, the investment and the loan in ALSO Digital Holding B.V. were written off completely.

12.31.2018
51.30%
2)
3.00%

12.31.2017
51.30% 3.17% 3.60%

12.31.2018
773785 p.m.
773785

12.31.2017
730856 p.m.
730856

12.31.2018
5 5

12.31.2017
­ ­

153

ALSO Annual Report 2018

Financial report

INFORMATION ABOUT DIRECTLY OR INDIRECTLY CONTROLLED INVESTMENTS

Country

Head office

Company

Participation1) Participation1) Share capital

12.31.2018

12.31.2017

in 1000 Currency Code

Switzerland Belgium Denmark Germany
Estonia Finland

Emmen Emmen Thun Emmen Emmen Mechelen
Tåstrup Soest Osnabrück Osnabrück Osnabrück Straubing Berlin Berlin Soest Soest Soest Staufenberg Pullach i. Isartal
Soest Frankfurt am Main Stuttgart Berlin Berlin
Berlin Soest Soest Seevetal Tallinn Tallinn Tampere Tampere Helsinki Helsinki

ALSO Holding AG ALSO Schweiz AG NRS Printing Solutions AG Quatec AG Bachmann Mobile Kommunikation AG ALSO Belgium BVBA (formerly Five 4 U BVBA) ALSO A/S ALSO Deutschland GmbH NT plus GmbH SEAMCOM GmbH & Co. KG SEAMCOM Verwaltungs GmbH ALSO MPS GmbH druckerfachmann.de GmbH LumIT GmbH ALSO International Services GmbH ALSO IH GmbH Impaso Online Services GmbH Fulfilment Plus GmbH SINAS Beteiligungs GmbH & Co. Vermietungs-KG MEDIUM GmbH Pestinger GmbH
Beamer & more GmbH ALSO Enterprise Services GmbH druckerfachmann Verwaltungs GmbH (formerly ALSO bringback GmbH) Webinstore AG ALSO Mobility Services GmbH ALSO Logistics Services GmbH i. L. ALSO Financial Services GmbH ALSO Eesti OÜ Internet Smartsec OÛ ALSO Nordic Holding Oy ALSO Finland Oy ALSO Cloud Oy ALSO Cloud Solutions Oy

100% 100% 100% 100% 100%
100% 100% 100% 100% 100% 100% 100% 100% 100% 100% 100% 100%
0%
100% 74.8%
51% 100% 100%
99.99% 100% 100% 9.9% 100%
2)
100% 100% 100% 100%

100% 100% 100% 100% 100%
100% 100% 100% 100% 100% 100% 100% 100% 100% 100% 100% 100%
0%
100% 74.8%
51% 100% 100%
99.99% 100% 100% ­ 100% 100% 100% 100% 100% 100%

12 849 100 100 100 100
8 331
39 000 20 000 12 500
203 26
100 200
25 100
25 25 50
9
25 26
25 100
25
500 25 25 50
192 3
10 000 841 11 3

CHF

S

CHF D

CHF

S

CHF

S

CHF

S

EUR D

DKK D

EUR D

EUR D

EUR D

EUR

S

EUR

S

EUR

S

EUR

S

EUR

S

EUR

S

EUR

S

EUR

S

EUR

S

EUR D EUR D

EUR D

EUR

S

EUR

S

EUR

S

EUR

S

EUR

S

EUR

S

EUR D

EUR D

EUR

S

EUR D

EUR

S

EUR

S

154

ALSO Annual Report 2018

Financial report

INFORMATION ABOUT DIRECTLY OR INDIRECTLY CONTROLLED INVESTMENTS

Country

Head office

Company

Participation1) Participation1) Share capital

12.31.2018

12.31.2017

in 1000 Currency Code

France

Gennevilliers

ALSO France S.A.S.

Gennevilliers

LAFI Logiciels Application Formation Information S.A.S.

Paris

BeIP S.A.S.

Dardilly

DistriWan S.A.S.

Latvia

Mãrupe

SIA "ALSO Latvia"

Riga

ALSO Cloud Latvia SIA

Lithuania

Kaunas

UAB "ALSO Lietuva"

Kaunas

UAB "Sophela"

Morocco

Casablanca

BeIP International

Netherlands

Nijmegen

ALSO Nederland B.V.

Nijmegen

ALSO Digital Holding B.V. in Liquidation

Nijmegen

ALSO Digital B.V.

Nijmegen

ALSO International B.V.

Utrecht

All 4 U B.V.

Utrecht

Esseko B.V.

Utrecht

Five 4 U Nederland B.V.

Norway

Stokke

ALSO AS

Austria

Gross- Enzersdorf ALSO Austria GmbH

Poland

Warsaw

ALSO Polska sp. z o.o.

Goleniow

MLS sp. z o.o.

Goleniow

Blue Bridge sp. z o.o.

Szczecin

iTerra sp. z o.o.

Sweden

Malmö

ALSO Sweden AB

Slovenia

Ljubljana

ALSO d.o.o.

Ljubljana

DISS d.o.o.

Ljubljana

VAD d.o.o.

Ljubljana

Marmis d.o.o.

Ukraine

Kiev

TOB Sophela

Belarus

Minsk

Sophela OOO

Codes: D = Distribution, S = Service-/Holding company

1) Participation equals ALSO Holding AG's direct or indirect voting interest in the company. 2) Internet Smartec OÛ was liquidated in 2018. 3) In 2018, All 4 U B.V., Esseko B.V. and Five 4 U Nederland B.V. merged with ALSO Nederland B.V.

100% 100%
51% 100% 100% 100% 100% 100% 100% 100%
51%
100% 100%
3) 3) 3)
100% 100% 99.99% 100% 100% 100% 100% 100% 100% 100% 100% 100% 100%

100% 100%
51% ­
100% 100% 100%
­ 100% 100%
51%
100% 100% 100% 100% 100% 100% 100% 99.99% 100% 100% 100% 100% 100%
­ ­ ­ ­ ­

14 500 400

EUR D

EUR

S

147

EUR D

300

EUR D

1 210

EUR D

100

EUR

S

1 883

EUR D

3

EUR

S

50 MAD D

1 000

EUR D

18

EUR

S

18 18 50 54 10 11 063 100 41 705 5 000 100 3 250 1 000
8 1 710
50 9
96 7

EUR

S

EUR D

EUR

S

EUR D

EUR D

NOK D

EUR D

PLN D

PLN D

PLN

S

PLN D

SEK D

EUR

S

EUR D

EUR D

EUR D

UAH

S

BYN

S

155

ALSO Annual Report 2018

Financial report

PARTICIPATIONS, CONVERSION RIGHTS AND OPTIONS In accordance with Art. 25 of the Articles of Association, no participations, conversion rights or options are granted to members of the Board of Directors or Group Management. The existing participations, conversion rights, and options of the members of the Board of Directors and Group Management and their related parties are as follows:
BOARD OF DIRECTORS 2018
Gustavo Möller-Hergt, Chairman/Executive Member Walter P. J. Droege, Vice Chairman Karl Hofstetter Rudolf Marty Frank Tanski Peter Athanas Ernest-W. Droege total
BOARD OF DIRECTORS 2017
Gustavo Möller-Hergt, Chairman/Executive Member Walter P. J. Droege, Vice Chairman Karl Hofstetter Rudolf Marty Frank Tanski Peter Athanas Ernest-W. Droege total
Gustavo Möller-Hergt has been a member of Group Management since 2011 and a member and Chairman of the Board of Directors since March 13, 2014. All other members of the Board of Directors are non-executive members.
156

Number of shares

12.31.2018 Number of options

­

­

6592032

­

2000

­

10

­

­

­

­

­

­

­

6594042

­

Number of shares

12.31.2017 Number of options

­

­

6592032

­

2000

­

10

­

­

­

­

­

­

­

6594042

­

ALSO Annual Report 2018

Financial report

GROUP MANAGEMENT
Neither in the reporting year nor in the prior year did the members of Group Management receive participations, conversion rights, or options.
ADDITIONAL DISCLOSURES, STATEMENT OF CASH FLOWS AND STATUS REPORT
In accordance with Art. 961d, Paragraph 1, of the Swiss Code of Obligations, additional disclosures, the statement of cash flows and the status report are dispensed with, as the ALSO Holding AG prepares the consolidated financial statements in accordance with a generally accepted financial reporting standard.

EVENTS AFTER THE REPORTING PERIOD These financial statements were released for publication by the Board of Directors of ALSO Holding AG on February 12, 2019, and will be submitted to the Annual General Meeting of March 29, 2019, for approval.
No material events occurred after the reporting period.
There are no further matters requiring disclosure according to the Swiss Code of Obligations (SCO) Art. 959c.

PROPOSAL OF THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS TO THE ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING OF MARCH 29, 2019
chf 1000
brought forward, january 1 Net profit Dissolution of reserve from contribution in kind total available earnings
disbursement of reserve from contribution in kind Balance to be carried forward

2018
278 961 49 087 38 463
366 511
­38 463 328 048

2017
227 043 51 918 35 257
314 218
­35 257 278 961

157

ALSO Annual Report 2018

Financial report

Report of the statutory auditor to the General Meeting on the financial statements 2018

Report on the audit of the financial statements
Opinion

We have audited the financial statements of ALSO Holding AG, which comprise the balance sheet as at 31 December 2018, income statement and notes for the year then ended, including a summary of significant accounting policies.

In our opinion, the financial statements pages 150 to 157 as at 31 December 2018 comply with Swiss law and the company's articles of incorporation.
Basis for opinion

We conducted our audit in accordance with Swiss law and Swiss Auditing Standards. Our responsibilities under those provisions and standards are further described in the "Auditor's responsibilities for the audit of the financial statements" section of our report.

We are independent of the entity in accordance with the provisions of Swiss law and the requirements of the Swiss audit profession and we have fulfilled our other ethical responsibilities in accordance with these requirements. We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our opinion.

Our audit approach

Overview

Overall materiality: CHF 3 100 000

Wesentlichkeit
gsng
Besonders wichtige Prüfungssachver-
halte

Materiality
Audit scope
Key audit matters

We tailored the scope of our audit in order to perform sufficient work to enable us to provide an opinion on the financial statements as a whole, taking into account the structure of the entity, the accounting processes and controls, and the industry in which the entity operates.
As a key audit matter, the following area of focus has been identified: Impairment of equity investments

Caractère gnificatif

e

it

158

ALSO Annual Report 2018

Financial report

Materiality
The scope of our audit was influenced by our application of materiality. Our audit opinion aims to provide reasonable assurance that the financial statements are free from material misstatement. Misstatements may arise due to fraud or error. They are considered material if, individually or in aggregate, they could reasonably be expected to influence the economic decisions of users taken on the basis of the financial statements.
Based on our professional judgement, we determined certain quantitative thresholds for materiality, including the overall materiality for the financial statements as a whole as set out in the table below. These, together with qualitative considerations, helped us to determine the scope of our audit and the nature, timing and extent of our audit procedures and to evaluate the effect of misstatements, both individually and in aggregate, on the financial statements as a whole.

Overall materiality
How we determined it Rationale for the materiality benchmark applied

CHF 3 100 000
0.5 % of equity We chose equity as the benchmark because it is a relevant and generally accepted benchmark for materiality considerations r elating to a holding company.

We agreed with the Audit Committee that we would report to them misstatements above CHF 310 000 identified during our audit as well as any misstatements below that amount which, in our view, warranted reporting for qualitative reasons.
Audit scope
We designed our audit by determining materiality and assessing the risks of material misstatement in the financial statements. In particular, we considered where subjective judgements were made; for example, in respect of significant accounting estimates that involved making assumptions and considering future events that are inherently uncertain. As in all of our audits, we also addressed the risk of management override of internal controls, including among other matters consideration of whether there was evidence of bias that represented a risk of material misstatement due to fraud.

159

ALSO Annual Report 2018

Financial report

Report on key audit matters based on the Circular 1/2015 of the Federal Audit Oversight Authority

Key audit matters are those matters that, in our professional judgement, were of most significance in our audit of the financial statements of the current period. These matters were addressed in the context of our audit of the financial statements as a whole, and in forming our opinion thereon, and we do not provide a separate opinion on these matters.

IMPAIRMENT OF EQUITY INVESTMENTS

Key audit matter
Impairment testing of equity investments was deemed a key audit matter for the following two reasons:
Equity investments of CHF 528.8 million represent the largest single asset category. A valuation adjustment on this item would have a significant impact on the equity of the company. Testing for impairment depends on the future results of the each company concerned.
In addition, there is significant scope for judgement in determining the assumptions with regard to future results.
Please refer to page 152 (Accounting policies).

How our audit addressed the key audit matter
We assessed the impairment test performed by the company on equity investments by performing the following audit procedures: ·For the forecasted cash flows, we assessed the budget process,
especially whether Management and the Board of Directors monitored this process and challenged the assumptions made. ·We tested whether the values used for the impairment test were in line with the budget approved by the Board of Directors. ·We discussed with Management how the country-specific assumptions concerning revenue growth and long-term growth rates have been established. ·We compared the assumptions relating to the prior year's revenues and results with those for the year under review in order to identify, in retrospect, any assumptions that were too optimistic regarding the budgeted revenues and results. ·We assessed the adequacy of the forecasts relating to investments and to the change in net working capital. ·We compared the applied discount rate with the respective cost of capital. ·In addition, using sensitivity analyses, we tested whether a significant change in each of the key assumptions (the discount rate, the EBITDA margin and the long-term growth rate) resulted in the impairment of the equity investments. ·We discussed the results of these tests with Management in terms of both the headroom available before the carrying amount of the equity investments would be impaired and the probability of such a change in the assumptions occurring.
In performing the audit procedures listed above, we addressed the risk of impairment of the equity investments. We have no findings to report.

160

ALSO Annual Report 2018

Financial report

Responsibilities of the Board of Directors for the financial statements

The Board of Directors is responsible for the preparation of the financial statements in accordance with the provisions of Swiss law and the company's articles of incorporation, and for such internal control as the Board of Directors determines is necessary to enable the preparation of financial statements that are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error.

In preparing the financial statements, the Board of Directors is responsible for assessing the entity's ability to continue as a going concern, disclosing, as applicable, matters related to going concern and using the going concern basis of accounting unless the Board of Directors either intends to liquidate the entity or to cease operations, or has no realistic alternative but to do so.

Auditor's responsibilities for the audit of the financial statements

Our objectives are to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements as a whole are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error, and to issue an auditor's report that includes our opinion. Reasonable assurance is a high level of assurance, but is not a guarantee that an audit conducted in accordance with Swiss law and Swiss Auditing Standards will always detect a material misstatement when it exists. Misstatements can arise from fraud or error and are considered material if, individually or in the aggregate, they could reasonably be expected to influence the economic decisions of users taken on the basis of these financial statements.

A further description of our responsibilities for the audit of the financial statements is located at the website of EXPERTsuisse http://expertsuisse.ch/en/audit-report-for-public-companies. This description forms part of our auditor's report.
Report on other legal and regulatory requirements

In accordance with article 728a paragraph 1 item 3 CO and Swiss Auditing Standard 890, we confirm that an internal control system exists which has been designed for the preparation of financial statements according to the instructions of the Board of Directors.

We further confirm that the proposed appropriation of available earnings complies with Swiss law and the company's articles of incorporation. We recommend that the financial statements submitted to you be approved.

PricewaterhouseCoopers AG

Joanne Burgener Audit expert Auditor in charge

Andreas Wolf Audit expert

Lucerne, 12 February 2019

161

ALSO Annual Report 2018

Financial report

IMPRINT
FOR FURTHER INFORMATION PLEASE CONTACT ALSO Holding AG Meierhofstrasse 5 CH-6032 Emmen Tel. +41 41 2661800 WWW.ALSO.COM The original German language version is binding.
EDITING/CONCEPT AND TEXT ALSO Holding AG, Emmen, Switzerland DESIGN AND REALISATION Strichpunkt, Stuttgart/Berlin, Germany PRINT Eberl Print, Immenstadt
carbon neutral
natureOffice.com | DE-141-272689
print production

162

FINAN CIAL CALENDAR

29.
MAR ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING

25.
JUL
PUBLICATION HALF-YEAR REPORT

ALSO HOLDING AG MEIERHOFSTRASSE CH-6032 EMMEN TEL. +41 41 266 18

5 00

FOR FURTHER INFORMATION:
WWW.ALSO.COM

