Registered number 03959429
accesso Technology Group plc 2014 Annual report and financial statements

accesso Technology Group plc
Contents of the consolidated financial statements for the financial year ended 31 December 2014

Company information Introduction and key financial highlights Chairman's report Chief executive officer's report The board of directors Strategic report Report of the directors Report of the independent auditors to the members of accesso Technology Group plc Consolidated statement of comprehensive income Consolidated statement of financial position Company statement of financial position Consolidated statement of cash flow Company statement of cash flow Statement of changes in group equity Statement of changes in company equity Notes to the consolidated financial statements

Page 2 3 5 6 11 13 14 20
21 22 23 24 25 26 27 28

1

accesso Technology Group plc
Company information for the financial year ended 31 December 2014
Directors:
Secretary:
Registered office:
Registered number: Auditors:
Bankers:

John Weston, Non-executive Chairman John Alder, Executive Anthony Bone, Non-executive (resigned 27 May 2014) Steve Brown, Executive Tom Burnet, Executive Matt Cooper, Non-executive David Gammon, Non-executive Leonard Sim, Executive
Martha Bruce Bruce Wallace Associates Limited 120 Pall Mall London SW1Y 5EA
Unit 2, The Pavilions Ruscombe Park Twyford Berkshire RG10 9NN
03959429 (England and Wales)
BDO LLP Kings Wharf 20-30 Kings Road Reading Berkshire RG1 3EX
Lloyds Bank plc The Atrium Davidson House Forbury Square Reading Berkshire RG1 3EU

2

accesso Technology Group plc

Introduction and key financial highlights for the financial year ended 31 December 2014

Financial Highlights

12 months ended
31 Dec 14
(audited)

$m

Revenue

75.1

Adjusted operating profit *

8.7

14 months ended
31 Dec 13 (audited)
$m 61.4
6.1

22.3% 42.6%

12 months ended

31 Dec 13 (unaudited pro-
forma) $m 60.3 7.2

24.5% 20.8%

Free cash flow **

5.8

2.7 114.8%

5.0 16.0%

Net debt

(14.3)

(2.0) (12.3)

(2.0)

Earnings per share ­ basic (cents)

18.49

14.70 25.8%

Adjusted earnings per share ­ basic (cents) ***

30.81

27.03 14.0%

*Adjusted operating profit is defined as operating profit before the deduction of amortization related to acquisitions, acquisition costs and costs related to share based payments/ unapproved options **Free cash flow is defined as net cash inflow from operating activities, less additions in intangible fixed assets and property, plant and equipment. *** Earnings used in the adjusted earnings per share calculation is defined as PBT before the deduction of amortization related to acquisitions, acquisition costs and costs related to share based payments/ unapproved options less tax at the effective rate
Operational Highlights: A period of strong growth ­ adding skills, complementary services and reach to our operations
o Period of diversification and expansion into new leisure verticals; entering untapped geographies, deepening existing relationships and establishing new ones
o Managing the consumer shift to mobile and delivering end-to-end services through accesso Passport® o Immediately accretive acquisition of VisionOne Worldwide Ltd, moving accesso into assigned seating
venues
accesso Passport ­ won mandates across ticketing, mobile and eCommerce driving attendance and increasing engagement
o Volume growth of 31% o Milestone deals in Europe with Compagnie des Alpes ("CdA") and the three year Master Service Agreement
with Merlin Entertainments plc o Three year deal with Ripley's Entertainment and a renewal from Palace Entertainment together with
continued new business success in the second half
accesso LoQueueSM ­ evidenced increased momentum with new and existing customers taking more and more guests out of queue lines
o Delivering expansion into Asian markets with Qsmartsm installation at The Movie Animation Park Studios in Ipoh and a three year agreement with Vision Works Global

3

accesso Technology Group plc
Introduction and key financial highlights (continued) for the financial year ended 31 December 2014
o Further embedded in existing client relationships at Blackpool pleasure Beach, LEGOLAND Windsor and Dreamworld in Australia with contract extensions and the introduction of Q-smart
o Successful early trials of our next generation queuing product: Q100 Siriusware® ­ new relationships in more verticals delivering recurring revenue for accesso
o 23 new clients added, exemplifying accesso's breadth of reach and intent to diversify o Ski Industry clients now account for less than 50% of Siriusware's revenue o Recurring revenue stream with 49% of total revenue deriving from support and maintenance functions The acquisition of VisionOne's ShoWare online ticketing solution extends accesso's reach into new leisure verticals o The acquisition complements our expertise and deep knowledge within the ticketing sector, and enhances
the group's ability to capture revenue from multiple sizes and types of ticketing customer o Acquisition expected to be immediately earnings accretive Post Period-End ­ early momentum sets accesso up for 2015 o Two new contracts have been signed with the Navy Pier in Chicago and the Nashville Zoo at Grassamere to
leverage the accesso Passport ticketing solution o November acquisition of VisionOne's ShoWare platform has established itself as part of the wider group
and is already contributing important new business wins o 22 venues across the USA, Canada, Mexico and Brazil have signed new agreements to utilise the ShoWare
solution Commenting on the results Tom Burnet, Chief executive officer of accesso, said: "This has been a strong year. We continue to execute on our strategy with precision and focus, and we are seeing the rewards. Our financial performance was robust, and our resilience as a global business is becoming more evident. Our clients are increasingly seeing the benefit we bring to their customers, and in turn their own profitability. We have continued to develop the business this year as we continued to focus on investment, building and improving our business, and finding new ways to support the digital customer journey. Our third strategic acquisition has opened up many more exciting opportunities, as well as securing our position as one of the very largest ticket businesses globally. I am excited by where we are as a business, and I see enormous growth opportunities in our future. I look forward to reporting more positive news for our company through the current year."
4

accesso Technology Group plc
Chairman's Report
Profitable endeavours
Today's results show another profitable period of growth for accesso. Operational change ­ be that in the shape of the acquisitions we have made or the product updates we have released ­ is not only having a positive impact on our financial results, but also helping us to further cement our market position. We have made great strides on our journey to become the leading and most innovative supplier of revenue generating technology solutions to the leisure, entertainment and cultural markets. Our reputation, already strong, is yet stronger still. As ever, progress of this kind would not be possible without the passion and commitment displayed by our teams around the world.
The group has delivered a strong financial performance this year. We have seen good organic growth, delivered by capitalizing on further cross selling opportunities, deepening our relationships with existing clients, and by building a business that takes, as its starting point, the improvement of customer experience whether that be in a theme-park, ski resort, museum, sports stadium or other leisure venue.
Growth has also come from green field areas. We have won new standalone mandates across each area of our businesses, from queuing to ticketing. These wins have served to further strengthen our brand, enlarge our market opportunity and demonstrate that the strategy we are pursuing is the right one.
We have also delivered on a number of important operational and strategic milestones, with joint wins for our ticketing and queuing products, as well as extending and deepening relationships with a number of the very largest operators in our space. Such wins send a clear signal to other potential customers about the increasingly strategic nature and value of our solutions.
Perhaps the strongest signal of our strength, however, is the success our customers have achieved this year: success in which we have played a key role. Many of our customers have been able to report record operating seasons and in many cases, our technology has played an important role in helping them to achieve this growth - proof of the value of our solutions and of the relevance of our largely transactional revenue models.
Our team
During the period, the accesso team has continued to work closely together as we continue to integrate our acquisitions. Their dedication and professionalism has contributed to this year's excellent performance. I thank all of our colleagues for their hard work. They are our greatest asset.
Advancing our ticketing ambitions
I have already referenced the important role that acquisitions have played in moving us closer to our strategic goals. As in previous years, this year we have added to our capabilities ­ namely in our acquisition of VisionOne which we announced in November. VisionOne is an excellent company, and its ShoWare product is one of the world's leaders in the cloud based Softwareas-a-Service (SaaS) ticket sales and distribution solution space for assigned seat operators. The combination of ShoWare, accesso Passport and Siriusware creates a powerful position in the ticketing market globally and ensures that for the first time we have the capability to address the ticketing needs of any type of venue.
In summary, this progress has helped transform accesso into one of the world's largest SaaS ticketing vendors alongside our market leading position in SaaS virtual queuing solutions. This is an important milestone that we believe will help us to further strengthen our market position and our relevance to the customers we serve.
Looking ahead
The work we have done in 2014 to strengthen our position, to invigorate our offering and to deepen our relationships with key operators sets us up excellently for further progress in 2015. The significant majority of our revenue is now transactional, longterm, recurring and growing. With that in mind, and on the basis of the pipeline of opportunity we see ahead, I look forward to 2015 with a considerable degree of confidence.
John Weston Non-Executive Chairman
5

accesso Technology Group plc
Chief executive officer's report
Operational Review
At the heart of the accesso strategy is a plan to deliver sustainable growth through both organic and acquisitive means. In this period we have delivered convincingly on this plan.
Operationally, it has been another exciting year for our team and we have made good progress in each of our focus areas for growth. As we always set out to do, we have delivered combined wins for queuing and ticketing offerings. This year, we acquired a business which propels us into the position of being one of the world's largest ticketing vendors.
The group continues to expand its capabilities and expertise. We are pushing technological boundaries, such as the pursuit of a 100% queueless attraction; we are targeting ticketing, still clear in our belief that strength here at the very start of a guest's journey opens up new routes to growth for our firm; and we are making good on the promise of our most recent acquisitions. What we have achieved this year is the consolidation of a powerful proposition.
accesso LoQueue
During the year we have seen pleasing growth in queuing revenues in general and per guest, largely reflecting migration to premium service levels. Attendance in Europe has been strong against a backdrop of flat or declining attendance in the US ­ largely as a result of very poor weather early in the season.
Our innovative queuing technologies continue to both facilitate and help drive increasingly mobile-centric consumer activity in the leisure industry. This trend, together with the centrality of queuing to the quality of customer experience means our signature queuing products remain a vital aspect of the theme park experience for many of our clients and their guests.
Last year we signaled our intentions to forge deeper ties with attractions in the important Asian market. This year we delivered. In the first half, we signed the MOU for first the Qsmart installation in Asia at The Movie Animation Park Studios in Ipoh, Malaysia, and in the second half we signed a three year partnership agreement with Vision Works Global to help facilitate accesso's expansion in the fast­growing South Korean theme park market. These steps have not only been exciting for our accesso LoQueue technology, but also for the group as we expand our foothold in Asia.
We have also increased our stickiness with a number of important clients during the year, successfully renewing and expanding existing agreements with Blackpool Pleasure Beach, Dreamworld in Australia and Heide Park in Germany. At LEGOLAND Windsor Resort, we not only extended our agreement for the installation of QbotSM for a further three years, but also expanded it by deploying our Qsmart system in the park.
During the year we also continued to invest in our queuing technology platforms. We have recently launched a second generation of our Qbandsm and Qband validatorsm, which offer greater utility to guests and well as reducing installation costs and timescales. Elsewhere, the pervasive nature of smartphone ownership means that for the first time we are able to consider systems where 100% of the population of a park (rather than a subset) is able to queue virtually. Working with a major operating group, we have been able to beta test this technology in a significant theme park during the period and expect these successful trials to continue in 2015.
accesso Passport
The group's ticketing, mobile and eCommerce solutions have continued to prove their market-leading strength.
We have been instrumental in helping our clients capitalise on the consumer shift towards mobile ticket purchasing, where volumes have increased by over 400% this year. Around 50% of all the visits to our customers' websites now start on a mobile device, either tablet or smartphone, so being able to engage effectively on these platforms has become increasingly important. During the year we were delighted to be able to launch the 5th version of our Shopland ecommerce store. The new system has been a significant development focus and delivers a fully responsive, seamless buying experience across any device be it desktop, a tablet or a smartphone. Importantly it means that anything that can be bought from your desktop machine can now be bought from your smartphone including entrance tickets, season passes, memberships, timed entry tickets or even meals and access to ancillary attractions. This ability to drive extra revenue for our clients remains key to our entire ethos and is the common thread that runs through all our operations.
6

accesso Technology Group plc
Chief executive officer's report (continued)
Moreover, the exciting thing about this process is that we know it works, and so do our customers. Our early data shows that 25% of purchasers on our customers' ticketing sites were not planning to buy tickets when they first visited the website.
A key part of our strategy is to leverage customer relationships and footprint geographically and this year we were able to bring our accesso Passport platform to a European audience for the first time. We achieved a significant milestone in the signing of a three year Master Service Agreement with Merlin Entertainments plc, also a LoQueue customer, beginning with a trial installation at the Thorpe Park Resort. This success was followed by accesso's first major ticketing win in Europe with a three year agreement with Compagnie des Alpes ("CdA") to provide the accesso Passport eCommerce solution at five CdA parks in Belgium and Holland.
The group's European expansion has helped to deliver a part of the 31.6% increase in accesso Passport volumes we have recorded in the year.
We also continued to expand existing established relationships, adding two further Wet `n' Wild sites to the nine already served following the agreement with Premier Parks, LLC in 2013. Further contract wins included an extension of the trial with Merlin Entertainments adding SEA LIFE Birmingham to the existing Thorpe Park Resort trial, a three year agreement with Ripley's Entertainment for Ripley's Aquarium of Canada, and a renewed agreement with Palace Entertainments for fourteen of its venues over a further three years.
Siriusware
During the period Siriusware continued to successfully diversify beyond its ski industry base, adding twenty-three new clients primarily in the cultural sector. We were also able to take significant strides toward the integration of Siriusware and accesso ­ both technically and operationally and it has been very pleasing to see the respective teams work and build momentum together.
Early manifestations of this integration have been the cross-selling opportunities emerging with other accesso products, as Ripley's Aquarium and Holiday World & Splashin' Safari became the first two customers to utilise an integrated Siriusware / accesso Passport solution to very positive effect. These deals are another example of our belief that increased client stickiness can be driven by a complementary portfolio of solutions.
Of the new clients secured in the period, many represent the cultural sector and this has continued post period-end. Siriusware is proving itself an important vehicle for our strategic expansion into the wider leisure space, delivering new business wins and significantly expanding our target addressable markets. Of the many wins, The De Young and Legion of Honor Museums in San Francisco, The National Aquarium in Baltimore, four new iFly indoor sky diving venues and the Whitney Museum of American Art represent a good cross section.
The acquisition has also provided a further recurring revenue stream to the group as just under half of total Siriusware revenues were derived from recurring maintenance and support fees.
Moving confidently along our growth path
In November, we announced the acquisition of VisionOne Worldwide Ltd. Their ShoWare platform brings us another completely differentiated and compelling ticketing product to add to our portfolio. It not only further extends the Group's sales reach into new adjacent verticals within the leisure sector, but provides access to operators of "assigned seat" venues like theatres and sports stadium as well as general admission attractions like theme parks and zoos. Moreover, the ShoWare platform gives our customers the online tools to be able to build and manage their own e-Commerce stores rather than the full service outsource model we use to take our accesso Passport platform to market.
ShoWare, like accesso Passport, is a cloud based solution and utilises a SaaS business model where revenues come from a small fixed fee or percentage of every ticket we sell. We also have a number of successful resellers, particularly in Latin America, who utilise ShoWare as a white label platform for their own ticketing businesses. Finally, the ShoWare team offer considerable experience of running portals, selling aggregated content from across a number of venues direct to consumer.
Research indicates that the addition of this technology platform and sector expertise has increased the size of the accesso addressable market opportunity from $750m of annual revenues to $2.5b per annum.
7

accesso Technology Group plc
Chief executive officer's report (continued)
Protecting our position and maintaining our lead
With ticketing very firmly now at the core of everything we do, many new routes have opened for us to continue growing. Driven by our belief that the ticket sits at the heart of the digital guest journey, we remain focused on organic opportunities for expansion, both in existing and new customers and drive further benefits from the wider Group.
As we continue to invest in our technology we simultaneously remain committed both to the protection of our existing technology portfolio as well as extending that where appropriate. During the period we both acquired additional patents and applied to protect new, novel ideas and continue to explore overall licensing opportunities.
We have also continued to evolve and develop our in-park retail businesses, where theme park patrons engage with our teams to purchase queuing products to add to their day at the attraction. In 2014 we were able to invest in the refurbishment of a number of our larger retail locations, remodeling and refreshing the guest experience. Where we made these changes, both to the physical environment of the sales locations and to the pricing strategy, we saw excellent returns and as a result we go into the 2015 season with a number of further initiatives in place.
Asia moves in to focus
Expanding our reach into markets where we do not currently operate continues to be an important part of our strategy. During the year we secured a partnership with Vision Works Global. This agreement helps to build our presence in the South Korean theme park market. Vision Works Global provides consulting, deal structuring and brokering, and new business development for a range of location-based entertainment projects in South Korea and we hope that their extensive professional contacts will enable accesso to expand our LoQueue solution into the country's rapidly evolving attractions industry.
In addition we also signed up our first customer for Qsmart at the Movie Animation Park Studios which is under construction in Ipoh, Malaysia.
Encouragingly our sales pipeline also includes a number of projects where existing European and North American customers are in discussions with us about deploying our systems to new projects they are planning in the region.
Financial Review
As our Chairman has stated, the last twelve months have seen accesso make excellent, profitable progress. We have finished the year ahead of our expectations and for the seventh consecutive year we have posted record results.
Change in presentation currency
As we reported with our 2014 H1 results, we have made a change to our presentation currency, from Sterling to US Dollars, on 1 January 2014, which the Board considered more closely aligned with the global operations of the group. Comparative information has been restated in USD in accordance with the guidance in IAS 21. Further details relating to the specifics of the retranslation are included in the notes to this statement.
The geographic spread of our business has, yet again, proven its benefit during the year. Year-on-year changes in visitor numbers at our customers' venues once again showed a contrasting picture, depending upon which side of the Atlantic those visits took place. Nevertheless, our ability to balance these contrasting pictures thanks to our increasingly diversified portfolio of technology services lends resilience to our business.
In the first half, for example, poor weather in the United States impacted attendance in that market, with attendance rates falling significantly and the majority of operators, despite a strong summer, reported 2014 attendances that were down on 2013. Despite this backdrop average revenues per LoQueue guest in North America actually grew by 4.7%. This is a positive nod to our technologies, to the benefits they bring to our customers, and to the willingness of guests to trade money for a better experience. In contrast, attendance in Europe and the rest of the world was strong, with attendances growing by 4% alongside a very strong 18% increase in average guest revenues. This was aided in part by good weather, but is also a reflection of a great deal of effort in improving our retail engagement with customers, together with a more sophisticated approach to pricing. When these numbers are combined, our LoQueue business grew revenues per guest by 6.1% despite an overall drop in guest numbers.
8

accesso Technology Group plc
Chief executive officer's report (continued)
Adjusted operating profit, which the board considers a key underlying metric, for the 12 months ended 31 December 2014 was $8.7m and this equates to 42.6% growth when compared to the 14 month period ended 31 December 2013 and 20.8% ahead of the 12 month pro-forma period ended 31 December 2013 (the "2013 pro-forma period"). At the top line, group revenues for the period increased by 22.3% to $75.1m (2013 pro-forma: $60.3m).
Profit before tax at $5.1m was 59.4% up on the 14 month period ended 31 December 2013 but 1.9% below the 2013 pro-forma period primarily due to expected increases from acquisition related expenses in the form of amortization of acquired intangibles and acquisition and refinancing costs.
The positive picture these results show highlights the momentum now unfolding within our business. As we continue to expand across multiple geographies, increase our product and service offering and make the most of our newest acquisition, VisionOne and its ShoWare platform, I feel confident that this momentum will continue to build. The timing of this acquisition means that these results include no benefit from that business or the excellent customer base it brings. Having won 22 new customer mandates since coming under our ownership, we are very pleased with the contribution it has already made.
Cash Flow and debt
As previously announced in November, to facilitate the VisionOne acquisition, the Group extended its banking facility with Lloyds Bank. The extended facility allows the Group to draw down up to $29m at a rate of 1.75% above LIBOR on drawn funds and at a rate of 0.7% on uncommitted funds. The total available for drawdown is subject to reductions of $7.0m on 1 November 2015 and $14.0m on 1 November 2016 and terminates on 31 December 2017.
The Extended Facility, which is US dollar denominated, was secured on accesso's assets and intellectual property in the US and UK: an indication of the value of the accesso technology in the market and the confidence the finance community has in the accesso business.
Free cash flow was $5.8m and was up 16% on the 2013 pro-forma period. Our closing net debt balance of $14.3m accounts for the funds discharged in connection with the acquisition was ahead of our expectations and the board believes that the company is in a strong financial position at the period end, with significant headroom to our debt facility.
Tax
Our effective tax rate in 2013 (11.9%) was unusually low due to non-recurring, non-UK tax deductions for share options exercised in the period. The effective rate in 2014 of 26.2% benefitted by 4.9% due to prior year R&D tax credit claims. The higher underlying rate is representative of the fact that the majority of the Group's profits are subject to tax regimes outside of the UK, the tax treatment of acquisition amortisation and share based payments where the majority of these expenses are not allowable for tax.
The Group continues to review and implement opportunities for maintaining or lowering its effective rate.
Advisors
In May 2014, we were pleased to confirm the appointment of Numis Securities Limited as joint broker and financial adviser alongside Canaccord Genuity who continue to act as the Company's NOMAD, joint broker and financial adviser.
Dividend
The Board maintains its view that the payment of a dividend is unlikely in the short to medium term with cash better invested in product development, complementary M&A as demonstrated by the most recent acquisitions and other growth focused investment opportunities.
IP Protection
During the period we received the first revenues from licensing one of our patent families and although immaterial at this stage, we have now selected a legal partner to lead us in exploring opportunities to extend such licensing opportunities. This is not expected to have any significant impact on our expenditure.
9

accesso Technology Group plc
Chief executive officer's report (continued) Summary and Outlook for 2015 Early in 2015, new business momentum has continued. Our sales pipeline continues to expand and convert and we have seen wins across our portfolio. Operationally we continue to integrate our acquisitions under the leadership of my colleague Steve Brown who assumed the role of Group COO in January 2015. Looking ahead, I have great confidence in our prospects for 2015. We have the right team; we have a unique and sector defining offering as well as the relationships and ambition to make us the leading and most innovative supplier of technology solutions to the leisure, attractions and cultural markets. We have started the year strongly, and the Board believes that accesso is well positioned to perform excellently over the coming months. Tom Burnet Chief Executive Officer
10

accesso Technology Group plc
The board of directors for the financial year ended 31 December 2014
John Weston, Non-executive Chairman
John Weston is the former Chief Executive of British Aerospace and BAE Systems where he served from 1970 to 2002, when it was a £12.5 billion business employing more than 120,000.
Today in addition to serving as chairman for the premiere technology solutions provider to the attractions and leisure industry, he chairs several other companies: MB Aerospace, a supplier of machined engine components to the aero-engine industry; Fibercore, a specialist supplier of fiber optics; Windar, a manufacturer of laser wind sensing devices; and is also a non-executive director at Torotrak plc, developers in the commercial application of gearless traction drive technology.
Weston joined accesso in May 2011 and serves as a member of the company's audit and remuneration committees.
John Alder, Chief Financial Officer
John Alder is a qualified Chartered Accountant and was appointed Chief Financial Officer of accesso in August 2009. He qualified with Coopers and Lybrand (a predecessor firm of PricewaterhouseCoopers) and subsequently spent six years as Finance Director of a subsidiary of AutoLogic Holdings plc, Europe's largest listed automotive logistics company.
Prior to joining accesso, Alder spent 4 years as Interim Group Finance Director and European Controller of private equity backed Palletways Group Limited, supporting the Continental European development of Europe's largest and fastest growing palletised freight network business.
Steve Brown, Chief Operating Officer
As Chief Operating Officer, Steve Brown leads the global operations of accesso including client service, technology development, sales and marketing.
Prior to joining accesso, Brown served as the corporate Vice President of Ticket Strategy and Sales for Six Flags. His career background includes extensive experience with the Walt Disney Co. where he served as Vice President, Revenue Management for the Disneyland Resort and Director, Walt Disney World Ticketing where he led all aspects of the Resort's ticketing process across its nine gated attractions including pricing strategy, fulfilment operations, training and financial management.
Brown received his MBA from the Goizueta Business School at Emory University in Atlanta and graduated with a BS in Marketing from the University of South Florida in Tampa.
Tom Burnet, Chief Executive Officer
Tom Burnet joined accesso as the CEO in late 2010 and is responsible for the company's leadership, strategic direction and growth. He was formerly Managing Director of a division of Serco Group plc, a global outsourcing company, overseeing the 5,000 person Defense Services division.
During his career he has been involved in creating, growing and running several businesses and started his career as the UK's youngest Army Officer. He also has an MBA from the University of Edinburgh.
He believes accesso can grow to become a billion-dollar business and a cornerstone of the attraction and leisure industry's supply chain.
Matt Cooper, Non-executive Director
Matt Cooper is the chairman of Octopus Capital Limited and Octopus Investments Limited. He also serves as Executive Chairman of AIM-listed Imaginatik plc, and also holds further directorships at both private and public companies and of consumer body, Which? Financial.
Prior to joining Octopus, Cooper was the principal managing director of Capital One Bank (Europe) plc where he was responsible for all aspects of the company's strategic direction and day-to-day operations in Europe. He led the UK portion of the business
11

accesso Technology Group plc
The board of directors (continued) for the financial year ended 31 December 2014 from start-up to two million customers, generating revenues of over £275 million and employing more than 2,000 employees. Cooper joined accesso in September 2012 and is Chairman of the audit committee and a member of the remuneration committee. David Gammon, Non-executive Director David Gammon has widespread experience in developing and building technology based businesses. Since 2001, David has focused on finding, advising and investing in UK technology companies. David founded Rockspring, an advisory and investment firm, which focuses on early stage technology companies and where David continues as CEO today. Other current positions include non-executive Chairman Frontier Developments plc and Group Strategic Advisor to Marshall of Cambridge (Holdings) Limited. Previous experience includes NED and advisor at artificial general intelligence company DeepMind Technologies Limited, advisor to Hawkwood Capital LLP, NED at innovation software and consulting firm Imaginatik plc, NED at real time location technology specialist Ubisense Trading Limited, NED at internet TV specialist Amino Technologies plc, NED at smart metering and software company BGlobal plc and acting CFO at internet specialist Envisional Solutions Limited. Earlier in his career David worked as an investment banker for over 15 years. Gammon joined accesso in November 2010 and is Chairman of the remuneration committee and a member of the audit committee. Leonard Sim, Founding Director Leonard Sim is the founder of accesso and invented its LoQueue Virtual Queuing System in the 90's. He conceived the virtual queuing concept while he ran Tellurian, a sales agency in data communication devices and software. Previously, Sim ran technical sales teams for Rockwell Semiconductor and Ferranti Semiconductor after a period as an electronics engineer at Plessey Radar. He gained an Honours Electronic Engineering degree from Heriot-Watt University, Edinburgh in 1971. Sim has moved to a part time role supporting activities in intellectual property, business development and strategic planning.
12

accesso Technology Group plc
Strategic report for the financial year ended 31 December 2014
Review of Business
The results for the period and financial position of the company and the group are as shown in the annexed financial statements and explained in the Chairman's report and Chief Executive Officer's statement.
Principal risks and key performance indicators
The board has identified the principal risks and uncertainties which it believes may impact the group and its operations as well as a number of key performance indicators with which to measure the progress of the group.
Principal risks and uncertainties
In line with groups of a similar size, the group is managed by a limited number of key personnel, including executive directors and senior management, who have significant experience within the group and the sectors it operates within and who could be difficult to replace. Executive remuneration plans, incorporating long-term incentives, have been implemented to mitigate this risk.
A key risk relates to the high concentration of revenue derived from particular customers or guests of particular theme parks groups. The group continues to increase its operating parks, including the introduction of additional park operators by introducing new technologies and extending its geographical presence. In addition the group continues to seek appropriate complimentary acquisitions to reduce reliance on specific customers, sectors or geographies.
The group has a very seasonal business with revenue and cash flows predominantly linked to leisure venue attendance which, with the current profile of business, peak in the summer months. Attendance at leisure venues can be impacted by circumstances outside the control of the group including inclement weather, consumer spending capability within the regions we operate together with operator venue pricing, discount policies, investment capability, safety record and marketing.
A significant proportion of revenues of the business are denominated in US dollars. Although the majority of expenditure is also denominated in this currency, there remains an exposure to movements between sterling and US dollars. This exposure is managed via entering into appropriate forward contracts.
It is of fundamental importance in maintaining a sustainable long-term business that the group is aware and takes action to mitigate competitive threats, whether from technological change, or from competition. Effort is directed to ensure that the group invests in appropriate and focused research and development activity and monitors technological advances and competitor activity. Linked to this, the group is committed to protecting its technology by the development and/or purchase of patents and will take appropriate action to defend its intellectual property rights or ensure infringers are licensed.
Key performance indicators
Key performance indicators are used to measure and control both financial and operational performance. Guest attendance, revenues, margins, costs and cash are trended to ensure plans are on track and corrective actions taken where necessary. Product development performance is also monitored and tracked through measurement against agreed milestones. In addition, further key performance indicators include the number of parks where our technology is implemented, the proportion of guests that utilise our products and the sales mix of services offered.
Risk management and internal control
The board is satisfied that the group's risk management and internal control systems are adequate. At this stage the board do not consider it to be appropriate to establish an internal audit function.
On behalf of the board:
John Alder Chief Financial Officer
17 March 2015
13

accesso Technology Group plc

Report of the directors for the financial year ended 31 December 2014
The directors present their report with the financial statements of the company and the group for the financial year ended 31 December 2014.
Dividends
No dividends will be proposed for the financial year ended 31 December 2014.
Research and development
The group's research and development activities relate to the development of technologies that can be deployed by operators and owners within leisure, entertainment and cultural markets. During the financial year ended 31 December 2014 the group invested $8,691,088 (14 month period ended 31 December 2013: $2,529,000) into research and development. The reported 2014 number is not directly comparable to the 2013 number as previously reported due to changes in the way research and development costs are analysed. On a consistent basis the 14 month period ended 31 December 2013 would be $5,140,145.
Directors
The directors during the period under review were:
John Weston, Non-executive Chairman John Alder, Executive Anthony Bone, Non-executive (resigned 27 May 2014) Steve Brown, Executive Tom Burnet, Executive Matt Cooper, Non-executive David Gammon, Non-executive Leonard Sim, Executive
The company paid for sufficient directors and officer's indemnity insurance during the period, and to the date of approval of these financial statements, to enable the directors to carry out their duties.
The beneficial interests of the directors holding office on 31 December 2014 in the issued share capital of the company were as follows:

Ordinary share capital £0.01 shares

As at 31 December 2014 or date of resignation

As at 1 January 2014

John Weston, Non-executive Chairman John Alder, Executive Anthony Bone, Non-executive (resigned 27 May 2014) Steve Brown, Executive Tom Burnet, Executive (1) Matt Cooper, Non-executive David Gammon, Non-executive Leonard Sim, Executive
(1) Shares held by the employee benefit trust of the company.
Details of the directors' share options are disclosed on page 19.

165,144 6,612
201,517 1,133,916
853,818 22,442 48,000
2,043,575

95,700 6,612
201,517 1,723,916
853,818 22,442 38,000
2,043,575

14

accesso Technology Group plc

Report of the directors (continued) for the financial year ended 31 December 2014

Financial instruments

Details of the group's financial risk management objectives and policies, including the use of financial instruments, are included within the accounting policies in Note 2 to the financial statements.

Substantial shareholdings

As at 16 March 2015 the company had been notified that the following were interested in 3% or more of the ordinary share capital of the company.

Shareholder

Number of ordinary shares

% of Issued ordinary share capital

BlackRock Investment Management
FIL Limited Prudential plc group of companies Vision Invest Enterprises Limited Standard Life Investments Limited Mr Leonard Sim, Director Mr Steve Brown, Director accesso Employee Benefit Trust (On behalf of Mr Tom Burnet, Director)

1,939,237
1,938,357 1,551,640 1,519,364 1,193,963 2,043,575 1,133,916
853,818

8.85%
8.84% 7.08% 6.93% 5.45% 9.32% 5.17% 3.90%

Annual general meeting
The annual general meeting of the company will be held on Tuesday 19th May 2015. The notice convening the meeting is enclosed with these financial statements.
Branch registration
The company operates a branch in Germany.
Corporate governance
The company's shares are traded on the Alternative Investment Market of the London Stock Exchange. The company is not required to report on compliance with the UK Corporate Governance Code ("the Code") but the board of directors acknowledges the importance of the principles of the Code and also the recommendations of the Quoted Companies Alliance in its publication "Corporate Governance Guidelines for Smaller Quoted Companies", and seeks to apply them as appropriate to the company given its nature and size.
The board of directors comprises four executive directors and three independent non-executive directors, one of whom is the chairman. The company holds board meetings regularly throughout the year at which financial and other reports are considered. The board is responsible for formulating, reviewing and approving the group's strategy, budgets and major items of expenditure.
The committees of the board
The following committees have been established to assist the board in fulfilling its responsibilities:
Audit committee
The members of the audit committee are David Gammon, John Weston and Matt Cooper, who chairs the committee.
The committee met twice during the year to fulfil its duties. The Chairman, Chief Executive Officer, Chief Finance Officer and external auditors attended meetings by invitation.

15

accesso Technology Group plc
Report of the directors (continued) for the financial year ended 31 December 2014
The committee is comprised of independent non-executive directors only and its terms of reference are to promote appropriate standards of integrity, financial reporting, risk management and internal controls. This committee is responsible for overseeing the involvement of the group's auditors in the planning and review of the group's financial statements, any other formal announcements relating to the group's financial performance, for recommending the appointment and fees of its auditors, and for discussing with the auditors the findings of the audit and issues arising from the audit. It reviews the group's compliance with accounting, legal and listing requirements. It is also responsible, along with the board, for reviewing the effectiveness of the systems of internal control. The committee considers the independence and objectivity of the auditors with regard to the way in which they conduct their audit duties.
The committee looks to ensure that the auditors' independence is not compromised by their undertaking of non-audit services. Non-audit/tax advisory services will always be benchmarked by management to ensure value for money, auditor objectivity and independence of advice.
The audit committee's recommendation is that BDO LLP be reappointed as the company's auditors and an appropriate resolution will be put before the shareholders at this year's annual general meeting.
Remuneration committee
The members of the remuneration committee are Matt Cooper, John Weston and David Gammon who chairs the committee.
The full committee met five times during the year to fulfil its duties. The committee considers and approves specific remuneration packages for each executive director following consultation with the chairman. In accordance with guidelines set by the board, the committee determines the group's policy on remuneration of senior executives and the operation of share option schemes and the grant of options. Remuneration of non-executive directors is set by the executive directors.
It is considered that the composition and size of the board does not warrant the appointment of a nominations committee and appointments are dealt with by the board as a whole. The need to appoint such a committee is subject to review by the board.
Going concern
After making appropriate enquiries, the directors have a reasonable expectation that the group has adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future. We are confident that the group outlook for 2015 is strong and underlying this, the business continues to perform well with a strong balance sheet and cash position. For this reason, the board continues to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the accounts.
Disabled employees
The group's policy is one of equal opportunity in the selection, training, career development and promotion of staff. The group has a policy not to discriminate against disabled employees for those vacancies that they are able to fill and will provide facilities, equipment and training to assist any disabled persons employed.
All necessary assistance with initial training courses will be given. Once employed, a career plan will be developed so as to ensure suitable opportunities for each disabled person. Arrangements will be made, wherever possible, for re-training employees who become disabled, to enable them to perform work identified as appropriate to their aptitudes and abilities.
Employees
The group's policy is to consult and engage with employees, by way of meetings, surveys and through personal contact by directors and other senior executives, matters likely to affect employees' interests.
Information on matters of concern to employees is given in meetings, handouts, letters and reports, which seek to achieve a common awareness on the part of all employees on the financial and economic factors affecting the group's performance.
16

accesso Technology Group plc

Report of the directors (continued) for the financial year ended 31 December 2014

Relations with shareholders

The company and board recognise the importance of developing and maintaining good relationships with their shareholders. There have been regular dialogues with shareholders during the year including holding briefings with analysts and other investors including staff shareholders. The company also uses the annual general meeting as an opportunity to communicate with its shareholders. All directors are expected to attend the annual general meeting with the chairman of the audit, remuneration and nominations committees being available to answer shareholders' questions.

Notice of the date of the 2015 annual general meeting is included with this report. Separate resolutions on each substantially separate issue, in particular any proposal relating to the annual report and accounts, will be made at the annual general meeting.

Directors' responsibilities

The directors are responsible for preparing the annual report and the financial statements in accordance with applicable law and regulations.

Company law requires the directors to prepare financial statements for each financial period. Under that law the directors have elected to prepare the group and company financial statements in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRSs) as adopted by the European Union. Under company law the directors must not approve the financial statements unless they are satisfied that they give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the group and company and of the profit or loss of the group and company for that period. The directors are also required to prepare financial statements in accordance with the rules of the London Stock Exchange for companies trading securities on the Alternative Investment Market.

In preparing these financial statements, the directors are required to:

·

select suitable accounting policies and then apply them consistently;

·

make judgements and accounting estimates that are reasonable and prudent;

·

state whether they have been prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the European Union, subject to any

material departures disclosed and explained in the financial statements;

·

prepare the financial statements on the going concern basis unless it is inappropriate to presume that the company will

continue in business.

The directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting records that are sufficient to show and explain the company's transactions and disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the company and enable them to ensure that the financial statements comply with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006. They are also responsible for safeguarding the assets of the company and hence for taking reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities.

Website publication

The directors are responsible for ensuring the annual report and the financial statements are made available on a website. Financial statements are published on the company's website in accordance with legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements, which may vary from legislation in other jurisdictions. The maintenance and integrity of the company's website is the responsibility of the directors. The directors' responsibility also extends to the ongoing integrity of the financial statements contained therein.

Statement as to disclosure of information to auditors

So far as the directors are aware, there is no relevant audit information (as defined by Section 418 of the Companies Act 2006) of which the group's auditors are unaware, and each director has taken all the steps that he ought to have taken as a director in order to make himself aware of any relevant audit information and to establish that the group's auditors are aware of that information.

Auditors

A resolution approving the re-appointment of BDO LLP will be proposed at the forthcoming annual general meeting.

17

accesso Technology Group plc

Report of the directors (continued) for the financial year ended 31 December 2014

Remuneration committee policy

The policy is to provide remuneration packages for executive directors which aim to attract and retain high quality executives and which link their reward to the group's performance. The committee regularly reviews the effectiveness of incentive schemes and, where considered necessary or appropriate in order to maximise shareholder value, the committee will consider updating existing scheme rules and/or implementing new schemes.

Executive Directors' remuneration package

The components of the remuneration package are base salary and benefits, bonuses, pension contributions and long-term incentive arrangements. Base salaries are reviewed by the committee annually, normally in January. The executives may also receive bonuses, depending on whether certain financial, operational or strategic objectives are met. The annual standard bonus plan for the executive directors has a maximum threshold of between 20% and 50% of base salary and exceptional bonuses are considered at the committee's discretion. The benefits packages offered include private health insurance and payments to money purchase pension schemes. Notice periods for all executive directors are set at six months.

Details of the directors' emoluments who served during the current or prior period are also set out below:

Directors' emoluments
Non - Executive Directors John Weston Anthony Bone (1 & 3) Matt Cooper David Gammon (1)

Salary $000

Fees (1)
$000

Bonus Other

benefits

$000

$000

89

-

-

-

5

23

-

-

10

47

-

-

10

47

-

-

2014 12
months Total
$000

2013 14
months Total
$000

2014

2013

12

14

months months

Retirement

contributions

$000

$000

89

91

28

56

57

56

57

56

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

Executive Directors John Alder (2) Steve Brown (2) Tom Burnet Leonard Sim

270

-

92

17

379

392

290

-

123

7

420

400

405

-

264

2

671

626

55

-

-

6

61

126

32

28

-

-

33

36

5

10

Share based payments

1,134 117

479

32

1,762

1,803

41

12

70

74

Total

1,803

1,815

(1) Fee payments in respect of the services provided by Anthony Bone and David Gammon were paid to IXXI Ltd and Rockspring respectively. (2) John Alder and Steve Brown are US citizens and are part of US healthcare programs (3) Resigned 27 May 2014 (4) Including profits on exercises of options in the year, Tom Burnet was the highest paid director in 2014 (2013: Leonard Sim)

Share option scheme The share options of the directors are set out below:

18

accesso Technology Group plc

Report of the directors (continued) for the financial year ended 31 December 2014

31 December 2013

Exercised in the period

31 December 2014 or date of
resignation

Exercise price

Date from which
exercisable

Expiry Date

Executive directors John Alder
Steve Brown Tom Burnet Leonard Sim Non-executive directors John Weston Anthony Bone (2) David Gammon (3) Matt Cooper

40,000 160,000
110,000
-

(110,000) -

69,444 40,000 80,000 30,400

(69,444) (10,000)
-

40,000 160,000
-

57.5p 156p (1)
102.5p
-

25 Jun 10 10 Mar 12
02 Dec 11

24 Jun 19 09 Mar 21
01 Dec 20

30,000 80,000 30,400

144p 156p 156p 600p

18 Apr 12 10 Mar 12 10 Mar 12 25 Apr 15

17 Apr 21 09 Mar 21 09 Mar 21 25 Apr 23

(1) Options may only be exercised when the share price is above £1.82 (2) Resigned on 27 May 2014 (3) Held by Rockspring on behalf of David Gammon

Exercises in the year

On 3 April 2014, Tom Burnet exercised options over 110,000 ordinary shares. The exercise price of the options was 102.5p, recording a pre-tax gain of $1,071,574. On 7 July 2014, John Weston exercised options over 69,444 ordinary shares. The exercise price of the options was 144.0p, recording a pre-tax gain of $437,061.

Employee benefit trust share subscription and Tom Burnet equity incentive plan

On 10 March 2011, the remuneration committee of the board recommended, and the board approved, an incentive arrangement pursuant to which the company lent its employee benefit trust (`'EBT'') £1,331,956, and the EBT subscribed for 853,818 new ordinary shares of 1 penny each in the company (`'New Ordinary Shares''). The EBT plan subsequently granted Tom Burnet an interest in the growth in value above a share price of £2 per share in the New Ordinary Shares. In addition the EBT granted Tom Burnet an option to acquire, in relation to half of the new ordinary shares (426,909), the EBT's interest in the value between £1.30 and £2, provided that at the date of exercise the share price is above £1.82.

The shares are registered in the name of Lo-Q (Trustees) Limited, a wholly owned subsidiary of the company. John Alder and Leonard Sim are directors of Lo-Q (Trustees) Limited.

Long Term Incentive Plan Awards

On 8 July 2014, the Company granted conditional share awards ("Awards") over ordinary shares of 1 penny each under the accesso Technology Group 2014 Long Term Incentive Plan which was approved by shareholders on 27 May 2014. Awards were granted to Tom Burnet (45,395 shares), John Alder (29,818 shares) and Steve Brown (32,028 shares).

The Awards vest three years from the date of grant and are required to be held for a further six months and are subject to certain performance conditions relating to the achievement of compound share price growth rates from a share price of 528.25p per share over the vesting period. No consideration will be paid for the conditional shares upon their vesting.

On behalf of the board: John Alder Chief Financial Officer 17 March 2015

19

accesso Technology Group plc
Report of the independent auditors to the members of accesso Technology Group plc for the financial year ended 31 December 2014
We have audited the financial statements of accesso Technology Group plc for the financial year ended 31 December 2014 which comprise the group statement of comprehensive income, the group and parent company statements of financial position, the group and parent company statements of cash flow, the group and parent company statements of changes in equity and the related notes. The financial reporting framework that has been applied in their preparation is applicable law and International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRSs) as adopted by European Union and, as regards the parent company financial statements, as applied in accordance with the provisions of Companies Act 2006.
This report is made solely to the company's members, as a body, in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006. Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the company's members those matters we are required to state to them in an auditor's report and for no other purpose. To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the company and the company's members as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
Respective responsibilities of directors and auditors As explained more fully in the director's responsibilities statement, the directors are responsible for the preparation of the financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view. Our responsibility is to audit and express an opinion on the financial statements in accordance with applicable law and International Standards on Auditing (UK and Ireland). Those standards require us to comply with the Financial Reporting Council's (FRC's) Ethical Standards for Auditors.
Scope of the audit of the financial statements A description of the scope of an audit of financial statements is provided on the FRC's website at www.frc.org.uk/auditscopeukprivate.
Opinion on financial statements In our opinion: · the financial statements give a true and fair view of the state of the group's and of the parent company's affairs as at 31
December 2014 and of the group's profit for the year then ended; · the group financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the European Union; · the parent company financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the European
Union and as applied in accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act 2006; and · the financial statements have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006.
Opinion on other matters prescribed by the Companies Act 2006 In our opinion the information given in the strategic report and directors' reports for the financial year for which the financial statements are prepared is consistent with the financial statements.
Matters on which we are required to report by exception We have nothing to report in respect of the following matters where the Companies Act 2006 requires us to report to you if, in our opinion: · adequate accounting records have not been kept by the parent company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been
received from branches not visited by us; or · the parent company financial statements are not in agreement with the accounting records and returns; or · certain disclosures of directors' remuneration specified by law are not made; or · we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit.
Simon Brooker (senior statutory auditor) For and on behalf of BDO LLP, statutory auditors Reading, United Kingdom
17 March 2015 BDO LLP is a limited liability partnership registered in England and Wales (with registered number OC305127)
20

accesso Technology Group plc
Consolidated statement of comprehensive income for the financial year ended 31 December 2014
Revenue Cost of Sales Gross Profit Administrative expenses
Operating profit Finance Expense Finance income Profit before tax Income tax Profit for the period Other comprehensive income Items that will be reclassified to income statement Exchange differences on translating foreign operations Other comprehensive income / (loss) for the period net of tax Total comprehensive income for the period Profit attributable to owners of the parent Total comprehensive income attributable to owners of the parent Earnings per share expressed in cents per share: Basic Diluted

Notes 3

2014 12 months
$000
75,091
(43,086)
32,005
(26,534)

2013 14 months
$000
61,433
(39,991)
21,442
(17,966)

5,471

6

(344)

6

2

5,129

7

(1,344)

3,785

3,476 (248)
14 3,242 (386) 2,856

895 895 4,680 3,785 4,680

(817) (817) 2,039 2,856 2,039

9

18.49

14.70

9

18.16

14.22

All activities of the company are classified as continuing. The notes on pages 28 to 62 form part of these consolidated financial statements.
21

accesso Technology Group plc

Consolidated statement of financial position for the financial year ended 31 December 2014

Registered Number: 03959429
Assets Non-current assets Intangible assets Property, plant and equipment Deferred tax assets

Notes
10 11 17

Current assets

Inventories

13

Trade and other receivables

14

Income tax receivable

Cash and cash equivalents

15

Liabilities

Current liabilities

Trade and other payables

16

Finance lease liabilities

18

Income tax payable

Net current assets

Non-current liabilities

Deferred tax

17

Finance lease liabilities

18

Borrowings

19

Total liabilities Net assets

31 December 2014 $000
71,083 2,733 5,696
79,512
648 6,946 1,052 5,693 14,339
7,999 48 -
8,047
6,292
8,804 114
20,000 28,918
36,965
56,886

31 December 2013 $000
33,169 3,291 6,539
42,999
807 4,253 1,546 5,489 12,095
5,385 -
5,385
6,710
2,670 -
7,500 10,170
15,555
39,539

4 November 2012 $000
1,987 2,341
431 4,759
736 1,664
14,357 16,757
1,232 -
331 1,563
15,194
44 -
44
1,607
19,909

Shareholders' equity Called up share capital Share premium Own shares held in trust Other reserves Retained earnings Merger reserve Translation reserve

20

342

25,229

(2,076)

2,593

16,236

14,540

22

335 26,404 (2,133)
2,658 13,148
(873)

282 10,718 (2,136)
940 10,161
(56)

Total equity

56,886

39,539

19,909

The financial statements were approved by the Board of Directors on 17 March 2015 and were signed on its behalf by:
Tom Burnet Chief Executive Officer
The notes on pages 28 to 62 form part of these consolidated financial statements.

22

accesso Technology Group plc

Company statement of financial position for the financial year ended 31 December 2014

Registered Number: 03959429
Assets Non-current assets Intangible assets Investments in subsidiaries Property, plant and equipment Deferred tax asset

Notes
10 12 11 17

Current Assets

Inventories

13

Trade and other receivables

14

Income tax receivable

Cash and cash equivalents

15

Liabilities

Current liabilities

Trade and other payables

16

Income tax payable

Net current assets

Non-current liabilities

Deferred tax

17

Borrowings

19

Total liabilities

Net assets

Shareholders' equity

Called up share capital

20

Share premium

Other reserves

Retained earnings

Merger Reserve

Translation reserve

Total equity

Total shareholders' equity

31 December 2014 $000
2,356 47,948
1,377 195
51,876
403 20,528
903 1,309 23,143
1,461 -
1,461
21,682
32 20,000 20,032
21,493
53,526
342 25,229
1,831 11,672 14,540
(88)
53,526
53,526

31 December 2013 $000
2,302 14,935
2,086 629
19,952
468 23,040
1,075 2,941 27,524
841 -
841
26,683
116 7,500 7,616
8,457
39,019
335 26,404
1,516 10,785
(21)
39,019
39,019

4 November 2012 $000
1,986 1
2,314 457
4,758
284 7,643
9,887 17,814
685 260 945
16,869
71 -
71
1,016
21,556
282 10,718
940 9,672
(56)
21,556
21,556

The financial statements were approved by the Board of Directors on 17 March 2015 and were signed on its behalf by:
Tom Burnet Chief Executive Officer
The notes on pages 28 to 62 form part of these consolidated financial statements.

23

accesso Technology Group plc
Consolidated statement of cash flow for the financial year ended 31 December 2014
Cash flows from operating activities Cash generated from operations Tax paid
Net cash inflow from operating activities
Cash flows from investing activities Acquisition of subsidiary, net of cash acquired Purchase of intangible fixed assets Purchase of property, plant and equipment Interest received
Net cash used in investing activities
Cash flows from financing activities Share Issue Interest paid Payments to finance lease creditors Proceeds from borrowings
Net cash from financing activities
Increase/(decrease) in cash and cash equivalents Cash and cash equivalents at beginning of year
Cash and cash equivalents at end of year

Notes

2014 12 months
$000

25

10,640

(1,340)

9,300

(18,088) (2,697) (825) 2
(21,608)

402 (344)
(46) 12,500

12,512

204 5,489

15

5,693

2013 14 months
$000
7,766 (1,710)
6,056
(19,398) (1,905) (1,465) 14
(22,754)
580 (250)
7,500
7,830
(8,868) 14,357
5,489

The notes on pages 28 to 62 form part of these consolidated financial statements. 24

accesso Technology Group plc
Company statement of cash flow for the financial year ended 31 December 2014
Cash flows from operating activities Cash generated from operations Tax received/ (paid)
Net cash inflow/ (outflow) from operating activities
Cash flows from investing activities Acquisition of subsidiary Purchase of intangible fixed assets Purchase of property, plant and equipment Interest received
Net cash used in investing activities
Cash flows from financing activities Share Issue Interest paid Proceeds from borrowings
Net cash from financing activities
Decrease in cash and cash equivalents Cash and cash equivalents at beginning of year
Cash and cash equivalents at end of year

Notes

2014 12 months
$000

25

5,957

97

6,054

(18,781) (1,004) (473) 2
(20,256)

402 (332) 12,500

12,570

(1,632) 2,941

15

1,309

2013 14 months
$000
(11,723) (1,241)
(12,964)
(1,118)
(776) 14
(1,880)
484 (86) 7,500
7,898
(6,946) 9,887
2,941

The notes on pages 28 to 62 form part of these consolidated financial statements. 25

accesso Technology Group plc

Statement of changes in group equity for the financial year ended 31 December 2014

Group
Balance at 31 December 2013
Comprehensive Income for the year Profit for period Exchange differences on translating foreign operations
Total comprehensive income for the year
Contributions by and distributions by owners Issue of share capital Share based payments
Share option tax credit - current
Share option tax credit - deferred Exchange differences on opening balances
Total contributions by and distributions by owners
Balance at 31 December 2014
Balance at 4 November 2012
Comprehensive Income for the year Profit for period Exchange differences on translating foreign operations
Total comprehensive income for the year
Contributions by and distributions by owners Issue of share capital Share based payments
Share option tax credit - current
Share option tax credit - deferred Exchange differences on opening balances
Total contributions by and distributions by owners
Balance at 31 December 2013

Share capital
$000 335
-
27 -
(20)
7 342
282
-
-
43 -
10
53 335

Share premium
$000
26,404

Retained earnings
$000
13,148

-

3,785

-

-

-

3,785

399 -
(1,574)

(697)

(1,175) 25,229 10,718

(697) 16,236 10,161

-

2,856

-

-

-

2,856

15,374

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

312

131

15,686 26,404

131 13,148

Merger reserve
$000
-

Other reserves
$000
2,658

Own shares held in
trust $000
(2,133)

Translation reserve $000
(873)

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

895

-

-

-

895

14,540

-

-

-

-

353

-

-

-

316

-

-

-

(776)

-

-

-

42

57

-

14,540

(65)

57

-

14,540

2,593

(2,076)

22

-

940

(2,136)

(56)

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

(817)

-

-

-

(817)

-

-

-

-

186

-

-

399

-

-

1,126

-

-

7

3

-

1,718

3

-

2,658

(2,133)

-
-
(873)

26

Total $000 39,539
3,785 895
4,680
14,966 353 316
(776) (2,192)
12,667
56,886
19,909
2,856 (817)
2,039
15,417 186 399
1,126 463
17,591
39,539

accesso Technology Group plc

Statement of changes in company equity

for the financial year ended 31 December 2014

Company

Share capital

Share premium

$000

$000

Balance at 31 December 2013

335

26,404

Comprehensive Income for

the year

Profit for period

-

-

Exchange differences on translating foreign operations

-

-

Total comprehensive income for the year

-

-

Contributions by and distributions by owners Issue of share capital
Share based payments
Share option tax credit current
Share option tax credit deferred Exchange differences on opening balances

27

399

-

-

-

-

-

-

(20)

(1,574)

Total contributions by and distributions by owners

7

(1,175)

Balance at 31 December 2014

342

25,229

Balance at 4 November 2012
Comprehensive Income for the year Profit for period Exchange differences on translating foreign operations
Total comprehensive income for the year
Contributions by and distributions by owners Issue of share capital Share based payments
Share option tax credit current
Share option tax credit deferred Exchange differences on opening balances
Total contributions by and distributions by owners
Balance at 31 December 2013

282

10,718

-

-

-

-

-

-

43

15,374

-

-

-

-

-

-

10

312

53

15,686

335

26,404

Retained earnings
$000 10,785
1,216 -
1,216
(329)
(329)
11,672
9,672
1,051 -
1,051
62
62
10,785

Merger reserve
$000 -

Other reserves
$000 1,516

-

-

-

-

-

-

14,540 -
14,540
14,540
-

353 318 (492) 136
315
1,831
940

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

179

-

399

-

209

-

(211)

-

576

-

1,516

Translation reserve $000 (21)
(67)
(67)
-
-
(88)
(56)
35
35
-
-
(21)

Total $000 39,019
1,216 (67)
1,149
14,966 353 318
(492) (1,787) 13,358 53,526
21,556
1,051 35
1,086
15,417 179 399 209 173
16,377 39,019

27

accesso Technology Group plc

Notes to the consolidated financial statements for the financial year ended 31 December 2014

1.

Accounting Policies

Basis of preparation

accesso Technology Group plc is a public limited company incorporated in the United Kingdom, whose shares are publicly traded on the AIM market. The company is domiciled in the United Kingdom and its registered address is Thames House, Portsmouth Road, Esher, Surrey, KT10 9AD.

The financial period represents the 52 week and 1 day period to 31 December 2014 (prior financial year 60 weeks and 2 days to 31 December 2013). The group's principal activities are the development and application of ticketing, mobile and eCommerce technologies and virtual queuing solutions for the attractions and leisure industry.

Statement of compliance with IFRS

The group's financial statements have been prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards, International Accounting Standards, and related interpretations (collectively IFRSs) issued by the International Accounting Standards Board (IASB) as adopted by the European Union ("adopted IFRSs").

The principal accounting policies adopted in the preparation of the financial statements are set out below. The policies have been consistently applied to all the periods presented, unless otherwise stated.

The following new standards have been adopted during the period

·

IFRS 10 Consolidated Financial Statements

·

IFRS 11 Joint Arrangements

·

IFRS 12 Disclosure of Interests in Other Entities

·

IAS 27 Separate Financial Statements

·

IAS 28 Investments in Associates and Joint Ventures

·

Offsetting Financial Assets and Financial Liabilities (Amendments to IAS 32)

·

Investment Entities (Amendments to IFRS 10, IFRS 12 and IAS 27)

·

Recoverable amounts disclosures for non-financial assets (Amendments to IAS 36)

·

Novation of Derivatives and Continuation of Hedge Accounting (Amendments to IAS 39)

The adoption of the above new standards has not had a material impact on the financial statements during the period ended 31 December 2014.

New standards and interpretations not yet adopted

A number of new standards, amendments to standards and interpretations are not effective for 2014 and therefore have not been applied in preparing these accounts. The effective dates shown are for periods commencing on the date quoted.

·

Defined Benefit Plans: Employee Contributions: Amendments to IAS 19 (effective for periods beginning on or

after 1 July 2014)

·

Accounting for Acquisitions of Interests in Joint Operations: Amendments to IFRS 11 (effective 1 January 2016)

·

Clarification of Acceptable Methods of Depreciation and Amortisation: Amendments to IAS 16 and IAS 38

(effective 1 January 2016)

·

Equity Method in Separate Financial Statements (Amendments to IAS 27) (effective 1 January 2016)

·

Sale or contribution of assets between an investor and its associate or joint venture (Amendments to IFRS 10

and IAS 28) (effective 1 January 2016)

·

IFRS 15 Revenue from Contracts with Customers (effective 1 January 2017)

·

IFRS 9 Financial Instruments (effective 1 January 2018)

·

Disclosure Initiative: Amendments to IAS 1 (effective 1 January 2016)

·

Annual improvements to IFRSs

28

accesso Technology Group plc
Notes to the consolidated financial statements (continued) for the financial year ended 31 December 2014
The group has considered the above new standards, interpretations and amendments to published standards that are not yet effective and concluded that they are either not relevant to the group or that they would not have a significant impact on the group's financial statements, apart from additional disclosures.
Basis of accounting
The financial statements of accesso have been prepared in accordance with EU Endorsed International Financial Reporting Standards and IFRIC interpretations (IFRS) and the Companies Act 2006 applicable to companies reporting under IFRS. The financial statements have been prepared under the historical cost convention.
The preparation of financial statements in conformity with IFRS requires the use of certain critical accounting estimates. It also requires management to exercise its judgement in the process of applying the accounting policies. The areas involving a higher degree of judgement or complexity, or areas where assumptions and estimates are significant to the financial statements are noted below.
Critical estimates and judgements
The group makes judgements and assumptions concerning the future that impact the application of policies and reported amounts. The resulting accounting estimates calculated using these judgements and assumptions may not equal the related actual results but are based on historical experience and expectations of future events. The judgements and key sources of estimation uncertainty that have a significant effect on the amounts recognised in the financial statements are discussed below.
Impairment of assets
Financial and non-financial assets including other intangibles are subject to impairment reviews based on whether current or future events and circumstances suggest that their recoverable amount may be less than their carrying value. Recoverable amount is based on a calculation of expected future cash flows which includes management assumptions and estimates of future performance.
If there is an indication that impairment exists, the recoverable amount of the asset is estimated in order to determine the extent of the impairment loss (if any). Where the asset does not generate cash flows that are independent from other assets, the group estimates the recoverable amount of the cash-generating unit to which this asset belongs. An intangible asset with an indefinite useful life is tested for impairment annually and whenever there is an indication that the asset may be impaired.
Recoverable amount is the higher of the fair value less costs to sell and value in use. In assessing value in use, the estimated future cash flows are discounted to their present value using a pre-tax discount rate that reflects current market assessments of the time value of money and the risks specific to the asset for which the estimates of the future cash flows have not been adjusted.
If the recoverable amount of an asset (or cash-generating unit) is estimated to be less than its carrying amount, the carrying amount of the asset (cash-generating unit) is reduced to its recoverable amount. An impairment loss is recognised as an expense immediately, unless the relevant asset is carried at a re-valued amount, in which case the impairment loss is treated as a revaluation decrease.
Where an impairment loss subsequently reverses, the carrying amount of the asset (cash-generating unit) is increased to the revised estimate of its recoverable amount, but so that the increased carrying amount does not exceed the carrying amount that would have been determined had no impairment loss been recognised for the asset (cashgenerating unit) in prior periods. A reversal of an impairment loss is recognised as income immediately unless the relevant asset is carried at a re-valued amount, in which case the reversal of the impairment loss is treated as a revaluation increase.
Impairment of non-financial assets (excluding inventories and deferred tax assets)
Impairment tests on goodwill and other intangible assets with indefinite useful economic lives are undertaken annually at the financial year end. Other non-financial assets are subject to impairment tests whenever events or changes in
29

accesso Technology Group plc

Notes to the consolidated financial statements (continued) for the financial year ended 31 December 2014

Impairment of non-financial assets (excluding inventories and deferred tax assets) (continued)

circumstances indicate that their carrying amount may not be recoverable. Where the carrying value of an asset exceeds its recoverable amount (i.e. the higher of value in use and fair value less costs to sell), the asset is written down accordingly.

Where it is not possible to estimate the recoverable amount of an individual asset, the impairment test is carried out on the smallest group of assets to which it belongs for which there are separately identifiable cash flows; its cash generating units (`CGUs'). Goodwill is allocated on initial recognition to each of the group's CGUs that are expected to benefit from the synergies of the combination giving rise to the goodwill.

Impairment charges are included in profit or loss, except to the extent they reverse gains previously recognised in other comprehensive income. An impairment loss recognised for goodwill is not reversed.

Useful lives of intangible assets

Intangible assets are amortised over their estimated useful lives. Useful lives are based on the management's estimates of the period that the assets will generate revenue, which are periodically reviewed for continued appropriateness. Changes to estimates can result in significant variations in the carrying value and amounts charged to the consolidated income statement in specific periods. More details including carrying values are included in note 10.

Determination of fair values of intangible assets acquired in business combinations

The fair value of intangible assets acquired in business combinations is based on a method appropriate to the specific intangible asset. The accesso, LLC intangible assets were derived as follows:

·

Customer relationships on multiple period excess earnings; and

·

Internally developed technology on an estimated cost to recreate the intellectual property.

Siriusware, Inc. and VisionOne's intangible assets were derived as follows:

·

Internally developed technology on a multiple period excess earnings method;

·

Customer relationships on a cost based approach; and

·

Trademarks on a relief from royalty method.

Income taxes

The group is subject to income tax in several jurisdictions and significant judgement is required in determining the provision for income taxes. During the ordinary course of business, there are transactions and calculations for which the ultimate tax determination is uncertain. As a result, the group recognises tax liabilities based on estimates of whether additional taxes and interest will be due. The group believes that its accruals for tax liabilities are adequate for all open audit years based on its assessment of many factors including past experience and interpretations of tax law. This assessment relies on estimates and assumptions and may involve a series of complex judgements about future events. To the extent that the final tax outcome of these matters is different than the amounts recorded, such differences will impact income tax expense in the period in which such determination is made.

The recognition of deferred tax assets is based upon whether it is more likely than not that sufficient and suitable taxable profits will be available in the future against which the reversal of temporary differences can be deducted. Where the temporary differences are related to losses, the availability of the losses to offset against forecast taxable profits is also considered.

Deferred tax arising on business combinations reflects the difference in tax base and book base. The tax base of the intangible assets depends on the local jurisdiction and the nature of the acquisition as to whether a stock or asset purchase.

30

accesso Technology Group plc
Notes to the consolidated financial statements (continued) for the financial year ended 31 December 2014
Research and development tax credit
Research and development tax credits are recognised on an accruals basis and are included as an income tax credit under current assets. The group has history of successfully estimating research and development tax credits as set out by applicable tax legislation.
Basis of consolidation
The consolidated financial statements incorporate the results of accesso and all of its subsidiary undertakings as at 31 December 2014 using the acquisition method of accounting. The results of subsidiary undertakings are included from the date of acquisition.
Disclosure and details of the subsidiaries are provided in note 12.
Where necessary, adjustments are made to the financial statements of subsidiaries to bring the accounting policies used in line with those used by the group.
All intra-group transactions, balances, income and expenses are eliminated on consolidation.
Lo-Q (Trustees) Limited, a subsidiary company that holds an employee benefit trust on behalf of accesso Technology Group plc is under control of the board of directors and hence has been consolidated into the group results.
The acquisition of subsidiaries is accounted for using the purchase method. The cost of the acquisition is measured at the aggregate of the fair value, at the date of exchange, of assets given, liabilities incurred or assumed and equity instruments issued by the group in exchange for control of the acquiree. Any costs directly attributable to the business combination are written off to the group income statement. The acquiree's identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities that meet the conditions under IFRS 3 are recognised at their fair value at the acquisition date.
Goodwill arising on acquisition is recognised as an asset and initially measured at cost, being the excess of the cost of the business combination over the group's interest in the net fair value of the identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities recognised.
Subsidiaries
Subsidiaries are all entities over which the group has the power to govern the financial and operating policies generally accompanying a shareholding of more than half of the voting rights. The results of subsidiaries are included in the group income statement from the date of acquisition.
Investments including the shares in subsidiary companies held as fixed assets are stated at cost less any provision for impairment in value.
Change in presentation currency
The directors decided that effective 1 January 2014 the group's presentation currency should be USD, as this more closely aligns with the global operations of the group. Comparative information has been restated in USD in accordance with the guidance in IAS 21. The 14 month period ended 31 December 2013 numbers and associated notes and the balance sheet at 4 November 2012 have been retranslated from GBP to USD using the procedures outlined below:
i. assets and liabilities were translated into USD at closing rates of exchange; ii. income and expenses were translated into USD at monthly rates of exchange as they are a suitable proxy for
the prevailing rates at the date of transactions; iii. differences resulting from the retranslation on the opening net assets and the results for the period have
been taken to Other Comprehensive Income; and
31

accesso Technology Group plc
Notes to the consolidated financial statements (continued) for the financial year ended 31 December 2014
iv. the group has chosen to translate share capital, share premium and other reserves at closing rates in line with IAS21, any differences arising have been recorded as cumulative translation adjustments and recorded direct to translation reserves.
Revenue recognition
Revenue primarily arises from the development and application of virtual queuing technologies and the rental of such technology by theme park, water park or attraction guests, eCommerce ticketing and the sale of point of sale hardware and software.
Revenue, in relation to virtual queuing, represents either total rentals, net of sales taxes, to theme park, water park or attraction guests, where the group is responsible for the operation within the park or attraction, or the group's share of such rental. Where total revenue is accounted for, the park operator's share of such rental is included within cost of sales.
Ticketing revenue is recognised on a transactional basis and point of sale revenue is recognised on transfer of the goods or services.
Revenue also includes, where applicable, revenue from the sale of an installed system to a new or existing park operator, which is recognised on delivery of the system.
Interest expense recognition
Expense is recognised as interest accrues, using the effective interest method, to the net carrying amount of the financial liability.
Employee expenses
The group issues equity-settled share-based payments to full time employees. Equity-settled share-based payments are measured at the fair value at the date of grant. The fair value determined at the grant date of the equity-settled share-based payments is expensed on a straight-line basis over the vesting period, based on the group's estimate of shares that will eventually vest.
The fair value of EMI and unapproved share options is measured by use of a Black-Scholes model, and share options issued under the Long Term Incentive Plan (`LTIP') are measured using the Monte Carlo method due to the market based conditions upon which vesting is dependent. The expected life used in the model has been adjusted, based on management's best estimate, for the effects of non-transferability, exercise restrictions, and behavioural considerations.
The LTIP awards contain market based vesting conditions. Market vesting conditions are factored into the fair value of the options granted. As long as all other vesting conditions are satisfied, a charge is made irrespective of whether the market vesting conditions are satisfied. The cumulative expense is not adjusted for failure to achieve a market vesting condition or where a non-vesting condition is not satisfied.
Commitments under operating leases
Where substantially all of the risks and rewards incidental to ownership are not transferred to the group (an "operating lease"), the total rentals payable under the lease are charged to the consolidated statement of comprehensive income on a straight-line basis over the lease term. The aggregate benefit of lease incentives is recognised as a reduction of the rental expense over the lease term on a straight-line basis.
Leased assets
Where substantially all of the risks and rewards incidental to ownership of a leased asset have been transferred to the Group (a "finance lease"), the asset is treated as if it had been purchased outright. The amount initially recognised as
32

accesso Technology Group plc

Notes to the consolidated financial statements (continued) for the financial year ended 31 December 2014

Leased assets (continued)

an asset is the lower of the fair value of the leased property and the present value of the minimum lease payments payable over the term of the lease. The corresponding lease commitment is shown as a liability.

Lease payments are analysed between capital and interest. The interest element is charged to the consolidated statement of comprehensive income over the period of the lease and is calculated so that it represents a constant proportion of the lease liability. The capital element reduces the balance owed to the lessor.

Property, plant and equipment

Items of property, plant and equipment are stated at cost of acquisition or production cost less accumulated depreciation and impairment losses.

Depreciation is charged so as to write off the cost of assets over their estimated useful lives, using the straight-line method, on the following bases:

Plant and machinery Office equipment Installed systems Furniture and fixtures

33.3% 33.3% 25-33.3% or seasons within life of contract 20.0%

For installed systems the depreciation is charged over a season of operation as this directly reflects the period of operation of the assets in which economic benefits are generated.

Inventories

Stocks are valued at the lower of cost and net realisable value, after making due allowance for obsolete and slow moving items. Stocks are calculated on a first in first out basis.

Park installations are valued on the basis of the cost of stock items and labour plus attributable overheads.

Net realisable value is based on estimated selling price less additional costs to completion and disposal.

Deferred tax

Deferred tax assets and liabilities are recognised where the carrying amount of an asset or liability in the consolidated statement of financial position differs from its tax base, except for differences arising on:

·

the initial recognition of goodwill;

·

the initial recognition of an asset or liability in a transaction which is not a business combination and at the

time of the transaction affects neither accounting or taxable profit; and

·

investments in subsidiaries and jointly controlled entities where the group is able to control the timing of the

reversal of the difference and it is probable that the difference will not reverse in the foreseeable future.

Recognition of deferred tax assets is restricted to those instances where it is probable that taxable profit will be available against which the difference can be utilised.

The amount of the asset or liability is determined using tax rates that have been enacted or substantively enacted by the reporting date and are expected to apply when the deferred tax liabilities/(assets) are settled/(recovered).

Deferred tax assets and liabilities are offset when the group has a legally enforceable right to offset current tax assets and liabilities and the deferred tax assets and liabilities relate to taxes levied by the same tax authority on either:

·

the same taxable group company; or

33

accesso Technology Group plc

Notes to the consolidated financial statements (continued) for the financial year ended 31 December 2014

Deferred tax (continued)

·

different group entities which intend either to settle current tax assets and liabilities on a net basis, or to

realise the assets and settle the liabilities simultaneously, in each future period in which significant amounts

of deferred tax assets or liabilities are expected to be settled or recovered.

Current income tax

The tax expense for the period comprises current and deferred tax. Tax is recognised in the income statement, except to the extent that it relates to items recognised in other comprehensive income or directly in equity. In this case, the tax is also recognised in other comprehensive income or directly in equity, respectively.

The current income tax charge is calculated on the basis of the tax laws enacted or substantively enacted at the balance sheet date in the countries where the company and its subsidiaries operate and generate taxable income. Management periodically evaluates positions taken in tax returns with respect to situations in which applicable tax regulation is subject to interpretation. It establishes provisions where appropriate on the basis of amounts expected to be paid to the tax authorities.

Goodwill and intangible assets

Goodwill is carried at cost less any provision for impairment. Intangible assets are valued at cost less amortisation and any provisions for impairment.

Goodwill arising on business combinations (representing the excess of fair value of the consideration given over the fair value of the separable net assets acquired) is capitalised and its subsequent measurement is based on annual impairment reviews, with any impairment losses recognised immediately in the income statement. Direct costs of acquisition are recognised immediately in the income statement as an expense.

Externally acquired intangible assets

Intangible assets are capitalised at cost and amortised to nil by equal annual instalments over their estimated useful economic life.

Intangible assets are recognised on business combinations if they are separable from the acquired entity. The amounts ascribed to such intangibles are arrived at by using appropriate valuation techniques (see note 10). The significant intangibles recognised by the group and their useful economic lives are as follows:

·

Brand name over 3-5 years

·

Customer relationships over 15 years

·

Intellectual property over 5-7 years

Internally generated intangible assets (research and development costs)

Expenditure on internally developed products is capitalised if it can be demonstrated that:

·

It is technically feasible to develop the product for it to be sold;

·

Adequate resources are available to complete the development;

·

There is an intention to complete and sell the product;

·

The group is able to sell the product;

·

Sale of the product will generate future economic benefits; and

·

Expenditure on the project can be measured reliably.

Capitalised development costs are amortised over the periods the group expects to benefit from selling the products developed, which is estimated to be 3 and 5 years. The amortisation expense is included within research and development expenses in the consolidated income statement.

34

accesso Technology Group plc
Notes to the consolidated financial statements (continued) for the financial year ended 31 December 2014
Internally generated intangible assets (research and development costs) (continued)
Development expenditure not satisfying the above criteria and expenditure on the research phase of internal projects are recognised in the consolidated income statement as incurred.
Research and development
In accordance with IAS 38 'Intangible Assets', expenditure incurred on research and development is distinguished as either to a research phase or to a development phase.
All advanced research phase expenditure is charged to the income statement. For development expenditure, this is capitalised as an internally generated intangible asset, only if it meets criteria noted above.
Development expenditure is capitalised and amortised within administrative expenses on a straight line basis over its useful economic life, which is considered to be up to a maximum of 5 years. The group has contractual commitments for development costs of $nil (2013: $nil).
Intellectual property rights and patents
Intellectual property rights comprise assets acquired, being external costs, relating to know how, patents and licences and have been capitalised at the fair value of the assets acquired and are amortised within administrative expenses on a straight line basis over their estimated useful economic life of 5 and 9 years.
Foreign currency exchange
Transactions entered into by group entities in a currency other than the currency of the primary economic environment in which they operate (their "functional currency") are recorded at the rates ruling when the transactions occur. Foreign currency monetary assets and liabilities are translated at the rates ruling at the reporting date. Exchange differences arising on the retranslation of unsettled monetary assets and liabilities are recognised immediately in profit or loss, except for foreign currency borrowings qualifying as a hedge of a net investment in a foreign operation, in which case exchange differences are recognised in other comprehensive income and accumulated in the foreign exchange reserve along with the exchange differences arising on the retranslation of the foreign operation.
Exchange gains and losses arising on the retranslation of monetary available for sale financial assets are treated as a separate component of the change in fair value and recognised in profit or loss. Exchange gains and losses on non-monetary available for sale financial assets form part of the overall gain or loss recognised in respect of that financial instrument.
On consolidation, the results of operations that have a functional currency other than United States dollars are translated into United States dollars at rates approximating to those ruling when the transactions took place. All assets and liabilities of overseas operations, including goodwill arising on the acquisition of those operations, are translated at the rate ruling at the reporting date. Exchange differences on translating the opening net assets at opening rate and the results of the overseas operations at actual rate are recognised in other comprehensive income and accumulated in the foreign exchange reserve.
Exchange differences recognised profit or loss in group entities' separate financial statements on the translation of long-term monetary items forming part of the group's net investment in the overseas operation concerned are reclassified to other comprehensive income and accumulated in the foreign exchange reserve on consolidation. They are offset by any exchange differences on foreign currency borrowings qualifying as a hedge of a net investment in a foreign operation.
On disposal of a foreign operation, the cumulative exchange differences recognised in the foreign exchange reserve relating to that operation up to the date of disposal are transferred to the consolidated statement of comprehensive income as part of the profit or loss on disposal.
35

accesso Technology Group plc

Notes to the consolidated financial statements (continued) for the financial year ended 31 December 2014

Pension costs

Contributions to the group's defined contribution pension scheme are charged to the profit and loss account in the period/ year in which they become due.

Financial assets

The group classifies all its financial assets into one of the following categories, depending on the purpose for which the asset was acquired. Other than financial assets in a qualifying hedging relationship, the group's accounting policy for each category is as follows:

·

Loans and receivables are non-derivative financial assets with fixed or determinable payments that are not

quoted in an active market. They arise principally through the provision of goods and services to customers (trade

receivables), but also incorporate other types of contractual monetary asset.

·

Trade receivables are initially recognised by the group and carried at original invoice amount less an

allowance for any uncollectible or impaired amounts. An estimate for doubtful debts is made when collection of the

full amount is no longer probable. Bad debts are written off when they are identified as being bad. Other receivables

are recognised at fair value.

·

Cash and cash equivalents in the statement of financial position comprise cash at bank, cash in hand and

short term deposits with an original maturity of three months or less. Bank overdrafts that are repayable on demand

and form an integral part of the group's cash management are included as a component of cash and cash equivalents

for the purposes of the consolidated cash flow statement. Bank overdrafts are shown within loans and borrowings in

current liabilities in the statement of financial position.

·

Impairment is recognised if there is objective evidence that the balance will not be recovered.

The group's loans and receivables comprise trade and other receivables and cash and cash equivalents in the statement of financial position.

Financial liabilities

The group treats its financial liabilities in accordance with the following accounting policy:

·

Trade payables and other short-term monetary liabilities are recognised at fair value and subsequently at

amortised cost.

·

Bank borrowings and finance leases are initially recognised at fair value net of any transaction costs directly

attributable to the issue of the instrument. Such interest bearing liabilities are subsequently measured at amortised

cost using the effective interest rate method, which ensures that any interest expense over the period to repayment is

at a constant rate on the balance of the liability carried in the statement of financial position. "Interest expense" in this

context includes initial transaction costs and premiums payable on redemption, as well as any interest payable while

the liability is outstanding.

Financial instruments

Financial instruments are used to manage the financial risks arising from the business activities of the group and the financing of those activities. There is no trading in financial instruments.

Equity instruments regarding share capital

Equity instruments are recorded at the proceeds received, net of direct issue costs.

36

accesso Technology Group plc

Notes to the consolidated financial statements (continued) for the financial year ended 31 December 2014

Employee benefit trust (EBT)

As the company is deemed to have control of its EBT trust, it is treated as a subsidiary and consolidated for the purposes of the consolidated financial statements. The EBT's assets (other than investments in the company's shares), liabilities, income and expenses are included on a line-by-line basis in the consolidated financial statements. The EBT's investment in the company's shares is deducted from equity in the consolidated statement of financial position as if they were treasury shares.

2.

Financial risk management

Overview:

The group has exposure to the following risks from its use of financial instruments:

·

Liquidity risk;

·

Interest rate risk;

·

Credit risk; and

·

Market risk.

This note presents information about the group's exposure to each of the above risks and the group's policies and processes for measuring and managing these risks. The risks are managed centrally following board approved policies. The group operates a centralised treasury function in accordance with board approved policies and guidelines covering funding and management of foreign exchange exposure and interest rate risk. Transactions entered into by the treasury function are required to be in support of, or as a consequence of, underlying commercial transactions.

Other than short-term trade receivables and trade payables, as detailed in notes that arise directly from operations the group's financial instruments comprise cash. The fair values of these instruments are not materially different to their book values. The objective of holding financial instruments is to raise finance for the group's operations and manage related risks. The group's activities expose the group to a number of risks including liquidity risk, interest rate risk, credit risk and market risk. The group manages these risks by regularly monitoring the business and providing ongoing forecasts of the impact on the business.

Liquidity risk

The group closely monitors its access to bank and other credit facilities in comparison to its outstanding commitments to ensure it has sufficient funds to meet its obligations as they fall due. The group finance function produces regular forecasts that estimate the cash inflows and outflows for the next 12 months, so that management can ensure that sufficient financing is in place as it is required. The group's objective is to maintain a balance between continuity of funding and flexibility through the use of banking arrangements in place.

Maturity analysis

The following table analyses the group's financial liabilities on a contractual gross basis based on amount outstanding at the balance sheet date up to maturity date:

37

accesso Technology Group plc
Notes to the consolidated financial statements (continued) for the financial year ended 31 December 2014

31 December 2014 Maturity analysis
Group Trade and other payables Finance lease Bank loan
Total liabilities
Company Trade and other payables Bank loan
Total liabilities

Less than 6 months $000

Between 6 months and 1 year $000

Between 1 and 5 years $000

Over 5 Years $000

Total $000

7,950 24 -
7,974

-

-

-

7,950

24

114

162

-

20,000

- 20,000

24

20,114

- 28,112

1,461 -
1,461

-

-

-

1,461

-

20,000

- 20,000

-

20,000

- 21,461

31 December 2013 Maturity analysis

Less than 6 Months $000

Between 6 months and 1 year $000

Between 1 and 5 years $000

Over 5 Years $000

Total $000

Group Trade and other payables Bank loan

5,380 -

-

-

-

5,380

-

7,500

-

7,500

Total liabilities

5,380

-

7,500

- 12,880

Company Trade and other payables Bank loan

841

-

-

-

841

-

-

7,500

-

7,500

Total liabilities

841

-

7,500

-

8,341

The group would normally expect that sufficient cash is generated in the operating cycle to meet the contractual cash flows as disclosed above through effective cash management.
Interest rate risk
The group's interest rate variation arises mainly from interest received on cash deposits. Any contractual agreements entered into at floating rates expose the entity to cash flow risk, while fixed-rate deposits expose the entity to fair value risk. The group uses a combination of fixed and floating deposits for its cash balances.
The group has considered the potential impact of falling interest rates on its cash deposits and do not consider this to have a materially significant impact on the accounts and hence no sensitivity analysis is considered necessary.
The group regularly reviews its funding arrangements to ensure they are competitive with the marketplace.

38

accesso Technology Group plc

Notes to the consolidated financial statements (continued) for the financial year ended 31 December 2014
The table below shows the group's and company's financial assets and liabilities that could be affected by the fluctuation in interest rates split by those bearing fixed and floating rates and those that are non-interest bearing:

31 December 2014
Group Trade and other receivables Cash Total assets

Fixed rate $000
-

Floating rate $000

Non-interest bearing $000

Total assets $000

-

4,028

4,028

5,693

5,693

-

9,721

9,721

Total liabilities
$000
-

Bank loan Finance lease Total liabilities

(162) (162)

(20,000) -
(20,000)

-

-

(20,000)

-

-

(162)

-

-

(20,162)

31 December 2014
Company Trade and other receivables Cash Total assets
Bank loan Total liabilities
31 December 2013
Group Trade and other receivables Cash Total assets
Bank loan Total liabilities

Fixed Rate $000
-
-
Fixed rate $000
-
-

Floating Rate $000

Non-interest bearing $000

Total assets $000

-
(20,000) (20,000)
Floating rate $000

20,243 1,309
21,552
-
Non-interest bearing $000

20,243 1,309
21,552
-
Total assets $000

-
(7,500) (7,500)

2,924 5,489 8,413
-

2,924 5,489 8,413
-

Total liabilities
$000
-
(20,000) (20,000)
Total liabilities
$000
-
(7,500) (7,500)

31 December 2013
Company Trade and other receivables Cash Total assets

Fixed Rate $000
-

Floating Rate $000

Non-interest bearing $000

Total assets $000

-

22,841

22,841

-

2,941

2,941

-

25,782

25,782

Total liabilities
$000
-

Bank loan

-

(7,500)

-

-

Total liabilities

-

(7,500)

-

-

The bank loan which is subject to a floating rate and the full details of this facility are detailed in Note 19.

(7,500) (7,500)

39

accesso Technology Group plc

Notes to the consolidated financial statements (continued) for the financial year ended 31 December 2014
Credit risk exposure
Credit risk predominantly arises from trade receivables, cash and cash equivalents and deposits with banks. Credit risk is managed on a group basis. External credit checks are obtained for larger customers. In addition, the credit quality of each customer is assessed internally before accepting any terms of trade. Internal procedures take into account customers' financial position, their reputation in the industry and past trading experience. As a result the group's exposure to bad debts is not significant due to the nature of its trade and relationships with customers.
Indeed, the group having considered the potential impact of its exposure to credit risk, having due regard to both the nature of its business and customers, do not consider this to have a materially significant impact to the results. Credit risk also arises from cash and cash equivalents and deposits with banks and financial institutions that have acceptable credit ratings.

Group 2014 $000

2013 $000

Company 2014 $000

2013 $000

Trade and other receivables Cash Estimated irrecoverable amounts

4,028 5,693
(55)

2,924 5,489
-

20,243 1,309 -

22,841 2,941 -

9,666

8,413

21,552

25,782

The maximum exposure is the carrying amount as disclosed in trade and other receivables. The average credit period taken by customers is 23 days. The allowance for estimated irrecoverable amounts has been made based upon the knowledge of the financial circumstances of individual trade receivables at the balance sheet date. The group holds no collateral against these receivables at the balance sheet date.
The following table provides an analysis of trade and other receivables that were past due at 31 December 2014 and 31 December 2013 but against which no provision has been made. The group believes that the balances are ultimately recoverable based on a review of past payment history and the current financial status of the customers.

Up to 3 months 3 to 6 months

Group 2014 $000
2,401 486
2,887

2013 $000
2,047 -
2,047

Company 2014 $000
23 19
42

2013 $000
82 -
82

Capital risk management
The group considers its capital to comprise its ordinary share capital, share premium, own shares held in trust, other reserves, accumulated retained earnings and borrowings as disclosed in the consolidated statement of financial position. Further details of the group's borrowing facilities and undrawn facilitates is included in Note 19. The group manages its capital structure in the light of changes in economic conditions and financial markets generally and regularly evaluates its compliance with covenants applicable to their borrowing facilities.
The group's objectives when managing capital are to safeguard the group's ability to continue as a going concern in order to provide returns for current and future shareholders and benefits for other stakeholders and to maintain an optimal capital structure to minimise the cost of capital. In order to maintain or adjust the capital structure, the group may adjust the amount of dividends paid to shareholders, return capital to shareholders, issue new shares or increase or reduce debt.

40

accesso Technology Group plc

Notes to the consolidated financial statements (continued) for the financial year ended 31 December 2014

Capital risk management (continued)

The group does not seek to maintain any debt to capital ratio, but considers investment opportunities on their merits and funds them in what it considers to be the most effective manner.

Foreign currency exposure

Foreign exchange risk arises when individual group entities enter into transactions denominated in a currency other than their functional currency.

The group has operations in the UK, USA, Canada, Italy, Germany, Australia, Brazil and Mexico and as such is exposed to the risk of foreign currency fluctuations. The main operating currencies of its operations are in sterling, US dollars, Canadian dollars and euros. The group's currency exposure comprises the monetary assets and liabilities of the group that are not denominated in the operating or 'functional' currency of the operating unit involved. At the period end accesso Technology Group plc was the only group company that has monetary assets in currencies other than its local currency, sterling. Non - sterling bank balances below:

$130,653 (2013: $70,345) denominated in US dollars $303,759 (2013: $66,111) denominated in Australian dollars $46,599 (2013: $278,558) denominated in euros.

The group manages risk by its subsidiaries matching revenue and expenditure in their local currency wherever possible. The group tries to keep foreign intercompany balances as low as possible to avoid translation adjustments. Given the nature of the group's operations and their management of foreign currency exposure they limit the potential down side risk as far as practicably possible.

The group considers the volatility of currency markets over the year to be representative of the potential foreign currency risk it is exposed to. The main currency the group's results were exposed to was sterling and over the year the average rate for 2014 1GBP = 1.65USD (2013: 1GBP=1.57USD). If sterling had been an average of 5% stronger than the dollar through the year then it would have increased group profit before tax by $174,000 (3.3%). If sterling had been an average of 5% weaker than the dollar through the year then it would have decreased group profit before tax by $230,000 (4.5%). The impact on revenue of these movements would be insignificant.

Fair Value Measurement

The group does not have any level 2 or 3 financial assets or liabilities that have unobservable inputs that require disclosure.

3.

Business and geographical segments

Segmental analysis

The group's operating segments under IFRS have been determined with reference to the information presented in the management accounts reviewed by the board of directors.

The principle revenue generating activity of the group is the provision of technology solutions to the global attractions and leisure industry.

The group's segments are evaluated by the board as a whole and are not appraised on their entity level performance. This is because the operations of the segments are merging as the business gains more scale. Allocation of resources is driven by customer needs across the group rather than entity level performance. Therefore the board consider the group in its current form to be a single Operating Segment.

The group's revenues, costs, assets, liabilities, currency exposure and cash flows are therefore totally attributable to the single Operating Segment. The ticketing and queuing operations of the group are evolving and continually merging and the group is now serviced through single sales teams, transferable staff and is appraised on a group basis in terms of incentive arrangements. In 2013 the group's segments were deemed to fall within a single reporting segment as they

41

accesso Technology Group plc

Notes to the consolidated financial statements (continued) for the financial year ended 31 December 2014
Segmental analysis (continued)
were appraised down to product lines per location. There has been a shift in 2014 to a single approach that considers locations but is evaluated on a group basis driven by customer needs.
The definition of segments will be assessed as the group develops and continues to make acquisitions.
Entity wide disclosures
Analyses of the group's external revenues and non-current assets (excluding deferred tax) by geographical location are detailed below:

UK Other Europe Australia USA and Canada

Revenue 2014 $000

2013 $000

2,005 971 161
71,954

1,571 1,652
161 58,049

Non-current assets

2014 $000

2013 $000

3,734 -
70,082

4,343 44 -
32,073

75,091

61,433

73,816

36,460

Revenue generated in each of the geographical locations is generally in the local currency of the theme park or attraction based in that location.

Major customers

The group has entered into agreements with theme parks, theme park groups and attractions to operate their technology in single or multiple theme parks or attractions within the theme park group.

The majority of the ultimate revenue of the business is derived from theme park or attraction guest rentals or the group's virtual queuing technology and no single guest forms a significant proportion of the revenue of the group. However, the ability to generate these guest rentals is fully dependant on the group maintaining and developing agreements with theme parks or attraction owners to operate its technology. The group does have agreements with a single theme park group where sales to guests of that theme park group account for a significant and material amount of total revenue of the group.

4.

Employees and directors

Wages and salaries Social security costs Defined contribution pension costs Share based payment transactions

2014 12 months
$000 20,948
1,390 315 353
23,006

2013 14 months
$000 14,748
1,063 212 179
16,202

In respect of Directors' remuneration, the disclosures required by Schedule 5 to Large and Medium-sized Companies and Groups (Accounts and Reports) Regulations 2008 are included in the detailed disclosures in the audited section of the Remuneration Report.

42

accesso Technology Group plc

Notes to the consolidated financial statements (continued) for the financial year ended 31 December 2014

The average monthly number of employees during the year was made up as follows:

2014 12 Months

Operations

76

Research & development

79

Sales

14

Finance & administration

25

Marketing

1

Seasonal staff

432

627

2013 14 Months
49 41
5 15
3 353 466

5.

Expenses by nature

Park operating costs Staff costs Legal and professional costs Travel Marketing Inventories and consumables Other costs Other operating leases Depreciation - owned assets Depreciation - finance leased assets Amortisation Research and development Foreign exchange differences

2014 12 Months
$000 38,421 11,321
1,717 883 790
3,354 5,308
541 1,410
48 3,094 6,099
(12)

2013 14 Months
$000 37,903
6,995 2,176
602 556 1,530 1,983 461 1,348
0 2,505 3,428 (132)

Auditor's remuneration During the period the following services were obtained from the group's auditor at a cost detailed below:

Audit Services Fees Payable to the Company's auditors of the Parent Company and Consolidated Accounts Fees payable to the company's auditors for the audit of subsidiaries

2014 12 Months
$000

2013 14 Months
$000

80 51.5

63

34 21.5

28

Non Audit Service Tax compliance Tax advisory Corporate finance services Interim agreed upon procedures Other non-audit services

66 42.3

42

66 42.3

35

80 51

63

13 8.6

8

21

2

341

241

43

accesso Technology Group plc

Notes to the consolidated financial statements (continued) for the financial year ended 31 December 2014

6.

Finance income and expense

Bank interest received
Finance costs: Bank interest Loan note interest relating to acquisition of accesso LLC Finance lease Refinance costs
Total finance Costs
Net finance income

7.

Tax

Analysis of the tax charge
UK corporation tax Current tax on income for the period Adjustment in respect of prior periods
Overseas tax Current tax on income for the period Adjustment in respect of prior periods

Total current taxation
Deferred taxation ­ see Note 17 Original and reversal of temporary difference - for the current period Original and reversal of temporary difference - for the prior period Effect of tax rate change on opening balances

Total taxation charge

2014 12 Months
$000
2
(169) -
(12) (163)
(344)
(342)

2013 14 Months
$000
14
(92) (26)
(130)
(248)
(234)

2014 12 Months
$000
449 -
449
1,397 (250) 1,147
1,596
(253) 1 -
(252)
1,344

2013 14 Months
$000
401 (150)
251
(19) -
(19)
232
159
(4) 154
386

44

accesso Technology Group plc

Notes to the consolidated financial statements (continued) for the financial year ended 31 December 2014
Tax (continued)

The differences between the actual tax charge for the period and the theoretical amount that would arise using the applicable weighted average tax rate are as follows:

Profit on ordinary activities before tax

5,129

3,242

Tax at rate of 40% (2013 23.35%)
Effects of: Expenses not deductible for tax purposes Income not chargeable for tax purposes Profit subject to foreign taxes at a (lower)/ higher marginal rate Capital allowances in advance of depreciation Unrelieved tax losses and other deductions arising in the period Additional deduction for R&D expenditure ­ current period Additional deduction for R&D expenditure ­ prior periods Adjustment in respect of prior period ­ income statement Adjustment in respect of prior periods ­ deferred tax Share scheme deduction Change in tax rates

2,052
294 (124) (301)
(315) (250) 1 (13)

757
280 76
116 10
(113) (143)
(148) (58)
(388) (3)

Total tax charge

1,344

386

8.

Profit of parent company

As permitted by Section 408 of the Companies Act 2006, the profit and loss account of the parent company is not presented as part of these financial statements. The parent company's profit for the financial year ended 31 December 2014 was $1,215,196 (2013: $1,050,956).

45

accesso Technology Group plc

Notes to the consolidated financial statements (continued) for the financial year ended 31 December 2014

9.

Earnings per share

Basic earnings per share is calculated by dividing the earnings attributable to ordinary shareholders by the weighted average number of ordinary shares outstanding during the period.

Diluted earnings per share is calculated by dividing the net profit attributable to ordinary shareholders after adjustments for instruments that dilute basic earnings per share by the weighted average of ordinary shares outstanding during the period (adjusted for the effects of dilutive instruments).

The following reflects the income and share data used in the total operations, diluted and adjusted earnings per share computations.

Basic EPS Profit attributable to ordinary shareholders ($000)

2014 12 months
3,785

2013 14 months
2,856

Denominator Weighted average number of shares used in basic EPS Basic earnings per share (cents)

20,469 18.49

19,431 14.70

Diluted EPS Denominator Weighted average number of shares used in basic EPS Effect of dilutive securities Options Weighted average number of shares used in diluted EPS Diluted earnings per share (cents)

20,469
377 20,846 18.16

19,431
658 20,089
14.22

Adjusted earnings per share

Profit before tax ($000) Costs of acquisition and related refinancing Amortisation relating to acquired intangibles from acquisitions Share based compensation and social security costs on unapproved options Adjusted profit before tax ($000) Tax at effective rate of 26.2% (2013: 11.9%) Adjusted profit attributable to ordinary shareholders ($000)

5,129 728
2,273 415
8,545 (2,239)
6,306

3,242 1,011 1,537
172 5,962 (710) 5,252

Denominator Weighted average number of shares used in basic EPS

20,469

19,431

Adjusted earnings per share (cents)

30.81

27.03

46

accesso Technology Group plc

Notes to the consolidated financial statements (continued) for the financial year ended 31 December 2014

10.

Intangible assets

Group cost At 4 November 2012 Foreign currency translation Acquired through acquisition Additions

Goodwill $000
16,566 -

Customer relationships
$000
-
-
5,781 -

Trademarks $000
236 -

Internally developed technology
$000
-
-
8,904 -

Patent costs $000
395
12
43 193

IPR costs $000
257
7
-

Development costs $000
3,423
101
250 1,712

Totals $000
4,075 120
31,780 1,905

At 31 December 2013
Foreign currency translation Acquired through acquisition Additions

16,566
22,407
-

5,781
4,459
-

236

8,904

643

264

-

-

(32)

(15)

205

11,376

-

-

29

-

76

-

5,486

37,880

(267)
2,592

(314)
38,447 2,697

At 31 December 2014
Amortisation At 4 November 2012 Foreign currency translation Acquired through acquisition Charged

38,973
-

10,240
321

470

20,280

687

249

-

-

118

213

-

-

5

7

-

-

15

-

7

1,209

99

12

7,811

78,710

1,757
73
18 857

2,088
85
33 2,505

At 31 December 2013
Foreign currency translation Acquired through acquisition Charged
At 31 December 2014
Net book value At 31 December 2014 At 31 December 2013

-
-
-
38,973 16,566

321
473
794
9,446 5,460

7

1,209

237

232

-

-

(10)

(15)

-

-

-

-

86

1,715

129

4

93

2,924

356

221

377

17,356

331

28

229

7,695

406

32

2,705
(153) -
687
3,239

4,711
(178) -
3,094
7,627

4,572 2,781

71,083 33,169

47

accesso Technology Group plc

Notes to the consolidated financial statements (continued) for the financial year ended 31 December 2014
Intangible assets (continued)
Company cost At 4 November 2012 Foreign currency translation Additions

Patent costs $000
395 11
146

IPR costs $000
257 7 -

Development costs $000
3,410 110 972

Totals $000
4,062 128
1,118

At 31 December 2013

552

264

4,492

5,308

Foreign currency translation Additions

(31)

(16)

59

-

(267) 945

(314) 1,004

At 31 December 2014
Amortisation At 4 November 2012 Foreign currency translation Charged

580

248

118

213

3

7

81

12

5,170
1,755 51
766

5,998 -
2,086 61
859

At 31 December 2013
Foreign currency translation Charged

202

232

(10)

(15)

77

4

2,572
(153) 733

3,006
(178) 814

At 31 December 2014

269

221

3,152

3,642

Net Book Value At 31 December 2014
At 31 December 2013

311

27

350

32

2,018 1,920

2,356 2,302

Acquisition of VisionOne Worldwide Ltd.
On 28 November 2014, the group acquired 100% of the voting equity of VisionOne Worldwide Ltd. a leading US ticketing and e-commerce provider to the entertainment sector. The principal reason for this acquisition was to take advantage of the complimentary opportunities available within the sector in which the group operates.
The revenue included in the consolidated statement of comprehensive income since 28 November 2014 contributed by VisionOne Worldwide Ltd. and its subsidiaries was $0.7m and contributed gross profit of $0.18m over the same period.
Had VisionOne Worldwide Ltd. and its subsidiaries been consolidated from 1 January 2014 the consolidated statement of comprehensive income would have included revenue of approximately $8.4m and gross profit of $7.7m. Acquisition related costs of $0.72m were incurred in relation to this acquisition and are included within administrative expenses ($0.56m) and finance costs ($0.16m) within the statement of comprehensive income for the period.

48

accesso Technology Group plc

Notes to the consolidated financial statements (continued) for the financial year ended 31 December 2014

Intangible assets (continued)

Details of the provisional fair value of identifiable assets and liabilities acquired, purchase consideration and goodwill are:

Provisional

Provisional

Provisional

book value

adjustment

fair value

$000

$000

$000

Identifiable intangible assets

Internally developed technology

1,526

9,850

11,376

Customer relationships

-

4,459

4,459

Trademarks

-

205

205

Property, plant and equipment

198

198

Receivables and other debtors

1,656

-

1,656

Payables and other liabilities

(956)

-

(956)

Cash

693

-

693

Deferred tax Liability

(622)

(5,806)

(6,428)

Total net assets

2,495

8,708

11,203

Cash paid at completion
Equity instruments (1,519,364 ordinary shares) Working capital trueup Total consideration

18,781
14,610 (1) 219 (2)
33,610

-

18,781

-

14,610

-

219

-

33,610

Goodwill on acquisition

22,407

(1) In accordance with IFRS 3 Business Combinations (revised 2008) the consideration paid in shares is based on the difference between the share price at the date on which the company obtained control of VisionOne Worldwide Ltd and the price determined in the Membership Interest Purchase Agreement for calculating the number of shares to be issued to the vendors. Shares are subject to certain lock-up restrictions, namely that one third is fully restricted until twelve months after the completion date; a further one third is fully restricted until 24 months after the completion date; and the final one third is fully restricted until 36 months after the completion date.
(2) Not paid at date of these accounts.
The main factors leading to the recognition of goodwill are the presence of certain intangible assets, such as the assembled workforce of the acquired entity and the expected synergies of the enlarged group which do not qualify for separate recognition.
The fair value uplift of intangible assets recognised will not attract tax deductions under applicable local tax jurisdictions.

The net cash outflow in the year in respect of acquisition comprised:
Cash paid on completion Net cash acquired Total cash outflow in respect of acquisition

Fair Value $000
(18,781) 693
(18,088)

49

accesso Technology Group plc

Notes to the consolidated financial statements (continued) for the financial year ended 31 December 2014
Intangible assets (continued)
Impairment tests for goodwill
The group is required to test, on an annual basis, whether goodwill has suffered any impairment. The recoverable amount is determined based on value in use calculations. The use of this method requires the estimation of future cash flows and the determination of a discount rate in order to calculate the present value of the cash flows

Details of goodwill allocated to acquired cash generating units (CGU's) is as follows:
Goodwill carrying amount Acquired cash generating unit: accesso, LLC & Siriusware, Inc. (CGU 1) Acquired cash generating unit: VisionOne Worldwide Limited and its subsidiaries (CGU 2)
Recoverable amount of CGU's Acquired cash generating unit: accesso, LLC & Siriusware, Inc. (CGU 1) Acquired cash generating unit: VisionOne Worldwide Limited and its subsidiaries (CGU 2)
Excess of recoverable value of CGU above carrying value Acquired cash generating unit: accesso, LLC & Siriusware, Inc. (CGU 1) Acquired cash generating unit: VisionOne Worldwide Limited and its subsidiaries (CGU 2)

2014 $000 16,566 22,407

2013 $000 16,566
-

69,636 35,704

14,509 -

29,981 4,556

14,509 -

The recoverable amounts of all the CGU's have been determined from value in use calculations based on cash flow projections based on budget and forecast projections and assumes a perpetuity based terminal value.
Recoverable amounts and excess on CGU's in 2013

In 2013 the carrying value of the accesso LLC and Siriusware Inc CGUs were appraised separately. This is because Siriusware Inc. was acquired on 4 December 2013 and the two CGUs were operating as fully discrete entities at that time. · accesso LLC's goodwill carrying amount was $7,672m; its recoverable amount was $18,238m which was in excess of the carrying value by $4,125m. · Siriusware Inc's goodwill carrying amount was $8,894m; its recoverable amount and carrying amount were materially in line as a result of the close proximity to the year end of the acquisition.

The key assumptions used for value in use calculations in 2014 are as follows: 2014
CGU 1

CGU 2

2013 accesso Siriusware

Post tax discount rate (%) Average operating margin (%) Terminal growth rate (%) Forecast period (years)

9.9

9.9

19.3

31.3

3

3

8

8

10.8

11

19.0

11.8

3

3

8

5

Operating margins have been based on past experience, where possible, and future expectations in the light of anticipated economic and market conditions. Discount rates are based on the group's WACC adjusted to reflect management's assessment of specific risks related to the cash generating unit. Growth rates beyond the formally budgeted period are based on economic data pertaining to the region concerned.

50

accesso Technology Group plc

Notes to the consolidated financial statements (continued) for the financial year ended 31 December 2014

Intangible assets (continued)

In respect of CGU 1, if any one of the changes indicated below were made to the above key assumptions, the carrying amount and recoverable amount would be equal.

Post tax discount rate Average operating margin

Per test %
9.9 19.3

Change %
+8.2 (12.1)

Due to close proximity of the value in use calculation of CGU 2 to its acquisition, the headroom is invariably not significant and therefore relatively small changes to any of the assumptions above would result in such headroom being reduced to zero.

Acquisitions in 14 month period to 31 December 2013
The fair value of net assets and consideration related to the acquisitions of accesso, LLC and Siriusware, Inc. reported in the financial statements for 2013 are unchanged from those provisionally reported.

51

accesso Technology Group plc

Notes to the consolidated financial statements (continued) for the financial year ended 31 December 2014

11.

Property, plant and equipment

Group Cost At 4 November 2012 Foreign currency translation Acquired through acquisition Additions
At 31 December 2013
Foreign currency translation Acquired through acquisition Additions Disposals
At 31 December 2014
Amortisation At 4 November 2012 Foreign currency translation Acquired through acquisition Charged
At 31 December 2013
Foreign currency translation Acquired through acquisition Charged Disposals
At 31 December 2014
Net book value At 31 December 2014 At 31 December 2013

Installed systems
$000
3,513 102 835
4,450
(257) 345 440 -
4,978
1,361 39 -
1,033
2,433
(146) 184
1,031 -
3,502
1,476 2,017

Plant, machinery and office equipment
$000
551 5
838 236
1,630
(26) 1,553
114 (5)
3,266
490 10
515 160
1,175
(22) 1,628
186 (4)
2,963
303 455

Company Cost At 4 November 2012 Foreign currency translation Additions
At 31 December 2013
Foreign currency translation Additions
At 31 December 2014
Amortisation At 4 November 2012 Foreign currency translation Charged
At 31 December 2013
Foreign currency translation Charged
At 31 December 2014
Net book value At 31 December 2014 At 31 December 2013

$000
3,495 99
708
4,302
(257) 439
4,484
1,340 39
984
2,363
(146) 989
3,206
1,278 1,939

$000
367 11 68
446
(26) 34
454
333 10 38
381
(22) 34
393
61 65

Furniture & fixtures
$000
245 7
198 364
814
(13) 13
271 (3)
1,082
117 3
120 125
365
(10) 7
199 (3)
558
524 449

Leasehold improvements
$000
426 30
456
561
-
1,017
56 30
86
459
42 -
587
430 370

$000
237 7 -
244
(15) -
229
109 4 49
162
(10) 39
191
38 82

$000
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-

52

Totals $000
4,309 114
1,462 1,465
7,350
(296) 2,472
825 (8)
10,343
1,968 52
691 1,348
4,059
(178) 2,278 1,458
(7)
7,610
2,733 3,291
$000
4,099 117 776
4,992
(298) 473
5,167
1,782 53
1,071
2,906
(178) 1,062
3,790
1,377 2,086

accesso Technology Group plc

Notes to the consolidated financial statements (continued) for the financial year ended 31 December 2014

12.

Investments

Investment in subsidiaries

Company

Cost At 31 December 2013 Additions Foreign currency translation

$000
14,935 33,903
(890)

At 31 December 2014
Net book value At 31 December 2013
At 31 December 2014

47,948
14,935 47,948

Name
Lo-Q, Inc. Lo-Q Service Canada Inc Lo-Q (Trustees) Limited accesso, LLC. Siriusware, Inc. Lo-Q Limited VisionOne Worldwide Limited VisionOne, Inc. VisionOne do Brazil Ltda VisionOne S.A. de C.V

Country of incorporation % Ownership interest % Voting Rights

United States of America

100

100

Canada

100

100

United Kingdom

100

100

United States of America

100

100

United States of America

100

100

United Kingdom

100

100

British Virgin Islands

100

100

United States of America

100

100

Brazil

100

100

Mexico

100

100

accesso, LLC, Siriusware, Inc. and VisionOne, Inc. are 100% owned by Lo-Q, Inc. VisionOne do Brazil Ltda and VisionOne do Mexico Ltda are 100% owned by VisionOne Worldwide Ltd.

The trade for both Lo-Q, Inc. and Lo-Q Service Canada Inc is that of the application of virtual queue technologies. The trade of accesso, LLC, Siriusware, Inc. and the VisionOne subsidiaries is that of ticketing and point-of-sale software solutions.

Lo-Q (Trustees) Limited operates an employee benefit trust on behalf of accesso Technology Group plc to provide benefits in accordance with the terms of a joint share ownership plan. Further details of this can be found on page 19.

Immediately on the acquisition of VisionOne Worldwide Limited the shares of VisionOne, Inc. were transferred to Lo-Q Inc.

13.

Inventories

Stock Park installation

Group 2014 $000
639 9
648

2013 $000
669 138 807

Company 2014 $000
403 -
403

2013 $000
332 136 468

53

accesso Technology Group plc

Notes to the consolidated financial statements (continued) for the financial year ended 31 December 2014

Inventories (continued)

The amount of inventories recognised as an expense and charged to cost of sales for the year ended 31 December 2014 was $1,796,084 (2013: 14 months $251,925). Park installation balances includes equipment installed at a theme or water park on a trial basis or during the phase prior to a new or updated operation commencing.

14.

Trade and other receivables

Current:

Group 2014 $000

2013 $000

Company 2014 $000

2013 $000

Trade debtors Accrued income Amounts owed by group undertakings Financial assets

2,885 1,143
4,028

2,060 864 -
2,924

43 50 20,150 20,243

82 -
22,759 22,841

Social security and other taxes Other debtors VAT Prepayments

1,882
20 1,016 6,946

877
38 414 4,253

33 35 217 20,528

11 35 43 110 23,040

The group's financial assets are short term in nature. In the opinion of the directors, the book values equate to their fair value.

15.

Cash and cash equivalents

Group 2014 $000

2013 $000

Company 2014 $000

2013 $000

Petty Cash Bank accounts

1 5,692 5,693

2 5,487 5,489

1 1,308 1,309

2 2,939 2,941

16.

Trade and other payables

Current:
Trade creditors Sundry creditors Accruals Financial liabilities

Group 2014 $000
1,062 776
6,112
7,950

2013 $000
425
468 4,487
5,380

Company 2014 $000
337
219 905
1,461

2013 $000
190
651
841

Social security and other taxes

49

5

-

-

7,999

5,385

1,461

841

The group financial liabilities are short-term in nature. In the opinion of the directors the book values equate to their fair value.

54

accesso Technology Group plc

Notes to the consolidated financial statements (continued) for the financial year ended 31 December 2014

17.

Deferred taxation

Group

At 31 December 2013 Foreign currency translation Charged to income (see note 7) Charged directly to equity Business combinations

At 31 December 2014

Company
At 31 December 2013 Foreign currency translation Charged to income Charged directly to equity
At 31 December 2014

Deferred taxation The following table summarises the recognised deferred tax asset and liability.

Group
Recognised asset Tax relief on unexercised employee share options Losses and other deductions Short term timing differences Business combinations Deferred tax asset

Recognised liability Depreciation in excess of capital allowances Business combinations Deferred tax liability
Company

Recognised asset Tax relief on unexercised employee share options Losses and other deductions Short term timing differences Deferred tax asset
Recognised liability Depreciation in excess of capital allowances Deferred tax liability

55

Asset $000 6,539 (154)
90 (779)
-
5,696
Asset $000
629 93
(35) (492)
195

Liability $000
(2,670) 129 162 3
(6,428)
(8,804)
Liability $000 (116) 2 82 -
(32)

2014 $000
831 -
289 4,576 5,696
(1,246) (7,558) (8,804)
2014 $000
195 -
195
32 (32)

2013 $000
1,652 30 98
4,759 6,539
422 2,248 (2,670)
2013 $000
597 30 2
629
116 (116)

accesso Technology Group plc

Notes to the consolidated financial statements (continued) for the financial year ended 31 December 2014

Deferred taxation (continued)

Deferred tax assets and liabilities have been measured at an effective rate of 20% and 40% in the UK and US respectively (2013: 20% and 40% respectively).

18.

Financial liabilities

Certain office equipment in one of the group's properties is classified as a finance lease, and included within the group net book value of $2.7m are assets with a net book value of $0.1m held under finance lease arrangements. The depreciation charged in the year in respect of these assets was $0.05m.

Future lease payments are due as follows:

Group

Minimum lease
payments
$000

Interest $000

Present Value
$000

Not later than one year Repayable between one and five years

58

10

48

124

10

114

182

20

162

Current liabilities

48

Non-current liabilities

114

162

19.

Borrowings

Bank loans

Group 2014 $000
20,000 20,000

2013 $000
7,500 7,500

Company 2014 $000
20,000 20,000

2013 $000
7,500 7,500

On 7 November 2014 the group entered into an amendment and restatement agreement with Lloyds Bank plc in relation to a Revolving Loan Facility dated 4 December 2013. The amended facility includes a borrowing rate of 1.75 per cent above three month LIBOR on funds subject to drawdown and a commitment rate of 0.7 per cent on funds not drawndown. The facility is US dollar denominated and has been secured on accesso's assets and intellectual property in the US and UK. The carrying value of these borrowings approximate to the fair value.
The maximum available for drawdown through to its expiry on 31 December 2017 are as follows:
7 November 2014 to 31 October 2015: $29m 1 November 2015 to 31 October 2016: $22m 1 November 2016 to 31 December 2017: $8m
Lloyds Bank plc holds security in the form of a debenture, including a fixed charge over the freehold and leasehold property and a first floating charge over the other assets of the group.
The costs incurred in refinancing this facility are detailed in note 5.

56

accesso Technology Group plc

Notes to the consolidated financial statements (continued) for the financial year ended 31 December 2014

20.

Called up share capital

Ordinary shares of 1p each

2014 Number

2014 $000

2013 Number

2013 $000

Opening balance Foreign currency translation Issued for acquisitions Issued in relation to exercised share options

20,203,011

335

17,528,960

282

-

(20)

-

8

1,519,364

24

2,275,376

38

202,162

3

398,675

7

Closing balance

21,924,537

342

20,203,011

335

On 28 November 2014, the group issued 1,519,364 shares, with a nominal value of $23,686, in respect of the acquisition of VisionOne Worldwide Ltd., with a fair value of $14.6m ($9.62 per share). Shares are subject to certain lock-up restrictions, namely that one third is fully restricted until twelve months after the completion date; a further one third is fully restricted until 24 months after the completion date; and the final one third is fully restricted until 36 months after the completion date.

Also, during the period 202,162 shares, with a nominal value $3,152, were allotted following the exercise of share options.

Following the adoption of new Articles of Association on 12 April 2011 the company no longer has an authorised share capital.

Included in the called up share capital are 853,818 treasury shares registered in the name of Lo-Q (Trustees) Limited, a wholly owned subsidiary of company on behalf of the Lo-Q Employee Benefit Trust.

Share option schemes

At 31 December 2014 the following share options were outstanding in respect of the ordinary shares:

Scheme EMI Scheme
US Scheme
UK unapproved Scheme Long term incentive plan

Number of shares 3,000
47,235 102,629
26,000 19,500 40,000 160,000 32,370 18,460 15,000 171,000 180,000 110,000 30,400 182,206 40,400

Period of Option 25 June 2010 to 24 June 2019 24 June 2013 to 23 June 2021 30 November 2014 to 29 November 2022 25 April 2015 to 25 April 2023 23 January 2017 to 22 January 2024 (1) 10 March 2012 to 9 March 2021 (2) 24 June 2013 to 23 June 2021 30 November 2014 to 29 November 2022 26 March 2014 to 25 March 2022 25 April 2015 to 25 April 2023 23 January 2017 to 22 January 2024 10 March 2012 to 9 March 2021 25 April 2015 to 25 April 2023 8 July 2017 27 October 2017

Price per share 57.5p 179p 323.5p 600p 697.5p 57.5p 156p 179p 323.5p 292.5p 600p 697.5p 156p 600p -p (3) -p (3)

(1) Options vested in three equal tranches on the 25 June 2010, 2011 and 2012 and expire on the 10th anniversary of the grant.
(2) Options may only be exercised when the share price is above £1.82. (3) Vesting is conditional on achievement of certain market based conditions.

57

accesso Technology Group plc

Notes to the consolidated financial statements (continued) for the financial year ended 31 December 2014

21.

Reserves

The following describes the nature and purpose of each reserve within equity:

Reserve Share premium: Own shares held in trust: Other reserve: Merger:
Retained earnings: Translation reserve:

Description and purpose Amount subscribed for share capital in excess of nominal value. Weighted average cost of own shares held by the EBT trust. Reserve to account for share option equity based transactions. The merger reserve, which arises on consolidation, represents the difference between the fair value and nominal value of shares issued on the acquisition of subsidiary companies where the company has elected to take advantage of merger relief. All other net gains and losses and transactions not recognised elsewhere. Gains/losses arising on retranslating the net assets of overseas operations into US dollars.

22.

Pension commitments

The group operates a defined contribution pension scheme in the UK and US. The assets of each scheme are held separately from those of the group in an independently administered fund. The pension charge represents contributions payable by the group to the fund and amounted to $315,416 (2013: $212,443). Contributions amounting to $38,990 (2013: $nil) were payable to the fund and are included in creditors.

23.

Related party disclosures

Ultimate controlling party

There is no ultimate controlling party.

Subsidiaries The company has outstanding balances and transactions with its subsidiaries as set out below:

Outstanding balances

2014

2013

$000

$000

Transactions in year

2014

2013

$000

$000

Lo-Q, Inc. Lo-Q Service Canada Inc Lo-Q (Trustees) Limited accesso, LLC VisionOne Worldwide Limited VisionOne, Inc.

15,627 708
2,076 383
1,578 (222)

19,846 705
2,208 -

6,040 151 401 -

6,228 172 -

20,150

22,759

6,592

6,400

Other related parties
IXXI Limited, a company in which Anthony Bone, an accesso Technology Group plc director, is a director invoiced the company in respect of directors fees $23,000 (2013: $46,360) of which $Nil (2013: $4,142) was outstanding at the period end.
Rockspring, a company in which David Gammon, an accesso Technology Group plc director, is a director invoiced the company in respect of directors fees $44,080 (2013: $46,360) of which $3,673 (2013: $4,142) was outstanding at the year end.

58

accesso Technology Group plc

Notes to the consolidated financial statements (continued) for the financial year ended 31 December 2014
Related party disclosures (continued)
Matt Cooper, an accesso Technology Group plc director, invoiced the company in respect of directors fees $44,080 (2013: $46,360) of which $3,673 (2013: $4,142) was outstanding at the year end.
Maven Creative, LLC., a company in which Steve Brown, an accesso Technology Group plc director, is a director and has a 33% interest, invoiced the group $56,382 (2013: $38,260) in respect of marketing services of which $3,818 (2013: $11,596) was outstanding at the period end.
All of the above outstanding amounts are included within trade creditors.
Key management compensation
The key management of the company staff are considered to be the directors and their remuneration is as follows:

Directors remuneration Director's contribution to retirement scheme Employer's social security costs Share based payments

2014 12 months
$000 1,761
69 221
41 2,092

2013 14 Months
$000 1,803
74 128
12 2,017

Included in employer's social security costs is an amount of $72,000 related to the exercise of unapproved share options by directors. (2013: $nil)

24.

Share-based payment transactions

Equity settled share option schemes

For details of share option schemes in place during the period see note 20. Details of the number of share options and the weighted average exercise price (WAEP) outstanding during the period are as follows:

Outstanding at beginning of year Granted during the year Exercised during the year Leavers, lapsed & other

2014 Number 977,159 246,750 (202,162) (66,153)

WAEP (pence) 284.56 697.50 127.59 609.28

2013

Number

WAEP (pence)

1,019,944

115.79

413,772

498.51

(398,675)

73.28

(57,882)

295.38

Outstanding at end of the year

955,594

395.56

977,159

284.56

Exercisable at the end of the year

528,694

193.69

590,049

140.85

Weighted average share price at date of exercise for share options exercised during the year:

745.39

584.88

59

accesso Technology Group plc

Notes to the consolidated financial statements (continued) for the financial year ended 31 December 2014
Equity settled share option schemes (continued)
The exercise price of options outstanding at 31 December 2014 range between 57.5p and 697.5p (2013: 57.5p and 600.0p) and their weighted average contractual life was 7.5 years (2013: 9 years).
The weighted average share price at the date of exercise for share options exercised during the period was £7.45 (2013: £5.85).

The fair values were calculated using the Black-Scholes valuation method. The inputs to the model were as follows:

Weighted average share price (pence) Expected volatility % Expected life years Risk free rate (%) Dividend yield (%)

2014 745.39
31.00 1.00 1.00 -

2013 584.88
38.00 1.00 1.00 -

The group did not enter into any share-based payment transactions with parties other than employees during the current or previous period.

Expected volatility was determined by calculating the historic volatility of the groups share price over the previous twelve month period. Expected life is based on the group's assessment of the average life of the option following the vesting period. The market vesting condition was factored into the valuation of shares issued under the EBT trust as explained on page 19.

Long term incentive plan

In addition to the above share options, the group has granted conditional share awards over 222,606 shares under the accesso Technology Group 2014 Long Term Incentive Plan which was approved by shareholders on 27 May 2014.

On 8 July 2014, the company granted conditional share awards ("Awards") over 182,206 ordinary shares of 1 penny and on 27 October 2014, the Company granted Awards over 40,400 ordinary shares of 1 penny.

The Awards vest three years from the date of grant and are required to be held for a further six months and are subject to certain performance conditions relating to the achievement of compound share price growth rates from a share price of 528.25p per share over the vesting period. 100% of the shares pursuant to the Award shall vest and the award shall be exercisable in full if the average share price ("ASP") during the thirty days prior to 8 July 2017 ("the Test Date") is 803.40 pence or more.

The Awards shall vest and become exercisable in respect of 30% of the shares comprised in it if the ASP is 748.37 pence. Between ASP of 748.37 and 803.40 pence, the Award shall vest and become exercisable on a straight line basis between 30% and 100%.

The Awards shall not vest at all if the ASP is less than 748.37 pence. No consideration will be paid for the conditional shares upon their vesting

The fair values of the Awards at the dates of grant were calculated using the Monte Carlo statistical modelling approach to reflect the market conditions within the Award conditions. The inputs to this model were as follows:

Expected volatility (%) Expected life years Risk free rate (%) Dividend yield (%)

2014 32.00
1.00 0.89
-

2013 -

60

accesso Technology Group plc

Notes to the consolidated financial statements (continued) for the financial year ended 31 December 2014

25.

Notes to cash flow

Reconciliation of profit before tax to cash generated from operations

Group
Profit before tax Depreciation and amortisation charges
Tangible fixed assets (excluding fnance leases) Development costs Acquired intangibles Finance leased assets Other intangibles Share based payment Foreign exchange Finance costs Finance income
Decrease/(Increase) in inventories (Increase)/Decrease in trade and other receivables Increase in trade and other payables
Cash generated from operations

Company
Profit before tax Depreciation and amortisation charges
Tangible fixed assets Development costs Other intangibles Share based payment Foreign exchange Finance costs Finance income
Decrease/(Increase) in inventories Decrease/(Increase) in trade and other receivables Increase in trade and other payables
Cash generated from operations

2014 12 Months
$000
5,129
1,411 687
2,273 48
133 353 445 344 (2) 10,821 159 (2,430) 2,090
10,640

2013 14 Months
$000
3,242
1,348 857
1,537 -
111 186 (206) 250 (14) 7,311 (73) 146 382
7,766

2014 12 Months
$000
1,620
1,062 733 81 323
(1,388) 332 (2)
2,761 64
2,505 627
5,957

2013 14 Months
$000
1,195
1,071 766 93 169 267 (86) 14
3,489 (175) (15,116)
79
(11,723)

61

accesso Technology Group plc

Notes to the consolidated financial statements (continued) for the financial year ended 31 December 2014
Notes to cash flow (continued)

Reconciliation of net cash flow to movements in net funds and analysis of net funds

The amounts disclosed on the cash flow statement in respect of cash and cash equivalents are in respect of these balance sheet amounts.

Group

2013 $000

Cash Flow $000

Exchange movement
$000

2014 $000

Cash in hand & at bank

5,489

(241)

445

5,693

5,489

(241)

445

5,693

Company Cash in hand & at bank

2013 $000 2,941 2,941

Cash Flow $000 (244) (244)

Exchange movement
$000
(1,388)
(1,388)

2014 $000 1,309 1,309

26.

Commitments under operating leases

Total of future minimum operating lease payments under non-cancellable operating leases:

Group

2014 $000

Land & buildings Less than one year Within 2 to 5 years
Other Less than one year Within 2 to 5 years

813 1,730 2,543
98 24 122

2013 $000
432 1,194 1,626
117 227 344

Company
Land & buildings Less than one year Within 2 to 5 years
Other Less than one year Within 2 to 5 years

104

113

-

110

104

223

30

53

24

36

54

89

Operating leases within `Land & buildings' include the leases of company and group offices. Leasing arrangements from the respective lessors can be viewed as standard.

62

