REPORT 2015
Excell

REPORT 2015

Index
ACERINOX in numbers.................................................. 4
Letter from the Chairman.............................................. 6
Letter from the Chief Executive Officer...................... 10
1.- The Acerinox Group Worldwide ............................ 16 1.- Acerinox and its Production Companies............ 18.
 - Acerinox Europe.............................................. 19  - North American Stainless ............................... 19  - Columbus Stainless ........................................ 20  - Bahru Stainless ............................................. 20  - Roldán and Inoxfil ........................................... 21
2.- Distribution Companies ..................................... 22
2.- S hare Capital, Corporate Governance and Human Capital ........................... 24. 1.-Share Capital ..................................................... 24 2.- Corporate Governance ..................................... 24
 2.1 T he Board of Directors and its Committees ............................................ 25
 2.2 Shareholders' Meeting ................................ 31  2.3 Management Committee and Main
Executives of the Group's Companies ........ 33  2.4. Main Regulations Governing the Group....... 36
3.- Human Capital................................................... 37 4.- Annual Corporate Governance Report.............. 37
3.- Global Strategy ...................................................... 38. 1.- Global Position .................................................. 38. 2.- Excellence Plans ............................................... 39 3.- R+D+i ................................................................ 40 4.- Investments in Fixed Assets ............................. 43 5.- Risk Management ............................................. 44 6.- New Strategic Plan ............................................ 46
4.- Raw Materials and Main Markets .......................... 47 1.- Evolution of Raw Materials ................................ 47 2.- Main Stainless Steel Markets............................. 51 3.- Global Production of Stainless Steel ................ 55

5.- The Year of Acerinox in Numbers ......................... 58 1.- Production.......................................................... 58 2.- Results............................................................... 59 3.- Share Price Evolution ..................................... 67 4.- Shareholder Remuneration ............................... 71 5.- Average term of payment to suppliers............... 72
Consolidated Annual Accounts................................... 74
6.- The Acerinox Group's Individual Companies...... 154 1.- Acerinox, S.A. .................................................. 156 2.-Acerinox Europe .............................................. 158 3.- North American Stainless (NAS)...................... 159 4.- Columbus Stainless......................................... 160 5.- Bahru Stainless................................................ 161 6.- Roldan and Inoxfil............................................ 162
7.- The Acerinox Group's Commercial Companies .. 163. 1.- Spanish Commercial Companies .................. 163 2.- Foreign Commercial Companies .................. 163
8.- Responsibility and Sustainability......................... 164 1.- The Group's Fiscal policy................................. 166 2.- Environmental Indicators ................................. 168 3.- Health and Safety............................................. 177 4.- Quality of the Employment Provided............... 179 5.-Human Rights, Diversity and Equal Opportunities.................... 180 6.-Sustainability Certifications ............................. 182
7.- Social Action.................................................... 184
9.- Important Recent Events Since the Closing of the Acerinox's Financial Year........................... 190

3

ACERINOX in numbers

Melting shop production

Thousand 2,225 Mt

2,325

2,320

Million euros

Net sales

3,966

4,380

4,221

13

14

15

E.B.I.T.D.A.

2500 2000

Million euros % over sales

1500 1000
500

228
5.8%

0 13

454
10.4%
14

286
6.8%
15

Results before taxes
244 500 Million euros

400

300

200

77

100

33

0

13

14

15

Depreciation

Million euros

164

250

150

135

200

150

100

50

13

14

15

0

4

200

13

14

15

E.B.I.T.

5000 4000

Million euros % over sales

298
6.8%

3000

2000 1000

88
2.2%

0

13

14

121
2.9%
15

Result after taxes and minorities

Million euros

136

300

250

200

150

43

100

22

50

13

14

15

0

Million euros

Investments

126

150 94

120

74

90

60

30

13

14

15

0

150 120

R.O.E.
7.3 %

2.1 1.4

13

14

15

Euros 8 7 6 5 4 3 2 1 0

Book value per share

December, 31

Las líneas estaban a 1.75pt

7.59

7.09

6.04

13

14

15

E8uros / S7hare 6 5 4 3 2 1 0

Return to shareholders dividend

0.43

0.449

0.449

13

14

15

0,M5 illion euros
0,4
0,3
0,2
0,1
0,0

Net financial debt
711 616 529

13

14

15

800 700

R.O.C.E.
12.0 %

4.2

4.4

13

14

15

Earnings per Share

E12uros

0.52

10

8

6

0.16

4

0.09

2

13

14

15

0

Share value 0,6 Official close of business year
Euros 0,5
12.505 0,4

0,3
9.247 0,2

9.417

0,1

0,0

13

14

15

Net financial debt / Ebitda

N2o0. of times 2.32

2.48

15 1.36
10

5

0

13

14

15

5
2,5 2,0

Letter from the Chairman
Dear Shareholders,
Once again I am pleased to address you, in order to inform you of the most relevant events that have taken place throughout the 2015 financial year, in addition to the results achieved by our company in the same period.
This year's earnings were greatly affected by the events that have impacted, particularly starting in the second quarter, the evolution of the global economy and due to the special circumstances, and their consequences, that have taken place in the stainless steel markets. With turnover 3.6% lower than the 2014 financial year, the company generated an EBITDA of 286 million euros, representing 37% less than the previous year, resulting in 77 million euros before taxes and 43 million euros after taxes and minorities, after having performed a stock adjustment at a net realizable value of 14 million euros. Both results are 68.5% lower than those for 2014.
These results express the difficult situation the stainless steel market experienced throughout the year, due to a set of factors, such as:
- The continued drop in product prices, which reached record lows, with a good example of this being the price of the AISI 304 coil (according to Platts), which dropped from January to December, 12% in Europe, 37.3% in the United States and 27% in Asia.
- The adjustment of raw material prices, specifically the drop in nickel prices, which fell 41.8% over the entire year, falling from 14,880 USD/tm at the start of the year to 8,665 USD/tm at its close.
- The strong competition deployed in all markets by incumbent manufacturers and due to imports, in spite of the protective measures put in place by authorities in some markets, such as the European market, to prevent dumping from some Asian manufacturers.
6

These circumstances have been highly significant in the North American market, where the aggressive trade policy of new manufacturers, in addition to the aforementioned events, has produced significantly lower margins and a significant drop in apparent consumption. The Asian market has also suffered from particularly intense competition, this being the result of the well known traditional entrance of Chinese manufacturers into the market.
In comparison to the developments in these markets, the European and South African markets have displayed better performance. Apparent consumption in Europe of flat products only fell by 1.7% throughout the year, with growth in Spain and Italy but significant declines in Germany and France.
The South African market, in spite of its economic difficulties, closed out the year with a 1.9% increase in apparent consumption and our products were highly favoured by the devaluation of the Rand.
Growth deceleration in China and in other emerging countries, the drop in raw material prices, and the consequences from geopolitical conflicts in various parts of the world, particularly in Europe, have generated a general deceleration in the growth of the world's economy, reaching 3.1% in 2015, which represents 0.3% less growth than in 2014 and, as such, recovery is sustained, but at a slower and more fragile growth rate than in previous years.
During the current financial year, the growth of the USA and Eurozone GDPs has been positive, with an emphasis on Spain in the Eurozone, which has also produced positive actual demand for stainless steel in those markets in almost all consumer goods industries and yet, because of the aforementioned variables -nickel price evolution, imports and competitive intensity- together with the customers' stock reduction policy in these circumstances, these have not allowed the positive results to be translated into apparent consumption.
All of this, alongside the strong effect from the slowdown in China and global overcapacity, for the first time in many years, has caused the global production of stainless steel to come to a halt, reaching the figure of 41.5 million tons.
With the difficult circumstances that we have had to face this year, it has not been an easy task to achieve positive results and this was possible thanks to our competitiveness, our excellence plans and the reductions in our fixed costs, in spite of the negative effect that the appreciation of the dollar has had on expenditures in our accounts.
7

Letter from the Chairman
A special mention should go to the evolution of Acerinox shares in the past financial year, and the significant event of being reinstated in the selective IBEX-35 Index in June and throughout this year up until the 29th of April. We know that the year was difficult for global equity, and of course for the Spanish one as well. The IBEX-35 closed with losses of 7%, with our stock being one of the hardest hit, closing out the year with a 24.7% drop. Fortunately, thus far this year, our stock performance has been positive, having risen by 9.48% as of 29 April, in comparison to the 5.43% drop of the IBEX-35. In addition, Acerinox is one of the stocks most recommended by the analyst community.
The new Good Governance Code for Listed Companies came into force in 2015, with a catalogue of new recommendations. The Company Board of Directors, aware of the importance of Corporate Governance to companies within the investment community, ordered that a study be carried out in order to analyse the level of compliance with these new recommendations and that new measures be proposed so as to comply with as many recommendations as possible. The result of that work and once we, the 2016 General Shareholders´ Meeting, comply with some of the established recommendations, I am pleased to inform you that Acerinox will comply with all the recommendations set forth in the Good Governance Code for Listed Companies as approved by the Spanish National Securities Commission (CMNV).
This year, in all the geographical regions in which we operate, our company has once again continued to deploy our exemplary corporate social responsibility policy, which deals with everything from positive contributions to the welfare and wealth of the territories where Acerinox is present, to the protection of the surrounding environment and compliance with environmental commitments, and to establish guarantees for the best quality conditions for workers' employment, safety and health, the respect for diversity and equal opportunity, the respect for human rights and together with the social action programmes in the communities it affects. All this sums up a special way of understanding our commitment to society and to the areas in which we carry out our activities.
The first quarter results, which we have recently announced to the markets, are characterised by the same difficulties as experienced in 2015, though positive signs have been noted, particularly in the American market, which is key for us, and where base prices have already improved. We believe this, alongside the stabilisation and slight recovery in nickel prices and the low stock levels in all markets, could promote an increase in apparent consumption and a progressive recovery of market conditions.
I also believe it is important to highlight that the Board of Directors will once again propose to the General Shareholders' Meeting the distribution of a 0.45 euro dividend per share, via the dividend formula option or scrip dividend, so that shareholders may choose between payment in cash or new shares.
Distinguished Shareholders, in spite of these difficult and complex times that we are experiencing, I want to share with you my deepest conviction that what we have is a competitive company with
8

a healthy economic-financial structure, a permanent self-demanding culture, and a well-defined strategy that was recently set down in the 2016-2020 Strategic Plan that the Board of Directors approved this past October. All of this will allow us, once market conditions stabilise, to achieve the challenging goals that we have set for the future, whereupon we will be in position to set forth on a path of solid and recurrent growth of results, and therefore be able to generate appealing value for our shareholders. In order to surpass the challenges that lie ahead, we have an excellent and committed management board, a loyal and dedicated team that I would like to thank once again for their constant effort and hard work. And of course I must thank the Company Board of Directors for its dedication and effective contribution to social interests, and to also thank all our shareholders for their constant displays of trust and support.
Yours faithfully, Rafael Miranda Robredo Chairman of the Board
9

Letter from the Chief Executive Officer
Dear shareholders:
It is an honor to address you once again, to explain the recent events that have taken place in the stainless steel industry over the course of the year 2015 and to illustrate how Acerinox's situation has developed in this context.
In recent years, industrial activity has become more complex, particularly the
stainless steel industry, which has developed within the framework of a very gradual, fragile and uncertain process of economic recovery, and has also been subject to a new economic order that will require further effort to ensure the company maintains a competitive edge in the market.
Since 2008, during the financial and economic crisis and then at the early stages of economic recovery, we have worked hard to adapt our strategies to market conditions, but as the situation began to improve we realized that something else had changed. It is true we have become more competitive, but that has not proven sufficient, because all producers have done the same, and the deflation in prices has not allowed for an increase in profit margins.
There are three factors which are by no means unprecedented but have gained importance in recent years: globalisation, the access to information and the gravitation of trade towards Asia, above all China. Due to the reduced cost of transport and the availability of new sources of information, the market as a whole has become more interconnected and companies compete simultaneously across the globe. The recent installation of customs barriers is merely a temporary solution, because we are heading towards a global economy in which only one set of rules will apply.
In addition to these factors, we are now dealing with extremely large amounts of information that appear and spread at a very fast pace, assisting progress at times, but also adding a sense of uncertainty and volatility. The digital transformation is the process that we must take in order to "tame", in some way the excess of information and apply it to our advantage.
Finally, the awakening of China and its appearance in the international market, during a period marked by wide-ranging issues, has added the factor of overcapacity to our sector and many others. Never before has production capacity grown by such an extent in such a short period of time. To put this in perspective, China's contribution to worldwide stainless steel production has risen from 3% to 52% in just 15 years, from 2000 to 2015. China will have to continue with this process in order to evolve into
10

a real market economy and to compete on the same terms as ours, and not thanks to the advantages of its planned economy. In the meantime, it would be a mistake for the European Union to grant China Market Economy Status (MES), as this would have highly detrimental effects for the industry.
In any case, our commercial activities are carried out in a single market, which is highly competitive due to oversupply and characterised by rapid changes in commercial trade towards more attractive opportunities, and as a consequence, both prices and employment conditions will end up at a similar level in all markets.
There was an increase in the actual steel consumption during the year 2015, as predicted by our forecasts, with moderate but consistent and sustained growth without significant regional variation. However, the wide range of uncertainties, predictions of lower growth rates in developed economies, political and geostrategic tensions, a slowdown in the growth rate in China and other emerging economies, and the raw materials crisis have all damaged confidence in the economy and the stainless steel sector, leading to the return to defensive strategies: inventory reduction, delay of purchases and lower prices.
The apparent consumption of stainless steel reduced by 1.7% in Europe and around 7% in the USA. World production remained stable at 41.5 million tonnes.
Our melting shop production also remained stable, with an output of 2.3 million tonnes that showed a very slight reduction of 0.2%, representing about 6% of global production. Our cold rolling production was the highest on record at 1.6 million tonnes, with a 3.4% increase from the 2014 figure.
Nevertheless, the higher rate of activity in our factories did not increase earnings, due to the lower prices, reflecting the high level of competition in the market and above all the reduction in raw material prices. The stainless steel sector has a very distinctive feature: its transparency in price assignment. As a consequence of the alloy surcharge system, which provides purchasers with a formula on how to foresee price fluctuation according to the varying costs of primary materials, as is the case in Europe and the United States, or alternatively without such a formula, because the changing price of raw materials has an immediate and visible impact on traded price, as occurs in the majority of Asian countries, the fact is that for our company prices are entirely tied to the raw materials we use: primarily nickel.
The price of nickel in 2015, as for the majority of traded raw materials, followed suit with the price of oil, or in other words, with a sustained decrease in value. The price of nickel itself does not affect Acerinox's profits, and in fact the low cost of nickel makes stainless steel more competitive and therefore spurs steel consumption, but the downward trend does have highly detrimental consequences for us for two reasons: on the one hand, customers, who are aware of this trend, delay their purchases and reduce stock levels in anticipation of more favourable prices, which lowers prices even further; on the other hand, producers, who accumulate stock both as unfinished material and as final product, need to deal with the devaluation of these supplies, since the prime materials have to be sold for less than the price we paid for them some months ago.
In 2015, the price of nickel showed a continual decline from 14,880 dollars per tonne at the beginning of the financial year to 8,665 at the end, with a cumulative decline of 41.8%, which was particularly
11

Letter from the Chief Executive Officer
notable in the second half of the year. One would have to go back to February 2003 in order to find similar prices. During the first four months of 2016, the nickel price has become more stable and now ranges between 8,000 and 9,000 dollars, indicating better prospects for our business.
Following the 2014 financial year, during which time we saw a high increase in stainless steel consumption from clients and a inventory replenishment in the first six months, and after the adjustments made in the second half of the year, 2015 began with positive expectations, particularly in Europe due to the anti-dumping measures taken against Taiwan and China.
The fall in the price of nickel, and concerns regarding economic growth, quickly overturned these early impressions. This was even the case in Europe, where despite the notable reductions in imports from these countries, the gap was filled by products from other countries, primarily Korea and India, preventing improvements in market conditions. Nevertheless, the total sum of cold-rolled imports dropped by 23%, indicating that prices had become more stable.
The halt on Chinese imports in Europe had a negative effect on our Group, since these were immediately redirected to the United States, increasing pressure on a market that was already subject to intense internal competition. For this reason, it was necessary to sharply reduce prices to rival the levels of the Asian market and uphold our market share. Already in 2016, anti-dumping measures have been proposed against China in the United States, which will be decided at the end of the third quarter of the financial year.
These decisions to prevent imports from China in Europe and the United States are creating notable tension in the Asian market, leading to the need for producers in other Asian countries to export to Europe and the US, which allows for a sustained import quota. There is no doubt that we are now competing in a global market.
For many years now, we have been denouncing the rapid emergence of new stainless steel factories in China, as also occurred in other parts of industry chosen as strategic sectors by the Chinese government for national development: steel, cement, glass, chemicals and other products, which are also experiencing oversupply issues.
Through the media, we are all now familiar with the present effects of these surplus capacity problems on the European steel industry, which has been subject to a new restructuring process, despite its leading role in terms of efficiency, innovation, and emission reductions.
The European steel industry aims to be sustainable, but this requires sufficient profit margins to remunerate shareholders and continue investment in the most recent technological developments, which is rather difficult to achieve when competing at a disadvantage against producers in other countries where industrial activity is subsidised, profit and loss accounts are non-transparent and reductions in emissions are not a matter of concern. The situation is even worse in Spain, where successive governments have not only failed to direct resources to the industry, but have even increased taxation to finance other activities, for example with costs imposed in electricity and gas bills.
The industry should be supported because the economic crisis has shown that it creates greater stability, security, remuneration and, ultimately, quality employment. However, if we want a fair world and also clean world, we will need to also foster and protect European industry.
It appears that this message is finally reaching governments in Europe, and that at least Europe and the United States have decided to make it clear to China that they will have to accept a series of basic
12

principles to compete in other markets. This is partly a consequence of the OECD meeting on related issues in Brussels, in April 2016, which was held to deal with the issue of surplus capacity in the steel industry as a whole, including stainless steel. This particular emphasis on the iron and steel industry is significant, as it is always at the core of industrial development strategies.
As for China, it too appears prepared to accept the challenge of reducing excess capacity, as may be inferred from statements made by government officials concerning the new five-year development plan that is currently being prepared and will be introduced next October. This plan makes provisions for realistic measures to close inefficient and environmentally unfriendly installations, encouraging different economic activities with a range of support programmes.
From our perspective, we are increasingly optimistic because we have observed that there have been no recently approved plans to produce stainless steel in China, that production in the country has become more stable in 2015 after 15 years of sustained growth, and that for the first time stainless steel exports have decreased, by 13%, from the 2014 figure. In other words, we are optimistic because we have begun to observe a change in the country's economic model.
To briefly summarise, in 2015 we saw evidence of the fragile character of the economic recovery process and the increasingly volatile nature of the market, we were affected by the fall in the price of nickel, and we have suffered the intense global competition, mainly in the United States and Malaysia. On the other hand, we benefited from greater stability in Europe and we capitalised on the weakness of the South African Rand to increase exports from Columbus Stainless, our factory in South Africa.
The annual turnover of 4,221 million euros decreased by 3.6% as a consequence of lower nickel prices. Our EBITDA amounted to 286 million euros, which was 37% lower than in 2014, and the net margin was 43 million, which showed a 68% decrease. The second half of the financial year also came with negative results, which have remained similar in the first quarter of 2016 and will improve once the price of nickel reaches a stable figure and inventories have been regularized in all markets, which we estimate has already taken place in March 2016.
The net debt of the Group at the end of 2015 was 711 million euros, with a ratio of 35% on company funds and 2.5 times greater than EBITDA. This situation has enabled us to invest 94 million euros in equipment and uphold the traditional payment of 0.45 euros per share to shareholders.
The General Shareholders' Meeting, which took place on June 3, 2015, approved the payment of a dividend of 0.45 euros per share according to a flexible dividend or "scrip dividend" formula. 59.3% of our shareholders chose to receive payment through new shares, which has led us to propose the formula once again in the June 9, 2016 meeting.
In the financial year 2015, we made investments worth 94 million euros, with 23 million assigned to the factory in Malaysia, Bahru Stainless, but it is worh mentioning the 32 million invested in North American Stainless and 30 million in Acerinox Europa, which were the first payments to be made according to the new investment plan approved by the Board of Directors in 2015 and outlined in the 2016-2020 Strategic Plan approved on October 29, 2015.
This plan is a revised version of the long term plan for 2008-2020, and has the purpose of adapting these previous projections to the present situation. For this reason, it was decided to postpone the third phase of investment in Bahru Stainless until the situation becomes more favourable, in order
13

Letter from the Chief Executive Officer
to avoid further surplus capacity, while showing a preference for investment in the more developed markets: the United States and Europe.
The new plan aims to ensure operational excellence, optimize the use of existing factory capacities of the Group, develop quick-return investments and, as always, remain in accordance with our principles of financial soundness.
The two main items considered in this investment plan are, on the one hand, a bright annealing line and cold rolling mill for North American Stainless, and on the other hand, a latest-generation annealing and pickling line and cold rolling mill for the Acerinox Europa factory.
The first of these items will complement our range of products in the United States, with a Bright Annealing Finish (BA) that is now being imported on a large scale, and will allow a greater use of the facilities already installed in North American Stainless. It will be used from mid-2017 onwards, with a cost amounting to 116 million euros, to be divided across a number of financial years.
The second item will be used to replace, due to technical obsolescence, the equipment purchased when Acerinox began operation in 1970, and will lead to significant improvements in quality and considerable savings in maintenance, energy and acid consumption, while substantially reducing the volume of emissions. The projected start up date for production will be towards the end of 2017, and will help to direct the factory towards products with greater added value. The total cost of this investment will be 140 million euros, which will also be divided across several financial years.
We remain optimistic about the future and confident in our product: stainless steel. Following the significant 7.2% growth in global production during the year 2013, and 8.3% in 2014, the sector paused momentarily in 2015 but we are sure that it will return to the 6% growth rate, which has been the average figure for the last 65 years. Considering that growth should continue at this rate, and given the measures that are being taken in China, we should soon strike a healthy balance between supply and demand.
The growth rate will also be more constant between different markets. Given that in 2014 the United States exceeded consumption levels prior to the crisis, we are hopeful that Europe will achieve the same in 2016. The difference in the pace of recovery in these economies is a matter for further reflection.
We should continue to improve on our production to become more competitive and flexible, and to adapt more quickly to changes and opportunities in the market. To this end we benefit from the improvements achieved as a consequence of our Excellence Plans, our progressive reduction of fixed costs, our staff's range of experience, and the determined commitment of the team as a whole.
We are also competing in an increasingly globalized market. Acerinox is the most global company in the stainless steel sector, with 4 factories, each in a different continent, a sales network with establishments in 40 countries and sales in more than eighty countries, however, this situation does not always favor our interests. The high level of competition in Asia, where we are developing plans for Bahru Stainless, our factory in Malaysia, and the deterioration in NAFTA market conditions, where we have been leaders in the industry since North American Stainless was founded in Kentucky, represented the main decline in profit during 2015.
We believe that we will continue to make further improvements, with the benchmarking model adopted between the Group's factories and Excellence Plans, and that we will make further advancements in terms of efficiency and competitiveness in all areas of our enterprise. The Excellence Plan IV is
14

aimed at achieving recurring annual savings of 67 million euros, and during the pilot year we reached a 55% improvement, providing motivation to continue to work towards achieving these goals in 2016. In addition we are preparing for a new biannual plan that will serve as a guide in the following years, 2017 and 2018.
An element that does not form part of the company's Excellence plans, but that merits particular emphasis, is the progressive reduction of financial costs due to opportunities in the markets and, above all, the confidence inspired by the strength of our balance sheet and the credit investment quality recognized in our company.
We also firmly believe in the viability of our investment in I+D+i, which rose to 16.5 million euros in 2015, and we continue to work towards the modernisation of our information systems to adapt them to newly available technology and have them act as a starting point for more important developments in the use of information and digitalisation of resources.
Within our proposed aim of realising these plans and involving all relevant parties in our prospects and ambitions, we have made significant progress in corporate governance ensuring that Acerinox is seen as one of the leading enterprises in this field, one that aspires not only to be increasingly profitable and competitive, but also to be more transparent, a model for good business practices, and to cooperate towards the development of our surroundings.
We have a great worforce, and in 2015 we took important steps in tailoring operations towards our objectives of increased productivity and profitability, as stated in the social contracts signed with Acerinox Europa for a 4-year period, and with Columbus Stainless for a 3-year period. This last point represents a significant achievement, as it is the first time that these agreements have been extended for longer than a single financial year, and it will provide a secure framework in order to continue improving results.
I extend my thanks to our shareholders, the financial community, customers and suppliers, for the reliability and confidence shown to our company every year. We will strive to remain worthy of these services. I am confident that Acerinox will be seen as one of the leading industrial businesses for its sector in Spain, that it will be a true source of pride and will encourage investment in industrial activity within our domestic borders.
Finally, I would like to congratulate all Acerinox Staff, across the 40 countries in which we hold offices, for the great work achieved, and I encourage them to uphold the loyalty, dedication and commitment that they display towards our company. My sincere thanks to all of them, and in particular, to the Management teams, and my closest collaborators for their outstanding efforts, which are a personal source of inspiration every day and make me feel extremely proud to be part of Acerinox.
Yours faithfully, Bernardo Velázquez Chief Executive Officer
15

The Acerinox Group Worldwide

1.The Acerinox Group Worldwide
1 A cerinox and its Production Companies
Acerinox is one of the world's most competitive companies in terms of production and selling stainless steel. It is the only company with four factories on four different continents, having reached that size essentially via organic growth ­ by creating and expanding its factories and trade network. Acerinox was founded in Spain in 1970 and its goal, from the very start, was the export market. It is currently one of the Spanish companies with the greatest international presence. It is also one of the leading European companies in its industry, and the clear market leader in the United States and in Africa. Since 2011, it is also the only stainless steel producer in Malaysia. One of the most remarkable characteristics of Acerinox S.A. is the long-standing continuity of its chief shareholders. This connection, in the case of Nisshin Steel Co. Ltd., dates back to the creation of the company itself, in 1970, and in the case of Omega Capital in 1998, Corporación Financiera Alba in 2001 and IDC in 2002. The group's corporate structure is organised around the parent company, Acerinox S.A., on which 40 companies from different countries worldwide depend. The details of those companies are included in chapter 2 of this Management Report. The Group's factories are located in Campo de Gibraltar (Spain), Ponferrada and Igualada (Spain), Ghent (Kentucky, USA), Middelburg (Mpumalanga, South Africa) and Johor Bahru (Malaysia). The Group also has other establishments such as warehouses, service centres and representative offices in 35 countries, from where it sells its products in more than 80 countries on all five continents.
Acerinox Europe Factory.
18

1.1 Acerinox Europe - Campo de Gibraltar Factory (Spain)
This factory, which belongs to Acerinox Europe SAU, is one of the most competitive factories in Europe. The company was created as a split-off from the parent company, which took place in 2011 for strategic reasons. The factory has been the headquarters for Acerinox Europe SAU since 2014. This change in the headquarters turned the factory in Campo de Gibraltar into one of the main employers and exporters in the region of Andalusia. Construction of the factory began in 1970 and expansion and improvement projects have been a constant ever since ­ turning it into the benchmark it is today, both for the Group and the entire industry. In recent times, The Board of Directors have ratified this factory's strategic importance by approving considerable investments for an amount of 140 million euro, already started in 2015. The Campo de Gibraltar factory is also the hub of a large part of the know-how for which the Group is known. The technical support, work and producing methods adopted by successive factories belonging to the Group.
1.2 North American Stainless - Ghent Factory (Kentucky - Usa)
Belonging to North American Stainless (NAS), the Ghent factory is the largest owned by the Group, and is the reason behind its leading position in the American market. It came into being as a result of a joint venture in 1990, and currently belongs entirely to Acerinox, S.A. This factory leads the American market in terms of production, product quality and profitability. As with the factory in Campo de Gibraltar, the Board of Directors of Acerinox, S.A. recently approved considerable investments, amounting to 116 million, in order to broaden the range of products that it can manufacture and consolidate its position in the American market.
North American Stainless Factory.
19

1.The Acerinox Group Worldwide
1.3 Columbus Stainless - Middelburg Factory (Mpumalanga, South Africa)
It is practically the only example of non-organic growth to be found in the Group, as the factory already existed prior to its purchase by Acerinox, S.A. in 2002. The Group owns the majority of its capital (76%). The remaining 24% is owned by the South African government via its shell company, IDC, which also participates in its Board of Directors in a similar proportion. The location of the Middleburg factory is motivated by the proximity of raw material transformation and extraction centres. It is the sole stainless steel manufacturing plant in the entire continent and, as well as supplying the African market, it also exports globally via the Group's sales network.
Columbus Stainless Factory.
1.4 Bahru Stainless - Johor Bahru Factory (Malaysia)
This factory is a sign of the Group's efforts to consolidate its position in the growing Asian market. It was established in 2009 and has enabled Acerinox to become the leading, and to this day, the only Malaysian stainless steel manufacturer. The factory's production is currently limited to cold-rolled products, which means that it must source semis or partially finished products from the Group's other factories, mainly from Campo de Gibraltar and Middleburg, which contributes to an increased use of said factories' equipment. Its production levels are evolving adequately, both in terms of quantity and of quality. Since 2015, it has fully integrated the Group's Excellence Plans, with regard to which there is more information provided in this Management Report. 20

Bahru Stainless Factory.
1.5 Roldan and Inoxfil - Factories in Ponferrada and Igualada (Spain)
The long products' factory in Ponferrada is the Group's oldest, as it existed before Acerinox, S.A. was founded. The overwhelming majority of the capital of Roldan, S.A. (99.76%) belongs to Acerinox. Inoxfil is a part of the Group through Roldan, which owns 100% of its shares. The factories in Ponferrada (Roldán, S.A.) and Igualada (Inoxfil, S.A.) are specialising in long products. Roldan produces wirerod, angles and bars starting from the billets produced in Campo de Gibraltar. Inoxfil is a wiredrawing factory or wire producer. Roldan thrives on long products of the factory in Campo de Gibraltar, whereas Inoxfil thrives on the wire rod of Roldán in Ponferrada.
Roldan Factory.
21

1.The Acerinox Group Worldwide
2 D istribution Companies
As of 31 December 2015, our Group's sales network is made up of 39 companies, 18 service centres, 26 warehouses and 31 sales or representative offices, not to mention the sales representatives in various countries where there are no permanent offices. In 2015, the Group opened a new sales office in South Korea.
Services Centres Warehouses Commercial Offices Agents Commercial Factories 22

The largest market, in terms of the Group's sales turnover in 2015, was the United States, followed by Spain, Germany and South Africa. Acerinox is present in 37 countries in all five continents, and sells its products in more than 80 countries worldwide.
23

2. Share Capital, Corporate Governance and Human Capital
1 S hare Capital
At the end of 2015, Acerinox's Share Capital totalled  66,676,848.25, divided into 266,707,393 shares with a nominal value of  0.25 each. On 20 July 2015, a total of 5,005,253 new shares of Acerinox, S.A. were floated on the Madrid and Barcelona Stock Exchanges as a result of the capital increase approved at the Ordinary General Shareholders Meeting of 3 June 2015, held to set up the scrip dividend system (sprip dividen). All of the shares are listed on the official stock markets in Madrid and Barcelona, and are traded on the Continuous Market. As of 31 December 2015, Acerinox, S.A. had a total of 38,669 shareholders.
2 C orporate Governance
In 2015, the Acerinox Group, via its listed parent company, Acerinox, S.A., began the major process of adapting its corporate governance to the provisions of the recent Spanish Capital Companies Act, as well as to the recommendations made in the new Corporate Governance Report for Spanish Listed Companies. These changes have essentially involved improvements in the Group's corporate governance, mainly thanks to the strengthening of the role of the Board of Directors' committees, with more clearly defined responsibilities and a higher number of independent board members on them. The Board of Directors also decided to set in motion all procedures designed to meet the highest number of the Recommendations detailed in the Corporate Governance Report. Details of said levels of compliance can be found in the Annual Corporate Governance Report hosted on our website www.acerinox.com. The process of adapting the Company's Articles of Association, as well as the Regulations governing the General Shareholders' Meeting, the approving of a specific regulations concerning the relationship between the Board of Directors and the Chief Executive Officer, as well as a series of operational policies -a process that must be finished in 2016- are all aimed at improving corporate governance and promoting transparency in decisionmaking, information aimed at shareholders and the relationship with stakeholders. Furthermore, in 2015, the Board of Directors also approved the new Crime Prevention model.
24

2.1 The Board of Directors and its Committees Main Governance Bodies: The Board of Directors and Other Executive Bodies
The Board of Directors and its Committees
The Board of Directors is the body responsible for directing, administering and representing the Company, without prejudice to the powers conferred on the General Shareholders' Meeting. The Board has three committees: the Executive Committee, the Appointments, Remuneration and Corporate Governance Committee and the Audit Committee. The Board of Directors has 15 members, which is the maximum allowed by the Corporate Bylaws. The Secretary does not qualify as a Member of the Board. Its composition responds to the traditional principles of diversity and balance. The company has reduced the number of executive members to one ­ namely the CEO ­-- and has eight Proprietary Directors and six Independent Directors, one of them being the Chairman of the Company, in accordance with the recommendations for good corporate governance. All Board members have extensive professional experience in the corporate, business and academic world, as well as that of public administration. In 2010, the company, in following the best practices of Good Governance, decided to separate the posts of Chairman of the Board and of the General Meeting, on the one hand, from the responsibilities of the Chief Executive Officer, the organisation's top executive. Under Spanish law, the remunerations paid to the Directors of the Board and the remuneration policy were the subject of a consultative vote at the General Meeting, with the endorsement of the remuneration policy by 83.12% of the share capital with voting rights that attended the General Meeting.
General Shareholders' Meeting 2015.
25

2. Share Capital, Corporate Governance and Human Capital
In line with this transparency policy, the Group has made public that, in 2015, all remunerations connected with the Board of Directors and its Committees totalled 1,305,000 (excluding the amounts paid to the CEO as a salary for his management post). For more information on this subject, you may review the Annual Corporate Governance Report and the Report on the Remunerations received by Board Members (www.acerinox.com) The General Shareholder Meeting held on 3 June 2015, on the motion of the Board of Directors, agreed to reelect the following Board Members for a period of four years, as established in the Corporate Articles:
- Pedro Ballesteros Quintana, as External Domanial Director representing Alba Participaciones (Corporación Financiera Alba, S.A.).
- Yukio Nariyoshi, as External Domanial Director representing Nisshin Steel Co. Ltd. - Manuel Conthe Gutiérrez, as Independent External Director. Likewise, in the General Shareholders' Meeting, it was approved to appoint and confirm as a Board Member, for a four years period, as established in the Corporate Articles: - G eorge Donald Johnston, who was appointed Independent External Director, by co-option, at the Board
Meeting held on October 29th, 2014. This independent director replaces the proprietary director who presented his resignation after the company he represented sold the entirety of his shares. In total, the Board of Directors held eight meetings in 2015.
Manufacturing stainless steel beer barrels.
26

The Executive Committee
In 2008 the Board of Director stabilised an Executive Committee to manage the normal business course and provide its regular monitoring. This body has proportions of domanial and independent Directors similar to those of the Board of Directors, and it is chaired by the Chairman thereof. The Chief Executive Officer is a necessary member of the Executive Committee.
To ease transparency and communication among governing bodies, the company regulations empower the Chairman to submit the plenary Board, the ratification or a new deliberation of any matter treated or decided by the Executive Committee.
The number increase of the Board of Directors meetings to eight, following good governance recommendations, has meant a correlative number of meetings reduction of the Executive Committee, which in 2015 has been held three times.
The Audit Committee
As was the case in previous years, the Audit Committee was the most active body in 2015 in terms of the number of meetings held ­ a total of nine ­-- which enabled it to develop its envisaged work plan by devoting itself to its core responsibilities, which are:
- Reporting on annual, biannual and quarterly accounts. - S upervising internal audit services and the effectiveness of the company's internal monitoring and risk
management systems. - Supervising the process of preparing and presenting the regulated financial information. - P roposing to the Board of Directors the appointment of the accounts auditors, to be approved by the
General Shareholders' Meeting.
The Audit Committee is chaired by an Independent Director, while the Secretary of the Board of Directors acts as secretary.
Appointments, Remuneration and Corporate Governance Committee.
It held three meetings in 2015. It continued with its initiative of previous years of proposing to the Board of Directors a motion for consideration by the General Shareholders' Meeting, to maintain, the remunerations of the Board Members without change. It was also involved in setting the remunerations of senior management. Furthermore, it informed the Board of Directors of the re-election of Board Members Pedro Ballesteros Quintana and Yukio Nariyoshi, as well as proposing the election of Manuel Conthe Gutiérrez as an Independent director as well as the ratification of the appointment by co-optation and the subsequent appointment as independent Director of George Donald Johnston.
This Committee coordinates, upon the request from the Chairman of the Board, the assessment of this body's performance.
The Appointments, Remunerations and Corporate Governance Committee is chaired by an Independent Director, and the Secretary of the Board of Directors acts as secretary.
27

2. Share Capital, Corporate Governance and Human Capital

Composition of the Board of Directors of Acerinox, S.A.
Chairman:
RAFAEL MIRANDA ROBREDO
Chief Executive Officer:
BERNARDO VELÁZQUEZ HERREROS
Members of the Board:
PEDRO BALLESTEROS QUINTANA MANUEL CONTHE GUTIÉRREZ ÓSCAR FANJUL MARTÍN JAVIER FERNÁNDEZ ALONSO ROSA MARÍA GARCÍA GARCÍA JOSÉ RAMÓN GUEREDIAGA MENDIOLA RYO HATTORI GEORGE DONALD JOHNSTON SANTOS MARTÍNEZ-CONDE GUTIÉRREZ-BARQUÍN BRAULIO MEDEL CÁMARA YUKIO NARIYOSHI DIEGO PRADO PÉREZ-SEOANE MVULENI GEOFFREY QHENA
Secretary of the Board:
ÁLVARO MUÑOZ LÓPEZ

Executive Committee
RAFAEL MIRANDA ROBREDO (Chairman) BERNARDO VELÁZQUEZ HERREROS ÓSCAR FANJUL MARTÍN JAVIER FERNÁNDEZ ALONSO JOSÉ RAMÓN GUEREDIAGA MENDIOLA RYO HATTORI GEORGE DONALD JOHNSTON SANTOS MARTÍNEZ-CONDE GUTIÉRREZ-BARQUÍN
Secretary:
ÁLVARO MUÑOZ LÓPEZ
Appointments, Remuneration, and Corporate Governance Committee
MANUEL CONTHE GUTIÉRREZ (Chairman) RAFAEL MIRANDA ROBREDO ÓSCAR FANJUL MARTÍN SANTOS MARTÍNEZ-CONDE GUTIÉRREZ-BARQUÍN BRAULIO MEDEL CÁMARA
Secretary:
ÁLVARO MUÑOZ LÓPEZ

Audit Committee
JOSÉ RAMÓN GUEREDIAGA MENDIOLA (Chairman) PEDRO BALLESTEROS QUINTANA GEORGE DONALD JOHNSTON DIEGO PRADO PÉREZ-SEOANE
Secretary:
ÁLVARO MUÑOZ LÓPEZ

28

29

2. Share Capital, Corporate Governance and Human Capital
Stainless steel equipment for olive oil production.
30

2.2 Shareholders' Meeting
The General Shareholders' Meeting was held in Madrid on the 3rd of June 2015, and was Chaired by Mr. Rafael Miranda Robredo. As it was the case in the previous year, the meeting was held in the Mutua Madrileña Automovilística, Paseo de la Castellana, No. 33.
Attendance at the General Meeting, including shareholders present and represented, amounted to the equivalent of 184,251,250 shares, or 70.40% of the company's share capital.
No shareholders made use of the on-line discussion forum, but the increase in on-line voting is worthy of being mentioned.
The resolutions on the Agenda were approved in their entirety, by the following majorities:

1. Approval of the annual accounts
2. Application of the results
3. Approval of the Board of Directors' management
4. Share capital increase to carry out flexible dividends
5. Appointment of account auditors
6.1 Re-election of Pedro Ballesteros Quintana as Board Director
6.2 Re-election of Yukio Nariyoshi as Board Director
6.3 Re-election of Manuel Conthe Gutiérrez
6.4 Ratification and Appointment of George Donald Johnston as Board Director
7.1 A mendment of Section 6 of the Articles of Association, on increasing and reducing Capital.
7.2 A mendment of Section 8 of the Articles of Association, on the Rights conferred by shares.
7.3 Amendment of Section 12 of the Articles of Association, Calling
7.4 A mendment of Section 14 of the Articles of Association, on Attendance at Meetings and Representation
7.5 A mendment of Section 15 of the Articles of Association, on the Composition of the Committee Discussions. Framework for adopting resolutions
7.6 Amendment of Section 16 of the Articles of Association, Powers of the General Meeting
7.7 A mendment of Section 20 of the Articles of Association, Duration of the post of Board Member

Votes in favour %
99.995 99.983 99.792 99.798 98.447 82.884 85.108 98.814 98.797
99.559
99.559 99.559 99.559
99.559
81.036
80.002

Votes against %
0.004 0.017 0.022 0.201 1.551 17.115 14.850 1.143 1.161
0.440
0.440 0.440 0.440
0.440
18.963
19.456

31

2. Share Capital, Corporate Governance and Human Capital

7.8 A mendment of Section 21 of the Articles of Association, Notice and "quorum" of the Board Meetings . Adoption of resolutions.
7.9 A mendment of Section 22 of the Articles of Association, Board of Directors. General Functions
7.10 Amendment of Section 23 of the Articles of Association, Board Committees.
7.11 Amendment of Section 24 of the Articles of Association, on Board posts
7.12 Amendment of Section 25 of the Articles of Association, on the Remuneration of Board Members.
7.13 Renumbering of sections 24, 25, 26, 27, 28 and 29 of the Articles of Association, which are now articles 26, 27, 28, 29, 30 and 31, respectively.
8.1 A mendment of Section 3 of the Regulations governing General Meetings, on the Types of General Meetings and Areas of Responsibility.
8.2 A mendment of Section 4 of the Regulations governing General Meetings, on Meeting Notice.
8.3 A mendment of Section 5 of the Regulations governing General Meetings, on shareholders' rights to participation and information.
8.4 A mendment of Section 6 of the Regulations governing General Meetings, on the Right to Attend.
8.5 A mendment of Section 7 of the Regulations governing General Meetings, on representation, remote voting and voting through intermediary organisations.
8.6 Amendment of Section 9 of the Regulations governing General Meetings, on the Chair of General Meetings.
8.7 A mendment of Section 11 of the Regulations governing General Meetings, on Procedures.
9. Approval of Board Members' Annual Remuneration Report, dated 31 December 2014.
10. D elegation of powers to the Members of the Board, the Secretary of the Board and the General Secretary.
11. A ppointment of administrators to approve the Minutes of the Meeting

Votes in favour %
99.559 99.559 99.559 99.559 99.559 99.559
83.684 99.995 99.995 99.995 99.995 99.995 99.995 83.116 99.979 99.995

Votes against %
0.440 0.440 0.440 0.440 0.440 0.440
16.315 0.003 0.003 0.003 0.003 0.003 0.003 16.685 0.021 0.004

32

2.3 Management Committee and Main Executives of the Group's Companies
Management Committee
Acerinox's Management Committee is made up of five people: the CEO, the General Manager, the Financial Manager, the Sales Manager and the General Counsel. The remunerations associated with these posts are proposed to the Board of Directors by the Appointments, Remuneration and Corporate Governance Committee. The amount received during 2015 by this Committee, not including the CEO, was 2,054 thousand euros. BERNARDO VELÁZQUEZ HERREROS Chief Executive Officer ANTONIO FERNÁNDEZ-PACHECO MARTÍNEZ Managing Director DANIEL AZPITARTE ZEMP Commercial Director MIGUEL FERRANDIS TORRES Chief Financial Officer LUIS GIMENO VALLEDOR General Counsel
Senior Management.
33

2. Share Capital, Corporate Governance and Human Capital

Top Executives in our Industrial Companies

Acerinox Europa: ANTONIO MORENO ZORRILLA
North American Stainless: CRISTÓBAL FUENTES TOVAR
Columbus Stainless: LUCIEN MATTHEWS

Bahru Stainless: OSWALD WOLFE GÓMEZ
Roldán: JORGE RODRÍGUEZ ROVIRA
Inoxfil: ÁNGEL BRUÑÉN CEA

Top Executives in our Commercial Companies

1. SPAIN Inoxcenter: LUIS GUTIERREZ MÁS
Inoxidables de Euskadi: JOSÉ CRUZ DE VICIOLA GARCÍA
C.S. de Pinto: FLORENCIO ZURDO GÓMEZ
C.S. de Gavá:
JUAN ESTEVE VESTIT
C.S. de Betanzos: ÁLVARO SUÁREZ LLANOS

2. EUROPE Acerinox Deutschland (Germany): JOACHIM MAAS
Acerinox Benelux (Belgium): LUIS PABLO GONZÁLEZ ROBLES
Acerinox France (France): PHILIPPE AUDEON
Acerinox Italia (Italy): GIOVANNI DE CARLI
Acerol Comércio e Industria de Aços Inoxidáveis (Portugal): FERNANDO MONTEIRO
Acerinox Polska (Poland): PILAR SENISE GARCIA
Acerinox Scandinavia (Sweden): JAN GJERLAUG
Acerinox Schweiz (Switzerland): IVANA HORAKOVA
Acerinox UK (United Kingdom): PABLO CANTLE CORNEJO
Acerinox Russia (Russia): ROMAN BUTYRIN
Acerinox Metal Sanayi (Turkey): JAAN ROXAN ARROYO

34

3. AMERICA Acerinox Argentina (Argentina): JOSÉ CARLOS RODRÍGUEZ ARANDA
Acerinox Brasil (Brasil): JUAN ANTONIO RODRÍGUEZ
Acerinox Chile (Chile): IGNACIO MARTÍNEZ ALLUE
Acerinox Colombia Colombia): GONZALO DEL CAMPO BARCÓN
Corporación Acerinox Perú (Perú): GONZALO DEL CAMPO BARCÓN
Acerinox, SA. Venezuela (Venezuela): GONZALO DEL CAMPO BARCÓN
North American Stainless México (México): BÁRBARA THIRION
North American Stainless Canada (Canadá): ROGER MANSFIELD

4. ASIA
Acerinox South East Asia (Singapore) IRENE TEO LIN LING
Acerinox India (India): PRATIK KACHCHHI
Acerinox SC. Malaysia (Malaysia): BARRY FOO
Acerinox SA. Shanghai (China) : MARY XU
Acerinox Indonesia SA. (Indonesia): EFRAT AGUNG
Acerinox SEA (Vietnam): JAIME DEL DIEGO SANZ
Acerinox (SEA) (Thailand): PRAWIT LERTWIMONRAT
Acerinox (SEA) (Philippines): ENRIQUE DAVID B. SANTIAGO
Acerinox Pacific (Korea): JUNGHO CHOI
Acerinox Pacific (Hong Kong): MARY XU
Acerinox Pacific (Taiwán): SAMUEL TAM Acerinox Middle East (United Arab Emirates): FERNANDO GÓMEZ AIELLO
5. OCEANÍA Acerinox Australasia (Australia): CLAUDIO LEÓN DE LA BARRA

35

2. Share Capital, Corporate Governance and Human Capital
2.4 Main Regulations Governing the Group
The main regulations governing ACERINOX, S.A. and its group of companies are: - Its Articles of Association, which were amended at the General Shareholders' Meeting held on 3 June 2015 so as to adapt them to the Capital Companies Act. - The Regulations governing the Board of Directors, which encompasses the Board's Committees and were amended, so as to adapt them to the Capital Companies Act, by the Board of Directors and announced at the General Shareholders' Meeting held on 3 June 2015. - The regulations governing the General Meeting, approved by the General Shareholders' Meeting held on 3 June 2015. - Operating guidelines for the Senior Management Committee. - Operating guidelines for the Internal Audit Service. - Code of Conduct and Good Practices, and related regulations. - Internal Conduct Regulations concerning matters relating to the Stock Market. - O ther lower regulations which are compulsory.
The articles and regulations governing the General Shareholders' Meeting and the Board of Directors can be found on www.acerinox.com.
Stainless steel railings for seaside swimming pool.
36

3 H uman Capital
At the end of the 2015 financial year, the workforce of Acerinox comprised 6,506 people, not including partiallyretired personnel. From among the total, 3,134 (48.2%) staff members work in Europe which means that, for the first time since the company was founded in 1970, more than half of the Group's employees work outside the European Continent.
Specifically, Acerinox has 1,406 employees in America (21.6%), 1,345 in Africa (20.7%) and 621 in Asia (9.5%). In this last continent is where the Bahru Stainless factory is located, where there was the greatest growth in the number of employees, which went from 447 workers in 2014 to 521 last year. The number of employees remained stable with small downward variations.
This same stability also applies to the trading companies, both in Spain and abroad, which total a workforce of 628 people. The 55.8% of the staff carry out their tasks outside Spain.

Acerinox, S.A. Acerinox Europe NAS Columbus Bahru Stainless Roldán and Inoxfil National Sales Companies Overseas Sales Companies Total

2015 57
2,073 1,370 1,345 521 512 235 393 6,506

4 A nnual Corporate Governance Report

As published on Acerinox's website (www.acerinox.com), the Company complied almost entirely with the recommendations made in the previous Unified Code on Good Governance, which was in force until 2015.
The Company made considerable efforts to comply with the recommendations made in the new Corporate Governance Code of 2015, even before it came into force.
In 2015 and the first months of 2016, there have been improvements in Corporate Governance. The most important improvements are the following:
- The number of shares required to be able to attend a General Shareholders' Meeting was reduced from 1,000 to 300.
- P lans to broadcast the General Meeting in real time. - Increase in the number of independent board members. - P lans for digital attendance at the meetings held by the Board of Directors and its Committees. - C ommitment to increase the number of board members belonging to the least-represented gender to
30% by 2020.
Details of compliance with these recommendations can be found in the Annual Corporate Governance Report, on the Acerinox website (www.acerinox.com).
37

3. Global Strategy
1 G lobal Position
Acerinox is the most global stainless steel producer and the only group to have factories in four continents and a sales network present in 37 countries throughout 5 continents. The Group is one of the leading producers in Europe, the largest one in the United States, the only one in Africa, and currently, it is increasing its market shares in Asia and Oceania thanks to the sale of the material produced in the new plant in Malaysia. In the year 2015, America continues to be the area where Acerinox has the higher volume of sales ­mainly in the Unites States ­-- followed by Europe. The Group's sales in Asia, where there is a great deal of potential, continue to grow and have clearly overtaken those in Africa. In terms of markets, the Group's ten main markets remain the same as the previous year, being the US the main one, followed by Spain, Germany, South Africa, Italy, Canada, the United Kingdom, Malaysia, India and France. The geographic diversification has enabled the Group to take better advantage of the opportunities that have arisen at every moment, when some years ago emerging countries grew significantly, and at present when the growth is mostly supported by those developed countries. The decision to be established in all markets continues to be a constant in the Group's strategy, with the opening of new trading companies in countries whose development is bringing about a significant demand for stainless steel. As has already been mentioned, the Group currently sells its products in more than 80 different countries.
Stainless steel reinforcement bar for Hong Kong ­ Zhuhai-Macao bridge construction.
38

2 E xcellence Plans
Excellence Plan IV 2015 - 2016
Based on the good results obtained thanks to Excellence Plan III in 2013-2014, the new Excellence Plan IV for 2015-2016 was presented and approved at the meeting held by the Board of Directors on 16 December 2014.
This fourth Plan further develops the chapters included in the previous editions, and incorporates new chapters, making a total of 23 chapters: 13 of them have to do with the factories, and 10 with the Sales and Financial areas.
Another development is that Bahru Stainless is now integrated into the Plan. It is important to take into account, the fact that for the two previous years (during the initial stage) it had implemented its own plan independently.
The potential scope of this new Plan is 67 million euros in recurring annual savings, if 100% of the goals are achieved.
During this first year of the Plan, recurring savings of 37.1 million euros were achieved, originating from the Group's compliance with 55% of the goals set for this biennial Plan.

QUARTERLY RESULTS EXCELENCE PLAN IV 2015 ­ 2016 (to december 2015)
44% 44%
Quarterly Accumulated

69% 56%

52% 43%

Q1 2015

Q2 2015

Q3 2015

64% 55%
Q4 2015

The Excellence Plans are part of the Group's culture. Its internal benchmarking activities are one of its most powerful improvement and appraisal tools. Comparing similar business departments is a reliable form of gauging what and how much can be achieved and how far can we get.
After several years and several plans, a culture of progress, imitation and self-motivation has become integrated into the Group's practices; a culture that has resulted in better techniques, processes and economic policies in all areas concerned. So deeply engrained is this modus operandi that the most recent Plans are the result both of management's drive and of the initiatives formulated by business units themselves, which constantly propose and set new goals and challenges.
39

3. Global Strategy
3 R +D+i
Acerinox competes successfully in the global arena, thanks to the unrivalled quality of the products it delivers to end customers and the efficiency it has managed to develop for each step of the production process, among other reasons. Both conditions are made possible thanks to the constants efforts made to improve the manufacturing process and always provide the very highest quality in our range of products.
2015 was yet another year in which the Group improved the quality of its stainless steel, proving that it continues to be at the cutting edge of technological development and can produce longer-lasting, more corrosion-resistant materials with a better mechanical performance.
All these qualities are the result of the constant studies conducted at the factories that the Group owns on four continents. There is a research laboratory in each factory, where new manufacturing technologies are studied and research is conducted into the optimisation of manufacturing processes and the properties of the steel produced, as well as to find new applications for our products.
The aim of Acerinox is also to promote the research and development of stainless steel beyond its factories. To this end, by making use of the many partnerships it has developed over the years with different educational institutions, it fosters research by university students. Acerinox Europe has an "Acerinox Professorship" at the University of Cádiz, as well as teaching and university training agreements with the universities of Malaga and Seville.
In South Africa, Columbus maintains a close partnership with the University of Pretoria, while NAS collaborates with the School of Engineering in Louisville (United States).
Moreover, Acerinox has collaborative educational and training internship agreements with six universities in Madrid (Universidad Pontificia de Comillas; Universidad Complutense; Universidad Rey Juan Carlos; Universidad de Alcalá; Universidad Carlos III and Universidad Politécnica de Madrid).
The Spanish Stainless Steel Research and Development Association (CEDINOX), with the support of Acerinox, offered courses in several Spanish universities, including Universidad de Deusto, Universidad Pontificia de Comillas, Universidad Carlos III and the universities of Zaragoza, León, Seville, Cartagena and Mondragón.
Many of the world's top experts in the production of stainless steel are employed by the Group. Well aware of the potential that results from the knowledge held by the people who make up the company, every year Acerinox promotes research aimed at improving the manufacturing process via the "Rafael Naranjo" Awards for Process, Safety and Environmental quality. Thus, Acerinox rewards the best ideas of its employees, with regard to cost reduction, and excellence in production processes, safety management and environmental impact.
The Technical Committee for Project Evaluation for the 2015 edition of the awards, assessed the 20 competing projects, offering prizes amounting to 45,000 euros.
The first prize for Process Quality was awarded to José María Bianchi Pérez for his project "Saving energy in the hot-rolling mill process". The second prize went to Franciso García Montero for his work "Installation of an auxiliary braking system at flange 0 for the final annealing processes in AP2". The panel awarded third prize to the work of Fernando González Bayo for his project "Oil retaining system for the ZM5 production line".
40

Heating coil for domestic hot water tank.
41

3. Global Strategy

The Safety award was awarded to José María Gómez Muñoz and Conrado Ángel Montoya Avilés for their project ,`Blade changing on the Sheet Line'.

The Environment prize went to the project, `Elimination of acid and nitrate spills caused by overflow of AP2 pickling tank no. 1', by Francisco García Montero.

The technical progress made by Acerinox enabled it to participate in projects as iconic as the One World Trade Centre in New York, using materials supplied by NAS, or the construction of the Louvre Museum in Abu Dhabi, designed by the architect Jean Nouvel, for which 300 tonnes of duplex steel were provided by the Columbus factory. Other major works that the company is participating in are the construction of the new Champlain Bridge, which will cross the St Lawrence River, near Toronto (Canada), or the refurbishment of the cellars of the historic Chateaux Margaux in Bordeaux (France).

The total investment in R&D&i grew last year, from 16.1 million euros in 2014 to 16.4m in 2015. Growth in R&D&i investment was led by NAS and Acerinox Europe, with increases of 2.2 and 0.7 million euros respectively. There was also an increase of 30,000 with regard to research, development and innovation in the cases of Roldán and Inoxfil. The research areas these investments were aimed at were mainly the quest for new types of steel, developing the properties of currently-existing types and improving welding points.

The amounts invested in R&D&i (2014-2015) were as follows:

(Thousands of euros)
Acerinox Europa NAS Columbus Roldán and Inoxfil Total

2015 7,588 4,249 4,243 407 16,488

2014 6,765 2,042 6,914 380 16,101

Stainless steel pipes at mining facilities.
42

4 Investments in Fixed Assets
In the meeting held in March, the Board of Directors authorised an investment of 116 million euros to develop a line of bright annealed steel BA, with the goal of increasing capacity and range of finished products at its North American Stainless (NAS) factory in Kentucky.
This new line will mean that NAS will produce stainless steel with a bright finish. This great opportunity for project development stems from high annual consumption of this product coupled with the fact that, due to the lack of internal production, most of it must be imported into the United States. The start-up of these equipment is scheduled for march 2017.
Acerinox will thus become the main producer of this material on American soil, thereby reducing turnaround time and transport and import costs, as well as offering North American customers more competitive prices.
At their meeting held in December last year, The Board of Directors approved the purchase of an annealing and pickling line (AP) and a new cold-rolling mill, as well as the engineering work and additional equipment required for the Campo de Gibraltar factory, for an additional amount of 140 million.
This investment is part of the Strategic Plan for 2016-2020, with which it was decided to boost the activity of Acerinox Europe and in the United States in expectation of new opportunities arising in emerging markets.
The new AP line will provide significant savings in maintenance, as well as in energy and consumables. Acerinox will improve its production equipment, thus providing our end customers with better-quality products with higher added value and enabling us to considerably reduce the emissions generated during the production process.
The new facilities will come into operation at the end of 2017, according to the commissioning deadlines agreed with suppliers.
This new 140 million investment is in addition to the 300 million the company has allocated to its Spanish factory in the past few years in order to modernise its equipment and maintain its position as one of the most competitive factories in Europe.
The amounts in fixed assets derived from the progressive execution of the approved investments are as follows:

(million euros)
Acerinox, S.A. Acerinox Europa NAS Columbus Bahru Stainless Roldán and Inoxfil Total

2015 2 30 32 6 23 1 94

2014 1 16 10 6 39 1 72

43

3. Global Strategy
5 Risk Management
The goal of Acerinox's Risk Management System is to provide a reasonable level of safety while achieving the goals that have been established, providing shareholders, other interest groups and the market in general with a suitable level of value and guarantee-assurance. Acerinox establishes a series of key operational principles within the framework of it Risk Management System which enable it to improve its ability to generate value.
Acerinox's Risk Management System is built around management based on business units, processes, geographical areas and functions, and is an integral element in decision-making processes.
The methodology behind the Risk Management System is contingent on identifying and assessing risks, as well as monitoring control activities and improvement plans, thus making it easier for Acerinox to reasonably manage the risks it is exposed to.
Based on the valuation scales established for each impact and probability variable, we obtain the risk valuation matrix, which reflects four different levels for every risk: very high risk, high risk, moderate risk and low risk, all of which are represented on the company's high-level Global Risks Map, which is systematically and periodically updated under regular supervision on the part of the pertinent bodies: The Management Committee, the Audit Committee and the Board of Directors.
The policies and procedures applied in relation to Acerinox's Risk Management System are established and implemented to ensure that, among other things, responses to risks are carried out effectively.
Risk Management involves rigorously identifying risks and choosing the most appropriate from among a series of possible responses. The complexity and international scale of the sector in which Acerinox carries out its activities entails a great variety of risks, the most relevant of which are detailed below.
Acerinox's Main Risks
Overcapacity
Excess in installed capacity, on a global scale, which would result in lower prices. The stainless steel industry is affected by global production capacity and the fluctuation in imports and exports. Global production capacity has grown considerably, particularly in China, which is currently the world's largest stainless steel manufacturer by a large margin.
Raw Material Price Volatility
Considerable variations in the price of the main Raw Materials. The production of stainless steel requires considerable amounts of raw materials (mainly nickel, chrome and molybdenum). The price of nickel, which is listed on the LME (London Metal Exchange), is subject to the volatility of financial markets, which has a direct effect on the apparent consumption of stainless steel.
44

Economic Crises and Cycles
The demand for steel products is directly related to the global market's macroeconomic fluctuations and recessions. These circumstances produce imbalances between supply and demand, and have a significant impact on prices.
Competition
Sales policies used by competitors to increase or maintain market share. The stainless steel market is characterised by a high level of competition, which leads to price reductions in order to increase or maintain market quotas on a global scale.
Financial Risks
Lack of liquidity, restricted access to funding sources, increasing funding costs, the volatility of exchange rates, the volatility of interest rates and credit risks.
Regulatory Risks
The Acerinox Group's presence on the international stage means that it carries out its activities in a number of different countries, subject to different regulatory frameworks and in different business areas within the stainless steel industry.
Installations for the food industry.
45

3. Global Strategy
6 New Strategic Plan 2016 - 2020
At its meeting held on 29 October 2015, the Board of Directors approved a new Strategic Plan which will remain in force from 2016 to 2020. This Plan is a revision of the Strategic Plan for 2008-2020, which has been adapted to the changes in the market and the global production of stainless steel, resulting from an excess in global production capacity. The Plan for 2016-2020 is a guideline for the Group's initiatives in its different fields of activity and different territories. The recent investments in equipment mentioned in other parts of this Report were carried out in accordance with the new Strategic Plan. This Plan is broadly based on ideas that have traditionally been a core element of Acerinox's DNA: an optimum use of its plants' production capacities, quick-return investments, adapting production to market trends, meticulous management of stock and production, solid finances, the quest for operational excellence and an emphasis mainly on organic growth, without discarding opportunities that may arise. Meeting the provisions detailed in all its sections should consolidate the Group as one of the world's most efficient stainless steel producers and a leading company in all key markets.
Propulsion systems for liquefied natural gas.
46

4. Raw Materials and Main Markets
1 E volution of Raw Materials
If there is one thing that stands out about this past year, it is that the price of raw materials has fallen drastically in all world markets. Slow growth in China and other emerging economies, as well as uncertainties about the worldwide economic situation fuelled the collapse in raw material prices, not only in the case of metals but also fuel, which reached its lowest level in this decade - in some cases falling below production cost - leading to serious consequences for production and extraction companies.
1.1 NICKEL
According to industry analysts, China was expected to run low on nickel because of the decrease in the production of nickel pig iron, and this was expected to drive its price up. In fact, the opposite happened.
While it is true that production of nickel pig iron in China fell by 17% in 2015, excess production around the world meant that the supply and demand ratio for nickel remained positive throughout the year, meaning that supply outstripped demand.
Stocks of nickel on the London Metal Exchange rose throughout the year, reaching a historic peak of 470,376 mt in June. At the end of the year they stood at 441,294 mt, which represented an increase of 6.4% compared to the end of 2014. Taking into account the new stocks on the Shanghai Exchange, as well as those held by producers, distributors and consumers, global stocks of nickel at the end of 2015 were the equivalent of 7 months of global consumption.

OFFICIAL RAW MATERIAL PRICES IN THE
LME, YEAR 2015
Daily trading data (USD/t)

25%

0%

-25%

-50%

Nickel

Copper Aluminium Zinc

-17.2 -25.5 -26.7
-41.8

47

4. Raw Materials and Main Markets
In these circumstances, the price of nickel showed a year long decline from 14,880 USD/mt at the beginning of January to 8,665 USD/mt by the end of the year. We have to go back as far as February 2003 to find similar prices. It is estimated that around 70% of nickel producers operate at a loss at this market price, including many Chinese nickel pig iron producers, which means that the competitive advantage of this product is disappearing.
The prices of all metals suffered a decline in 2015. However, nickel's fall of 41.8% meant that it was the metal with the worst performance, followed by zinc, which fell by 26.7%, copper, 25.5% and aluminium, which fell by 17.2%.
Nickel also broke records on the London Metal Exchange for the volume of contracts, with an increase of 6.9%,while the global volume of contracts for all metals fell by 4.3%.

OFFICIAL PRICE OF NICKEL IN THE LME .
Years 2014 ­ 2015

25,000 20,000

15,000

10,000

Average trading price/three months USD/t

5,000 J F M AMJ J A S ON D J F MA M J J A S ON D

1.2 Ferrochrome
Prices fell by 7 US¢/lb in the first quarter, to 108 US¢/lb. Solid demand enabled them to remain stable in the following two, but the fall in prices in China and reduced demand in the fourth quarter forced prices yet further downwards, to 104 US¢/lb, which was its lowest level since 2010.
Despite this price stability, this level is too low for many ferrochrome producers, including the Chinese. Two producers in South Africa closed down due to the impossibility of maintaining production at current prices.

48

Average

quarterly

140

price of

ferrochrome

120

US¢ / Lb. Cr.

Source: Metal Bulletin

100

T1

T2

T3

T4

T1

T2

T3

T4

2014

2015

1.3 Molybdenum
There was an excess of supply of this metal throughout the whole year while global demand for it remained relatively weak, especially in the energy sector, which is one of the main applications of molybdenum in the steel industry.
Prices stood at 9 USD/lb at the start of the year and despite the announcement of numerous mine closures and production cutbacks over the year, they dropped to levels around 4 USD/lb by October. We have to go back to March 2003 to find similar prices.

Price of molybdenum
Source: Metals Daily

US$/Lb Mo 16

14

12

10

8

6

4
J F M A M J JL A S O N D J F M A M J JL A S O N D

2014

2015

November's announcement by some of the world's main producers to significantly cut back production helped prices to recover somewhat, and the price at the close of the year was slightly above 5 USD/lb. This level of prices cannot be sustained by many producers, so further production cutbacks are likely.
49

4. Raw Materials and Main Markets

1.4 Scrap Iron
The steep drop in iron ore prices in 2015 forced scrap into a similar descent in order to preserve its status as a competitive and alternative raw material.
The first of these price drops came in February, registering 70 USD/mt. A feeble recovery then lasted until May, when prices tumbled yet again, reaching 160 USD/mt in October, the lowest level since November 2003. To these causes we must add the fact that a new competitor has emerged as a raw material for the production of steel. The low purchase prices of Chinese billets has led Turkish producers to buy them to smelt them again to make steel, thus replacing scrap iron. Until then, Turkey had been the world's number one importer of scrap iron.
Other steel producers in other markets, such as the Italian and Spanish producers, have gone down the same road, importing Chinese billets as a raw material since it is being sold at prices below production costs.

PRICES OF SCRAP IRON FOB
ROTTERDAM HMS 1&2
Source: Metal Bulletin

USD/t 400

350

300

250

200

150
J F M A M J JL A S O N D J F M A M J JL A S O N D

2014

2015

Stainless steel scrap.
50

2 M ain Stainless Steel Markets
Following the apparent increase in consumption and the replacement of stock that took place in 2014 across all markets, 2015 was marked by the correction of stock levels along the supply chain. This need to reduce stocks, along with the continuous fall in the value of nickel and strong competition, made 2015 a challenging year for our industry, with prices reaching historically low levels. There is still excess capacity in China, which continues to flood other markets with its products.
2.1 Europe
The event which had the biggest impact on the European market in 2015 was undoubtedly the anti-dumping process against cold-rolled stainless steel imports from both China and Taiwan. The European Commission passed a series of provisional measures which, after a minor modification in the case of imports from Taiwan, became definitive in August. The European Commission considered proven the practice of dumping in both cases, and that the practices in question gave an unfair advantage to importers over the European industry. The tariffs imposed were 25.3% in the case of China and 6.8% in the case of Taiwan. This resolution, published in the DOCE in August, represents a significant advance for European industry against unfair imports. When the process was announced in June 2014, some stockists began to increase their purchases in preparation for the imposition of tariffs, and this meant that 2015 started with an excess of stock in the supply chain. This fact, coupled with the steady decline in the price of nickel throughout the year - with the consequent decline in the alloy surcharge - meant that suppliers kept their purchases to a minimum and adjusted their levels of stock. This had a knock on effect on orders received by European factories.
Bahru Stainless Factory.
51

4. Raw Materials and Main Markets

Once stock levels were corrected, apparent consumption recovered in the second half of the year, since final levels of consumption in the main user sectors responded well, with strong growth in the automotive industry (new registrations in the European Union rose by +9,3%), in the construction industry and in domestic appliances, which rose for the first time since 2007. The final balance over the whole year showed a reduction of 1.7% in apparent consumption of stainless steel plate in the European Union, according to Acerinox estimates.
This reduction in apparent consumption, together with the fact that the importing countries affected by the antidumping measures were partially substituted by third countries - mainly Korea and India - and the fact that nickel continued its slow but steady decline, prevented prices from recovering, so that at the end of the year, margins were very tight.
As for the breakdown, there was slight growth in the apparent consumption of plate in countries in the south and east of the European Union: Spain +4.8%, Portugal +1.4%, Italy +1.8%, UK +0.5%, Poland +1.2%, Czech Republic +3.2%, Slovakia +8.1% and Hungary +5.1%. The larger economies in the north of Europe, such as Germany -3.9%, Austria -12.2%, Sweden -6%, Finland -11.7%, Denmark -20.2% or even France -8.1 in contrast, saw a decrease.

Prices of stainless steel
plate 2.0mm cold-rolled
AISI 304 (2014 and 2015)
Source: Platts

3,500 3,000 2,500 2,000 1,500 1,000
500 0

/Mt - EUROPEAN MARKET

2014 Alloy Surcharge

2015 Base price

2.2 Nafta
This was the area in which the new market situation was most strongly felt, and the profitability of American producers suffered greatly as a result. Delivery times from local producers began to lengthen at the end of 2014 due to the strong demand and the problems in production faced by some of them, ensuring that prices remained high through the end of 2014 and the start of 2015. This generated a "pull effect" on imports, and their increase became more noticeable during this period. The result of this process has been that the year started with very high level of stocks.
52

This situation, along with the continued decline in nickel, and the consequent decline of the alloy surcharge, and the aggressive sales policy of the new producers in the American market, led to a continuous fall in prices and a deterioration of market conditions which made 2015 a truly difficult year, with an estimated reduction in the apparent consumption of steel plate of 7% in the United States and 6.8% in Canada. However, apparent consumption increased 7% in Mexico favoured by exports to United States, according to our estimates.
Even so, real consumption has been steady in the consumer goods industry, and this has enabled excess stock to be absorbed along the supply chain, and inventories were adjusted, so that the prospects for 2016 are optimistic. According to Acerinox data, car sales have risen by +5.8% and there has been growth of +10.5% in construction and +8.1% in domestic appliances.

PRICES OF STAINLESS STEEL
PLATE 2.0 MM AISI 304
COLD ROLLED (2014 ­ 2015)
Source: Platts

4,000 3,500 3,000 2,500 2,000 1,500 1,000
500 0

USD/Mt - NORTH AMERICAN MARKET

2014 Alloy Surcharge

2015 Base price

2.3 South Africa
This country has suffered the effects of the changes in economic policy in the developed world and its own growth problems, which include difficulties in the supply of electricity, transport bottlenecks and a fall in the price of the raw materials produced or obtained in that country. These issues go some way towards explaining why the local market for stainless steel has declined considerably in recent years, despite it has risen 1.9% during 2015.
The interest rate policy of the U.S. Federal Reserve set large currency flows in motion, which in turn affected the exchange rates of emerging economies, one of which was South Africa. The South African Rand lost 35% of its value against the U.S. dollar throughout the year, which made South African industrial exports more competitive, which offered some compensation for the decline in the local market.
53

4. Raw Materials and Main Markets

2.4 Asia
The prevailing uncertainty over the Chinese economy in 2015 drove the price of all raw materials down all over the world. On this continent, the excess installed capacity, especially in China, has kept the price of stainless steel steady all year at unprecedented levels. This resulted in many companies in the industry accumulating large losses which, according to CISA (China Iron and Steel Association) could total more than 8 billion euros. We hope that the government's plans for the coming year are carried out, with the consequent reduction of capacity and the closure of inefficient and polluting plants. If they are, this excess capacity could be absorbed within a reasonable period.
For its part, India was the country in Asia whose apparent consumption grew the most, partly replacing China as engine for stainless steel growth.
Some countries in the ASEAN area have frankly interesting apparent consumption growth rates, and we feel that this is the area that will see greatest growth in the coming years. However, the fact that it is the natural destination of Chinese excess production means that the prevailing prices are far lower than the European or North American market, as the following graph shows.

PRICES OF

STAINLESS STEEL

PLATE 2.0 MM

AISI 304 COLD

3,500

ROLLED

(2014 ­ 2015)

3,000

2,500

2,000

1,500 Source: Platts

2014

USD/Mt, final price, alloy surcharge included

2015

USA EUROPE ASIA

54

3 G lobal Production of Stainless Steel

After years of strong growth, production has consolidated and excess inventories have been trimmed, which will enable growth to resume in the coming years, with a return to growth rates of around 6%. Although there are no definitive results at the time of writing, we estimate world production of stainless steel in 2015 was 41.5 million tonnes, which is a similar figure to the 41.7 million tonnes produced in 2014. After the period of strong growth after 2009 (CAGR 2009 ­ 2015 = 9.2%) this phase of relatively weak growth could form the basis for future expansion, as it did in the other periods.

WORLDWIDE STAINLESS STEEL
PRODUCTION
2015 Word production of Stainless Steel 41.5 million Tm
Compound annual growth
1950 ­ 2015:
+5.9%
Source: ISSF and Acerinox

42,000

Thousand Mt

36,000

30,000

24,000

18,000

12,000

6,000

0

50

60

70

80

90

00

10 15

Our general analysis by geographical regions shows that China's production slowed in 2015 after years of double-figure growth. Asia, excluding China, grew by 1.4% and the United States remains with a slightly growth, probably due to the switch from importing European black coil to using its domestic product.
All other regions have registered modest growth, which shows that the gap between capacity and consumption has been closed all around the world, except in China. This leads us to expect more solid growth in the industry in the future, keeping pace with the growth of the developed economies.

55

4. Raw Materials and Main Markets

Year 2014 Year 2015

1st Quarter 10,359 10,220

2nd Quarter 10,894 10,982

3rd Quarter 10,173 10,195

4th Quarter 10,259 10,152

Total 41,686 41,548

Thousand Mt

Europa/Africa America Asia without China China Total

Thousand Mt

2014 7,847 2,813 9,334 21,692 41,686

2015 7,777 2,747 9,461 21,562 41,548

Variation -0.9% -2.3% +1.4% -0.6% 0.3%

Total production in Asia increased its weight in the global market, as it reached 74% of the total.

EVOLUTION OF THE STAINLESS STEEL WORLD PRODUCTION

Million Mt

YEAR 2011

YEAR 2012

8.3 2.5
22.8

8.2 2.4
25.3

YEAR 2013
7.8 2.5
28.2

YEAR 2014
7.9 2.8
31.0

YEAR 2015
7.8 2.7
31,0

33.6 +6.8% 35.9 +7.2% 38.5

+8.3% 41.7 -0.3%

41.5

Europe and Africa

Asia

America

Source: International Stainless Steel Forum (ISSF)

56

Installation for hot air production.
57

5. The Year of Acerinox in Numbers
1 P roduction
Steel production by the Acerinox Group in 2015 was 2.3 million Mt, equalling the results of 2014 and 2004, and second only to 2006, which was the year with the highest production in the Group's history. Production of Hot Rolled steel was 2.0 million mt, similar to the previous year, while Cold Rolled rose by 3.4% to 1.6 million mt, making it the largest production quantity ever.

(Thousand Mt)
Melting shop Hot rolling shop Cold rolling shop Long product (Hot Rolling)

1st Quarter

2nd Quarter

Year 2015
3rd Quarter

4th Quarter

Year 2014 Acumulated Jan-Dec

Variation 2015 / 2014

600.5

611.3

562.1

545.7

2,319.6

2,324.8

-0.2%

524.3

536.1

497.5

480.8

2,038.7

2,049.3

-0.5%

395.1

430.4

393.2

390.4

1,609.0

1,555.6

3.4%

57.0

60.7

50.7

47.6

215.9

241.6 -10.6%

Factory production in Acerinox Europe continued to grow compared with 2014, in the same way that year-onyear production did. Steel production rose by 6.6%, hot-rolling by 6%, and cold-rolling by 10%.
North American Stainless beat all its own records for every shop in 2014, but repeating this achievement in 2015 was complicated by the circumstances mentioned above: productions fell by 9%, 9.8% and 7% in each of its workshops.
Columbus increased its production notably in all its workshops, which shows the competitiveness achieved. Melting's output rose by 8.9%, hot-rolling by 8.7% and the cold-rolling workshop by 7.3%.
Finally, Bahru Stainless continued to increase production, which rose by 34.7% over the results of 2014, setting a new record.

58

2 R esults
The results of the Acerinox Group in 2015 show how difficult the market for stainless steel products was this year. With continues fall in prices as a result of the fierce competition in all markets, high level of inventories and a decline in the price of raw materials.

Most significant Acerinox figures
Thousands of euros
Net sales EBITDA EBIT Result before taxes and minorities Result after taxes and minorities

2015 4,221,426
286,225 120,887
76,895 42,891

2014 4,380,289
454,180 297,687 243,776 136,329

Variation -3.6%
-37.0% -59.4% -68.5% -68.5%

The turnover of the Consolidated Group in 2015 reached 4,221 million euros, 3.6% less than the previous year. The average price of the coil AISI 304 (according to Platts) fell by 1.9% in Europe, 19.9% in the U.S. and by 21.5% in Asia compared with the same period of 2014.

Geographical Distribution of Acerinox Group Net Sales YEAR 2015

YEAR 2015
EUROPE 38.0%

OCEANIA 0.3%
ÁFRICA 5.4%
ASIA 10.7%

AMERICA 45.7%

59

5. The Year of Acerinox in Numbers

EVOLUTION OF ACERINOX
GROUP NET SALES
YEAR 2015

Million euros
4,950 4,450 3,950

4,221

3,450

Consolidated Group

2,950 2,450

NAS Acerinox Europe (*) Trading companies

1,950

1,861

Columbus

1,450

1,397

Roldán and Inox l

1,259

Bahru

950

715 450
304 252 -50

(*) Acerinox, S.A. figures until

10

11

12

13

14

15

2010. From year 2011

refers to Acerinox Europa

The worsening of market conditions had a negative effect on the Group's margins. The correction was only partially offset by the rise in the value of the dollar during the year. The international nature of the Group and the importance of the factories working in dollars (NAS and Bahru Stainless) made this factor more significant.

Fortunately, the competitive edge acquired through the Excellence Plans and those for reducing fixed costs enabled the most important expenditure items on the balance sheet to fall in 2015 in local currency, although the rise in the dollar had the opposite effect on the consolidated accounts.

The following graphs show the effects of the increase in the value of the dollar and the total variation in the profit and loss account:

Net supplies USD impact

3,103

-3% -14%

3,000 -350

Operating expenses USD impact

547 +6%

578

-43

-2%

2014

2015

Exchange differences

2014

2015

Total variation

Variation due to the business

60

Personnel expenses USD impact

347

+6% 368 -21

0%

Amortisation and Depreciation USD impact

+9% 164

150

-17

-3%

2014

2015

Exchange differences

2014

2015

Total variation

Variation due to the business

Financial costs decreased by 17%: 11 million euros
Financial Costs 62
-17.2% 51

Jan - Dec 14 Jan - Dec 15

The EBITDA generated in the year amounted to 286 million euros, 37.0% lower than the previous year, after adjusting inventories to their net realizable value for an amount of 14 million euros. The margin on sales rose to 6.8%.

EVOLUTION OF THE
CONSOLIDATED EBITDA of acerinox

Million euros (% over sales)

341 7.3%

198 4.3%

228 5.8%

454 10.4%

286 6.8%

2011

2012

2013

2014

2015

61

5. The Year of Acerinox in Numbers

Pre-tax profits, 77 million euros, are 68.5% lower than those obtained the previous year. The results of 43 million euros, after taxes and minorities, were 68.5% lower than those of the previous year 2014.

RESULTS AFTER TAXES AND MINORITIES

Million euros
136

74 2011

2012 -18

22 2013

2014

43 2015

The net financial debt of the group at year-end amounted to 711 million euros, with a ratio to shareholder equity of 35.1% and to EBITDA of 2.48 times. All covenants imposed by the finance credits and those relating to the Group's ratios were fully satisfied.

Snowplough with stainless steel trailer.
62

AGRIDGED BALANCE SHEET
Millions of euros ASSETS NON CURRENT ASSETS CURRENT ASSETS Inventories Debtors Trade debtors Ohter debtors Cash and other current assets TOTAL ASSETS
LIABILITIES EQUITY NON CURRENT LIABILITIES
Interest bearing loans and borrowings Other non current liabilities CURRENT LIABILITIES Interest bearing loans and borrowings Trade creditors Other current liabilities TOTAL EQUITY AND LIABILITIES

2015 2,317.53 1,808.14
824.93 478.85 439.54
39.31 504.36 4,125.67
2015 2,023.30
995.59 741.16 254.43 1,106.77 449.54 566.28
90.96 4,125.67

2014 2,270.43 2,159.12
851.70 475.19 443.56
31.62 832.24 4,429.55
2014 1,856.13 1,279.66 1,020.01
259.66 1,293.76
334.08 841.07 118.61 4,429.55

Variation 2.1%
-16.3% -3.1% 0.8% -0.9% 24.3%
-39.4% -6.9%
Variation 9.0%
-22.2% -27.3%
-2.0% -14.5%
34.6% -32.7% -23.3%
-6.9%

At 31st December, Acerinox held valid credit lines in force for an amount of 1,788 million euros, 40% of which were available for use.

EVOLUTION OF NET FINANCIAL
DEBT

Million of euros
887
711 616 582 529

2011

2012

2013

2014

2015

63

5. The Year of Acerinox in Numbers

Columbus: Borrowing Base Facility
In April, Columbus signed a syndicated financing contract (secured borrowing base facility) for up to 3,500 million Rand (275 million euros), for 3 years.
This contract allows Columbus to finance its current and future working capital needs which could occur as a result of prices increases of raw materials and activity.
The contract was signed by 10 international banks, led by Deutsche Bank, which acted as agent bank and global coordinator. The operation was jointly led by BBVA, Rand Merchand Bank and Bankinter, with the following banks participating as financing banks: Banco Santander, Nedbank, Banco Sabadell, HSBC, Caixabank and Investec. The operation was over-subscribed by a factor of 1.3.

Working Capital
Working capital increased by 244 million euros as a consequence of the lower use of working capital financial instruments such as factoring and confirming, due to the Group's good liquidity situation.

Inventories Debtors Creditors Working Capital

2015 825 440 566 698

2014 852 444 841 454

Stainless steel ship propellers and nozzles.
64

If the use of working capital financial instruments had been similar to that of December 2015, working capital would have been reduced by 273 million euros and the free cash flow (total cash flow generated) would have been 353 million euros, as can be seen in the pro-forma cash flow:

CASH FLOW
Million EUR
CASH FLOW PRO FORMA

CASH FLOW

EBITDA EBITDA
286 286

Changes ChWanKges
WK

Financial Fcinhaanrgceiasl Tacxha&rgoethser Tax & other

Cash Flow COapsehraFtlioown Operation

CAPEX CAPEX

Free CasFhreFelow Cash Flow

(130) (130)

(139)

(139)

17

17

(68)

(50)

(68)

(50)

EBITDA EBITDA

Changes in Financial ChanWgKes in Fcinhaanrgceiasl Net ofWfaKctoring Tacxha&rgoethser Ne&t coof nfacrmtoirningg Tax & other & con rming

Cash Flow COapsehraFtlioown Operation

(139) (139) 273 273

420 420 286 286

CAPEX CAPEX
(68) (68)

Free CasFhreFelow Cash Flow
353 353

The cash flow situation shows how important working capital is in our sector. Despite the generation of cash as a consequence of the results, the 130 million increase in working capital (lower use of financing of working capital) caused that the total cash flow generated by the group was a negative 50 million euros, after having made investment payments for an amount of 68 million euros.
65

5. The Year of Acerinox in Numbers

ABRIDGED CASH FLOW STATEMENT
Year 2015 (million of euros)
Result before taxes Adjustments for: Depreciation and amortisation Changes in provisions and impairments Other adjustments in the result Changes in working capital Changes in operating working capital - Inventories - Trade debtors - Trade creditors Others Other cash-flow from operating activities Income tax Financial expenses
NET CASH-FLOW FROM OPERATING ACTIVITIES Payments for investments on fixed assets Others NET CASH-FLOW FROM INVESTING ACTIVITIES
NET CASH-FLOW GENERATED Acquisition of treasury shares Dividends payed to shareholders and minorities Changes in net debt
Changes in bank debt/private placement Conversion differences Attributable to minority interests Others NET CASH-FLOW FROM FINANCING ACTIVITIES
NET INCREASE/(DECREASE) IN CASH AND CASH EQUIVALENTS Opening cash and cash equivalents
Effect of the exchange rate fluctuations on cash held CLOSING CASH AND CASH EQUIVALENTS

Jan-Dec 2015 76.9
210.2 163.7
2.3 44.1 -129.5 -244 26.8
4.0 -274.8 114.5 -140.1
-94.5 -45.6 17.4 -67.5
-0.1 -67.6

Jan-Dec 2014 243.8 227.7 150.3 -2.6 80.0 -261.4 -213.2 -122.1 -66.9 -24.1 -48.3 -160.2 -103.4 -56.8 49.9 -74.2 -3.1 -77.3

-50.2 -0.1
-47.8 -177.7 -163.4
-14.3 0.0 0.3
-225.3

-27.4 0.0
-56.1 151.2 195.2 -44.0
0.0 0.0 95.0

-275.4 738.4
17.0 480.0

67.7 629.6
41.1 738.4

66

3 S Hare Price Evolution and Capitalisation

3.1 EVOLUTION OF SHARES
The year was particularly complicated in terms of global equity, and Spanish equity in particular. The IBEX 35 closed with a decline of 7%, which was the largest drop in the last four years, although still far from the 13% drop registered in 2011, in the resurgence of the financial crisis.

MARKET EVOLUTION
IBEX 35

13,000 12,000

11,000

10,000

9,000

8,000

7,000

6,000

Daily data in EUR

5,000

2011

2012

2013

2014

2015

However, the IBEX 35 was not the only market to close with a fall. The British FTSE 100 fell by 5%, under pressure from the mining companies that are listed on the index and which suffered from the fall in price of raw materials.
Wall Street ended the year with slight losses: 2% in the case of Dow Jones and 1% in the S&P 500.
The bullish start to the year at the IBEX 35 was soon halted by the Greek crisis and the doubts about real growth in China, the devaluation of the yuan and the uncertainties this raised about the effect on emerging economies and the adjustment of oil prices, among other causes. These factors affected stock markets around the world, but we also have to consider the effect of political uncertainty in Spain on the Spanish exchange.
Acerinox was one of the worst-performing securities on the Spanish list, largely because of the fall in raw materials throughout the year. The London Metal Exchange saw copper fall by 26%, zinc by 26% and aluminium by 18%, but it was nickel that fell the most, with a drop of 42%. The limited presence of industrial securities on the IBEX 35 and the absence of other stocks linked with raw materials meant that Acerinox's fall was out of proportion to the other stocks on the Spanish list.
67

5. The Year of Acerinox in Numbers

The graph below shows how the year started with Acerinox stock rising to an annual high (16.05 euro/share) on 25 March, boosted by the preliminary antidumping measures against cold-rolled stainless steel from China and Taiwan which the European Union was considering.

MARKET EVOLUTION OF ACERINOX AND
THE IBEX 35
Daily percentages, 2015

40%

30%
Acerinox
20%
Ibex 35
10%

0%
-10%

-7,2%

-20% -30%

-24,7%

-40%

Jan Feb Mar Apr May Jun Jul Ago Sep Oct Nov Dec

Acerinox reached its annual minimum (7.835 euro/share) on 28 September, after three months of continuous decline following the panic generated by the Chinese slowdown and the punishment suffered by all traded metals.
Even so, at the end of 2015, Acerinox was one of the IBEX 35 stocks that were most widely recommended by analysts.

100%

18

80%

16

Sell

Hold

60%

14

Buy

Target Price 12m

40%

12

Price

20%

10

0%

8

26/01

09/03

20/04

01/06

13/07

24/08

05/10

16/11

28/12

Source: Bloomberg, 31-12-2015
68

On average, 73% of recommendations were "Buy" as opposed to 4% who advised "Sell", on 31 December 2015.
In 2015, Acerinox shares were traded for the 256 days the Continuous Market was open for business. The total number of shares traded amounted to 527,865,068, with average daily trading of 2,061,973 shares.
In respect to the trading volume, it reached a total of 6,174 billion euros for the entire year of 2015, with a daily average of 24.12 million euros, which was well above the preceding years.

Numbers of shares (million) Cash (million )

CONTRACTS OF SHARES AND CASH
Numbers of shares (million) Cash (million )

600 500 400 300 200 100
0 2010

2011

2012

2013

2014

2015

6,300 5,400 4,500 3,600 2,700 1,800 900 0

It is worth noting that the composition of the IBEX 35 was reviewed in June by a Technical Assessment Committee, which determined the return of Acerinox to this index to which it belonged since its beginning almost continuously.

3.2 CAPITALISATION

On 31 December 2015, the market capitalisation of Acerinox reached 2,512 million euros (23% lower than 2014).

MARKET CAPITALISATION OF ACERINOX, S.A.
2006-2015
Million of euros

7,000

6,000

5,000

4,000

3,000 2,000

2,512

1,000

0 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015

69

5. The Year of Acerinox in Numbers
ANALYST AND INVESTOR DAY
Investor and Analyst Day was held in New York on 15 October. A total of 50 investors, analysts and other banking representatives attended. Another 75 people followed the event through a live internet transmission.
Analyst and Investor Day in New York.
The following presentations were given during the day by Management team to show investors how important the presence of Acerinox in the American market is:
- Stainless Steel in our World - NAS ­ A Leader in the Industry - The Strategy of NAS in the American Market. - 2015 ­ The Great Paradox A guided tour of the North American Stainless factory was made on 16 October with all the attendees who had the opportunity to travel there. This type of event ensures that the financial community can get a closer look at the company and gain a greater understanding both of its production processes and the market for stainless steel, and the strategies and values of Acerinox.
70

4 S hareholder Remuneration
The General Shareholders Meeting held on 03 June 2015 approved payment of a scrip dividend to a maximum sum of 117,765,963.00 euros, equivalent to the sum of approximately 0.45 per share. This amount is the same as the one the company has offered shareholders since 2007, despite the difficulties of this period.
For the third year running, the General Meeting decided to offer shareholders a scrip dividend, given that in the previous two years, most shareholders, representing most of the company's capital, opted to acquire new shares. In 2015, shareholders representing 59.30% of the company capital also opted to acquire new shares. The rate applied was 1 new share for every 31 already held.
On 20 July 2015, the 5,005,253 new shares from the capital increase of the scrip dividend approved at the General Meeting of 3 June 2015 were admitted to official trading on the Continuous Market in the Madrid and Barcelona Stock Markets.
Shareholders who chose to subscribe to shares with their free allotment rights saw their number of shares increase by 3.23%.

SHAREHOLDER REMUNERATION

EUR/share

Issue Premium Refund
Dividend

0.45 0.10
0.35

0.45 0.10

0.433

0.449

0.449

0.35

0.433

0.449

0.449

(*) scrip dividend

11

12

13 (*)

14 (*)

15 (*)

The scrip dividend for the last three years and the uptake of the option by shareholders is shown in the following table:

Cash payment Payment in shares Capital amount after issue Dividend distributed In cash 

2013 43.3% 56.62% 64,286,544.25 46,831,187.74

2014 48.62% 51.36% 65,425,535.00 56,135,432.06

2015 40.71% 59.29% 66,676,848.26 47,836,135.82

71

5. The Year of Acerinox in Numbers

5 A verage Term of Payment to Suppliers

In relation to the information to be included in Annual Report, pursuant to article 262.1 of the Companies Act and Resolution of January 29th , 2016 the Institute of Accounting and Auditing, the average payment period to suppliers of Spanish companies which are part of Acerinox Group, and After having deducted the payments made to the trading companies of the Group, is that detailed below:

Average payment period to suppliers Period of transactions paid Ratio of transactions pending of payment
Data in thousand euros Total payments made Total pending payments

2015 79 days 82 days 45 days
Amount 1,607,137 176,420

2014 88 days 90 days 79 days
Amount 1,448,509 294,468

Granada metro covering in stainless steel and glass.
72

Acerinox Europe Factory.
73

Consolidated Annual Accounts

acerinox, s.a. and Subsidiaries
Annual Accounts of the Consolidated Group 31 december 2015
(Free translation from the original in Spanish. In the event of discrepancy, the Spanish-language version prevails.)

KPMG Auditores S.L. Edificio Torre Europa
Paseo de la Castellana, 95
28046 Madrid

KPMG Auditores S.L., a limited liability Spanish company and a member firm of the KPMG network of independent member firms affiliated with KPMG International Cooperative ("KPMG International"), a Swiss entity.

Reg. Mer Madrid, T. 11.961, F. 90, Sec. 8, H. M -188.007, Inscrip. 9 N.I.F. B-78510153

Consolidated Annual Accounts

1. CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS

(In thousands of Euros at 31 December 2015 and 2014) ASSETS

Note

2015

2014

Non-current assets Goodwill Other intangible assets Property, plant and equipment Available-for-sale financial assets Deferred tax assets Other non-current financial assets
TOTAL NON-CURRENT ASSETS Current assets
Inventories Trade and other receivables Other current financial assets Current tax assets Cash and cash equivalents TOTAL CURRENT ASSETS
TOTAL ASSETS

7

69,124

69,124

7

11,181

9,311

8

2,025,856

1,971,519

9

10,667

8,401

17

188,891

192,130

11,811 2,317,530

6,032 2,256,517

10

824,929

851,698

9

470,367

466,091

9

15,497

84,576

17

17,394

18,390

11

479,955

738,368

1,808,142

2,159,123

4,125,672

4,415,640

Notes 1 to 20 form an integral part of the consolidated annual accounts.
80

(In thousands of Euros at 31 December 2015 and 2014) EQUITY AND LIABILITIES Equity Subscribed capital Share premium Reserves Profit for the period Translation differences Parent shares EQUITY ATTRIBUTABLE TO SHAREHOLDERS OF THE PARENT Non-controlling interests TOTAL EQUITY Non-current liabilities Deferred income Issue of bonds and other marketable securities Loans and borrowings Non-current provisions Deferred tax liabilities Other non-current financial liabilities TOTAL NON-CURRENT LIABILITIES Current liabilities Issue of bonds and other marketable securities Loans and borrowings Trade and other payables Current tax liabilities Other current financial liabilities TOTAL CURRENT LIABILITIES
TOTAL EQUITY AND LIABILITIES

Note

2015

2014

12

66,677

65,426

12

81,403

81,403

12

1,525,178

1,431,935

12

42,891

136,329

12

212,879

18,048

12

-1

0

1,929,027

1,733,141

12

94,277

112,552

2,023,304

1,845,693

13

7,513

6,430

9

123,931

124,050

9

617,230

895,958

14

13,698

13,706

17

227,167

213,285

9

6,054

22,758

995,593

1,276,187

9

1,653

9

447,887

334,079

9

641,726

915,596

17

1,092

35,997

9

14,417

8,088

1,106,775

1,293,760

4,125,672

4,415,640

Notes 1 to 20 form an integral part of the consolidated annual accounts. (Free translation from the original in Spanish. In the event of discrepancy, the Spanish-language version prevails.)
81

Consolidated Annual Accounts

2. CONSOLIDATED INCOME STATEMENTS

(Expressed in thousands of Euros)
Revenues Other operating income Self-constructed non-current assets Changes in inventories of finished goods and work in progress Supplies Personnel expenses Amortisation and depreciation Other operating expenses
RESULTS FROM OPERATING ACTIVITIES Finance income Finance costs Exchange losses Fair value measurement of financial instruments
Share of profit of equity-accounted investees PROFIT FROM ORDINARY ACTIVITIES
Income tax Other taxes PROFIT FOR THE PERIOD Attributable to: NON-CONTROLLING INTERESTS NET PROFIT ATTRIBUTABLE TO THE GROUP Basic and distributed earnings per share (in Euros)

Note

2015

2014

15

4,221,426

4,380,289

15

13,017

17,285

15

18,888

15,993

-19,783

38,203

-3,000,348

-3,102,614

15

-368,176

-347,164

7,8

-163,684

-150,345

15

-580,452

-553,960

120,888

297,687

16

4,292

5,301

16

-51,175

-61,802

16

62,400

-63,988

16

-59,509

66,577

1

76,896

243,776

17

-45,589

-118,311

17

-4,989

-2,778

26,318

122,687

-16,573

-13,642

42,891

136,329

12.7

0.16

0.53

Notes 1 to 20 form an integral part of the consolidated annual accounts. (Free translation from the original in Spanish. In the event of discrepancy, the Spanish-language version prevails.)
82

3. CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF COMPREHENSIVE INCOME

(Expressed in thousands of Euros)
A) PROFIT FOR THE YEAR INCOME AND EXPENSE RECOGNISED DIRECTLY IN EQUITY
I. Measurement of financial instruments 1. Available-for-sale financial assets 2. Other income/expense
II. Cash flow hedges III. Translation differences IV. Actuarial gains and losses and other adjustments V. Tax effect B) TOTAL INCOME AND EXPENSE RECOGNISED DIRECTLY IN EQUITY AMOUNTS TRANSFERRED TO THE INCOME STATEMENT I. Measurement of assets and liabilities
1. Measurement of financial instruments 2. Other income/expense II. Cash flow hedges III. Translation differences IV. Actuarial gains and losses and other adjustments V. Tax effect C) TOTAL AMOUNTS TRANSFERRED TO THE INCOME STATEMENT TOTAL COMPREHENSIVE INCOME a) Attributable to the Parent b) Attributable to non-controlling interests

Note

2015 26,318

2014 122,687

9.2.5
9.2.6 12.4 14.1

1,991

-745

15,323 193,394
188 -4,426 206,470

26,236 236,779
-1,685 -7,902 252,683

9.2.6

-8,412

-22,770

2,161 -6,251 226,537 244,523
-17,986

6,905 -15,865 359,505 362,992
-3,487

Notes 1 to 20 form an integral part of the consolidated annual accounts.
83

Consolidated Annual Accounts

4. ECONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CHANGES IN EQUITY

Free translation from the original in Spanish. In the event of discrepancy, the Spanish-language version prevails.) (Expressed in thousands of Euros)
Equity attributable to shareholders of the Parent

Retained Property,

Subscribed Share earnings plant and (including equipment
capital premium profit for the revaluation

year)

reserves

Cash flow hedge reserves

Availablefor-sale asset fair value reserve

Actuarial valuation reserves

Translation differences

Interim dividend

Own shares

TOTAL

Noncontrolling interests

TOTAL EQUITY

Notes

Equity at 31/12/2013

Adjustments to correct errors 2.19 Adjusted equity at 31-12-2013

Profit for 2014

Measurement of available-forsale assets (net of tax)

9.2.5

Cash flow hedges (net of tax) 9.2.6

64,287 81,403 1,512,909 -10,435
64,287 81,403 1,502,474 136,329

5,242 -11,936 -6,675

398 -208,583

5,242 -11,936 -6,675

398 -208,583

-475 1,687

Actuarial valuation of employee benefit commitments

14.1

Translation differences

12.4

Income and expense recognised in equity

Total comprehensive income

Capital increase

12.1

Distribution of dividends

12.2

Transactions with shareholders

Acquisition of own shares

12.1

Disposal of own shares

12.1

Acquisition of non-controlling shares from non-controlling interests

Other movements

Equity at 31/12/2014

Profit for 2015

Measurement of available-forsale assets (net of tax)

9.2.5

0 0 1,139
1,139

0

0

0 136,329 -1,199 -56,135
0 -57,334

-955

65,426

81,403

689 1,581,203
42,891

0 1,687 0 1,687

-1,180 226,631
-475 -1,180 226,631 -475 -1,180 226,631

0

0

0

0

5,242 -10,249 -7,150 -782 18,048 1,494

Cash flow hedges (net of tax) 9.2.6

5,204

Actuarial valuation compromisos

14.1

Translation differences

12.3

Income and expense recognised in equity

Total comprehensive income

Capital increase (scrip dividend) 12.1

Distribution of dividends (scrip dividend)

12.2

Transactions with shareholders

Acquisition of own shares

12.1

Disposal of own shares

12.1

Acquisition of non-controlling

shares from non-controlling

5.2

interests

Other movements

Equity at 31/12/2015

0 0 1,251
1,251

0

0

0 42,891 -1,344

-47,836

0 -49,180

-1,241
534 66,677 81,403 1,574,207

0 5,204 0 5,204

0

0

5,242 -5,045

Notes 1 to 20 form an integral part of the consolidated annual accounts.

84

1,494 1,494
0
-5,656

103 194,831
103 194,831 103 194,831
0
-679 212,879

0

0 1,437,045 116,180 1,553,225

-10,435

-10,435

0

0 1,426,610 116,180 1,542,790

136,329 -13,642 122,687

-475

-475

1,687

7

1,694

-1,180 226,631

10,148

-1,180 236,779

0

0 226,663 10,155 236,818

0

0 362,992 -3,487 359,505

-60

-60

-56,135

-56,135

0

0 -56,195

0 -56,195

-1

-1

-1

1

1

1

-955 -141 -1,096

689

689

0

0 1,733,141 112,552 1,845,693

42,891 -16,573 26,318

1,494

1,494

5,204

-8

5,196

103

32

135

194,831 -1,437 193,394

0

0 201,632 -1,413 200,219

0

0 244,523 -17,986 226,537

-93

-93

-47,836

-47,836

0

0 -47,929

-1

-1

0

0 -47,929 -1 0

-1,241 -289 -1,530

534

534

0

-1 1,929,027 94,277 2,023,304

5. CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS

Free translation from the original in Spanish. In the event of discrepancy, the Spanish-language version prevails.) (Expressed in thousands of Euros)

Notes

CASH FLOWS FROM OPERATING ACTIVITIES Profit before tax
Adjustments for: Amortisation and depreciation Impairment Change in provisions Grants recognised in the income statement Gains/losses on disposal of fixed assets Change in fair value of financial instruments Finance income Finance costs Other income and expense
Changes in working capital: Increase/decrease in trade and other receivables Increase/decrease in inventories Increase/decrease in trade and other payables
Other cash flows from operating activities Interest paid

7 and 8
13 8 16 16

Interest received Income tax paid

NET CASH FROM OPERATING ACTIVITIES

CASH FLOWS FROM INVESTING ACTIVITIES

Acquisition of property, plant and equipment

Acquisition of intangible assets

Acquisition of non-controlling shares from non-controlling interests

5

Acquisition of other financial assets

Proceeds from sale of property, plant and equipment

Proceeds from sale of intangible assets

Proceeds from sale of other financial assets

Dividends received

Other amounts received/paid for investments

NET CASH USED IN INVESTING ACTIVITIES

CASH FLOWS FROM FINANCING ACTIVITIES

Issue of own equity instruments

12

Acquisition of own shares

12

Disposal of own shares

12

External financing received

Repayment of interest-bearing liabilities

Dividends paid

12

Distribution of share premium

Contribution from non-controlling shareholders

NET CASH FROM/USED IN FINANCING ACTIVITIES

NET INCREASE/DECREASE IN CASH AND CASH EQUIVALENTS

Cash and cash equivalents at beginning of year

11

Effect of exchange rate fluctuations

CASH AND CASH EQUIVALENTS AT YEAR END

11

Notes 1 to 20 form an integral part of the consolidated annual accounts.

2015
76,896
163,684 3,705 -1,373 -2,772 -185
36,733 -4,292 51,175 -36,520
155,849 48,753
-334,126
-49,452 3,869
-94,520 17,424
-68,863 -1,255 -1,022 -345 1,338 2 2,139 423
-67,583
-93 -1 0
157,452 -334,806
-47,836

2014
243,776
150,345 -4,555 1,909 493 -1,747
-37,974 -5,191 61,802 62,664
-4,048 -82,630 -174,740
-62,018 5,191
-103,392 49,885
-77,894 -996
-1,094 -1,294 3,720
171 111
-77,276
-60 -1 1
801,600 -650,363
-56,135

-225,284
-275,443 738,368
17,030 479,955

95,042
67,651 629,602
41,115 738,368

85

Consolidated Annual Accounts

CONTENTS NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED ANNUAL
ACCOUNTS

NOTE NOTE 1 NOTE 2 NOTE 3 NOTE 4 NOTE 5 NOTE 6 NOTE 7 NOTE 8 NOTE 9 NOTE 10 NOTE 11 NOTE 12 NOTE 13 NOTE 14 NOTE 15 NOTE 16 NOTE 17 NOTE 18 NOTE 19 NOTE 20

DESCRIPTION GENERAL INFORMATION ACCOUNTING POLICIES ACCOUNTING ESTIMATES AND JUDGEMENTS FINANCIAL RISK MANAGEMENT SCOPE OF CONSOLIDATION SEGMENT REPORTING INTANGIBLE ASSETS PROPERTY. PLANT AND EQUIPMENT FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS INVENTORIES CASH AND CASH EQUIVALENTS EQUITY DEFERRED INCOME PROVISIONS AND CONTINGENCIES INCOME AND EXPENSES NET FINANCE COST TAXATION RELATED PARTY BALANCES AND TRANSACTIONS AUDIT FEES EVENTS AFTER THE REPORTING PERIOD

PAGE 87 87 99
100 107 111 115 119 125 133 133 134 139 139 141 142 143 151 153 153

86

6 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED ANNUAL ACCOUNTS
NOTE 1 GENERAL INFORMATION
Parent: Acerinox, S.A. (hereinafter the Company).
Incorporation: Acerinox, S.A. was incorporated with limited liability under Spanish law on 30 September 1970.
Registered office: Calle Santiago de Compostela, 100, Madrid, Spain.
Statutory and principal activity: the Company's statutory activity, as described in its articles of association, is the manufacture and sale of stainless steel products and other similar or derivative products, either directly or indirectly through shareholdings in companies with the same or similar statutory activities. The Group's principal activity, conducted through its subsidiaries, is the manufacture, transformation and marketing of stainless steel products. The Acerinox Group is one of the main steel manufacturers in the world. It has six stainless steel factories: two manufacturing flat products in Spain and South Africa; one producing flat and long steel in the United States; a further two making long steel products in Spain; and another in Malaysia that makes flat steel and currently has cold rolling production lines. The Group also has a network of sales subsidiaries in Spain and abroad that sell all its products as their main activity. Details of all the companies included in the Acerinox consolidated Group are provided in note 5, as well as the activities they carry out. The Parent's principal activity is that of a holding company, as parent of the Acerinox Group. The Company also renders legal, accounting and advisory services to all the Group companies and carries out financing activities within the Group.
Financial year: the financial year of Acerinox, S.A. and all the Group companies is the twelve-month period from 1 January to 31 December.
Annual accounts: these consolidated annual accounts were authorised for issue by the board of directors of Acerinox, S.A. on 29 February 2016.
NOTE 2 ACCOUNTING POLICIES
2.1 Statement of compliance
The consolidated annual accounts of the Group have been prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS) and interpretations (IFRIC) as adopted by the European Union (hereinafter IFRS-EU) and other applicable provisions in the financial reporting framework. The annual accounts for 2015 have been prepared using the same accounting principles (IFRS-EU) as for 2014, except for the standards and amendments adopted by the European Union mentioned below, which are obligatory as of 1 January 2015, and which have not had a significant impact on the Group. The standards taking effect from 1 January 2015 are the following:
· IFRIC 21 Levies. Effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2014. However, effective for periods beginning on or after 17 June 2014 in the EU. This interpretation has no impact on these financial statements.
The following are standards or interpretations already adopted or pending adoption by the European Union that will be obligatory in the coming years and are expected to have a greater impact on the Group:
· IFRS 9 - Financial Instruments. This standard will be applicable for years commencing on or after 1 January 2018. Pending adoption by the European Union. This standard reduces the number of financial instrument categories to two: amortised cost and fair value. This standard also stipulates that debt instruments may only be classified as at amortised cost when they are payments of principal and interest, so all other debt should be recognised at fair value. The Group will need to adapt the classification of its financial instruments as a result. Changes in the value of available-for-sale financial assets are to be recognised as changes in equity, and not transferred to profit or loss, even if the assets are impaired. The standard also proposes significant changes in terms of aligning hedge accounting and risk management, defining a target-based approach and eliminating inconsistencies and shortfalls in the existing model. Some aspects
87

Consolidated Annual Accounts
of the measurement of equity instruments have also been modified. The Group is assessing the impact of this standard, although it is not expected to have a significant impact on the Group's assets and liabilities. · IFRS 15 - Revenue from Contracts with Customers. Effective for periods beginning on or after 1 January 2018. Pending adoption by the EU. The Group is assessing the impact of this standard, although it is not expected to have a significant impact on the Group's assets and liabilities. · IFRS 16 Leases. The main impact of this standard is that a lease contract is considered as a right to use the asset identified in the contract, thus it should be recognised as an asset and the debt for future payments as a liability. Effective for periods beginning on or after 1 January 2019. The Group is assessing the impact of this standard, which is not expected to be significant. Pending adoption by the EU. No disclosures or accounting principles have been applied in advance.
2.2 Basis of presentation of the consolidated annual accounts
The accompanying consolidated annual accounts have been prepared by the directors of the Parent to present fairly the Group's consolidated equity and consolidated balance sheet at 31 December 2015 and 2014, as well as the consolidated results of its operations and changes in consolidated equity and consolidated cash flows for the years then ended. The 2015 annual accounts include comparative figures for the prior year. The consolidated annual accounts are presented in Euros rounded off to the nearest thousand. They are prepared on the historical cost basis, except for derivative financial instruments and available-for-sale financial assets, which have been measured at fair value. Inventories have been measured at the lower of cost or net realisable value. The preparation of the consolidated annual accounts under IFRS-EU requires the Parent's management to make judgements, estimates and assumptions that affect the application of accounting policies and, therefore, the amounts reported in the consolidated balance sheet and the consolidated income statement. These estimates are based on past experience and other factors considered appropriate. The Group may amend these estimates in light of subsequent events or changes in circumstances. The aspects that involve a greater degree of judgement in the application of IFRS-EU or for which the estimates made are significant for the preparation of the consolidated annual accounts are detailed in note 3. Qualitative and quantitative details of the risks assumed by the Group which could have an effect on future years are provided in note 4. The accompanying consolidated annual accounts have been prepared on the basis of the individual accounting records of the Company and the subsidiaries forming the Acerinox Group. The consolidated annual accounts include certain adjustments and reclassifications made to bring the accounting and presentation policies used by different Group companies into line with those of the Company. The consolidated annual accounts for 2014 were approved by the shareholders at their annual general meeting held on 3 June 2015. The Group's consolidated annual accounts for 2015 are currently pending approval by the shareholders. The directors of the Company consider that these consolidated annual accounts will be approved with no changes by the shareholders at their annual general meeting.
2.3 Going concern assumption and accruals basis
The consolidated annual accounts have been prepared on a going concern basis. Income and expenses are recognised on an accruals basis, irrespective of collections and payments.
2.4 Consolidation principles
a) Subsidiaries Subsidiaries are entities over which the Company either directly or indirectly exercises control. The Company exercises control over a subsidiary when it is exposed, or has rights, to variable returns and has the ability to affect those returns through its power over the subsidiary. Furthermore, the Company is understood to have power over a subsidiary when it has existing substantive voting rights that give it the ability to direct the financial and operating activities and policies of the subsidiary.
88

The financial statements of subsidiaries are included in the consolidated annual accounts from the date on which control commences to the date on which control ceases. The Group has considered potential voting rights in assessing its level of control over Group companies. The subsidiaries' accounting policies have been adapted to Group accounting policies. The Acerinox Group's consolidated subsidiaries at 31 December 2015 and 2014 are listed in note 5.
b) Non-controlling interests Non-controlling interests are shareholders that exercise no control over the Company. They represent the portion of the Group's profit or loss and net assets attributed to non-controlling interests. The portion of the Group's net assets attributed to non-controlling interests are disclosed in consolidated equity separately from that attributable to the shareholders of the Parent. Non-controlling interests' share in consolidated profit or loss for the year and in consolidated total comprehensive income for the year are also disclosed separately in the consolidated income statement and in the consolidated statement of comprehensive income. Non-controlling interests in the subsidiaries acquired are recognised at the acquisition date at the proportional part of the fair value of the identifiable net assets. Profit and loss and each component of other comprehensive income are allocated to equity attributable to shareholders of the Parent and to non-controlling interests in proportion to their investment, even if this results in the non-controlling interests having a deficit balance. Agreements entered into between the Group and non-controlling interests are recognised as a separate transaction.
c) Business combinations The Group applies the acquisition method for business combinations. No business combinations took place in 2015 or 2014.
d) Associates Associates are entities over which the Group has significant influence in financial and operating decisions, but not control or joint control. The financial statements of associates are included in the consolidated annual accounts using the equity method. The Group's share of the profit or loss of an associate from the date of acquisition is recognised with a credit or debit to share in profit/loss for the year of equity-accounted investees in the consolidated income statement. Losses of an associate attributable to the Group are limited to the value of its net investment, as the Group has not acquired any legal or constructive obligations. The Group has no significant investments in associates.
e) Balances and transactions eliminated on consolidation Balances and transactions between Group companies and the resulting unrealised gains or losses with third parties are eliminated on consolidation.
2.5 Translation differences
i) Functional and presentation currency The annual accounts of each Group company are expressed in the currency of the underlying economic environment in which the entity operates (functional currency). The figures disclosed in the consolidated annual accounts are expressed in thousands of Euros, the Parent's functional and presentation currency.
ii) Foreign currency transactions, balances and cash flows Transactions in foreign currencies are translated using the foreign exchange rate prevailing at the date of the transaction. Monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies at the reporting date are translated at the closing exchange rate prevailing at that date. Any exchange differences that may arise from translation are recognised in profit or loss. Non-monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies and recorded at historical cost are translated to the functional currency using the exchange rate prevailing at the date of the transaction.
89

Consolidated Annual Accounts
Non-monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies that are measured at fair value are translated to the functional currency using the exchange rate prevailing at the date on which fair value was determined. Exchange gains and losses on non-monetary items measured at fair value are recorded as a part of the gain or loss on the fair value of the item.
In the consolidated statement of cash flows, cash flows from foreign currency transactions have been translated into Euros at the exchange rates prevailing at the dates the cash flows occur.
Exchange gains and losses arising on the settlement of foreign currency transactions and the translation into functional currency of monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies are recognised in profit or loss.
iii) Translation of foreign operations The financial statements of Group companies that are stated in a currency other than the presentation currency have been translated to Euros as follows: assets and liabilities are translated at the closing rate prevailing at the reporting date; income and expenses are translated at the average exchange rate for the period; and exchange differences are recognised separately in equity under translation differences.
The Group has applied the exemption permitted by IFRS 1, First-time Adoption of International Financial Reporting Standards, relating to accumulated translation differences. Consequently, translation differences recognised in the consolidated annual accounts generated prior to 1 January 2004 are recognised in retained earnings. Furthermore, the Group did not apply IAS 21 The Effects of Changes in Foreign Exchange Rates retrospectively to goodwill arising on business combinations that occurred before the date of transition to IFRS. Consequently, goodwill is considered as an asset of the acquirer not the acquiree, and is therefore not subject to variations due to exchange rate fluctuations affecting the acquiree.
For presentation of the consolidated statement of cash flows, cash flows, including the comparative balances of foreign subsidiaries, are translated into Euros applying the same criteria as that used to translate the financial statements.
No Group companies operate in hyperinflationary economies.
2.6 Intangible assets
a) Goodwill Business combinations are accounted for by applying the acquisition method. Goodwill represents the positive difference between the cost of acquisition and the Group's share of the fair value of the acquiree's identifiable net assets (assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities) at the acquisition date.
Due to the application of the exemption permitted by IFRS 1, goodwill on acquisitions completed prior to the transition to IFRS is recognised at historical cost, less accumulated amortisation following generally accepted accounting principles in Spain at the acquisition date. As none of the adjustments stipulated in IFRS 1 were required, this amount was considered the deemed cost of goodwill at the transition date.
After initial recognition, goodwill is measured at cost less any accumulated impairment losses. Goodwill is not amortised but is tested annually for impairment (or more frequently where there are indications of possible impairment) in accordance with IAS 36 (see note 2.8).
Negative goodwill arising on an acquisition of a business combination is recognised directly in the consolidated income statement, after reassessing the measurement of the assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities of the acquiree, as established in the standard.
Internally generated goodwill is not recognised as an asset.
b) Internally generated intangible assets Expenditure on research activities undertaken with the prospect of gaining new scientific or technical knowledge is expensed in the consolidated income statement when incurred.
When research findings are applied to produce new products or to substantially improve existing products and processes, the associated development costs are capitalised if the product or process is technically and commercially feasible, the Group has sufficient resources to complete development and sufficient future cash flows are expected to be generated to recover the costs, with a credit to self-constructed non-current assets in the consolidated income statement. The expenditure capitalised includes the cost of materials, direct labour and directly attributable overheads.
Expenditure on activities for which the costs attributable to the research phase are not clearly distinguishable from costs associated with the development stage of intangible assets is recognised in the consolidated income statement.
90

Capitalised development costs are not amortised while the project is underway. Upon successful completion of the project, amortisation begins on a systematic basis over the estimated useful life. In the event of changes in the circumstances that led to the capitalisation of the project expenditure, the unamortised balance is expensed in the year the changes arise.
c) Computer software Computer software licences are capitalised at the cost of acquiring the licence and preparing the specific program for use. Computer software maintenance or development costs are charged as expenses when incurred. Costs that are directly associated with the production of identifiable and unique computer software packages by the Group are recognised as intangible assets provided that they are likely to generate economic benefits that exceed the associated costs for more than one year. Capitalised expenses comprise direct labour costs and directly attributable overheads.
d) Emission allowances CO2 emission allowances are recognised as intangible assets and measured at cost of acquisition. Allowances acquired free of charge under the National Allocation Plan pursuant to Law 1/2007 of 9 March 2007 are initially measured at market value at the date received. At the same time, a grant is recognised for the same amount under deferred income. Emission allowances are not amortised, but rather are expensed when used. At year end, the Group assesses whether the carrying amount of the allowances exceeds their market value in order to determine whether there are indications of impairment. If there are indications, the Group determines whether these allowances will be used in the production process or earmarked for sale, in which case the necessary impairment losses would be recognised. Provisions are released when the factors leading to the valuation adjustment have ceased to exist. A provision for liabilities and charges is recognised for expenses related to the emission of greenhouse gases. This provision is maintained until the company is required to settle the liability by surrendering the corresponding emission allowances. These expenses are accrued as greenhouse gases are emitted. When an expense is recognised for allowances acquired free of charge, the corresponding deferred income is taken to operating income. In the case of swaps of emission allowances, given that all of the Group's allowances were acquired free of charge, the accounting treatment applied by the Group is that of non-commercial swaps. The Group derecognises allowances surrendered at their carrying amount and recognises those received at their fair value when received. The difference between both values is recognised as deferred income. Detailed information on emission allowances received and consumed in 2015 and 2014, as well as the swap performed in the year, is included in note 7 Intangible assets.
e) Amortisation Intangible assets with finite useful lives are amortised by allocating the depreciable amount of an asset on a systematic basis over its useful life. Intangible assets are amortised from the date they become available for use. Goodwill and development expenditure on work in progress are tested annually for impairment. Estimated useful lives are as follows:
- Industrial property: 5 years - Computer software: 2-5 years The Group does not have any intangible assets with indefinite useful lives. Residual values, amortisation methods and useful lives are reviewed, and adjusted if appropriate, at each reporting date. Changes to initially established criteria are accounted for as a change in accounting estimates.
91

Consolidated Annual Accounts
2.7 Property, plant and equipment
a) Owned assets Property, plant and equipment are recognised at cost or deemed cost, less accumulated depreciation and any accumulated impairment losses. The cost of self-constructed assets is determined using the same principles as for an acquired asset, while also considering the criteria applicable to production costs of inventories. The production cost is capitalised by allocating the costs attributable to the asset to self-constructed noncurrent assets in the consolidated income statement. Borrowing costs directly linked to financing the construction of property, plant and equipment are capitalised as part of the cost until the asset enters service. The Group also capitalises certain borrowing costs incurred on loans that are not directly designated to finance the investments, applying a capitalisation rate to the amounts used to finance these assets. This capitalisation rate is calculated based on the weighted average of the borrowing costs incurred on loans received by the Company other than those specifically allocated to finance the assets. The amount of borrowing costs capitalised never exceeds the amount of borrowing costs incurred during the period. The cost of property, plant and equipment includes major repair costs, which are capitalised and depreciated over the estimated period remaining until the following major repair. Subsequent to initial recognition of the asset, only improvement costs incurred which will generate probable future profits and for which the amount may reliably be measured are capitalised. Costs of periodic servicing of property, plant and equipment are recognised in profit and loss as incurred. Spare parts are carried as inventory unless the Group expects to use them over more than one period, in which case they qualify as property, plant and equipment and are depreciated over their useful life. The carrying amount of a spare part is written off when it is used to replace a damaged part. Spare parts of property, plant and equipment are classified under technical installations and machinery in the breakdown provided in note 8.
b) Investment property Investment property comprises Group-owned buildings held to earn rentals or for capital appreciation but not occupied by the Group. Investment property is initially recognised at cost, including transaction costs. Subsequently the Group applies the same criteria as for property, plant and equipment. As investment property represents only a minor proportion of the Group's assets, it is included within property, plant and equipment. Details are, however, provided in the notes. Lease income is recognised using the criteria described in note 2.17 b).
c) Depreciation Property, plant and equipment are depreciated by allocating the depreciable amount of the asset on a systematic basis over its useful life. The depreciable amount is the cost or deemed cost of an asset, less its residual value. Each part of an item of property, plant and equipment with a cost that is significant in relation to the total cost of the item is depreciated separately. Residual values, depreciation methods and useful lives are reviewed, and adjusted if appropriate, at each reporting date. Changes to initially established criteria are accounted for as a change in accounting estimates. Land is not depreciated. Property, plant and equipment are depreciated over the following estimated useful lives:
- Buildings: 10-50 years - Technical installations and machinery: 3-30 years - Other property, plant and equipment: 2-10 years
92

2.8 Impairment of non-financial assets
The carrying amounts of the Group's non-financial assets, other than inventories and deferred tax assets, are reviewed at each reporting date to determine whether there are any indications of impairment. If any such indication exists, the Group estimates the recoverable amount of the asset.
The recoverable amount of goodwill, which is not amortised, and of intangible assets not yet available for use is estimated at each reporting date, unless prior to this date there were indications of a possible loss in value, in which case these are tested for impairment.
Impairment losses are recognised whenever the carrying amount of the asset, or its corresponding cash-generating unit, exceeds its recoverable amount. Impairment losses are expensed in the income statement.
The recoverable amount of the assets is the higher of their fair value less costs to sell and their value in use. Value in use is the present value of estimated cash flows, applying a discount rate that reflects the current market valuation of the time value of money and the specific risks of the asset in question. For assets that do not generate cash inflows themselves, the recoverable amount is determined for the cash-generating unit to which the asset belongs, considered as the smallest identifiable group of assets that generates cash inflows that are largely independent of the cash inflows from other assets or groups of assets.
Details of the variables and assumptions used by the Group to calculate value in use and identify cash-generating units are provided in notes 7.2 and 8.1.
Except in the case of goodwill, impairment losses recognised in prior years are reversed through the income statement provided that there has been a change in the estimates used to determine the asset's recoverable amount since the last impairment loss was recognised. However, the new carrying amount cannot exceed the carrying amount (net of amortisation or depreciation) that the asset would have had if no impairment loss had been recorded.
2.9 Financial instruments
2.9.1 Classification The Company classifies financial instruments into different categories based on the nature of the instruments and the Group's intentions on initial recognition.
2.9.2 Financial assets Acquisitions and disposals of investments are accounted for at the date on which the Group undertakes to purchase or sell the asset. Investments are derecognised when the contractual rights to the cash flows from the investment expire or have been transferred and the Group has transferred substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership. On derecognition of a financial asset, the difference between the carrying amount and the sum of the consideration received, net of transaction costs, is recognised in profit or loss.
The measurement criteria applied to the financial assets held by the Group in 2015 and 2014 are detailed below.
a) Financial assets at fair value through profit or loss Derivative financial instruments, except those that are designated as hedges and qualify for recognition as such, are included in this category.
The derivative financial instruments included in this category are classified as current assets and measured at fair value. Transaction costs directly attributable to the acquisition are recognised as an expense.
Changes in fair value are recorded under revaluation of financial instruments at fair value in the income statement.
b) Loans and receivables Loans and receivables include non-derivative financial assets with fixed or determinable payments that are not quoted in an active market. They are only classified as non-current when they are not due to mature within 12 months of the reporting date. These investments are initially recognised at the fair value of the consideration given, including transaction costs directly attributable to the purchase, and subsequently measured at amortised cost using the effective interest method.
The Group makes the necessary valuation adjustments where there is evidence that a receivable is impaired. The amount of the impairment loss is calculated as the difference between the carrying amount and the present value of the estimated future cash flows, discounted at the effective interest rate determined on initial recognition. These losses are recognised as an expense in the consolidated income statement and are reversed with the recognition of the income when their causes are eliminated.
93

Consolidated Annual Accounts
Trade receivables are included in this category, recognised at their nominal value, which is the same as their fair value, as generally they accrue no interest. In cases where the Group considers that amounts will not be collected when due, the provision for bad debts reduces the balance of trade receivables. The Group analyses trade receivables on an individual basis, although in general, all balances past due by more than 180 days or when the debtor has been declared insolvent are considered as impaired. Discounted notes and factored trade receivables are recognised until maturity under both trade receivables and current loans and borrowings, unless the risks and rewards associated with these assets have been substantially transferred, in which case they are derecognised.
c) Available-for-sale financial assets The Group classifies in this category non-derivative financial instruments that are designated as available for sale or which do not qualify for recognition in the previous categories. They are initially recognised at fair value plus transaction costs directly attributable to the purchase. After initial recognition financial assets classified in this category are measured at fair value provided this can be measured reliably, recognising the gain or loss in the consolidated statement of comprehensive income. The fair value of listed securities is determined by reference to the share price. The fair value of financial assets that are not quoted in official markets is calculated by reference to discounted future cash flows. Equity investments included in this category whose market value cannot be reliably defined are measured at acquisition cost, as permitted by IFRS-EU, less any impairment losses. When available-for-sale financial assets are sold, the cumulative gains or losses from changes in fair value recognised in the consolidated statement of comprehensive income are transferred to the consolidated income statement. When a decline in the fair value of an available-for-sale financial asset has been recognised in comprehensive income and there is objective evidence that the asset is impaired, the cumulative loss is reclassified from equity to the income statement. This amount is calculated as the difference between the acquisition cost and the current fair value, less any previously recognised impairment. Any impairment losses recognised in the income statement in relation to these assets are reversed against equity rather than through profit and loss. Any subsequent increase in fair value is recognised under valuation adjustments in the consolidated statement of comprehensive income. At the end of each reporting period the Group assesses whether there is objective evidence of impairment. Objective evidence of impairment exists when there is a significant or prolonged decline in the listed price of an investment below its cost. To determine whether this is the case, the Group examines the historical listed prices of its securities and how long they have been trading below cost. 2.9.3 Financial liabilities For measurement purposes, financial liabilities are classified into the following categories:
a) Debts and payables The financial liabilities classified in this category are initially recognised at cost, which is the same as their fair value, less any transaction costs incurred. These liabilities are subsequently measured at amortised cost using the effective interest method. Any difference between the amount received (net of transaction costs) and the amortised cost is recognised in profit or loss. However, trade payables falling due in less than one year that have no contractual interest rate and are expected to be settled in the short term are measured at their nominal amount. This category also includes the bonds issued by the Group. The Group has contracted reverse factoring facilities with various financial institutions to manage payments to suppliers. Trade payables settled under the management of financial institutions are recognised under trade and other payables until they are settled or repaid or have expired. When debt is refinanced, the Group assesses whether the changes made in the new agreement are sufficiently important to recognise the effects as if it were a cancellation and, simultaneously, a new loan.
b) Financial liabilities at fair value through profit or loss This category includes the Group's derivative financial instruments, except for financial guarantee contracts or designated hedging instruments. These are recognised at fair value. Changes in fair value are recognised in profit or loss.
94

2.9.4 Hedge accounting Derivative financial instruments are initially recognised at cost of acquisition, which coincides with their fair value. They are subsequently recognised at fair value. Derivative financial instruments that do not meet hedge accounting requirements are classified and measured as financial assets and financial liabilities at fair value through profit or loss. Where derivatives qualify for recognition as cash flow hedges, they are treated as such and the recognition of any resultant unrealised gain or loss depends on the nature of the hedged item. The effective part of the realised gain or loss on the financial instrument is initially recognised in the consolidated statement of comprehensive income and later transferred to the income statement in the year or years in which the hedged transaction affects profit or loss. The Group only undertakes cash flow hedges. At the inception of the hedge the Group formally designates and documents the hedging relationships and the objective and strategy for undertaking the hedges. Hedge accounting is only applicable when the hedge is expected to be highly effective at the inception of the hedge and until it expires. A hedge is considered as highly effective if it offsets the changes in cash flows attributable to the hedged risk throughout the period for which it was designated (prospective analysis) and the actual effectiveness, which can be reliably measured, is within a range of 80%125% (retrospective analysis). The Group prospectively discontinues the accounting of fair value hedges when the hedging instrument expires, is sold or the hedge no longer meets the criteria for hedge accounting. In these cases, the cumulative gain or loss on the hedging instrument that has been recognised in equity is recorded in profit or loss. 2.9.5 Determination of fair value Financial instruments measured at fair value are classified based on valuation inputs into the following levels:
LEVEL 1: includes financial instruments for which the fair value is determined by reference to quoted prices on active markets. LEVEL 2: includes financial instruments for which the fair value is determined based on observable market variables, other than quoted
prices. LEVEL 3: includes financial instruments for which the fair value is determined based on unobservable variables.
2.10 Inventories
Inventories are initially measured at cost of acquisition or production. Valuation allowances are made and recognised as an expense in the income statement when the cost of acquisition or production of inventories exceeds the net realisable value. Net realisable value is the expected selling price of these goods less costs to sell. Any write-downs that reduce inventories to their net realisable value are reversed, up to the cost of the inventories, if the circumstances that gave rise to the write-downs cease to exist. Cost of acquisition or production is determined as follows:
- Raw materials and other supplies are measured using the weighted average cost method. - F inished goods and work in progress are measured at the weighted average cost of raw and other materials consumed, incorporating
applicable direct and indirect labour costs and general manufacturing costs based on the higher of normal operating capacity or actual production. The cost of underutilisation of operating capacity is not included in the value of finished goods and work in progress. The Group uses the same cost model for all inventories of the same nature and with a similar use. The net realisable value for finished goods is the estimated selling price in the ordinary course of business, less costs to sell. In the case of work in progress the estimated costs of completion are also deducted from this price. Raw materials are not written down below cost if the finished goods in which they will be used are expected to be sold at or above cost of production.
95

Consolidated Annual Accounts
2.11 Cash and cash equivalents
Cash and cash equivalents include cash balances, demand deposits with banks and other short-term, highly liquid investments that are readily convertible to cash and which are subject to an insignificant risk of changes in value. In the consolidated statement of cash flows, the Group classifies interest paid and received as cash flows from operating activities, while dividends received are considered cash flows from investing activities and dividends paid are classified as cash flows used in financing activities.
2.12 Grants
2.12.1 Capital grants Capital grants are those received by the Group for the acquisition of property, plant and equipment and intangible assets. They are recognised as deferred income in the balance sheet. They are initially recognised at the original amount awarded when there is reasonable assurance that this will be received and that the Group will comply with the conditions attached. Subsequently, they are taken to the income statement on a straightline basis over the useful lives of the assets for which the grants were received, except for those relating to CO2 emission allowances, which are taken to income in line with the recognition of the corresponding greenhouse gas emission expense. 2.12.2 Operating grants Operating grants are those received to finance specific expenses. They are recognised as income when the expenses are incurred. 2.13 Employee benefits Certain Group companies have assumed the following long-term commitments with their employees:
a) Defined contribution plans A defined contribution plan is a pension plan under which the Group pays fixed contributions into a separate entity, and will have no legal or constructive obligation to pay further contributions if the fund does not hold sufficient assets to pay all employee benefits relating to employee service in the current and prior periods. Certain Group companies pay contributions to pension and life insurance plans on a mandatory, contractual or voluntary basis. The Group has no further payment obligations once these contributions have been paid. The contributions are recognised as an employee benefit expense when they are accrued. Prepaid contributions are recognised as an asset to the extent that a cash refund or a reduction in future payments is available. Provisions are not made for defined contribution plans as they do not generate future obligations for the Group.
b) Defined benefit plans A defined benefit plan is a commitment entered into by a company with its employees to remunerate services rendered. These benefits have been established based on local legislation in certain countries, contracts signed to that effect, or as included in collective bargaining agreements prevailing in certain Group companies. Accrued commitments are calculated as the present value of the accumulated benefits accrued by personnel until the reporting date, using actuarial assumptions. Calculations are made by independent experts. Group companies record the corresponding provisions to cover these commitments. Existing obligations may be classified as:
· Pension plans: certain Group companies have commitments with some employees reaching retirement age. · Early retirement benefits: certain Group companies have undertaken to pay benefits to employees who opt to take early retirement. · Supplements: these plans are obligations agreed with certain Group employees to supplement their remuneration on retirement. · Other post-employment commitments: certain Group companies provide healthcare benefits to their retired employees. Entitlement
to these benefits is usually conditional on the employee remaining in service up to retirement age and the completion of a minimum service period. The expected costs of these benefits are accrued over the period of employment using an accounting methodology similar to that for defined benefit pension plans. The Group complies with obligations regarding the externalisation of these commitments in countries where this is applicable. Defined benefit liabilities recognised in the consolidated balance sheet reflect the present value of defined benefit obligations at the reporting date, minus the fair value at that date of plan assets. The Group recognises changes in the actuarial value of obligations in comprehensive income.
96

The actuarial value of the commitments is calculated by an independent expert. The valuation is performed using the Projected Unit Credit method, taking into account mortality tables and estimates of future increases in medical costs. When plan assets include insurance policies that exactly match the amount and timing of some or all of the benefits payable under the plan, the fair value of the insurance policies is considered equal to the present value of the related obligations.
c) Share-based payments The Group does not have any share-based payment plans. 2.14 Provisions The Group recognises provisions when:
(i) It has a present obligation (legal or constructive) as a result of past events; (ii) It is more likely than not that an outflow of resources will be required to settle the obligation; and (iii) A reliable estimate can be made of the amount of the obligation.
The amount recognised as a provision is the best estimate of the expenditure required to settle the present obligation at the end of the reporting period, taking into account all risks and uncertainties surrounding the amount to be recognised as a provision and, where the time value of money is material, the financial effect of discounting provided that the expenditure to be made each period can be reliably estimated. 2.15 Classification of assets and liabilities as current and non-current The Group classifies assets and liabilities in the consolidated balance sheet as current and non-current. Assets and liabilities are considered current when the Group expects to settle, realise, sell or consume them in its normal operating cycle, they are held primarily for the purpose of trading, it expects to realise or settle them within twelve months after the reporting date or they are cash or cash equivalents. 2.16 Income taxes The income tax expense for the year comprises current tax and deferred tax. Current tax is the estimated tax payable on the consolidated taxable income or tax loss for the year using tax rates enacted at the reporting date and any adjustment to tax payable in respect of previous years. Deferred tax is calculated using the balance sheet method, based on temporary differences that arise between the tax base of assets and liabilities and their carrying amounts in the consolidated annual accounts. Deferred tax is measured using the tax rates (and laws) enacted or substantively enacted at the reporting date that are expected to apply to the period when the asset is realised or the liability settled. The effect on deferred tax assets and liabilities of a change in the tax rate is recognised in the income statement, except to the extent that it relates to items previously charged or credited to the consolidated statement of comprehensive income. Deferred tax liabilities are always recognised. Deferred tax assets in respect of temporary differences are recognised only to the extent that it is probable that future taxable income will be available against which the asset can be utilised. Deferred tax assets are reduced when it is no longer considered probable that sufficient future taxable income will be generated or there are no deferred tax liabilities against which the assets can be offset. Reductions are reversed if there is renewed expectation that sufficient taxable income will be available against which the derecognised balance can be utilised. The Group only offsets deferred tax assets and liabilities if it has a legally enforceable right to do so, the assets and liabilities correspond to the same taxation authority and it plans to realise current tax assets or settle current tax liabilities on a net basis. Deferred tax assets and liabilities are recognised in the consolidated balance sheet under non-current assets or liabilities, irrespective of the expected date of recovery or settlement. Certain companies in the consolidated Group have reserves that could be subject to taxation if they were distributed. The Group has not recognised any tax effect in this respect as these reserves are not expected to be distributed in the foreseeable future.
97

Consolidated Annual Accounts
The Parent has filed consolidated tax returns since 1998. As agreed by the shareholders at an annual general meeting held on 28 May 2003, Acerinox, S.A. and some of the Spanish-domiciled subsidiaries form part of a consolidated tax group on an indefinite basis, with the exception of Metalinox Bilbao, S.A.U. and Inoxidables de Euskadi, S.A.U., which file tax returns separately. At 31 December 2015 and 2014 the consolidated tax group comprises Acerinox, S.A., Acerinox Europa, S.A.U, Roldán, S.A., Inoxfil, S.A., Inoxcenter, S.L.U. and Inoxcenter Canarias, S.A.U. 2.17 Income
a) Sales of goods and rendering of services Revenue from the sale of goods is recognised in the income statement when the risks and rewards of ownership have been transferred to the buyer. No revenue is recognised if there are significant uncertainties regarding the recovery of the consideration due, or the possible return of goods. Revenue is recognised net of taxes, returns and discounts that the Group considers probable at the date the revenue is recognised, and after the elimination of intra-Group sales.
b) Lease income Rental income from investment property is recognised in the income statement on a straight-line basis over the term of the lease.
c) Income from dividends Dividend income is recognised when the Group's right to receive it is established. 2.18 Environmental issues The Group takes measures to prevent, reduce or repair the damage caused to the environment by its activities. Expenses derived from environmental activities are recognised as other operating expenses in the period in which they are incurred. The Group has not recognised any environmental provisions. Property, plant and equipment acquired by the Group for long-term use to minimise the environmental impact of its activity and protect and improve the environment, including the reduction and elimination of pollution, are recognised as assets, applying the measurement, presentation and disclosure criteria described in note 2.7. 2.19 Changes in accounting estimates and policies, and correction of errors The Group applies IAS 8 to recognise changes in accounting estimates and accounting policies and to correct errors. The Group recognises changes in accounting estimates in the period in which they occur. Accounting errors are corrected in the year in which they occurred, restating the comparative information presented in the financial statements. Changes in accounting policies are applied retrospectively, adjusting the opening balances of the equity items affected. In 2015 the Group has restated the comparative figures for 2014 to correct accumulated depreciation in respect of certain items of property, plant and equipment. This amount results from a standardisation adjustment made during the transition to international accounting standards that was not reversed in subsequent years. Consequently, the opening balances at 1 January 2014 have been restated, resulting in a reduction in the balances of property, plant and equipment, deferred tax liabilities and reserves of Euros 14 million, Euros 4 million and Euros 10 million, respectively. This adjustment represents an immaterial percentage of 0.5% of assets and liabilities and has no impact on the profit for 2015 or 2014. Therefore basic and diluted earnings per share are not affected.
98

NOTE 3 ACCOUNTING ESTIMATES AND JUDGEMENTS
Accounting estimates and judgements are assessed constantly and based on past experience and other factors, including expectations of future events that are considered reasonable.
The Group makes estimates and judgements related to future events. The resulting accounting estimates could differ from actual results. In accordance with IAS 8 on Accounting Policies, Changes in Accounting Estimates and Errors, changes in accounting estimates are recognised prospectively in the Group's financial statements.
The Group's main estimates are as follows:
a) Impairment of goodwill and other non-financial assets The Group tests goodwill annually for impairment, in accordance with the accounting policy described in note 2.8.
The Group reviews property, plant and equipment at each reporting date to ascertain whether there is any indication of impairment. If any such indication exists, the Group estimates the recoverable amount of the asset.
The recoverable amount of a cash-generating unit (CGU) is determined based on its value in use. These calculations are made using reasonable assumptions based on past returns and future production and market development expectations. Notes 7.2 and 8.1 include details of the analyses conducted by the Group in 2015 and 2014.
b) Useful lives of plant and equipment Group management determines the estimated useful lives and corresponding depreciation charges for its plant and equipment based on expert valuations. These could alter significantly as a result of technical innovations, variations in plant activity levels, etc. Management regularly reviews the depreciation charge and adjusts it when estimated useful lives are different from those previously applied, fully depreciating or derecognising technically obsolete and non-strategic assets which have been abandoned or sold.
Estimated useful lives remain unchanged both in 2015 and 2014.
c) Fair value of derivatives or other financial instruments The fair value of financial instruments that are not traded in active markets is determined by using valuation techniques mainly based on market conditions existing at each reporting date, and provided that financial information is available to carry out this valuation. Note 9.2.1 contains additional information on financial instruments measured in accordance with these assumptions.
d) Provisions As mentioned in note 2.14, provisions recognised in the consolidated balance sheet reflect the best estimate at the reporting date of the amount expected to be required to settle a liability, provided that the materialisation of this outflow of resources is considered probable. Changes in foreseen circumstances could cause these estimates to vary and would be reviewed if necessary.
e) Net realisable value As mentioned in note 2.10, the Group estimates the net realisable value of its inventories to recognise any impairment required. Expected selling prices of inventories less costs to sell are considered when calculating net realisable value.
f) Recoverability of available tax loss carryforwards and deductions The Group regularly evaluates its available tax credits through projections of profit and loss approved by management, to conclude as to whether they will be recoverable in the future. The Group takes into account the limitations to offsetting tax bases as stipulated in certain legislation. Details of the basis on which the Group assesses the recoverability of tax credits are provided in note 17.2.
The judgements and accounting estimates used by the Group in 2015 and 2014 are the same as in prior years.
99

Consolidated Annual Accounts
NOTE 4 FINANCIAL RISK MANAGEMENT
The Group's activities are exposed to various financial risks: market risk (currency risk, interest rate risk and price risk), credit risk and liquidity risk. The Group aims to minimise the potential adverse effect on its profits through the use of derivative financial instruments, where appropriate to the risks, and insurance. Note 9.2.6 includes a detailed analysis of the Group's derivatives at year end. The Group does not acquire financial instruments for speculative purposes.
4.1 Market risk
Market risk arises from variations in market prices due to exchange rate or interest rate fluctuations or changes in the price of raw and other materials, which can affect a company's results and equity as well as the values of its assets and liabilities. 4.1.1 Currency risk The Group operates internationally and is therefore exposed to foreign currency risk, especially with regard to the US Dollar. Currency risk arises from commercial transactions, financing and investment operations, and from translation of financial statements in functional currencies other than the Group's presentation currency (Euro). In order to control currency risk associated with commercial transactions, Group entities use forward currency sale or purchase contracts negotiated with the Group's Treasury Department in accordance with policies approved by management. The Group also uses derivatives such as cross-currency swaps to control currency risk in financing operations. The Group hedges most of its financial and commercial transactions in currencies other than the functional currency of each country. At the beginning of each month and subject to fortnightly review, each company considers its loans in non-local currency, trade receivables and supplier balances in foreign currency, the sales and purchases in foreign currency forecast for the period and exchange rate insurance coverage. The Group may take commercial and finance transactions as a whole into account when evaluating its total exposure for the purpose of hedging transactions in foreign currency. Not all of the exchange rate insurance contracts entered into by the Group qualify for cash flow hedge accounting as established in note 2.9.4. Contracts that do not comply with these criteria have been accounted for as financial instruments at fair value through profit or loss. In general, financial instruments designated to hedge exposure to currency risk arising from commercial transactions are not recognised as hedging instruments. However, those designated as a hedge of foreign currency risk arising from financial transactions qualify for recognition as hedging instruments. The fair value of forward exchange contracts is their market price at the reporting date, which is the present value of the difference between the insured price and the forward price of each contract. Note 9.2.6 includes details of financial instruments contracted by the Group to hedge this type of risk at 31 December 2015 and 2014. As most commercial transactions in currencies other than the functional currency of the Company are hedged, any fluctuation in exchange rates that could affect assets or liabilities denominated in foreign currency would be offset by a fluctuation for the same amount in the derivative contracted. Lastly, the Group is exposed to currency risk as a result of the translation to Euros of the individual financial statements of companies whose functional currency differs from the Group's presentation currency, particularly the US Dollar and the South African Rand.
100

Based on the exchange rates of these currencies against the Euro at the end of 2015, sensitivity to changes in exchange rates, with other variables remaining constant, is as follows:

(Expressed in thousands of Euros)
31 December 2015 USD ZAR 31 December 2014 USD ZAR

Profit and loss

10% appreciation

10% depreciation

4,076 1,537

-3,335 -1,257

Equity

10% appreciation

10% depreciation

182,533 19,385

-149,345 -15,860

16,442 240

-13,452 -197

158,537 21,340

-129,712 -17,460

4.1.2 Interest rate risk
The Group's financing comes from various countries and in different currencies (mainly the Euro, the US Dollar and the South African Rand), with a range of maturity dates and mostly variable interest rates.

The Group's financial liabilities and financial assets are exposed to fluctuations in interest rates. To manage this interest risk rate, curves are analysed regularly and derivatives are used. These derivatives take the form of interest rate swaps and qualify for recognition as cash flow hedging instruments. The fair value of interest rate swaps is the estimated amount that the Group would receive or pay to terminate the swap at the reporting date, taking into account interest and exchange rates at that date and the credit risk associated with the swap counterparties.

The Group has therefore hedged the interest rate risk on the majority of its non-current loans in recent years. Note 9.2.6 includes details of the financial instruments arranged by the Group to hedge this type of risk at 31 December 2015 and 2014.

Risk premiums and credit spreads increased between 2009 and the end of 2013 as a result of the international financial crisis and money market turbulence. Since then, the Acerinox Group has witnessed a considerable improvement. The Group has minimised exposure to this risk by ensuring that its non-current borrowings exceed its current borrowings.

Regarding Group sensitivity to interest rates, had interest rates on the loan balances outstanding at the reporting date been 100 basis points higher, with all other variables remaining constant, consolidated profit after tax would have been Euros 5.03 million lower (3.65 million euros lower in 2014). The effect on the Group's equity of higher interest rates across the entire curve would have been a net decrease of Euros 0.79 million (Euros 5.86 million increase in 2014), as the higher borrowing costs would not have been offset by increases in the values of its interest rate hedging derivatives held at the reporting date.

4.1.3 Price risk The Group is exposed to three types of price risk:

1. Risk due to changes in the listed price of securities held in listed companies

The risk of price fluctuations in listed securities relates to the shares held by the Group in Nisshin Steel, which is traded on the Tokyo Stock Exchange. The Group has not hedged this risk with derivative financial instruments. Note 9.2.5 provides details of the impact of the fluctuations in listed securities during the year.
2. Risk due to regional crises Acerinox's global presence, with factories in four geographical regions and commercial activities on five continents, reduces its exposure to any specific area.
3. Risk of changes in prices of raw materials The stainless steel market is characterised by healthy demand, which has grown at an annual rate of approximately 6% for over 50 years. Exceptionally, the market shrank by 11.8% in 2007-2009 because of the worldwide economic recession, but recovered with growth of 26.4% in 2010. The aforementioned annual growth rate is therefore expected to prevail in the medium term.. Stainless steel is required for all industrial applications and used in all sectors, which guarantees that this growth will be sustained in the coming years. Although end consumption continues to grow steadily, the fact that this market is largely controlled by independent wholesalers leads to volatility in apparent consumption, reflecting their expectations regarding nickel price trends in the London Metal Exchange (LME) and their ensuing strategies to stockpile or realise inventories.

101

Consolidated Annual Accounts
To counter the risk derived from the fact that independent wholesalers, control the majority of the market, the Acerinox Group has developed a sales network that enables it to supply end customers on a continuous basis, by means of warehouses and service centres through which the Group's production is channelled. This policy has enabled the Group to achieve a significant market share among end customers and, therefore, stabilise sales and reduce this risk. The recent investments made in the Pinto (Madrid) service centre and the newly opened sales branches in Russia, Thailand, the Philippines, Taiwan, Indonesia, Vietnam and Dubai are examples of this strategy.
Maintaining sufficient inventory levels in warehouses entails the risk that these inventories might be recognised above their market price. The Group alleviates this risk by maintaining strict control over inventory levels
To counter the risk posed by the volatility of raw materials, 90% of Group sales (i.e. all sales made in Europe, America and South Africa) are naturally hedged by applying an alloy surcharge, which allows the Group to pass on any nickel price fluctuations occurring on the London Metal Exchange during production of the order, as well as Euro/US Dollar exchange rate fluctuations, to customers. With this hedge, a fluctuation of 10% in the price of nickel on the London Metal Exchange would alter the Group's gross margin on sales by less than 1%.
The valuation of raw materials, work in progress and finished goods at average cost helps to reduce the volatility of costs and, consequently, to decrease the impact of nickel price fluctuations on margins.
The Group's policy of taking firm orders naturally hedges the costs of raw materials, as all accepted orders have a known risk. The Group has also made considerable efforts to reduce its production cycle to two weeks. Keeping strict control over inventories and adapting production to market circumstances help to alleviate the risk of raw material price fluctuations.
The aforementioned factors (an own sales network, controlled inventory levels, alloy surcharges, average cost valuations, shortening of the production cycle and a policy of acceptance of short-term orders) help to reduce exposure to the main risk, namely the cyclical nature of apparent consumption due to the volatility of raw materials. As this is a factor beyond this Group's control, effective risk management is not always sufficient to eliminate its impact. In 2015, the uninterrupted decline in the price of nickel by 42% has led independent wholesalers to reduce their inventories, which has affected the flow of orders from manufacturers. Twelve months of uninterrupted decline in the price of this raw material has had an impact on profit margins in the industry worldwide. Had the Group not implemented such a strategy in managing this risk, the damage would have been far greater, as seen in other manufacturers.
4.2 Credit risk
Credit risk is defined as the possible loss that could be incurred through failure of a customer or debtor to meet contractual obligations.
The Group's exposure to credit risk is determined by the individual characteristics of each customer and, where applicable, by the risk corresponding to the country where the customer operates. Due to the diversity of its customers and the countries in which it operates, credit risk is not concentrated in any individual customer, sector or geographical region.
The Group hedges its commercial and political risks either through credit insurance companies, or through letters of credit and bank guarantees extended by banks of recognised solvency located in countries with low financial risk. Credit insurance covers between 85% and 90% of declared commercial risks, depending on the country in which the customer is located and the insurance company, and 90% of political risks. The Group's main credit insurer has an A3 credit rating from Moody's and an "A (excellent)" rating from A.M. Best.
In 2015 pay-outs of Euros 1,674 thousand have been collected under the credit insurance policy (Euros 2,798 thousand in 2014).
A risk committee is responsible for monitoring the Group's credit risk policy. Where required, the committee also performs an individual analysis of customers' creditworthiness, establishing credit limits and payment terms. New customers are analysed with the insurance company and those that fulfil the necessary credit conditions are offered the Group's general payment terms. Payment in cash is required from those that do not.
The risk committee comprises representatives from the sales, financial and legal departments. The risks of the companies that make up the Acerinox Group are analysed and information is in turn received from the respective risk committees of Bahru Stainless, Columbus, NAS or Grupinox (which represents the sales network in Spain).
Among other duties, the risk committee reviews the status of past-due debts, monitors sales with excessive exposure, and approves internal loans or, depending on the amount, requests approval from the steering committee.
The Group has long-standing commercial relationships with many of its customers. In the event of a late payment, the Group monitors future deliveries and payment terms closely, reviews credit limits and improves existing measures as appropriate.
102

Where permitted under local legislation in the country in which the customer operates, retention of title clauses are used to secure recovery of goods in the event of default on payment.

On occasion the Group also uses other financial instruments to reduce credit risk, such as factoring operations. The Group derecognises factored assets when the risks and rewards of these assets have been substantially transferred.

The Group makes valuation adjustments to trade receivables where necessary to mitigate the risk of bad debts or provide for past-due balances, or when circumstances indicate that collection is doubtful. In general, the Group recognises impairment on receivables aged over 180 days or when the debtor has filed for insolvency. Details of movement in impairment of trade receivables are provided in note 9.2.2.

At 31 December 2015, consolidated trade receivables amount to Euros 439,537 thousand (Euros 443,565 thousand in 2014). Revenues for 2015 total Euros 4,221,426 thousand (Euros 4,380,289 thousand in 2014). Credit risk insurance has been contracted for 55% of consolidated net sales, (50% in 2014). Cash conditions exist for 2% (2% in 2014). Confirmed letters of credit or guarantees are used to hedge credit risk in 2% of consolidated net sales (2% in 2014). Domestic sales by North American Stainless Inc., which have a collection period of under 30 days, account for 37% of consolidated net sales (45% in 2014).

The ageing analysis of receivables is as follows:

(Expressed in thousands of Euros)
Outstanding Less than 30 days 30-60 days 60-90 days Over 90 days TOTAL

2015 366,051
49,622 8,950 3,801
11,113 439,537

% of payables 83% 11% 2% 1% 3%
100%

2014 345,102
73,555 11,923
2,055 10,930 443,565

% of payables 78% 17% 3% 0% 2%
100%

The Group has made provisions for Euros 9,815 thousand (Euros 10,487 thousand in 2014) of which the entire amount is for balances aged more than 90 days. Total known write-offs during the year amount to 0.01% of sales.

Most of the Group's past-due receivables are insured and generally reflect customary delays in trading activity (67% of past-due receivables are aged less than 30 days). At 15 February, over 73% of the above past-due debt has been collected (85% in 2014).

In view of the default rates in all sectors, we consider that the above figures are highly satisfactory and vindicate the Group's credit risk policy.

Any advances to suppliers of property, plant and equipment or intangible assets are hedged through bank guarantees issued by the supplier and confirmed by banks of recognised solvency.

103

Consolidated Annual Accounts
4.3 Liquidity risk
Although access to liquidity has improved considerably over the last two years, the Group ensures its solvency and flexibility through long-term loans and financing facilities for amounts exceeding the quantities required at any time. The Group's cash is centrally managed to optimise resources. The Group's net debt is primarily concentrated within the Parent (more than 80% of total gross borrowings at year end). Based on its cash flow estimates and considering its investment plans, the Group has sufficient funding to meet its commitments, and maintains sufficient balances available for drawdown from credit facilities to cover liquidity risk. In 2015 and 2014 no payment defaults occurred on the principal of loans or loan interest on the Group's financing. At year end the Group has been granted current and non-current financing totalling Euros 1,788 million and facilities for factoring without recourse for Euros 420 million. At 31 December 2015 drawdowns comprised Euros 1,191 million from financing facilities and Euros 100 million from factoring facilities. In 2014, the Group had current and non-current financing facilities of Euros 1,909 million and facilities for factoring without recourse of Euros 480 million. Total drawdowns comprised Euros 1,354 million from financing facilities and Euros 251 million from factoring facilities. At 31 December 2015 cash and cash equivalents amount to Euros 480 million (Euros 738 million in 2014). The high levels of bank borrowings to guarantee mid-term liquidity along with the ongoing effort to reduce working capital continues to provoke high levels of cash in the Group. The cash balances are available and there is no restriction on their use. Cash deposits are always short-term ­ never exceeding three months ­ and with banks of recognised solvency. In April 2015, Columbus Stainless Ltd signed a financing agreement (a Borrowing Base Facility) for ZAR 3,500 million with ten financial institutions. Through this transaction, some inventories (raw materials, work in progress and finished products) and some trade receivables are pledged as collateral for this financing. Details of this loan are provided in note 9.2.4. In July 2014 a non-extinctive novation was signed for the Euros 370 million syndicated factoring agreement arranged between Acerinox Europa S.A.U. and a number of trading subsidiaries of Acerinox S.A. This novation extended the expiry and amended the economic conditions of the factoring facility. Through this agreement, various Group subsidiaries factor invoices to end customers in several European countries. The syndicate is led by Banco Santander and the other participants are Santander de Factoring y Confirming S.A. E.F.C., Banca March S.A., Caixabank S.A., Popular de Factoring S.A. E.F.C., Bankinter S.A., Banco Sabadell S.A. and Banco Marocaine Du Commerce Exterieur Internacional S.A. In order to diversify the sources of its financing and extend its debt maturities, in July 2014 the Group filed a base prospectus for the issuance of fixed-income securities of Acerinox S.A. for a maximum notional amount of Euros 500 million at the Spanish National Securities Market Commission. Since then, Acerinox S.A. has carried out two issues through this prospectus: the first issue of Euros 75 million was placed by Deutsche Bank AG, London Branch, in July 2014 with a term of ten years, whilst the second was placed by Banco Bilbao Vizcaya Argentaria, S.A. for a total of Euros 50 million in December 2014 with a term of four years.
104

An analysis of the Group's payment obligations at the 2015 close is as follows:

(Expressed in thousands of Euros)

Amount at Future cash flow Less than 6

31/12/2015

maturities

months

6-12 months

More than 1-2 years 2-5 years
5 years

Non-current payables Current payables Suppliers and other payables

741,161 449,540 620,244

-802,383 -457,682 -620,244

-6,511

-9,946 -261,876 -434,050

-313,381 -144,301

-620,244

-90,000

FINANCIAL DERIVATIVES Hedged using interest rate swaps and cross-currency swaps Export exchange rate insurance
Import exchange rate insurance
TOTAL

20,450 -12,385
-1,130 1,817,881

20,140 252,441 666,468 -941,260

4,051

2,326

12,489

1,274

252,441

666,468 -17,176 -151,921 -249,387 -432,776

0 -90,000

Payables to public entities are not included in suppliers and other payables. Future cash flow maturities include the loan principal plus interest based on contractual interest rates at year end. This item does not include approved investments not capitalised under property, plant and equipment under construction at the reporting date.
4.4 Capital management

The aims of the capital management policy are:
- To safeguard the Company's capacity for sustained growth
- To provide appropriate returns to shareholders
- To maintain an optimum capital structure
The Company manages its capital structure and makes adjustments based on changes in economic circumstances. To maintain and adjust its capital structure, it can adopt different policies relating to the payment of dividends, the reimbursement of the share premium, share buy-backs, self-financing of investments, non-current borrowings, etc.
Capital structure is controlled using different ratios, such as the net financial debt/EBITDA ratio, understood to be the period necessary for the resources generated by the Company to cover the level of debt; or the gearing ratio, i.e. the relationship between net financial debt and equity of the Company.
Net financial debt is taken to be the sum of current and non-current loans and borrowings, plus notes issued, less cash and cash equivalents. EBITDA reflects operating profit or loss before amortisation, depreciation and changes in trade provisions.
The ratio of net financial debt to EBITDA is 2.48x, and although this is higher than in 2014 (1.36x), the Group amply complies with all the covenants governing Group borrowings, as detailed in note 9.2.4.
Investments in 2015 totalled Euros 67.6 million (Euros 77.3 million in 2014), reducing cash by Euros 50.2 million due to the rise in working capital (Euros 129.5 million). As a result, net financial debt has grown by 15.4% to Euros 710.75 million (Euros 615.72 million) since last year. However, due to its strong position in terms of liquidity, the Group has made less use of instruments such as factoring and reverse factoring to finance its working capital.
The Group's gearing ratio is 35.1% (33.2% in 2014), below the average ratio for the past five years.

105

Consolidated Annual Accounts
With a view to diversifying its sources of financing, the Group's South African subsidiary, Columbus Ltd. Pty., has signed a syndicated financing agreement ( Borrowing Base Facility) for up to ZAR 3,500 million (Euros 275 million) over a three-year period (Note 9.2.4). The volume of investments continues to be in line with the Group's strategic plan. The Group did not base its 2008-2020 strategic plan, which was recently revised for the period 2016-2020, on opportunistic criteria, but rather on industrial rationale and long-term efficiency, meaning that, its financial position permitting, the Group can keep to this plan even when the economic climate is unfavourable. The total remuneration offered to shareholders was Euros 0.45 per share in 2015 (as in 2014). Nevertheless, at the ordinary annual general meeting held on 3 June 2015, for the third year running the shareholders approved a scrip dividend ­ also known as a flexible dividend ­ in which Acerinox shareholders were able to choose between cash and new shares. Through this decision the Company abided by its traditional policy of maintaining shareholder remuneration. The dividend finally paid amounted to Euros 47.84 million. On 20 July, 5,005,253 new Acerinox shares, created as a result of shareholders representing 59.3% of the Company's share capital opting to receive their dividend in the form of shares, began trading. Acerinox, S.A.'s share capital is currently represented by 266,707,393 shares.
4.5 Insurance
As the Group's four integrated flat product production plants (including one under construction) and three long product production plants are located in different regions, an accident would not affect more than one-third of total production. This guarantees the continuity of the business, while adequate co-ordination between the remaining factories reduces the consequences of material damage to any of the facilities. Sufficient coverage has been contracted for the Group's factories through material damage and loss-of-profit insurance policies, which account for over 54.74% of the Acerinox Group's insurance expenditure. All assets under construction are covered by both the insurance policies taken out by the respective suppliers in addition to a global building and assembly policy. The Group also has a captive reinsurance company based in Luxembourg, Inox Re, which manages these risks by assuming a part as selfinsurance and accessing the reinsurance market directly. The Acerinox Group has also arranged general liability, environmental, credit, transport, and group life and accident insurance policies to reduce its exposure to these different risks.
106

NOTE 5 - SCOPE OF CONSOLIDATION

5.1 Subsidiaries and associates
At 31 December 2015 and 2014, in addition to Acerinox, S.A., the Acerinox consolidated group includes 40 fully consolidated subsidiaries and one equity-accounted associate.

Investments in subsidiaries and associates in 2015 are as follows:

2015

FULLY CONSOLIDATED COMPANIES

COUNTRY

INTEREST COST (in %
thousands of OWNERSHIP
Euros)

COMPANY HOLDING INVESTMENT

AUDITORS

ACERINOX (SCHWEIZ) A.G.

Mellingen, Switzerland

326

100%

ACERINOX S.A

KPMG

ACERINOX ARGENTINA S.A. ACERINOX AUSTRALASIA PTY. LTD.

598

90%

ACERINOX S.A

Buenos Aires - Argentina

13

10%

INOXIDABLES DE EUSKADI S.A.U

Chinen, Morbelli y asociados

Sidney - Australia

385

100%

ACERINOX S.A

ACERINOX BENELUX S.A. - N.V.

Brussels, Belgium

209

100%

ACERINOX S.A

KPMG

ACX DO BRASIL REPRESENTAÇOES, LTDA ACERINOX CHILE, S.A.

Sao Paulo - Brazil Santiago de Chile - Chile

373 0
7,545

100% 0.001% 100%

ACERINOX S.A
INOXIDABLES DE EUSKADI S.A.U
ACERINOX S.A

KPMG

ACERINOX COLOMBIA S.A.S

Bogota - Colombia

68

100%

ACERINOX S.A

ACERINOX DEUTSCHLAND GMBH

Langenfeld, Germany

45,496

100%

ACERINOX S.A

KPMG

ACERINOX EUROPA, S.A.U

Algeciras, Spain

341,381

100%

ACERINOX S.A

KPMG

ACERINOX FRANCE S.A.S ACERINOX INDIA PVT LTD ACERINOX ITALIA S.R.L. ACERINOX MALAYSIA SDN. BHD

Paris -France Mumbai - India
Mila,, Italy Johor, Malaysia

ACERINOX METAL SANAYII VE TICARET L.S. Gumussuyu /Beyoglu, Turkey

ACERINOX MIDDLE EAST DMCC (DUBAI) ACERINOX NORWAY A.S

Dubai, United Arab Emirates Oslo, Norway

18,060 0
155 78,844
4,752 150
0
10 13

99.98% 0.02% 100% 100%
100% 99.73% 0.27%
100% 100%

ACERINOX S.A
INOXIDABLES DE EUSKADI S.A.U

KPMG

ACERINOX S.A
ACERINOX S.A
ACERINOX S.C. MALAYSIA SDN. BHD

Mehta Chokshi & Shah Collegio Sindicale - Studio Revisori Associatti
KPMG

ACERINOX S.A

INOXIDABLES DE EUSKADI S.A.U
ACERINOX S.A
ACERINOX S.A

Al Sharid Auditing and Management
Consultancy

ACERINOX PACIFIC LTD.

Wanchai, Hong Kong

5,262

100%

ACERINOX S.A

KPMG

ACERINOX POLSKA, SP Z.O.O ACERINOX RUSSIA LLC ACERINOX SCANDINAVIA AB

Warsaw, Poland Saint Petersburg, Russia
Malmo, Sweden

25,174 4 98 5
31,909

99.98% 0.02% 95.00% 5.00% 100%

ACERINOX S.A
INOXIDABLES DE EUSKADI S.A.U
ACERINOX S.A
ACERINOX SCANDINAVIA AB
ACERINOX S.A

KPMG KPMG

ACERINOX S.C. MALAYSIA SDN. BHD ACERINOX SHANGAI CO., LTD. ACERINOX (SEA), PTE LTD.

Johor, Malaysia Shanghai, China Singapore, Singapore

37,556 6,347 193

100% 100% 100%

ACERINOX S.A ACERINOX S.A ACERINOX S.A

KPMG Shanghai Shenzhou
Dalong KPMG

ACERINOX U.K, LTD.
ACEROL - COMÉRCIO E INDÚSTRIA DE AÇOS INOXIDÁVEIS, UNIPESSOAL, LDA.
BAHRU STAINLESS, SDN. BHD

Birmingham, United Kingdom Maia, Portugal Johor, Malaysia

28,444 15,828 171,769

100% 100% 67%

ACERINOX S.A ACERINOX S.A ACERINOX S.A

KPMG KPMG KPMG

107

Consolidated Annual Accounts

FULLY CONSOLIDATED COMPANIES
COLUMBUS STAINLESS (PTY) LTD. CORPORACIÓN ACERINOX PERU S.A.C INOX RE, S.A. INOXCENTER CANARIAS, S.A.U INOXCENTER, S.L.U INOXFIL S.A. INOXIDABLES DE EUSKADI S.A.U
INOXPLATE - COMÉRCIO DE PRODUCTOS DE AÇO INOXIDÁVEL, UNIPESSOAL, LDA.
METALINOX BILBAO, S.A.U NORTH AMERICAN STAINLESS INC. NORTH AMERICAN STAINLESS CANADA, INC NORTH AMERICAN STAINLESS MEXICO S.A. DE C.V. NORTH AMERICAN STAINLESS FINANCIAL INVESTMENTS LTD. ROLDAN S.A.

2015

INTEREST

COUNTRY

COST (in %
thousands of OWNERSHIP
Euros)

Middelburg, South Africa

279,615

76%

COMPANY HOLDING INVESTMENT
ACERINOX S.A

Lima, Peru

58

100%

ACERINOX S.A

Luxembourg

1,225

100%

ACERINOX S.A

Telde (Gran Canaria), Spain

270

100%

INOXCENTER

Barcelona, Spain

17,758

100%

ACERINOX S.A

Igualada (Barcelona), Spain Vitoria, Spain

6,247 2,705

100% 100%

ROLDAN S.A
ACERINOX EUROPA, S.A.U

Maia - Portugal

13,743

100%

ACEROL - COMÉRCIO E INDÚSTRIA DE
AÇOS INOXIDÁVEIS, UNIPESSOAL, LDA.

Galdácano (Vizcaya), Spain Kentucky, U.S.A. Canada
Apodaca (N.L.), Mexico

3,718 545,072 28,800
18,948

100% 100% 100%
100%

ACERINOX S.A
ACERINOX S.A
NORTH AMERICAN STAINLESS INC.
NORTH AMERICAN STAINLESS INC.

Kentucky - U.S.A.

15

100%

ACERINOX S.A

Ponferrada, Spain

17,404

99.76%

ACERINOX S.A

AUDITORS
KPMG
KPMG KPMG KPMG KPMG KPMG
KPMG
KPMG KPMG KPMG KPMG
KPMG

2015

ASSOCIATES

COUNTRY

INTEREST

COST (in thousands of Euros)

% OWNERSHIP

COMPANY HOLDING INVESTMENT

BETINOKS PASLANMAZ ÇELIK A.S.

Turquía

313

25%

ACERINOX S.A

The activities of the Group companies are as follows: 
· A cerinox, S.A.: holding company of the Acerinox Group. The Company renders legal, accounting and advisory services to all the Group companies and carries out financing activities within the Group.
· Acerinox Europa, S.A.U.: manufacture and marketing of flat stainless steel products. · North American Stainless, Inc.: manufacture and sale of flat and long stainless steel products. · Columbus Stainless (PTY), Ltd.: manufacture and sale of flat stainless steel products. · Bahru Stainless, Sdn, Bhd: manufacture and sale of flat stainless steel products. · Roldán, S.A.: manufacture and sale of long stainless steel products. · Inoxfil, S.A.: manufacture and sale of stainless steel wire. · Inox Re, S.A.: captive reinsurance company. · North American Stainless Financial Investment, Inc.: rendering of foreign trade advisory services. · Remaining companies: sale of stainless steel products.

108

Investments in subsidiaries and associates in 2014 are as follows:

2014

FULLY CONSOLIDATED COMPANIE

COUNTRY

INTEREST COST (in
% thousands of
OWNERSHIP Euros)

COMPANY HOLDING INVESTMENT

AUDITORS

ACERINOX (SCHWEIZ) A.G. ACERINOX ARGENTINA S.A.

Mellingen -Suiza

326

598 Buenos Aires - Argentina
13

100% 90% 10%

ACERINOX S.A
ACERINOX S.A INOXIDABLES DE EUSKADI, S.A.U

KPMG Chinen, Morbelli y
asociados

ACERINOX AUSTRALASIA PTY. LTD.

Sidney - Australia

385

100%

ACERINOX S.A

ACERINOX BENELUX S.A. - N.V.

Bruselas - Bélgica

209

100%

ACERINOX S.A

KPMG

ACX DO BRASIL REPRESENTAÇOES, LTDA

Sao Paulo - Brasil

373

100%

ACERINOX S.A

INOXIDABLES DE

0

0.001%

EUSKADI, S.A.U

ACERINOX CHILE, S.A.

Santiago de Chile - Chile

7,545

100%

ACERINOX S.A

KPMG

ACERINOX COLOMBIA S.A.S

Bogotá D.C. - Colombia

68

100%

ACERINOX S.A

ACERINOX DEUTSCHLAND GMBH

Langenfeld - Alemania

45,496

100%

ACERINOX S.A

KPMG

ACERINOX EUROPA, S.A.U

Algeciras - España

341,381

100%

ACERINOX S.A

KPMG

18,060

99.98%

ACERINOX S.A

KPMG

ACERINOX FRANCE S.A.S
ACERINOX INDIA PVT LTD ACERINOX ITALIA S.R.L.

París -Francia
Mumbai - India Milano - Italia

0
155 78,844

0.02%
100% 100%

INOXIDABLES DE EUSKADI, S.A.U ACERINOX S.A ACERINOX S.A

Mehta Chokshi & Shah KPMG

ACERINOX S.C.

ACERINOX MALAYSIA SDN. BHD

Johor -Malasia

4,752

100%

MALAYSIA SDN.

KPMG

BHD

ACERINOX METAL SANAYII VE TICARET L.S.
ACERINOX MIDDLE EAST DMCC (DUBAI) ACERINOX NORWAY A.S

150 Gumussuyu /Beyoglu - Turquía
0

Dubai - Emiratos Arabes 10
Unidos

Oslo - Noruega

13

99.73% 0.27%
100% 100%

ACERINOX S.A INOXIDABLES DE EUSKADI, S.A.U
ACERINOX S.A
ACERINOX S.A

Al Sharid Auditing and Management
Consultancy KPMG

ACERINOX PACIFIC LTD.

Wanchai - Hong Kong

5,262

100%

ACERINOX S.A

KPMG

25,174

99.98%

ACERINOX S.A

KPMG

ACERINOX POLSKA, SP Z.O.O

Varsovia - Polonia

INOXIDABLES DE

4

0.02%

EUSKADI, S.A.U

98

95.00%

ACERINOX S.A

ACERINOX RUSSIA LLC

Saint Petersburg - Rusia 5

5.00%

ACERINOX SCANDINAVIA AB

ACERINOX SCANDINAVIA AB

Malmoe - Suecia

31,909

100%

ACERINOX S.A

KPMG

ACERINOX S.C. MALAYSIA SDN. BHD ACERINOX SHANGAI CO., LTD. ACERINOX (SEA), PTE LTD.

Johor -Malasia Shangai - China Singapur - Singapur

37,556 6,347 193

100% 100% 100%

ACERINOX S.A ACERINOX S.A ACERINOX S.A

KPMG Shanghai Shenzhou
Dalong KPMG

ACERINOX U.K, LTD.

Birmingham - Reino Unido

28,444

100%

ACERINOX S.A

KPMG

ACEROL - COMÉRCIO E

INDÚSTRIA DE AÇOS INOXIDÁVEIS,

Maia - Portugal

15,828

100%

ACERINOX S.A

KPMG

UNIPESSOAL, LDA.

BAHRU STAINLESS, SDN. BHD

Johor -Malasia

171,769

67%

ACERINOX S.A

KPMG

COLUMBUS STAINLESS (PTY) LTD.

Middelburg - Sudáfrica

279,615

76%

ACERINOX S.A

KPMG

CORPORACIÓN ACERINOX PERU S.A.C

Lima - Perú

58

100%

ACERINOX S.A

INOX RE, S.A.

Luxemburgo

1,225

100%

ACERINOX S.A

KPMG

INOXCENTER CANARIAS, S.A.U

Telde (Gran Canaria) - España

270

100%

INOXCENTER

KPMG

INOXCENTER, S.L.

Barcelona - España

16,657

98.3%

ACERINOX S.A

KPMG

INOXFIL S.A.

Igualada (Barcelona) - España 6,247

100%

ROLDAN S.A

KPMG

INOXIDABLES DE EUSKADI S.A.U

Vitoria - España

2,705

100%

ACERINOX EUROPA, S.A.U

KPMG

109

Consolidated Annual Accounts

2014

FULLY CONSOLIDATED COMPANIE
INOXPLATE - COMÉRCIO DE PRODUCTOS DE AÇO INOXIDÁVEL, UNIPESSOAL, LDA.
METALINOX BILBAO, S.A. NORTH AMERICAN STAINLESS INC. NORTH AMERICAN STAINLESS CANADA, INC NORTH AMERICAN STAINLESS MEXICO S.A. DE C.V. NORTH AMERICAN STAINLESS FINANCIAL INVESTMENTS LTD. ROLDAN S.A.

COUNTRY

INTEREST COST (in
% thousands of
OWNERSHIP Euros)

COMPANY HOLDING INVESTMENT

Maia - Portugal

14,843

100%

ACEROL COMÉRCIO E INDÚSTRIA DE AÇOS INOXIDÁVEIS, UNIPESSOAL, LDA.

Galdácano (Vizcaya) - España 3,289

98.3%

ACERINOX S.A

Kentucky - U.S.A.

545,072

100%

ACERINOX S.A

Canada

28,800

100%

NORTH AMERICAN STAINLESS INC.

Apodaca - N.L.Mexico

18,948

100%

NORTH AMERICAN STAINLESS INC.

Kentucky - U.S.A.

15

100%

ACERINOX S.A

Ponferrada - España

17,404

99.76%

ACERINOX S.A

AUDITORS
KPMG KPMG KPMG KPMG KPMG
KPMG

ASSOCIATES BETINOKS PASLANMAZ ÇELIK A.S.

2014

INTEREST

COUNTRY

COST (in thousands of Euros)

% OWNERSHIP

Turquía

313

25%

COMPANY HOLDING INVESTMENT
ACERINOX S.A

5.2 Changes in the consolidated Group
The only change in the consolidated Acerinox Group in 2015 was the acquisition in January of the remaining non-controlling interest of 1.67% in the Spanish trading companies Inoxcenter, S.L.U. and Metalinox Bilbao, S.A.U., giving Acerinox, S.A. a 100% stake in these two companies. These shares were purchased for Euros 1,530 thousand, of which Euros 508 thousand had not been paid up at 31 December 2015. The difference between the acquisition price and the carrying amount of the non-controlling interest was taken to equity (Euros 1,241 thousand).
Changes in the consolidated Group during 2014 were as follows:
Inoxcenter, S.L. and Metalinox Bilbao, S.A. On 5 July 2014 Acerinox, S.A. acquired a non-controlling interest of 0.86% in the Spanish trading companies Inoxcenter, S.L. and Metalinox Bilbao, S.A. As a result, non-controlling interests decreased from 2.5% in 2013 to 1.67% in 2014. These shares were purchased for Euros 1,082 thousand. The difference between the acquisition price and the carrying amount of the non-controlling interest was taken to equity (Euros 955 thousand).
Roldan, S.A. In 2014, 559 shares in Roldan were acquired from non-controlling shareholders. The stake acquired represented 0.02% of the share capital. These shares were purchased for Euros 13 thousand.

5.3 Capital increases and reductions
In 2015 the Parent, Acerinox, S.A., waived a loan granted to its 100% investee, Group company Acerinox Pacific Ltd. This loan amounted to Euros 15.9 million. This loans was waived to redress the Company's equity balance. This transaction has no impact on the consolidated financial statements.
Group company in Portugal, Inoxplate Lda, a 100% investee of Portuguese Group company Acerol Ltda has reimbursed in 2015 the supplementary contributions of Euros 1,100 thousand from its parent.
On 27 February 2014 Acerinox, S.A. received a partial repayment of Euros 21,110 thousand from Acerinox Italia for the portion of the supplementary contribution made in 2009 to redress this company's equity.

110

5.4 Impairment of investments
The Parent has tested its investments in Group companies for impairment at 31 December 2015 and 2014 to determine whether their carrying amount exceeds the recoverable amount. In 2015, impairment equivalent to the amount of the waived loan mentioned in the preceding note, Euros 15.9 million, was recognised. The impairment tests conducted in 2014 indicated that the cost of the investment in Acerinox Pacific, Ltd. exceeded its recoverable amount, so impairment of Euros 5.6 million was recognised. It has not been necessary to recognise additional impairment of investments in 2015. Details of the carrying amounts of investments in Group companies are included in note 5.1 Based on the recoverable amounts determined for Inoxcenter and Acerol, the impairment losses recorded in 2012 on these investments totalling Euros 7.3 million and Euros 1.9 million, respectively, were reversed in 2014. This impairment does not have an impact on consolidated results as these companies are fully consolidated.
NOTE 6 SEGMENT REPORTING
As described below, the Group is organised internally into operating segments, which are strategic business units. The strategic business units have different products and services and are managed separately. Group management reviews internal reports for each unit at least monthly. The operating segments presented by the Group, associated with the types of products it sells, are as follows:
· Flat stainless steel products: slabs, flats, coils, plates, sheets, circles and flat bars. · Long stainless steel products: bars, angles, wires and wire rod. · Other: other stainless steel products not included in the previous segments. The "unallocated" segment reflects the activities of the holding company and activities that cannot be allocated to specific operating segments. Segment results, assets and liabilities include all items directly or indirectly attributable to a segment. No significant assets are shared between segments and, considering the importance of flat stainless steel products, any assets that could be attributed to both segments are assigned to the flat segment. Inter-segment sales prices are established in accordance with market commercial terms and conditions governing non-related third parties. A segment's performance is measured by its net pre-tax profit. The Group considers this information to be the most relevant in evaluating a segment against other comparable segments in the sector.
111

Consolidated Annual Accounts

6.1 Operating segments
Segment results for the year ended 31 December 2015 are as follows: (Expressed in thousands of Euros)

Income statement Revenue Inter-segment sales Total revenues Gross operating profit/loss Depreciation and Amortisation
Share of profit of equity-accounted investees
Finance income Finance costs Exchange losses Profit before tax Income tax Consolidated profit/loss for the period Attributable to: Non-controlling interests Net profit/loss attributable to the Group

Long Flat products
products

3,832,314 -167,667 3,664,647 244,523 -146,878
0
2,821 -18,625
1,949 83,790 -50,438 33,352

582,930 -11,655 571,275 53,874 -16,042
0
130 -654
53 37,361 -12,033 25,328

-16,561 49,913

-12 25,340

2015

Other Unallocated Adjustments

Total

14,377 0
14,377 1,924 -182
0
197 -343
3 1,599 -399 1,200

3,032 0
3,032 -15,749
-582

-179,322 179,322
0

4,253,331 0
4,253,331 284,572 -163,684

0

0

1,144 -31,553
886 -45,854 12,292 -33,562

4,292

-51,175

2,891

0

76,896

-50,578

0

26,318

0 1,200

0 -33,562

-16,573

0

42,891

Balance sheet Segment assets Unallocated assets Total consolidated assets Segment liabilities Unallocated liabilities Total consolidated liabilities (excluding equity)

3,546,367 0
3,546,367 1,010,393

359,138 0
359,138 42,775

20,688 0
20,688 16,185

199,479 0
199,479 1,033,015

1,010,393

42,775

16,185 1,033,015

0 4,125,672

0

0

0 4,125,672

2,102,368

0

0 2,102,368

Property, plant and equipment

1,873,853

Investments in property, plant and equipment and intangible assets

90,228

Unassigned liabilities essentially comprise the Parent's financial debt.

136,499 2,653

4,750 15

10,754 1,115

2,025,856 94,011

112

2014 figures are as follows: (Expressed in thousands of Euros)
Income statement Revenue Inter-segment sales Total revenues Gross operating profit/loss Depreciation and Amortisation Share of profit of equity-accounted investees Finance income Finance costs Exchange losses Profit before tax Income tax Consolidated profit/loss for the period Attributable to: Non-controlling interests Net profit/loss attributable to the Group

Long Flat products
products

2014 Other Unallocated Adjustments

Total

3,918,205 -171,902 3,746,303 376,337 -135,038

667,559 -11,874 655,685 86,396 -14,590

2,290 -22,480
3,194 224,303 -99,613 124,690

27 -618 -148 71,067 -27,897 43,170

7,519
7,519 3,181 -171
18 -342
-1 2,685 -2,056
629

4,060
4,060 -17,882
-546

-183,776 183,776
0

4,413,567 0
4,413,567 448,032 -150,345

1

1

2,966 -38,362
-456 -54,279
8,477 -45,802

5,301

-61,802

2,589

0

243,776

-121,089

0

122,687

-13,633 138,323

-10 43,180

1

0

628

-45,802

-13,642

0

136,329

Balance sheet Segment assets Unallocated assets Total consolidated assets Segment liabilities Unallocated liabilities Total consolidated liabilities (excluding equity)

3,523,274 347,853

20,274 524,239

3,523,274 1,313,040

347,853 44,319

20,274 16,047

524,239 1,200,019

1,313,040

44,319

16,047 1,200,019

4,415,640 0
0 4,415,640 2,573,425 0
0 2,573,425

Property, plant and equipment Investments in property, plant and equipment and intangible assets

1,818,643 70,385

137,567 2,306

4,296 9

11,013 962

There are no significant balances that have not been reflected in cash flows other than amortisation and depreciation.

1,971,519 73,662

113

Consolidated Annual Accounts

6.2 Geographical segments
The flat and long stainless steel product segments are managed at worldwide level. Revenue from geographical segments is presented on the basis of customer location. Segment assets are determined by geographical location.

Data relating to geographical segments in 2015 is presented below:

(Expressed in thousands of Euros)

Spain

2015 Rest of Europe Americas Africa

Asia

Other

Total

Revenue by destination of goods

423,273

1,181,103

1,927,101 226,149 452,391

11,409 4,221,426

Segment assets by origin
Property, plant and equipment at origin Investments in property, plant and equipment and intangible assets at origin

994,154 237,830
32,345

378,355 72,980 318

1,449,763 401,576 841,308 130,947

901,571 742,779

32,060 6,497

22,792

253 4,125,672 12 2,025,856

0

94,011

2014 figures are as follows: (Expressed in thousands of Euros)

Spain

2014 Rest of Europe Americas Africa

Asia

Other

Total

Revenue by destination of goods

395,328

1,151,440

2,225,060 221,305 360,086

27,070 4,380,289

Segment assets by origin

1,329,030

Property, plant and equipment at origin
Investments in property, plant and equipment and intangible assets at origin

253,334 17,641

382,468 76,734 1,138

1,405,694 457,167 802,204 171,257

841,077 667,967

9,502 6,087

39,293

204 4,415,640 23 1,971,519

0

73,662

The Group sells its products in more than 80 countries spanning five continents. The following countries accounted for more than 5% of total consolidated sales in 2015 or 2014: the United States, 38.23% (42.36% in 2014); Spain, 10.13% (8.91% in 2014); Germany, 7.28% (7.49% in 2014); and South Africa, 4.99% (5.19% in 2014).

No single transaction with an external customer exceeds 10% of the Group's consolidated revenues for 2015 or 2014.

114

NOTE 7 INTANGIBLE ASSETS

Details of the main intangible assets and movement therein are shown below: (Expressed in thousands of Euros)

COST

Emission allowances

Industrial property

Balance at 1 January 2014 Acquisitions Transfers Disposals Translation differences Balance at 31 December 2014 Acquisitions Transfers Disposals Translation differences Balance at 31 December 2015

7,680 1,228
0 -1,886
0 7,022 3,002
-1,826 0
8,198

24,312 0 0 0 0
24,312 0
0 0 24,312

ACCUMULATED AMORTISATION AND IMPAIRMENT
Balance at January 2014 Charges Reversals of impairment Disposals Translation differences Balance at 31 December 2014 Charges Disposals Translation differences Balance at 31 December 2015

Emission allowances
2,835 0
-2,835 0 0 0
0

Industrial property
24,310 0 0 0 0
24,310
24,310

CARRYING AMOUNT

Emission allowances

Industrial property

Computer software and
other 23,195
1,052 82
-310 217 24,236 1,259
57 -1,184
-401 23,967

SUBTOTAL
55,187 2,280 82 -2,196 217
55,570 4,261 57 -3,010 -401
56,477

Computer software and
other 21,397
667 0
-310 195 21,949 605 -1,184 -384 20,986

SUBTOTAL
48,542 667
-2,835 -310 195
46,259 605
-1,184 -384
45,296

Computer software and
other

SUBTOTAL

Goodwill 69,124
69,124
69,124 Goodwill
0
0 0 Goodwill

Cost at 31 December 2013 Accumulated amortisation and impairment Carrying amount at 31 December 2013

7,680 -2,835 4,845

24,312 -24,310
2

23,195 -21,397
1,798

55,187 -48,542
6,645

69,124 69,124

Cost at 31 December 2014 Accumulated amortisation and impairment Carrying amount at 31 December 2014

7,022 0
7,022

24,312 -24,310
2

24,236 -21,949
2,287

55,570 -46,259
9,311

69,124 69,124

Cost at 31 December 2015 Accumulated amortisation and impairment Carrying amount at 31 December 2015

8,198 0
8,198

24,312 -24,310
2

23,967 -20,986
2,981

Amortisation for the year is shown under amortisation and depreciation in the income statement.

56,477 -45,296 11,181

69,124 69,124

Research and development and innovation (R&D&I) costs directly recognised as expenses for the year and taken to the income statement amount to Euros 16,488 thousand (Euros 16,101 thousand in 2014).

At 31 December 2015 the Group has not entered into any contracts to acquire intangible assets (no contracts entered into at 31 December 2014).

115

Consolidated Annual Accounts

7.1 Emission allowances
On 15 November 2013 the Spanish Cabinet approved Acerinox Europa, S.A.U.'s definitive allocation of free-of-charge greenhouse gas emission allowances for the 2013-2020 period, 1,867,754 allowances in total, which are distributed by year as follows:

2013 248,936

2014 244,613

2015 240,239

2016 235,818

2017 231,350

The following allowances were allocated to the Group company Roldan, S.A.:

2013 26,857

2014 26,391

2015 25,919

2016 25,442

2017 24,960

Movement in emission allowances in 2015 and 2014 is as follows:

2018 226,839
2018 24,473

2019 222,272
2019 23,980

2020 217,687
2020 23,486

Balance at 31/12/2013 Allocation for the year Disposals Balance at 31/12/2014 Allocation for the year
Swap
Sale Disposals Balance at 31/12/2015

Number of allowances 795,490 278,583 -198,862 875,211 266,158
153,284
-249 -231,405 1,062,999

Value (in thousands of Euros) 7,680 1,228 -1,886 7,022 1,860
1,142
-2 -1,824 8,198

Group company Acerinox Europa has carried out a swap of emission allowances whereby Acerinox sold 249 emission allowances for Euros 2 thousand and simultaneously acquired 153,284 emission reduction units (ERUs) for that same amount. It then exchanged the 153,284 ERUs for the same number of emission allowances (EUAs), recognising the new allowances at their fair value at the date of the swap (Euros 1,142 thousand).
In 2015, CO2 emissions were made requiring 254,345 allowances, which will be surrendered in 2016 (231,405 in 2014, surrendered in 2015). The Group has not sold its surplus allowances.
Present conditions pose no significant risk of a shortfall in emission allowances for the 2013-2020 period.
Disposals for the year are allowances surrendered for CO2 emissions in the prior year. This information has been audited and approved by an independent expert.
At 31 December 2015 the emission allowances held have a fair value of Euros 8,748 thousand (Euros 6,337 thousand at 31 December 2014). In 2014 the Group released the Euros 2,835 thousand provision existing at 31 December 2013. As explained in the relevant measurement standard of the Group's annual accounts, the release carried out during the year had no impact on the income statement. This reversal was recognised in the income statement under other operating income.
The expense for the year in respect of CO2 emissions totals Euros 1,937 thousand in 2015 (Euros 1,827 thousand in 2014) and is included under other operating expenses. This is the value of the allowances surrendered in the year, equivalent to the market value of these allowances when allocated.
The Group does not hold any futures contracts for the acquisition of emission allowances.
No significant contingency exists in respect of fines over emissions.

116

7.2 Goodwill impairment testing

At 31 December 2015, goodwill totals Euros 69 million and mainly relates to the acquisition of a controlling interest in Columbus Stainless, Ltd. in 2002. This goodwill has been allocated to the Columbus cash-generating unit (CGU), which manufactures and sells flat products only.
The recoverable amount of a CGU is determined based on its value in use. These calculations are based on cash flow projections from the financial budgets approved by management over a period of five years. Cash flows beyond this five-year period are extrapolated using the estimated growth rates indicated below. The growth rate does not exceed the average long-term growth rate for the business in which the CGU operates.
Forecast volumes of sales and production are based on the current capacities of existing machinery and equipment. Management determined budgeted gross margins based on past experience and forecast market performance. The weighted average growth rates are consistent with the forecasts included in industry reports. The discount rates used are pre-tax values and reflect specific risks related to the relevant segments.
With economic cycles increasingly difficult to anticipate, particularly in the stainless steel markets, where visibility has diminished significantly over recent years, the projections for each year have reflected these circumstances, as well as management's best estimates. Key assumptions such as exchange rates and raw material prices are, therefore, extrapolated using highly conservative criteria, referring at all times to the most recent market values.
In 2015 Columbus Stainless, Ltd improved significantly on the budgeted profit forecast drawn up in the previous year, posting a pre-tax profit of ZAR 358.77 million (ZAR 68.48 million in 2014). The Company is confident that the flows to perpetuity will materialise, mainly in terms of its use of production capacity and margins, while still applying prudent criteria to the growth rate (g): estimated growth rates for the country and industry have been used, even though average growth over recent years has been much greater (around 6%, as is mentioned further on).
The key assumptions used to calculate value in use are as follows:

Budgeted EBIT margin (*)
Weighted average growth rate (**)
Discount rate applied (***)
(*) EBIT margin, considered equivalent to operating as a percentage of revenue (***) Used to extrapolate cash flows beyond the budgeted

2015 5.5% 2.5% 11.7%

2014 4.9% 2.5% 11.3%

The discount rate applied (weighted average cost of capital or WACC) is 11.7%. It is calculated taking as reference the interest rates on South African sovereign debt (ten-year swap on the South African Rand), a market risk premium of 5% and the capital structure of similar companies.

When calculating the terminal value, repayments are considered equal to investments and the change in working capital is calculated as the value of the last projected year, 2020, which is understood to be consistent in the long term, increased by the growth rate (g).

The growth rate (g) remains constant at 2.5%. In 2015 the global stainless steel market continued to consolidate the historical market growth rate of close to 6% (1950-2015 period). Apparent consumption of stainless steel in the South African market has grown by 1.9% in 2015 vis-à-vis 2014 (-4.6%). Although Columbus's local sales were lower, they were more than offset by the rise in exports, resulting in an overall increase of 1.5% in turnover in 2015 compared with 2014.

117

Consolidated Annual Accounts
2015 was a very encouraging year for Columbus Stainless, Ltd, which began a return to sustained profitability in the second half of 2014, after having been affected by the crisis for a number of years. Intelligent management of the country's situation and the weakness of the currency (Rand), the rise in sales in strategic markets for the Group, the supply of semi-products to Bahru Stainless, Sdn Bhd, the Group's factory in Malaysia, increased penetration in the Middle East and participation in several high-profile projects have all contributed to this positive trend. The Company's budgets reflect these factors as well as a gradual increase in sales to Bahru Stainless, Sdn Bhd, as the Malaysian factory achieves higher utilisation of its present installed production capacity. Other relevant key assumptions are the Euro-Rand exchange rate (14,2862) and the price of raw materials (11.000 USD/Tn), which are established when drawing up the budget. Both assumptions are extrapolated applying very conservative criteria and are held constant over the period analysed. The variables used in 2014 were an exchange rate of 14.03553 ZAR to the Euro and 16,500 USD/Tn for the price of raw materials. The impairment test performed at 31 December 2015 reveals that the recoverable amount of goodwill exceeds its carrying amount by Euros 66 million (Euros 172 million in 2014). The discount rate (WACC), the growth rate (g) and the budgeted EBIT margin are considered key assumptions in the impairment test. Following a sensitivity analysis entailing different scenarios, impairment of the recoverable amount would only occur by increasing the discount rate (WACC) by 22.3% (more than 39% in 2014). In the case of the growth rate (g), even with a growth rate of 0%, the discount rate (WACC) would have to increase by 12.6% for the recoverable amount to begin to show impairment. The EBIT margin would have to fall 22.5% (27% in 2014) to 4.2% (3.6 in 2014), with the other two assumptions remaining constant, for any impairment to occur.
118

NOTE 8 PROPERTY, PLANT AND EQUIPMENT

Details of property, plant and equipment and movement in 2015 and 2014 are shown in the following table:

(Expressed in thousands of Euros)
COST
Balance at 31 December 2013 Additions Transfers Disposals Translation differences Balance at 31 December 2014 Additions Impairment Transfers Disposals Translation differences Balance at 31 December 2015
ACCUMULATED DEPRECIATION AND IMPAIRMENT
Balance at 31 December 2013 Charges Transfers Disposals Translation differences Balance at 31 December 2014 Charges Transfers Disposals Translation differences Balance at 31 December 2015
CARRYING AMOUNT
Cost at 31 December 2013 Accumulated depreciation and impairment Carrying amount at 31 December 2013
Cost at 31 December 2013 Accumulated depreciation and impairment Carrying amount at 31 December 2014
Cost at 31 December 2014 Accumulated depreciation and impairment Carrying amount at 31 December 2015

Land and buildings
661,119 888
45,313 -4,008 39,106 742,418 1,652
-16 379 -418 37,967 781,982

Technical installations and machinery

Other property plant and equipment

Property, plant and equipment
under construction

2,781,626

116,996

498,918

18,572

1,743

50,179

347,159

-34,617

-357,937

-11,498

-1,729

-4

189,413

3,281

67,552

3,325,272

85,674

258,708

18,592

2,389

67,115

-184

0

0

11,153

1,377

-12,966

-19,603

-1,977

0

146,392

1,941

29,073

3,481,622

89,404

341,930

TOTAL
4,058,659 71,382 -82 -17,239
299,352 4,412,072
89,748 -200 -57
-21,998 215,373 4,694,938

Land and buildings
266,310 15,254 29 -2,689 12,515
291,419 16,746 -1,198 -237 10,872
317,602

Technical installations and machinery

Other property plant and equipment

Property, plant and equipment
under construction

1,823,168

90,284

0

126,816

7,608

19,591

-19,620

-3,430

-2,948

104,470

3,195

2,070,615

78,519

0

141,236

5,097

-1,334

2,532

-8,626

-1,887

63,142

2,186

2,265,033

86,447

0

TOTAL
2,179,762 149,678 0 -9,067 120,180
2,440,553 163,079 0 -10,750 76,200
2,669,082

Land and buildings

Technical installations and machinery

Other property plant and equipment

Property, plant and equipment
under construction

TOTAL

661,119 -266,310 394,809

2,781,626 -1,823,168
958,458

116,996 -90,284 26,712

498,918 0
498,918

4,058,659 -2,179,762 1,878,897

742,418 -291,419 450,999

3,325,272 -2,070,615 1,254,657

85,674 -78,519
7,155

258,708 0
258,708

4,412,072 -2,440,553 1,971,519

781,982 -317,602 464,380

3,481,622 -2,265,033 1,216,589

89,404 -86,447
2,957

341,930 0
341,930

4,694,938 -2,669,082 2,025,856

Depreciation for the year is shown under amortisation and depreciation in the income statement.

As explained in note 2.1, the Group has restated the 2014 opening balances to reflect adjustments to depreciation effective retroactively.

119

Consolidated Annual Accounts

Property, plant and equipment under construction

Details of the investments classified under this heading are as follows:

(Expressed in thousands of Euros)

2015

Buildings

64,890

Technical installations and machinery

265,586

Other property, plant and equipment

1,307

Advances

10,147

TOTAL

341,930

2014 52,190 205,223
1,228 67
258,708

Property, plant and equipment under construction at the factory in Malaysia accounts for Euros 302 million of the total (Euros 251 million in 2014), Euros 25 million represents North American Stainless' investment in a new cold-rolling mill and a bright annealing (BA) line, which is expected to come into service in Spring 2017, and Euros 14 million for Acerinox Europa, which has also approved a new investment in a fifth annealing and pickling line and a seventh cold-rolling mill, which are expected to start operating at the end of 2017.

During 2014, on completion of the start-up period, phase I investments made by the Group company Bahru Stainless, Sdn Bhd, were reclassified from work in progress to finished goods. The amount reclassified in this company is Euros 349 million. This reclassification increased the cumulative depreciation since that year by Euros 15 million.

Assets located outside Spain Details of assets located outside Spain are as follows: (Expressed in thousands of Euros)
Land and buildings Technical installations and machinery Other property, plant and equipment Property, plant and equipment under construction TOTAL

2015

Cost

Accumulated depreciation

520,768 2,356,807
43,700

-162,232 -1,256,454
-42,334

327,771

0

3,249,046

-1,461,020

Cost
482,175 2,198,073
41,027 255,112 2,976,387

2014 Accumulated depreciation -138,551 -1,082,279 -37,373 0 -1,258,203

Changes in accounting estimates Estimated useful lives remained unchanged in 2015 and 2014.

Guarantees At 31 December 2015 and 2014 none of the Group's assets has been pledged to secure loans and borrowings.

Commitments
At 31 December 2015 the Group has entered into contracts to purchase new equipment and facilities amounting to Euros 154,781 thousand (Euros 71,095 thousand at 31 December 2014), of which Euros 62,622 thousand are for new investments by North American Staunless, Euros 78,865 thousand are for Acerinox Europa and Euros 11,508 thousand are for investments in the new Malaysian plant (Euros 62,530 thousand in 2014).

Capitalised borrowing costs
Borrowing costs of Euros 7,377 thousand have been capitalised in 2015 (Euros 6,577 thousand in 2014). The capitalisation rate in 2015 was 3.85% (4.36% in 2014).

Asset disposals
A loss of Euros 332 thousand on the sale of property, plant and equipment or removal of assets from service has been recorded under other operating expenses in the 2015 income statement (Euros 229 thousand in 2014).

The gain on the sale of property, plant and equipment or the removal of assets from service totals Euros 517 thousand and is recognised under other operating income in the 2015 income statement (Euros 1,977 thousand in 2014).

120

Environment
Property, plant and equipment held to minimise the environmental impact of the Group's activities and to protect and improve the environment at 31 December 2015 and 2014 are as follows:

(Expressed in thousands of Euros)
Nature and use
Water treatment Acid neutralisation Gas emission treatment Automatic additions systems Other items Total

2015

Gross value

Accumulated depreciation

90,759 41,789 75,210
8,459 121,346 337,563

-51,025 -25,181 -62,434
-5,585 -76,261 -220,486

2014

Gross value

Accumulated depreciation

80,711 33,860 55,544
8,082 146,448 324,645

-40,322 -17,286 -42,441
-5,205 -91,311 -196,565

In 2015 and 2014 the Group received no grants for investment in infrastructure aimed at protecting the environment.

In 2015 the Group incurred environment-related ordinary expenses of Euros 109,674 thousand (Euros 99,342 thousand in 2014).

At 31 December 2015 and 2014 no significant contingencies exist relating to the protection and improvement of the environment and, accordingly, no provision has been made in this respect.

Property, plant and equipment not used in ordinary activities Group property, plant and equipment not used in ordinary activities include several industrial bays, all of which are classified as investment property. Details and valuation of this property are provided in the section on investment property.

One of the production lines of the Group company Columbus Stainless (Pty) Ltd. has ceased to be used for production given its age and low productivity. Its net carrying amount is Euros 200 thousand, which the Group has impaired in full.

Other Information At 31 December 2015 and 2014 there are no litigation cases, seizures or similar measures that may affect items of property, plant or equipment.

The Group companies have taken out insurance policies to cover the risk of damage to their property, plant and equipment. The coverage of these policies is considered sufficient.

Investment property Investment property includes Group-owned buildings not occupied by the Group which are held to earn a return, either through rentals or through capital appreciation and subsequent disposal of the buildings.

The Group currently holds several industrial bays in Spain amounting to Euros 3,390 thousand that are classified as investment property. They are owned by the companies Acerinox Europa S.A.U. and Inoxcenter, S.L.U. In 2015, an industrial bay belonging to Group company Acerinox UK and amounting to Euros 4,024 thousand was reclassified to this category. None of these buildings is currently leased. The Parent, Acerinox, S.A., leases out several storeys in a building which it owns and which has a carrying amount of Euros 3,253 thousand. Income from these leases amounted to Euros 150 thousand in 2015 (Euros 152 thousand in 2014). The associated operating expenses, including maintenance and repairs, amounted to Euros 53 thousand (Euros 48 thousand in 2014). The lease contract signed between Acerinox, S.A. and the lessee includes a yearly increase in line with the CPI and expires on 31 December 2016.

121

Consolidated Annual Accounts

Details of movements in investment property in 2015 and 2014 are as follows:

(Expressed in thousands of Euros)
COST
Beginning balance Additions Transfers Disposals Cost at 31 December

2015
12,610 0
4,427 -323 16,714

2014
7,346 0
5,264 0
12,610

ACCUMULATED DEPRECIATION AND IMPAIRMENT Beginning balance Charge Transfers Disposals Accumulated depreciation at 31 December

2015 5,677
166 403 -193 6,053

2014 3,572
167 1,938
0 5,677

CARRYING AMOUNT Cost at 31 December Accumulated depreciation and impairment Carrying amount at 31 December

2015 16,714 -6,053 10,661

2014 12,610 -5,677 6,933

In 2014, the industrial bays belonging to the aforementioned Spanish Group companies Inoxcenter, S.L.U. and Acerinox Europa were reclassified to this category as these properties ceased to be used for production activities and were earmarked for lease or sale. The carrying amount of the properties transferred totalled Euros 3,326 thousand.

In 2015, two industrial bays classified in this category and with a net carrying amount of Euros 130 thousand were sold. Proceeds from the sale totalled Euros 545 thousand, on which the Group recognised a capital gain of Euros 411 thousand, as reflected in the income statement under other operating income.

At 31 December 2015 investment property has a total market value of Euros 20,055 thousand (Euros 17,333 thousand in 2014) and a carrying amount of Euros 10,661 thousand (Euros 6,933 thousand in 2014). Consequently no impairment has been recognised.

8.1 Impairment
As established in IAS 36, and as mentioned in the accounting policies for the Acerinox Group's consolidated annual accounts (note 2.8), the Group assesses whether there are any indications of impairment of the assets at each year end. The value of an asset is impaired when its carrying amount exceeds its recoverable amount. The Group considers that indications of impairment exist when, among other things, a company has incurred a loss. In 2015 there are indications of impairment in the companies Roldan, S.A. and Inoxfil S.A.
The recoverability of the assets of Bahru Stainless, Sdn. Bhd. has also been assessed. The start-up of the Phase II equipment is going ahead as planned and the expected levels of activity have still not been reached given its current installed capacity. The combination of this situation with low prices in the local Malaysian market and in the rest of Asia has resulted in repeated losses and a need to perform impairment tests.
As detailed below, the results of this analysis do not indicate a need to make any valuation adjustments to the assets.

122

Property, plant and equipment and intangible assets represent 51% of the Group's assets. A breakdown of these figures by company shows that 93% of the Group's assets (both property, plant and equipment and intangibles) are located in the factories, with the remaining 7% held by its 34 other trading subsidiaries.

Subsidiaries ACERINOX EUROPA , S.A.U. ROLDAN S.A. INOXFIL S.A. NORTH AMERICAN STAINLESS INC. COLUMBUS STAINLESS PTY Ltd BAHRU STAINLESS Rest of subsidiaries TOTAL

% of property, plant and equipment 8,57% 0,99% 0,17%
40,62% 6,46%
36,20% 6,99%
100,00%

The majority of assets do not generate cash inflows independently, as the whole production process needs to be completed. Impairment has therefore not been estimated on an individual basis, but by allocating the assets to cash-generating units. In the case of plants, the smallest cashgenerating units that can be considered encompass each plant as a whole.

The recoverable amount of the items has been determined based on their value in use.

Value in use of the assets of Bahru Stainless Sdn Bhd., Roldan, S.A. and Inoxfil S.A. was determined based on the estimated future cash flows the entity expects to obtain from the asset and the discount rate, understood to be the weighted average cost of capital (WACC). The following points were taken into consideration when calculating the discount rate:

1. The financing structure based on market participant assumptions. 2. The cost of debt is obtained using the applicable market risk-free rate plus a spread of 2%. 3. The risk-free rate is based on that applied to ten-year bonds. 4. The risk premium has been estimated at 5%.

Future cash flows were estimated considering:

a) R easonable assumptions and management's best estimate of the economic conditions that will exist over the remaining useful life of the asset, based on information available at the analysis date.

b) Five-year projections that reflect the financial and macroeconomic circumstances and those of the stainless steel market itself, adapted to the operating environment of each CGU analysed. The different parameters used (expected growth, use of installed production capacity, prices, working capital items, etc.) are therefore projected considering historical figures, particularly the last year closed, as well as targets set by management.

With economic cycles increasingly difficult to anticipate, particularly in the stainless steel markets, where visibility has diminished significantly over recent years, the projections for each year have reflected these circumstances, as well as management's best estimates. Key assumptions such as exchange rates and raw material prices are, therefore, extrapolated using highly conservative criteria, referring at all times to the most recent market values at the time of the study.

The Company is confident that the flows to perpetuity will materialise, mainly in terms of its use of production capacity and margins, while still applying prudent criteria to the growth rate (g). Estimated growth rates for the country and industry in which each CGU is present have been used, in addition to those for the markets to which most of their output is exported.

c) Estimated projections for years beyond the period covered, calculated by extrapolating the previous projections using a growth rate of 2.5% in the case of Bahru Stainless Sdn. Bhd and 2% for Roldán, S.A. and Inoxfil, S.A.. Note that the historical growth rate for the global stainless steel market remains close to 6% (1950-2015 period).

123

Consolidated Annual Accounts
No impairment has been recognised on property, plant and equipment during the year (with the exception of that mentioned in the note on property, plant and equipment not used in ordinary activities), as the enterprise value, calculated applying the discounted free cash flow method, exceeds the carrying amount of the Group's operating assets. Bahru Stainless Sdn. Bhd The impairment test performed at 31 December 2015 reveals that the recoverable amount of goodwill exceeds its carrying amount by Euros 175 million. The discount rate (WACC), 8.1%, the growth rate (g), 2.5%, and the budgeted EBIT margin, 3.4%, are considered key assumptions in the impairment test. Following a sensitivity analysis entailing different scenarios, impairment of the recoverable amount would only occur by increasing the discount rate (WACC) by 24.5%. In the case of the growth rate (g), even with a growth rate of 0%, the discount rate (WACC) would have to increase by 4.3% for the recoverable amount to begin to show impairment. The EBIT margin would have to fall 30.5% to 2.4%, with the other two assumptions remaining constant, for impairment to occur. Roldán, S.A. The impairment test performed at 31 December 2015 reveals that the recoverable amount of goodwill exceeds its carrying amount by Euros 147 million (Euros 107 million in 2014). The discount rate (WACC), 7.12% (8% in 2014) the growth rate (g), 2% (2% in 2014) and the budgeted EBIT margin, 4.5% (4.1% in 2014) are considered key assumptions in the impairment test. According to the sensitivity analysis performed, impairment of the recoverable amount would only occur by increasing the discount rate (WACC) by more than 2.7 times, while simultaneously bringing the growth rate (g) down to zero. The EBIT margin would also have to fall 72.4% to 1.2%, with the other two assumptions remaining constant, for any impairment to occur. Inoxfil, S.A. The impairment test performed at 31 December 2015 reveals that the recoverable amount of goodwill exceeds its carrying amount by Euros 7 million (Euros 11 million in 2014). The discount rate (WACC), 7.12% (8% in 2014), the growth rate (g), 2% (2% in 2104) and the budgeted EBIT margin, 2.7% (4% in 2014) are considered key assumptions in the impairment test. The sensitivity analysis performed indicates that impairment of the recoverable amount would only occur by increasing the discount rate (WACC) by 51.4%. In the case of the growth rate (g), even with a growth rate of 0%, the discount rate (WACC) would have to increase by 43.9% for the recoverable amount to begin to show impairment. The EBIT margin would also have to fall 38.9% to 1.6%, with the other two assumptions remaining constant, for any impairment to occur.
124

NOTE 9 FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS

9.1 General considerations
A financial instrument is a contract that gives rise to a financial asset in one company and, simultaneously, a financial liability or an equity instrument in another company. The Group recognises a financial instrument in its balance sheet when it becomes party to the contract or legal transaction.

9.2 Categories of financial assets and financial liabilities

At year end the Group's financial assets are as shown below: (In thousands of Euros)

Classes

Non-current financial instruments

Current financial instruments

Equity instruments

Loans, Debt securities derivatives and
other

Equity instruments

Loans, derivatives Debt securities
and other

Categories

2015 2014 2015 2014 2015 2014 2015 2014 2015 2014 2015 2014

Loans and receivables

2,436 6,032

469,893 476,547

Held-to-maturity investments

Assets available for sale

- At fair value

10,382 8,391

- At cost

285

10

Assets at fair value through profit or loss

- Held for trading

- Other

Hedging derivatives

TOTAL

10,667 8,401

0

9,375

0 11,811 6,032

0

0

0

633 52,503
15,338 21,617 0 485,864 550,667

At year end the Group's financial liabilities are as shown below:

(In thousands of Euros) Categories

Classes

Non-current financial instruments

Loans and borrowings

Bonds and other Payables,

marketable derivatives and

securities

other

2015 2014 2015 2014 2015 2014

Current financial instruments

Loans and borrowings

Bonds

and other Payables, derivatives

marketable

and other

securities

2015 2014 2015 2014 2015

2014

Debts and payables

617,230 895,958 123,931 124,050 2,062 2,582 447,887 334,079 1,653

641,726 915,596

Liabilities at fair value through profit or loss

- Held for trading

14,072

7,655

- Other

Hedging derivatives

3,992 20,176

345

433

TOTAL

617,230 895,958 123,931 124,050 6,054 22,758 447,887 334,079 1,653

0 656,143 923,684

125

Consolidated Annual Accounts

9.2.1 Determination of fair value Financial instruments measured at fair value are classified based on valuation inputs into the following levels:

LEVEL 1: quoted prices in active markets LEVEL 2: observable market variables other than quoted prices LEVEL 3: variables not observable in the market

Details at 31 December 2015 and 2014 are as follows: (In thousands of Euros)

Available-for-sale financial assets Financial derivatives (assets) TOTAL

LEVEL 1 10.382
10.382

2015 LEVEL 2
25.346 25.346

LEVEL 3 0

LEVEL 1 8.391
8.391

2014 LEVEL 2
74.120 74.120

LEVEL 3 0

Financial derivatives (liabilities) TOTAL

LEVEL 1 0

LEVEL 2 18,409 18,409

LEVEL 3 0

LEVEL 1 0

LEVEL 2 28,264 28,264

LEVEL 3 0

In the case of Level 2 financial instruments, the Group uses generally accepted valuation techniques that take into account spot and future exchange rates at the valuation date, forward interest rates, interest rate spreads and credit risk of both the Group and its counterparty, i.e. the financial institution with which it operates.

9.2.2 Trade and other receivables
Details at 31 December are as follows: (In thousands of Euros)
Trade receivables Personnel Public entities Other receivables Prepayments Impairment of bad debts TOTAL

2015 439,537
369 23,356
8,011 8,909 -9,815 470,367

2014 443,565
394 20,051
3,636 9,292 -10,847 466,091

Impairment of bad debts corresponds entirely to trade receivables. Movements in this account are as follows:

(In thousands of Euros)

2015

2014

Initial balance Charge Application Reversal Translation differences

10,847 648
-1,150 -489 -41

10,219 2,175 -965 -705 123

Balance at 31 December

9,815

10,847

Impairment losses have been included under other operating expenses in the income statement.
No interest was accrued on impaired financial assets in 2015 or 2014.
No allowances have been made for bad debts with related parties in 2015 or 2014.
At 31 December 2015 certain Group companies had receivables factored without recourse totalling Euros 99,912 thousand with financial institutions in exchange for cash. This amount was equal to 85%-90% of the total amount of the factored invoices, depending on the conditions of the credit insurance coverage (Euros 251,277 thousand in 2014). These amounts have been derecognised as they meet the conditions specified in IAS 39 regarding the transfer of risks and rewards.

126

9.2.3 Trade and other payables Details at 31 December 2015 and 2014 are as follows: (In thousands of Euros)
Suppliers and trade payables Personnel Suppliers of fixed assets Tax and Social Security Other payables Current provisions TOTAL

2015 568,929
24,712 21,174 21,482
708 4,721 641,726

2014 844,631
24,536 7,824
24,680 2,932
10,993 915,596

In compliance with the disclosure requirements of the Spanish Accounting and Auditing Institute (ICAC) resolution of 29 January 2016, the average payment period for suppliers of the Spanish companies in the Acerinox Group, having eliminated the payments made to Group companies, is as follows:
(In thousands of Euros)

2015

2014

Average payment period to suppliers

79 días

88 días

Payments made ratio

82 días

90 días

Outstanding payments ratio

45 días

79 días

(In thousands of Euros) Total payments made Total outstanding payments

Amount 1,607,137
176,420

Amount 1,448,509
294,468

The table includes payments made to any Spanish or foreign suppliers; it does not reflect payments to Group companies.

9.2.4 Loans and borrowings and bond issues

Details of financial debt at 31 December 2015 and 2014, including loans and borrowings and bonds issued by the Group during the year, are as follows:

(In thousands of Euros)

Non-current

Current

2015

2014

2015

2014

Bonds issued

123,931

124,050

1,653

Loans and borrowings

617,230

895,958

447,887

334,079

Total financial debt

741,161

1,020,008

449,540

334,079

Details of the maturity of outstanding debt at 31 December 2015 are as follows:

Financial debt Total financial debt 2014 figures are as follows: (In thousands of Euros)
Financial debt Total financial debt

2016
449,540 449,540

2017
250,964 250,964

2018
401,762 401,762

2019
8,957 8,957

2015 334,079 334,079

2016 297,010 297,010

2017 238,863 238,863

2018 395,700 395,700

2020 and subsequent years
79,478 79,478
2019 and subsequent years
88,435 88,435

TOTAL 1,190,701 1,190,701
TOTAL 1,354,087 1,354,087

127

Consolidated Annual Accounts

Debt by currency is as follows: (In thousands of Euros)
EUR USD ZAR MYR TOTAL

Non-current loans

2015

2014

609,006

790,816

132,155

229,192

741,161

1,020,008

Current loans

2015

2014

206,684

137,367

173,820

111,616

69,022

77,468

14

7,628

449,540

334,079

Details of debt by interest rate are as follows: (In thousands of Euros)

Non-current loans

2015

2014

Fixed

213,200

231,399

Variable

527,961

788,609

TOTAL

741,161

1,020,008

Current loans

2015

2014

18,200

3,199

431,340

330,880

449,540

334,079

Borrowings at fixed interest rates reflect only loans originally arranged at fixed rates with credit institutions, and do not include borrowings for which interest rates have been fixed by contracting derivatives.

As the majority of bank debt was extended at variable interest rates, its fair value is the same as its amortised cost. Nevertheless, the fair value of fixed-rate loans and borrowings and private placements is Euros 235,885 thousand at 31 December 2015. The fair value of these borrowings at 31 December 2014 was Euros 239,145 thousand.

Variable interest rates on loans are reviewed at least once a year.

At 2015 year end the Group's Euro-denominated financing instruments, Euros 814 million in total, have a weighted average cost, before hedging, of 2.11%, while the average pre-hedging cost of borrowings in US Dollars, amounting to US Dollars 334 million, is 2.33%. In 2014, the Group's Euro-denominated borrowings, Euros 929 million in total, bore an average cost of 2.15%, while the average cost of borrowings in US Dollars, amounting to US Dollars 387 million, was 1.57%.

The Group has arranged interest rate swaps whereby it can exchange the variable interest rates on its borrowings for fixed interest rates, as described in note 9.2.6.

At 31 December 2015 accrued interest of Euros 2,266 million is payable (Euros 2,960 thousand in 2014).

Total borrowing costs calculated using the effective interest rate on loans at amortised cost amount to Euros 2,243 thousand (Euros 2,291 thousand in 2014).

At 31 December 2015 the Group has credit facilities with financial institutions with a maximum available limit of Euros 1,788 million, of which Euros 1,191 million were drawn down. In 2014 the maximum available limit was Euros 1,909 million, of which Euros 1,354 million had been drawn down.

Certain Group companies have contracted reverse factoring facilities with various financial institutions to manage payments to suppliers. Trade payables settled under the management of financial institutions are recognised under trade and other payables until they are settled or repaid or have expired

In April 2015, Columbus Stainless Ltd signed a financing agreement (a Borrowing Base Facility) for ZAR 3,500 million with ten financial institutions. Through this transaction, some inventories (raw materials, work in progress and finished products) and some trade receivables are used as collateral to secure this financing. The amount of financing available through this contract primarily depends on Columbus's current assets at any given time. The amount drawn down at 31 December 2015 amounted to ZAR 1,170 million (Euros 69 million). This contract provides Columbus with financing of its working capital for a three-year period. Deutsche Bank AG, Amsterdam Branch, acted as the Co-ordinating Mandated Lead Arranger for this transaction, whilst Deutsche Bank AG, Johannesburg Branch, Bankinter, Banco Bilbao Vizcaya Argentaria, S.A., and FirstRand

128

Bank Limited were the Mandated Lead Arrangers. Other participating banks included Banco Santander S.A., Banco de Sabadell S.A., London Branch, Nedbank Limited, CaixaBank, S.A., HSBC Bank Plc, Johannesburg Branch and Investec Bank Limited.
In order to diversify the sources of its financing and extend its debt maturities, in July 2014 the Group filed a base prospectus for the issuance of fixed-income securities of Acerinox S.A. for a maximum notional amount of Euros 500 million at the Spanish National Securities Market Commission. Since then, Acerinox S.A. has carried out two issues through this prospectus: the first issue of Euros 75 million was placed by Deutsche Bank AG, London Branch in July 2014 with a term of ten years, whilst the second was placed by Banco Bilbao Vizcaya Argentaria, S.A. for a total of Euros 50 million in December 2014 with a term of four years and variable interest of 3-month Euribor + 1.75%.
Additionally, taking advantage of financial institutions' improved liquidity and the more favourable economic conditions, in 2014 Acerinox S.A. signed new loan agreements or renegotiations of existing loans for a total of Euros 457 million, in 14 operations with relationship banks, including Banco Santander, Banco Popular, Banco Sabadell, Caixabank, Kutxabank, Bankinter, Unicaja and Banca March.
In July 2014 a non-extinctive novation was also signed for the Euros 370 million factoring agreement arranged between Acerinox Europa S.A.U., a number of trading subsidiaries of Acerinox S.A. and a syndicate of financial institutions in April 2013. This novation extended the expiry and amended the economic conditions of the factoring facility. Through this agreement, various Group subsidiaries factor invoices without recourse of end customers in several European countries. The syndicate is led by Banco Santander and the other participants are: Santander de Factoring y Confirming S.A. E.F.C., Banca March S.A., Caixabank S.A., Popular de Factoring S.A. E.F.C., Bankinter S.A., Banco Sabadell S.A. and Banco Marocaine Du Commerce Exterieur Internacional S.A.
In 2014 the ZAR 300 million loan extended by Standard Bank to Columbus Stainless was repaid in full and also the ZAR 397 million loan extended by IFC (World Bank Group) in 2009.
The refinancing of debt arranged by the Group in 2014 basically involved extending maturity dates and cutting spreads. Given the resulting variations, the Group has recognised the effects of these new agreements as if they were new loans, therefore it has simultaneously recognised the cancellation and new loans. The implicit costs derived from the valuation of these loans at amortised cost amounted to Euros 505 thousand, which were taken to the consolidated income statement in 2014.
Non-current borrowings subject to covenants At the 2015 reporting date several loans are subject to covenants. These loans include the Borrowing Base Facility arranged by Columbus Steel in 2015, the syndicated loan signed in the United States in 2012 by Acerinox, S.A. and North American Stainless Inc., the loans taken out by Acerinox, S.A. in 2007 and 2008 from the ICO (Spain's Official Credit Institute) in both Euros and US Dollars, as well as financing covered by export credit agencies signed by Acerinox S.A., with Banco Santander and OeKB (Oesterreichische Kontrollbank AG), as well as with Deutsche Bank and JBIC (Japan Bank for International Cooperation).
The most significant of the financial ratios stipulated in these loan agreements refer to the "debt/capitalisation" and interest coverage ratios of North American Stainless Inc., in the case of the syndicated loan in the United States, maintenance of minimum equity levels in the case of Columbus and to "net financial debt/EBITDA", "EBITDA/finance costs" and "net financial debt/equity ratios" in the case of the other financing arrangements mentioned above.
At 2015 year end (as in 2014) Acerinox, S.A., North American Stainless Inc. and Columbus Stainless Ltd all comply with the ratios required as borrowers of the financing.
9.2.5 Available-for-sale financial assets Available-for-sale financial assets total Euros 10,667 thousand at year end, of which Euros 10,382 thousand reflect Acerinox's investment in the Japanese Nisshin Steel Holding Co. Limited., which is listed on the Tokyo Stock Exchange.
The quotation value was JPY 1,289 per share at 31 December 2015 (JPY 1,162 per share at 2014 year end). Acerinox holds 1,052,600 shares in this company, representing a percentage ownership of 0.96% (0.96% in 2013). As Nisshin Steel holds a 15.34% interest in Acerinox, this is a strategic investment that Acerinox has no intention of selling. Nisshin Steel not only holds a significant interest in Acerinox, S.A. but is also Acerinox's partner in the new Malaysian venture Bahru Stainless, Sdn. Bhd, which is the Group's fourth flat stainless steel factory.
Acerinox has not purchased or sold any shares in Nisshin Steel Holding Co. Limited in 2015 or 2014.
129

Consolidated Annual Accounts

In 2015 and 2014 the Group recognised the variation in the fair value of assets classified in this category in reserves. The revaluation amounted to Euros 1,991 thousand in 2015 (a loss of Euros 745 thousand in 2014). The accumulated change in value vis-à-vis the cost is a gain of Euros 2,941 thousand, before the tax effect (Euros 950 thousand in 2014).

Also in 2015, the Group company Acerinox Europa acquired a non-controlling interest of 7.36% in Fortia Energía, S.L., whose statutory activity is acquisition of electrical energy on behalf of its shareholders, for Euros 275 thousand. The Group's Spanish factories can obtain more competitive electricity prices as a result of this investment.

9.2.6 Derivative financial instruments

The Group classifies derivative financial instruments that do not qualify for hedge accounting as financial instruments at fair value through profit or loss. Those that qualify as hedging instruments are classified as hedging derivatives and are recognised applying the measurement criteria defined in note 2.9.5.

As detailed in note 4 in relation to market risk, in its activities the Group is essentially exposed to three types of risk: currency risk, interest rate risk and risk of changes in prices of raw materials. The Group uses derivative financial instruments to hedge its exposure to certain risks.

Derivative financial instruments classified by category are as follows:

(In thousands of Euros)
Hedging derivatives Derivatives at fair value through profit or loss TOTAL

2015

Assets

Liabilities

24,713

4,337

633

14,072

25,346

18,409

2014

Assets

Liabilities

21,617

20,609

52,503

7,655

74,120

28,264

A breakdown of the Group's financial derivatives at 31 December 2015 and 2014 by type of hedged risk is as follows:

(In thousands of Euros)
Exchange rate insurance Interest rate swaps Cross-currency swaps TOTAL

2015

Assets

Liabilities

657

14,170

37

4,239

24,652

25,346

18,409

2014

Assets

Liabilities

54,559

7,683

52

8,534

19,509

12,047

74,120

28,264

Currency risk
The Group operates in a large number of countries and bills customers in different currencies, depending on the country where it is billing. Therefore it uses certain financial instruments to hedge cash flow risks related to the settlement of balances in foreign currencies. The contracted operations mainly comprise forward sales and purchases in foreign currencies.

Derivatives of this nature do not always qualify for consideration as effective cash flow hedging instruments in accordance with IAS 39. At 31 December 2015 the effect of measuring these derivatives at market value was a negative Euros 59,509 thousand, which is recognised under remeasurement of financial instruments to fair value in the income statement (Euros 66,577 thousand in 2014). This variation was highly influenced by the appreciation of the US Dollar in 2015.

At 31 December 2015 all exchange rate insurance contracts basically cover both receivables (assets) and payables (liabilities) and include both trade and financing transactions between Group companies. At 31 December 2015 the Group has exchange rate insurance totalling Euros -13,513 thousand (Euros 46,876 thousand in 2014), of which Euros 657 thousand is recognised under assets and Euros 14,170 thousand under liabilities. Only Euros -74 thousand of this amount qualifies for recognition as hedging instruments. In 2015 an amount of Euros -161 thousand was transferred from the consolidated statement of comprehensive income to profit and loss for the year (Euros 145 thousand in 2014).

130

All of the Group's forward currency purchase and sale contracts have a term of less than one year.

At 31 December 2015 the Group has used contracts for foreign currency operations amounting to Euros 252 million for currency sales and Euros 666 million for currency purchases. The comparative figures at 31 December 2014 were Euros 317 million for sales and Euros 505 million for purchases. Details of these contracts by currency are as follows:

(In thousands)
USD EUR GBP SEK PLN AUD NZD NOK MYR JPY

2015

Assets

Liabilities

144,778

715,950

47,882

8,327

16,508

30,450

1,459

4,775

594

251,011

4,187

2014

Assets

Liabilities

223,352

895,881

34,456

2,688

19,011

53

200,994

3,013

19,679

3,070

7,763

173,650

The Group has contracted derivatives to hedge exposures to currency and interest rate risks affecting some of its loans and borrowings in currencies other than the functional currency. These instruments are described in the next note.
Interest rate risk At 31 December 2015 the Group has arranged the following interest rate swaps to cover part of its current and non-current loans and borrowings as well as the following cross-currency swaps for loans in currencies other than the functional currency of the company in question:

Variable to fixed rate Variable to fixed rate Variable to fixed rate USD variable to EUR fixed rate Variable to fixed rate USD variable to USD fixed rate USD variable to EUR fixed rate Variable to fixed rate

Notional value contracted
EUR 30 million EUR 15 million EUR 10 million USD 385.6 million EUR 400 million USD 63 million USD 160 million EUR 76.13 million

Outstanding amount
EUR 30 million EUR 5 million EUR 3.33 million USD 154.24 million EUR 96 million USD 29.64 million USD 48.98 million EUR 40.31 million

Maturity
2016 2016 2016 2017 2017 2017 2018 2020

In 2015 no additional interest rate hedges have been arranged.
The average interest rate applicable to USD-denominated financing for which an interest rate hedge has been arranged is 3.05% (2.70% in 2014), while the average rate for Euro-denominated financing with an associated interest rate hedge is 3.39% (3.43% in 2013). The credit spread has been included in both cases.

131

Consolidated Annual Accounts

Details at 31 December 2014 were as follows:
Variable to fixed rate Variable to fixed rate Variable to fixed rate Variable to fixed rate Variable to fixed rate Variable to fixed rate USD variable to EUR fixed rate Variable to fixed rate USD variable to USD fixed rate USD variable to EUR fixed rate Variable to fixed rate

Notional value contracted EUR 50 million EUR 15 million EUR 30 million EUR 30 million EUR 15 million EUR 10 million
USD 385.6 million EUR 400 million USD 63 million USD 160 million EUR 76.13 million

Outstanding amount EUR 50 million EUR 15 million EUR 30 million EUR 30 million EUR 10 million EUR 6.67 million
USD 231.36 million EUR 160 million USD 44.47 million USD 65.31 million EUR 49.26 million

Maturity 2015 2015 2015 2016 2016 2016 2017 2017 2017 2018 2020

The most noteworthy of these hedges in terms of amount is the cross-currency swap arranged in January 2012 for USD 385.6 million to hedge the syndicated loan extended to Acerinox S.A. Through this transaction the benchmark rate plus the initial spread for this loan was exchanged for a fixed rate of 2.56% in Euros.

In 2014, the Group arranged various financing facilities totalling Euros 225 million with a fixed interest rate over the term of the financing.

The fair value of the fixed interest rate swaps and the cross currency swaps are based on the market value of equivalent derivative financial instruments at the reporting date and amount to Euros 20,450 thousand (a negative Euros 1,020 thousand at 31 December 2014), which are recognised as follows:

(In thousands of euros)
Other financial assets Other financial liabilities Net amount

2015

Current

Non-current

15,314

9,375

247

3,992

15,067

5,383

2014

Current

Non-current

19,561

405

20,176

19,156

-20,176

At 31 December 2015 and 2014 the derivatives contracted qualify as cash flow hedges and therefore the unrealised gain of Euros 15,323 thousand on their measurement at fair value has been recorded in the consolidated statement of comprehensive income (Euros 26,235 thousand in 2014).
In 2015 an amount of Euros 8,251 thousand was transferred from the consolidated statement of comprehensive income to profit and loss for the year (Euros 22,624 thousand in 2014).
The Group has documented the effectiveness of the derivatives contracted for the purpose of applying hedge accounting, as detailed in note 2.9.5. Hedging transactions have been contracted for periods and amounts equivalent to the cash flows deriving from the associated loans. The financial instruments that are considered hedges were not ineffective at any point in 2014 or 2015.
9.2.7 Other information At 31 December 2015, receivables have been pledged as a guarantee for the financing obtained by Colombus, as described in note 9.2.4. Euros 69 million of current assets (inventories and receivables) were used to guarantee the amount drawn down at that date.
No guarantees have been received for financial or non-financial assets.

At 31 December 2014: - No financial assets were pledged to secure liabilities or contingent liabilities - No guarantees were received for financial or non-financial assets.

See also details of guarantees in note 14.3.

132

NOTE 10 INVENTORIES

Details at 31 December are as follows: (Expressed in thousands of Euros)
Raw materials and other supplies Work in progress Finished goods By-products, waste and recoverable materials Advances TOTAL

2015 229,937 185,405 390,565
18,774 248
824,929

2014 246,119 179,540 408,560
16,588 891
851,698

The cost of goods sold is Euros 3,894 million in 2015 (Euros 3,870 million in 2014).

In 2015 the Group wrote inventories down to net realisable value where this was lower than cost, with a total adjustment of Euros 14,248 thousand. The adjustment for 2014 amounted to Euros 9,402 thousand.

At 31 December 2015, the Group company Columbus Stainless has pledged inventories as a guarantee for the financing obtained through the borrowing base facility described in note 9.2.4. An amount of Euros 69,022 thousand has been drawn down from the loan guaranteed with the Company's working capital.

At 31 December 2014 no inventories were pledged as collateral to guarantee repayment of debts or commitments undertaken with third parties.

Commitments
At 31 December 2015 the consolidated Group has commitments to purchase raw materials for Euros 129,143 thousand (Euros 106,380 thousand in 2014). Although no firm sales commitments exist at these reporting dates, there are formal orders for which the Group does not foresee any circumstances that could prevent delivery by the agreed deadlines.

The Group does not have any inventories with a cycle exceeding one year and therefore no borrowing costs have been capitalised.

Group companies have taken out insurance policies to cover the risk of damage to their inventories. The coverage of these policies is considered sufficient.

NOTE 11 CASH AND CASH EQUIVALENTS

Details at 31 December are as follows: (Expressed in thousands of Euros)
Cash in hand and at banks Current bank deposits TOTAL

2015 213,388 266,567 479,955

2014 233,779 504,589 738,368

The effective interest rate on current bank deposits is 0.51% for the US Dollar, and 0.30% for the Euro (0.35% for the US Dollar, 2.60% for the Malaysian Ringgit, 5.30% for the South African Rand and 1.08% for the Euro in 2014). At the reporting date, 72% of all deposits have been made by North American Stainless and 27% by Acerinox, S.A. (80% by the Parent in 2014). Deposits are placed for between 45 days and one week with banks of recognised solvency. In 2014 the Group companies generally invested their cash surpluses in deposits with an average term of between 45 days and one week.

All cash and cash equivalents are held in current accounts or current deposits. There are no unavailable cash balances at year end.

133

Consolidated Annual Accounts

NOTE 12 EQUITY

12.1 Subscribed capital and share premium
Movement of issued and outstanding shares in 2015 and 2014 is as follows: (Expressed in thousands of Euros)

Number of shares Ordinary shares

(thousand)

(thousand)

Balance at 1 January 2014 Capital increase (scrip dividend) Acquisition of own shares Redemption of own shares Balance at 31 December 2014 Capital increase (scrip dividend) Acquisition of own shares Disposal of own shares Balance at 31 December 2014

257,147 4,555
261,702 5,005
266,707

257,147 4,555
261,702 5,005
266,707

Own shares (thousand)
0
-1 1 0
-1
-1

Share capital (thousands of
Euros) 64,287
1,139

Share premium (thousands of
Euros)
81,403

65,426 1,251

81,403

66,677

81,403

The Parent's share capital solely comprises ordinary shares. All these shares have the same rights and there are no statutory restrictions on their transferability.

At 31 December 2015 share capital is represented by 266,707,393 ordinary shares (261,702,140 in 2014) with a par value of Euros 0.25 each, subscribed and fully paid.

All the shares are listed on the Madrid and Barcelona stock exchanges.

At 31 December 2015 the only holders of 10% or more of the share capital of Acerinox, S.A. are Alba Participaciones, S.A. (19.62% in 2015 and 23.09% in 2014) and Nisshin Steel Holding, Co. Ltd. (15.34% in 2015 and 15.39% in 2014).

At their general meeting the shareholders agreed to increase share capital with a charge to reserves by issuing ordinary shares to be allocated to the shareholders free of charge. Following the shareholders' meeting, on 3 June the board of directors agreed to implement the share capital increase by means of a flexible dividend, known as a "scrip dividend".

The share capital increase, through the issue of 5,005,253 shares derived from the scrip dividend, was filed at the Madrid Mercantile Registry on 13 July (4,555,963 shares in 2014, also derived from the scrip dividend). These new shares were admitted to trading on 20 July 2015.

On 15 June, the Parent acquired 100 own shares for use, if necessary, to exchange subscription rights when executing the scrip dividend.

There has been no distribution of the share premium in 2014 or 2015.

The share premium is subject to the same restrictions and may be used for the same purpose as the voluntary reserves of the Parent, including conversion into share capital.

12.2 Distribution of dividends
Based on the agreements reached by the shareholders and the board of directors on 3 June 2015, those parties who were shareholders of Acerinox from 16 June to 23:59 hours on 25 June 2015 were to be allocated one right for each share held in the share capital increase. The rights were traded on the stock exchange from 17 June to 1 July 2015 and entitled the shareholders to choose between the following options:
- Sell the rights to the Company for Euros 0.449 per right between 17 June and 25 June inclusive. - Sell the rights on the stock exchange at the listed market price from 17 June to 1 July 2015 inclusive. - Subscribe shares in Acerinox on the basis of one (1) new share for every thirty-one (31) rights allocated to them on 16 June 2015

134

On 27 June 2015 the definitive amount of the dividend payable and the details of the share capital increase were established, as follows:
- 1 06,539,278 rights were sold to Acerinox for Euros 0.449 per right, with the Company therefore paying out Euros 47,836,135.82 to its shareholders on 6 July 2015.
- 5,005,253 new shares were issued in the share capital increase.
In 2014, at the annual general meeting held on 10 June 2014, the shareholders agreed to increase share capital with a charge to reserves by issuing ordinary shares to be allocated to the shareholders free of charge. Following this meeting, the board of directors agreed to implement the share capital increase by means of a flexible dividend, known as a "scrip dividend".
Based on the agreements reached by the shareholders and the board of directors, those parties who were shareholders of Acerinox on 23 June 2014 could choose between the following options:
- Sell the rights to the Company for Euros 0.449 per right - Sell the rights on the stock exchange at the market price. - Subscribe shares in Acerinox on the basis of one new share for every twenty-nine rights
On 9 July 2014:
- 125,023,234 rights were sold to Acerinox, S.A. for Euros 0.449 per right, with the Company therefore paying out Euros 56,135,432.07 to its shareholders on 11 July 2014.
- 4,555,963 new shares were issued in the share capital increase.
These new shares were admitted to trading on 23 July 2014.
12.3 Reserves
a) Retained earnings Retained earnings include consolidated profit or loss for the year, reserves in fully consolidated companies and equity-accounted investees, as well as Parent reserves other than those mentioned below.
Details of reserves by company are included in note 12.5.
There are no restrictions on the transfer of funds by any Group company in the form of dividends, except for the non-distributable reserves required by applicable legislation. At 31 December 2015 Euros 21,640 thousand of the Group's reserves and retained earnings are subject to restrictions (Euros 20,251 thousand at 31 December 2014).
The legal reserve, which is included under retained earnings in the statement of changes in equity, has been appropriated in compliance with article 274 of the Spanish Companies Act, which requires companies to transfer 10% of profits for the year to a legal reserve until this reserve reaches an amount equal to 20% of share capital. At 31 December 2015 the Company has appropriated Euros 12,465 thousand, an amount equivalent to 18.69% of its share capital, to this reserve (Euros 12,465 thousand and 19.05% of share capital in 2014).
The legal reserve is not distributable to shareholders and if it is used to offset losses, in the event that no other reserves are available, the reserve must be replenished with future profits.
b) Property, plant and equipment revaluation reserve As permitted by Royal Decree-Law 7/1996 of 7 June 1996, containing urgent tax measures and initiatives aimed at boosting and deregulating the economy, the Holding Company revalued its property, plant and equipment. The amount of the reserve reflects the revaluation gains, net of tax at 3%.
The deadline for tax inspection was three years from 31 December 1996. Consequently, as no inspection took place, this balance can be used to offset losses or increase the Company's share capital. Once ten years had elapsed, Euros 16,592 thousand of the balance of this reserve was released to freely distributable reserves, representing the depreciated or transferred revaluation gains or revalued assets disposed of or otherwise derecognised.
135

Consolidated Annual Accounts

The balance of this account will only be distributable, either directly or indirectly, to the extent that gains have been realised.
c) Hedging reserve The hedging reserve includes cumulative net changes in the fair value of cash flow hedging instruments associated with highly probable future transactions.
d) Adjustment of available-for-sale assets to fair value The Company has classified certain financial instruments as available for sale. In accordance with the applicable measurement criteria, any changes in the fair value of these instruments are recognised directly in the consolidated statement of comprehensive income until the financial asset is impaired or derecognised. Note 9.2.5 includes a detailed description of instruments classified as available for sale and their value.

12.4 Translation differences

Details of movement in this account are included in the consolidated statement of changes in equity.

Details of cumulative translation differences by company at the 2015 and 2014 reporting dates are as follows:

(Expressed in thousands of Euros) GROUP COMPANIES
ACERINOX (SCHWEIZ) A.G. ACERINOX ARGENTINA S.A. ACERINOX AUSTRALASIA PTY.LTD. ACX DO BRASIL REPRESENTAÇOES, LTDA ACERINOX CHILE S.A ACERINOX COLOMBIA S.A.S ACERINOX INDIA PVT LTD ACERINOX MALAYSIA SDN. BHD ACERINOX METAL SANAYII VE TICARET L.S. ACERINOX MIDDLE EAST DMCC (DUBAI) ACERINOX NORWAY A.S ACERINOX PACIFIC LTD. ACERINOX POLSKA,SP Z.O.O ACERINOX RUSSIA LLC. ACERINOX SCANDINAVIA AB ACERINOX S.C. MALAYSIA SDN. BHD ACERINOX (SEA), PTE LTD. ACERINOX SHANGAI CO., LTD. ACERINOX U.K., LTD. BAHRU STAINLESS, SDN. BHD COLUMBUS STAINLESS INC. CORPORACIÓN ACERINOX PERU S.A.C NORTH AMERICAN STAINLESS CANADA, INC NORTH AMERICAN STAINLESS MEXICO S.A. DE C.V. NORTH AMERICAN STAINLESS FINANCIAL INVESTMENTS, LTD NORTH AMERICAN STAINLESS INC. SUBTOTAL

2015 1,370 -3,470 62 -200 14 -59 -20 592 -114 45 -161 -4,816 -1,467 -84 -2,249 -1,985 198 3,028 -1,641
45,419 -150,412
-1 7,714 5,843
4 315,318 212,928

2014 963
-3,364 64 -73
218 -6
-52 329 -44
25 -124 -3,474 -1,515
-56 -2,828 -2,205
145 2,509 -3,223 30,853 -123,105
-20 2,829 3,002
3 117,246
18,097

ASSOCIATES BETINOKS PASLANMAZ ÇELIK A.S. SUBTOTAL

2015 -49 -49

2014 -49 -49

TOTAL

212,879

18,048

136

12.5 Details of reserves, profit/loss and non-controlling interests

Details at 31 December 2015 and 2014 are as follows: (Expressed in thousands of Euros)

2015

2014

Reserves

Profit/(loss)

Profit attributable
to Noncontrolling interests

Total noncontrolling interests

Reserves Profit/(loss)

Profit attributable
to Noncontrolling interests

Total noncontrolling interests

ACERINOX, S.A ACERINOX (SCHWEIZ) A.G. ACERINOX ARGENTINA S.A. ACERINOX AUSTRALASIA PTY. LTD. ACERINOX BENELUX S.A. - N.V. ACX DO BRASIL REPRESENTAÇOES, LTDA ACERINOX CHILE, S.A. ACERINOX COLOMBIA S.A.S ACERINOX DEUTSCHLAND GMBH ACERINOX EUROPA S.A.U ACERINOX FRANCE S.A.S ACERINOX ITALIA S.R.L. ACERINOX INDIA PVT LTD ACERINOX MALAYSIA SDN. BHN ACERINOX METAL SANAYII VE TICARET L.S. ACERINOX MIDDLE EAST DMCC (DUBAI) ACERINOX NORWAY A.S ACERINOX PACIFIC LTD. ACERINOX POLSKA, SP Z.O.O ACERINOX RUSSIA LLC. ACERINOX SCANDINAVIA AB ACERINOX S.C. MALAYSIA SDN. BHD ACERINOX SHANGAI CO., LTD. ACERINOX (SEA), PTE LTD. ACERINOX U.K., LTD. ACEROL - COMÉRCIO E INDÚSTRIA DE AÇOS INOXIDÁVEIS, UNIPESSOAL, LDA. BAHRU STAINLESS, BDN. BHD COLUMBUS STAINLESS (PTY) LTD. CORPORACIÓN ACERINOX PERU S.A.C INOX RE, S.A. INOXCENTER CANARIAS S.A.U INOXCENTER, S.L.U INOXFIL S.A. INOXIDABLES DE EUSKADI S.A.U
INOXPLATE - COMÉRCIO DE PRODUCTOS DE AÇO INOXIDÁVEL, UNIPESSOAL, LDA.
METALINOX BILBAO S.A.U NORTH AMERICAN STAINLESS CANADA, INC
NORTH AMERICAN STAINLESS MEXICO S.A. DE C.V.

580,678 2,495 5,810 228 104 34 -3,166 187
-18,424 -79,828 -10,034 -13,016
115 -17,866
106 223 905 -18,529 154
61 -3,263 -20,303
137 -318 839
-2,759
-68,537 57,021
-40 24,458
1,208 -24,781
-841 519
1,204
14,507 10,563
3,178

-19,385 -394 579 -223 152 31 -281 -1 1,650 5,791 372 454 59 -24 412 -36 -142
-2,972 238 117 673
-1,449 1,119 -185
790
173
-41,897 13,928
-49 1,434
180 3,913 -227 1,059
65
1,397 2,480
-642

-20,927 4,368
-1

647,481 2,223 5,330 -4 132 176 -3,239 120
-20,271 -92,904 -10,489 -13,691
353 -17,820
279 0
710 -15,966
140 -52 -4,236 -19,170 -139 38 480

-3,408

52,316 41,871
12

-39,353 54,926
-27 23,063
2,104 -24,558
685 123

876

17,125 6,325

1,462

-30,635 264 455 232 222 8 73 66
1,840 13,077
462 675
46 -46 62 223 195 -2,563 14 114 973 -1,133 419 -356 359
649
-29,166 1,992 -12 1,395 62 12 -760 396
328
1,929 4,217
1,681

-14,345 683

66,065 46,093

1

41

0

-133

-2

13

33

382

NORTH AMERICAN STAINLESS FINANCIAL INVESTMENTS LTD.
NORTH AMERICAN STAINLESS INC. ROLDAN S.A. SUBTOTAL

-8,015
1,090,305 20,123
1,525,442

8,013
70,850 -5,131 42,891

-13 -16,573

-10,577
927,297 78 27,091 94,277 1,442,635

10,575
162,892 -4,907
136,329

-12 -13,642

91 112,552

ASSOCIATES BETINOKS PASLANMAZ ÇELIK A.S. SUBTOTAL

-264

0

-265

0

-264

0

0

0

-265

0

0

0

TOTAL

1,525,178

42,891

-16,573

94,277 1,442,370 136,329

-13,642

112,552

137

Consolidated Annual Accounts

The two companies with non-controlling interests are Columbus Stainless, Ltd, 24% of which is held by the South African group IDC (Industrial Development Corporation) and Bahru Stainless Sdn. Bhd, the main non-controlling shareholder of which is Nisshin Steel Holding. Co, Ltd. with an interest of 30%, as well as Metal One Corporation, which has a 3% interest. Details of the assets of these two Group companies are as follows: Columbus's total assets amount to Euros 383 million (Euros 414 million in 2014), of which Euros 133 million are non-current (Euros 174 million in 2014). The assets of Bahru Stainless, Sdn. Bhd. amount to Euros 890 million (Euros 826 million in 2014), of which Euros 734 million is non-current (Euros 657 million in 2014). Neither of these companies distributed dividends in 2014 or 2015.

12.6 Distribution of profit and shareholder remuneration
The distribution of the profit for 2015 of the Parent, Acerinox, S.A., as proposed by the board of directors, to be submitted to the shareholders for approval at their annual general meeting is as follows:

(Expressed in thousands of Euros) Basis of allocation: Loss for the year

2015 -20,531

Application: Prior years' losses

-20,531

At the board meeting held on 15 December, the directors resolved regarding shareholder remuneration to make a unique payment on July 2016 in the way and amount decided by the general meeting.

The distribution of profit for the year ended 31 December 2014 was approved by the shareholders at their general meeting on 3 June 2015. The profit for the year, which amounted to Euros 16,408 thousand, were carried forward as prior years' losses.

12.7 Earnings per share
Basic earnings per share are calculated by dividing the profit for the year attributable to equity holders of the Parent by the weighted average number of ordinary shares outstanding during the year, excluding own shares purchased and held by the Group.

(Expressed in thousands of Euros) Profit attributable to the Group Weighted average number of ordinary shares outstanding Earnings/loss per share (in Euros)

2015 42,891
263,964,789 0.16

2014 136,329 259,168,276
0.53

The weighted average number of shares has been calculated considering the shares outstanding both prior and subsequent to the capital increase and the number of days for which they had been outstanding.

The Group has not issued any financial instruments that give access to capital or convertible debt and therefore diluted earnings per share are the same as basic earnings per share.

138

NOTE 13 DEFERRED INCOME

Movement in deferred income, comprising non-refundable government grants, which include emission allowances received free of charge (see note 2.6.d) and other capital grants, is as follows:

(Expressed in thousands of Euros) Balance at 1 January Grants awarded Transfer to the income statement Balance at 31 December

2015 6,430 4,352 -3,269 7,513

2014 4,834 1,583
13 6,430

Deferred income primarily reflects grants received by Acerinox Europe for its research and development activities, and the balancing entry for emission allowances allocated free of charge under the National Allocation Plan and not been used during the year (see note 7).

The Group considers that it has met or will meet all the conditions for receipt of these grants in the period stipulated and therefore no significant contingencies exist in connection with the grants obtained.

NOTE 14 PROVISIONS AND CONTINGENCIES

Details of non-current provisions included in the balance sheets for 2015 and 2014 are as follows:

(Expressed in thousands of Euros)

2015

2014

Employee benefits

10,509

11,204

Other provisions

3,189

2,502

TOTAL

13,698

13,706

14.1 Employee benefits
14.1.1 Defined contribution plans
In accordance with legislation in force in their countries of operation, certain Group companies make contributions to pension plans managed by external institutions. An expense of Euros 8,157 thousand has been recognised for the year under personnel expenses in respect of such plans (Euros 7,037 thousand in 2014).

14.1.2 Defined benefit plans

Details of provisions for employee benefits by type of commitment are as follows: (Expressed in thousands of Euros)

2015

2014

Pension plans

2,497

2,136

Early retirement benefits

344

290

Supplements

620

694

Post-employment benefits

7,048

8,084

TOTAL

10,509

11,204

The amount recorded under pension plans comprises the contributions made by North American Stainless to pension plans for certain employees. These liabilities have been duly externalised and the Company has no additional obligations. The Company has recorded an asset for the same amount.

139

Consolidated Annual Accounts

Post-employment obligations reflect post-retirement medical care plans provided by certain Group companies to specified plan members. The Company performs actuarial valuations of the obligations every two years. The most recent valuation was performed this year. The assumptions made were as follows: discount rate of 9% (8.8% in accordance with the valuation performed in 2013), inflation of medical services 7% (6.9% in the prior valuation). The opening balance for the period reconciles with the closing balance as follows:

(Expressed in thousands of Euros)
Balance at 1st of January Contributions paid Service cost recognised in the income statement Interest cost Actuarial loss recognised in comprehensive income Translation differences Balance at 31st December

2015 8,084 -214
168 589 -188 -1,391 7,048

2014 7,184 -216
187 656
273 8,084

14.2 Other provisions

Movement in 2015 is as follows: (Expressed in thousands of Euros)
Balance at 31 December 2014 Charge to provision Application Reversal Translation differences Balance at 31 December 2015

Lawsuits 271
59 -35
294

CO2 1,826 1,935 -1,824
1,937

Other provisions 405 552
-16 16 957

Total 2,502 2,488 -1,766
-51 16 3,189

CO2 These are provisions for CO2 emissions during the year for which the emission allowances have not yet been surrendered (see note 7.1).
Applications for the year are mainly due to the derecognition of emission allowances for 2015 totalling Euros 1,824 thousand (Euros 1,886 thousand in 2014) (see note 7.1).

Litigation Litigation includes legal actions for immaterial amounts with the Port Authority of Algeciras and Électricité de France.

Other provisions
Other provisions reflect Inoxcenter, S.L.U.'s estimate of the probable obligations totalling Euros 386 thousand arising from the workforce restructuring plan implemented in 2013 pursuant to Royal Decree-Law 5/2013. There has been no movement in this provision during the year.

In addition, a provision of Euros 545 thousand was made in the year in relation to the environmental deductions applied to income tax from 2012 to 2014, in accordance with the requested validations, which were rejected by the Regional Government of Andalucía. The Company has submitted the pertinent objections.

14.3 Guarantees provided

At 31 December 2015 the Group has provided guarantees to third parties, mainly government bodies, totalling Euros 31 million (Euros 25 million in 2014). This amount includes the guarantee provided to the Italian taxation authorities as a result of the assessment arising from the inspection, as explained in note 17.4. Group management does not expect any significant liabilities to arise from these guarantees.

140

NOTE 15 INCOME AND EXPENSES

15.1 Income and revenue
Details of income and revenue in 2015 and 2014 are as follows: (Expressed in thousands of Euros)
Sale of goods Services rendered Self-constructed assets Operating lease income Gains on disposal of fixed assets Reversal of impairment of intangible assets Income from grants and subsidies Income from emission allowances Other income TOTAL

2015 4,211,615
9,811 18,888
217 517
0 302 2,967 9,014 4,253,331

2014 4,377,025
3,264 15,993
208 1,977 2,835
486 -499 12,278 4,413,567

15.2 Personnel expenses
Details of personnel expenses in 2015 and 2014 are as follows: (Expressed in thousands of Euros)
Salaries and wages Social Security Contributions to employee benefit plans Termination benefits Change in the provision for employee benefits Other personnel expenses TOTAL

2015 281,304
67,216 8,157 645 932 9,922
368,176

2014 261,103
62,777 7,037 5,996 785 9,466
347,164

The average headcount in 2015 and 2014, distributed by category, is as follows:

2015

2014

University graduates Administrative staff Manual workers

789 900 5,080

790 964 4,999

TOTAL

6,769

6,753

At 31 December a breakdown of personnel by gender and category, including directors, is as follows:

Board members Senior management personnel University graduates Administrative staff Manual workers TOTAL

Male Female Male Female Male Female Male Female Male Female

2015 14 1 4 0
572 216 495 396 4,908 150 6,756

2014 14 1 4 0
572 206 554 378 4,867 119 6,715

141

Consolidated Annual Accounts

At 31 December 2015 the number of employees in Spain with a disability of at least 33% is 52 (48 male and 4 female) (54 in 2014; 50 male and 4 female).

As a general rule, all of the Spanish companies comply with the provisions of the General Law on the Rights and Social Integration of Disabled Persons.

15.3 Other operating expenses

Details are as follows: (Expressed in thousands of Euros)
Rentals Trading costs Utilities Maintenance External services Insurance Other operating expenses Taxes other than income tax Losses on disposal of fixed assets Impairment of fixed assets Other extraordinary expenses TOTAL

2015 9,324
162,356 222,266
53,830 72,807 14,584 29,162 15,376
332 200 215 580,452

2014 8,069 159,129 200,964 52,876 66,506 17,001 30,991 18,096
229 0
99 553,960

Other operating expenses include Euros 3,745 thousand in bank fees and securities depository fees (Euros 3,075 thousand in 2014).

NOTE 16 NET FINANCE COST
Details of the net finance cost are as follows: (Expressed in thousands of Euros)
Interest and other finance income Income from dividends Gain on disposal of investments in consolidated companies Gain on remeasurement of financial instruments to fair value (exchange rate insurance) Exchange gains TOTAL FINANCE INCOME Interest expense and other finance costs Loss on remeasurement of financial instruments to fair value (exchange rate insurance) Exchange losses TOTAL FINANCE COSTS
NET FINANCE COST

2015 3,869
423
888 62,400 67,580 -51,175 -60,397
-111,572
-43,992

2014 5,190
111
67,427
72,728 -61,802
-849 -63,989 -126,640
-53,912

142

NOTE 17 TAXATION
At 31 December 2015 and 2014 the consolidated tax group in Spain comprises Acerinox, S.A., Acerinox Europa, S.A.U, Roldán, S.A., Inoxfil, S.A., Inoxcenter, S.L.U. and Inoxcenter Canarias, S.A.U.

17.1 Income tax expense
Details of the tax expense are as follows: (Expressed in thousands of Euros)
Current tax Deferred tax Total income tax

2015 51,474 -5,885 45,589

2014 100,503
17,808 118,311

In 2015 the Parent received dividends from some of its foreign subsidiaries amounting to Euros 13.8 million (Euros 11.2 million in 2014). Under the corresponding double taxation conventions, some of these dividends were subject to withholdings at source amounting to Euros 826 thousand (Euros 1,123 thousand in 2014), which have been recognised under other taxes in the income statement. This account also reflects other withholdings on interest paid to Group companies.

A reconciliation of the income tax expense recognised in the income statement and accounting profit is presented below:

(Expressed in thousands of Euros)
Net profit for the year Non-controlling interests Income tax Other taxes Profit before tax Income tax at the local tax rate

28.00%

2015 42,891 -16,573 45,589 4,989 76,896 21,531

30.00%

2014 136,329 -13,642 118,311 2,778 243,776 73,133

Effects on tax payable:

Effect of tax rates of foreign operations Non-deductible expenses Tax incentives not recognised in the income statement Non-taxable income Prior year adjustments Adjustment of tax rates, deferred taxes Unrecognised tax credits and impairment Other Total income tax

7,081 7,279 -12,190 -359
484 1,008 18,865 1,890 45,589

10,827 5,553
-14,613 -514 1,411
22,793 11,193
8,528 118,311

The amounts recorded under Adjustment of tax rates, deferred taxes in 2015 and 2014 essentially reflect the impact of the income tax reform in Spain, approved through Law 27/2014 of 27 November 2014. Details of the amendments under this reform and the impact on the Group are provided in note 17.3.

The tax rate resulting from the Group's consolidated income statement for 2015 was 66% (50% in 2014). This is explained by the combined effect of a higher contribution made to Group profits by the US company North American Stainless, which is taxed at a rate of 35%, and Euros 77 million of losses in certain companies whose tax credits have not been capitalised. In addition, impairment of tax credits amounting to Euros 2.8 million has been recognised in the year, either due to expiry before it was possible to offset them, or because there was no evidence that they could be recovered within a reasonable period, meaning that they should not be carried forward in the accounts. In 2014, the tax rate was primarily affected by the tax reform in Spain, as explained in note 17.3. Excluding this effect, the tax rate would have been 9% lower in 2014.

143

Consolidated Annual Accounts

17.2 Deferred tax

Movement in deferred tax assets and liabilities is as follows: (Expressed in thousands of Euros)

2015

2014

Deferred tax assets

Deferred tax liabilities

Deferred tax assets

Deferred tax liabilities

Balance at 1 January Expense/income for the period Taxes recognised directly in equity Exchange rate fluctuations Transfers Other changes Balance at 31 December

192,130 -9,103 -1,715 260 7,521 -202
188,891

213,285 -14,988
550 20,791
7,521 8
227,167

218,248 -34,114
-1,772 24
9,346 398
192,130

196,748 -16,306
-777 24,403
9,346 -129 213,285

The opening balance of deferred tax liabilities from 2014 has been adjusted as explained in note 2.1

The origin of deferred tax assets and liabilities is as follows:

(Expressed in thousands of Euros)
Goodwill Property, plant and equipment Financial assets Inventories Other assets Provisions Employee benefit plans Financial liabilities Other liabilities Non-deductible finance costs Other tax deductions Unused tax losses Deferred tax assets/liabilities Offsetting of deferred tax assets and liabilities Deferred tax assets/liabilities

Assets

2015

2014

5,880 1,574 -525
14 6,262 3,671 1,732

6,640 1,574 1,352
31 7,009 3,739 3,490

29,922 29,856 172,845 251,231
-62,340
188,891

24,969 30,236 194,214 273,254
-81,124
192,130

Liabilities

2015

2014

-7,731

-7,515

-254,055

-253,520

-16,886

-21,593

45

-713

-166

-236

-11,673

-11,556

936

780

12

-40

11

-16

-289,507 62,340
-227,167

-294,409 81,124
-213,285

Net

2015

2014

-7,731

-7,515

-248,175

-246,880

-15,312

-20,019

-480

639

-152

-205

-5,411

-4,547

4,607

4,519

1,744

3,450

11

-16

29,922

24,969

29,856

30,236

172,845

194,214

-38,276

-21,155

-38,276

-21,155

144

Deferred tax liabilities from property, plant and equipment are mainly due to the different tax and accounting depreciation criteria permitted by legislation in force in certain countries. These liabilities essentially relate to North American Stainless, Inc. and Columbus Stainless, Ltd.

The reversal period for most of the deferred taxes is more than one year.

The Group has Euros 5.4 million of unrecognised assets arising from temporary differences relating to accounting impairment of subsidiaries which is not tax-deductible.

At 31 December 2015 and 2014, the Group has tax credits available as follows:

(Expressed in thousands of Euros) Availability limit

2015

2014

1 to 5 years

549

1,464

6 to 10 years

262

0

11 to 15 years

5,670

6,848

16 to 20 years

0

0

No prescription date

166,364

185,902

TOTAL

172,845

194,214

The Group also has tax credits in respect of certain companies' losses of Euros 60,477 thousand (Euros 27,954 thousand in 2014), which, following conservative criteria, have not been recognised. The period for recovery of these credits is open ended, in accordance with prevailing tax legislation.

On 22 June, the Group company Bahru Stainless received confirmation from the Malaysian Ministry of Economy of approval of fiscal aid in respect of investments made in the country in 2009 to 2014. This aid consists of income tax deductions for an amount equal to the investments made in certain items of property, plant and equipment, which amount to Malaysian Ringgit 1,811 million (Euros 385 million). The Company has already submitted the amendments to the tax returns accrediting the amount of aid receivable. As with tax credits relating to tax loss carryforwards, the Group has not recorded a deferred tax asset as it cannot estimate their recoverability.

The Group company North American Stainless also has tax credits similar to those extended to Bahru Stainless, for investments in assets that contribute to recycling. These credits are deducted from the calculation of the Kentucky state tax and amount to Euros 524 million. The Company has used Euros 3,941 thousand in 2014 and expects to use Euros 2,078 thousand in the income tax return for 2015. The Group has capitalised Euros 14.6 million in tax credits in this regard, reflecting the amounts it expects to recover over the next five years.

The Group prepares projections of profit and loss on an individual basis for all companies with available tax credits to determine whether the credits will be recoverable within the timeframe specified under the applicable legislation, and never in a period exceeding that specified in the budget. Furthermore, the Group takes into account the limitations regarding offsetting tax loss carryforwards stipulated in certain jurisdictions. The Group also assesses the existence of deferred tax liabilities against which tax losses may be offset in the future. Based on these criteria, the directors consider that all capitalised tax credits are likely to be recovered through future taxable income, in a reasonable period not exceeding that permitted by the corresponding local authorities in each country.

The Group has performed a sensitivity analysis of the estimates made justifying the recoverability of the tax losses carried forward, in order to determine the potential risk of their not being recoverable. This analysis, applied to 67% of tax credits carried forward, determined that even if estimated results are reduced by 50% the Group could recover all of its tax losses in a period of no more than 10 years.

The estimates of results made by the Group reflect financial and macroeconomic circumstances as well as the stainless steel market. Key assumptions such as exchange rates and raw material prices are therefore extrapolated using highly conservative criteria, referring to the most recent market values at all times. These budgets are approved by Group management.

145

Consolidated Annual Accounts

17.3 Legislative amendments
Tax reform in Spain
On 27 November 2014 the new Corporate Income Tax Law 27/2014 was approved, introducing completely new legislation. The Law repealed the revised Royal Legislative Decree 4/2004 of 5 March 2004, which was previously in force.

Of the numerous measures introduced by the new law, those which most significantly affect the Group are as follows:

- A progressive reduction of tax rates, from the 30% in force until 2014, to 28% in 2015, and 25% from 2016 onwards. Although this measure is positive ­ as it reduces the tax burden ­ it had a very negative impact on the Group's income statement for 2014, as it also reduced the balance of deferred tax assets. This measure continued to have an unfavourable effect in 2015, due to use at the prevailing rate of 28% of deferred tax liabilities that were recognised at a rate of 25% in 2014 as at that time it was not possible to estimate the amount recoverable in the year. The impact on the income statement for the year amounted to an additional Euros 1 million in tax expenses.

As stipulated in the Group's accounting policy for measurement of deferred tax assets and liabilities (note 2.16), in 2014 the Group measured its deferred tax assets and liabilities in accordance with the new tax rates approved, taking into account the period in which they were expected to be recovered, provided that it can be easily estimated, except for deferred tax assets arising from tax losses, which were adjusted for the 25% tax rate. The impact on the income statement was as follows:

(Expressed in thousands of Euros)

Balances prior to Adjustments to

the reform

tax rates

Balances at 31/12/2014

Tax loss carryforwards Deferred tax assets (temporary differences) Deferred tax liabilities (temporary differences)
Total impact on profit or loss
Deferred tax assets (temporary differences) Deferred tax liabilities (temporary differences)
Total impact on reserves

137,722 45,214 -39,025
4,488 -285

-22,777 -6,330 6,427
-22,680
-748 47
-701

114,945 38,884 -32,598
3,740 -237

- L imits on offsetting of tax losses, eliminating the time limit. The law establishes a limit of 70% of taxable income for offsetting of tax losses, prior to application of the capitalisation reserve. In 2015, the transitional limit of 25% was maintained for large companies. In 2016, the limit has been set at 60%. The Group assessed the possible impact of this measure. However, in view of the budgets approved by management, no problem was identified with recovery in 2014 or 2015. The Group expects to recover all of the tax losses carried forward by the consolidated tax group in less than seven years.
- Capitalisation reserve. The law introduces a reduction in taxable income equal to 10% of the increase in capital and reserves for the year, if this is maintained for a period of five years and a special non-distributable reserve is appropriated in the amount of the reduction. This reduction may not exceed 10% of the gross taxable income. Shareholder contributions and capital increases are not taken into account when calculating the increase. The consolidated tax group has not benefited from this measure in the year, as the tax loss generated is less than the total amount of dividends the Group expects to distribute.
- Simplification of the tax depreciation/amortisation schedules. The number of items has been reduced to 30. This measure had no material impact on the Group.
- C hanges to international double taxation relief. New rules have been established for exemption of dividends and similar income. This measure has no impact on the Group.
- Changes to the consideration of certain expenses as non-deductible.
- Promotion of the deduction for R&D&i and elimination of other existing deductions.

146

- T he temporary limit on deductibility of 30% of depreciation/amortisation, stipulated for 2013 and 2014, has been eliminated and a new deduction has been introduced on tax due for 2015 and thereafter to alleviate the impact of the reduction in tax rates.
- A limit of 5% has been established for deduction of goodwill and intangible assets with indefinite useful lives. In 2015, the limit on deductibility of goodwill remains at 1% as in past years.
- Amendments to the regulations applicable to related party transactions have been introduced, primarily associated with documentation requirements.
Other legislative amendments In 2015 and 2014 the following tax rates applicable to certain Group companies were amended pursuant to local legislation:
- U .K: progressive modifications to the income tax rate. The applicable rate will be 20% from 1 April 2016 onwards, 19% from 2017 and 18% in 2020.
- Portugal: the tax rate has been reduced from 25% to 23% from 2014 onwards and 21% from 2015, although a 3% increase has been provided for where profits exceed Euros 1.5 million. Simultaneously, the period for recovering tax loss carryforwards has been extended from 6 to 12 years, establishing a limit for offsetting tax losses of 70% of taxable profit from 2014 onwards. The tax losses that the Group had carried forward in Portugal expired in 2015. Impairment has been recorded for the tax credits which it was not possible to recover, with an impact of Euros 194 thousand on profit and loss.
- C hile: progressive increase in tax rates, from 17% in 2013 to 27% from 2018 onwards. The applicable rate in 2015 was 22.5% and in 2016 it will be 24%.
The Group adjusted its deferred tax assets and liabilities to the new tax rates, taking the difference to the income statement for that year.
Certain temporary modifications introduced in Royal Decree 12/2012 and Royal Decree 20/2012 were extended to cover 2014 and 2015. These include capping the deductibility of goodwill at 1% of the goodwill amount, extending the limit of R&D tax credits and restricting the offsetting of tax loss carryforwards (to 25% of taxable income declared in the case of the consolidated Group).
The amendments to the calculation of instalment payments ­ such as the minimum payment of 12% of accounting profit and the inclusion in taxable income of 25% of all dividend and interest income that entitles the recipient to the exemption set forth in article 21 of the Income Tax Law ­ were also extended to 2014 and 2015.
17.4 Current tax
At 31 December 2015 the Group has a current tax asset of Euros 17,394 thousand (Euros 18,390 thousand in 2014) and a current tax liability of Euros 1,092 thousand (Euros 35,997 thousand in 2014).
17.5 Tax inspections and years open to inspection
In accordance with current legislation, taxes cannot be considered definitive until they have been inspected and agreed by the taxation authorities or until the inspection period has elapsed.
The new Income Tax Law provides for a new prescription period for tax loss carryforwards declared in the tax returns in the years open to inspection. The new prescription period has been established as ten years from the day following the deadline for filing the tax return or selfassessment for the tax period in which the right to offset arises. Once this period has elapsed, taxpayers must submit the assessment or selfassessment and the accounting records, as well as evidence that they have been entered at the Mercantile Registry during the aforementioned period, in order to accredit that these tax loss carryforwards and the amount thereof are appropriate.
147

Consolidated Annual Accounts

At 31 December 2015 and 2014 Acerinox, S.A. and the companies in the consolidated tax group have open to inspection by the taxation authorities all the main applicable taxes for the following years:

Tax rate Income tax Value added tax Customs duties Personal income tax

2015 2008 to 2014 2012 to 2015 2012 and 2015 2012 to 2015

2014 2008 to 2013 2011 to 2014 2013 and 2014 2011 to 2014

The other Group companies have open to inspection the taxes for the years stipulated by their respective local legislation. The directors of the Company and subsidiaries do not expect that any significant additional liabilities would arise in the event of an inspection.

The situation with regard to tax inspections underway or for which appeals are open at the end of 2015 is as follows:

Italiy

In 2011 the subsidiary Acerinox Italia S.r.l. underwent an inspection of taxes for 2007, 2008 and 2009. On completion of this inspection the inspectors issued their report, on the basis of which it looked likely that the taxation authorities would impose an adjustment in relation to transfer prices applied in transactions between Acerinox Italia S.r.l. and the Group's manufacturing companies.

· On 27 December 2012 the Company received the assessment notice for 2007, primarily indicating transfer pricing adjustments to taxable income in relation to sales and purchases with Group factories. The resulting tax assessment amounted to Euros 8.4 million, plus Euros 1.3 million in interest. No penalties were imposed. The Company challenged this 2007 assessment in an appeal filed before the provincial tax commission of Milan on 23 May 2013, in which it was also requested that a stay be placed on the tax debt until completion of the proceedings. This stay was accepted by the Italian authorities, subject to the pledging of a Euros 3.8 million bank guarantee. On 9 December 2013 the Group applied to the Spanish and Italian authorities for the elimination of double taxation pursuant to Convention 90/436/EEC of 23 July 1990. As most of these transactions are with companies resident in Spain (Acerinox S.A. and Roldán, S.A.), any adjustment relating to transfer prices is protected by Convention 90/436/EEC on the elimination of double taxation in connection with the adjustment of profits of associated enterprises. This Convention guarantees the elimination of double taxation due to transfer pricing adjustments within the European Union. Following negotiations between the Spanish and Italian taxation authorities, or an arbitrator's ruling if necessary, this initial adjustment, or whichever adjustment is agreed, will therefore be neutralised by a counter-adjustment in the other member state. Although the financial effect of the time that elapses until completion of the proceedings is not specifically covered by the Convention, when the Spanish authorities record an adjustment in favour of the taxpayer, this includes accrued interest, or else another method is used to ensure that the financial effect does not entail a charge for the taxpayer. The Spanish Directorate-General for Taxation and the Italian authorities have confirmed their acceptance of the initiation of the procedure. This should therefore be concluded within approximately two years from the date of acceptance, although the period is often slightly longer.

· T he assessment for 2008 was received on 13 December 2013, for this company's sales and purchases with the Group's factories. The amount payable in this case is Euros 7.3 million plus Euros 1.2 million in interest. The pertinent submissions were filed during 2014, as was a request for a stay on the debt. Guarantees totalling Euros 3.6 million were pledged in February 2015, to secure the stay.

· The assessment for 2009 was received on 7 November 2014, which also indicated transfer pricing adjustments. The additional assessment raised in Italy is Euros 953 thousand plus interest. No penalties have been imposed. The Group has followed the same procedure as with previous assessments. It has requested a stay on payment, providing the corresponding bank guarantees for an amount of Euros 453 thousand, also filing the appropriate submissions to the Milan provincial tax commission.
The aforementioned procedure for elimination of double taxation also applies to the double taxation applied to the Group in 2008 and 2009.
Italian legislation requires that internal appeals be suspended to accept the international arbitration proceedings to eliminate double taxation. Therefore, after it was announced that the proceedings had been accepted, the Group suspended the internal claims relating to transactions with countries in the European Union. Initiation of the mutual agreement procedure allows the Company to reduce the bank guarantees provided, which will be requested in 2016.

148

With regard to transfer pricing adjustments, the Company considers it highly unlikely that the final amount of the obligation will be that shown in the assessments and it is difficult to calculate the definitive amount as the inspectors have failed to take into account numerous arguments based on both OECD transfer pricing regulations and Italian (and Spanish) law, such as:
- T he comparability analyses presented by the Company, demonstrating that the prices applied by Acerinox to independent third parties are in line with those applied to the Italian subsidiary, have not even been considered by the Italian taxation authorities.
- N o analysis or consideration whatsoever has been made of the economic market and industry conditions, which, based on the aforementioned regulations, are legitimate justification for the companies having returned a loss.
- The years of reference used for comparison in the analyses performed are clearly periods in which the economic cycle was noticeably different from the one under analysis, leading to an obvious distortion of results.
- There are other minor considerations indicative of serious flaws in the businesses used for comparison.
- It is an internationally recognised basic principle that transfer pricing is not an exact science and it is necessary to weigh up the circumstances of each individual case. Even so, this analysis does not give a single value, but rather a range of values, all of which can be considered arm's length prices.
The Company can also instigate several procedures to reduce/eliminate these adjustments:
- Court appeal in Italy
- Court settlement
- M utual agreement procedure ­ application for elimination of double taxation related to the adjustment of profits between associated enterprises under Convention 90/436/EEC of 23 July 1990.
On 23 March 2014 the Company was notified of the ruling in its favour, in relation to the assessment of transfer prices for 2004. The Spanish taxation authorities were also notified of the ruling and filed no submissions. The proceedings were therefore considered to be completed, with a ruling in favour of the Company. The corrections required by this tax assessment include adjustments to the transfer prices applied in transactions between Acerinox Italia and the Spanish Group company Roldan, S.A. As a result, Euros 1 million was recognised in other operating income in 2014. The Company expects the same criteria and arguments that led the courts to find in its favour in those cases to be applicable to the assessments for 2007, 2008 and 2009.
For all of the above reasons, and based on the information available to date, although this company could be required to adjust certain amounts by the Italian taxation authorities, it considers that it would be difficult to determine the amounts of these adjustments. At the reporting date and the date of presentation of these annual accounts, the adjustments derived from the inspection in Italy are therefore considered a contingent liability.
In addition to the transfer pricing adjustments for 2007, 2008 and 2009, the assessment contained less significant adjustments for 2006 to 2009 reflecting the consideration of the interest on a loan received by the Company from a Group company registered in Switzerland as non-deductible, as well as applying withholdings which the Company did not apply, in accordance with the Double Tax Treaty between Italy and Switzerland. The Company also filed submissions in relation to these matters. The Provincial Court of Milan has rejected the Company's claim in relation to interest for 2006 and 2008. Nonetheless, the Company considers that there are sound arguments against the conclusions of the provincial court and therefore intends to lodge an appeal with the Commizionne Regionale in the next 6 months. The amount of the adjustment is Euros 425 thousand and the maximum risk for all years would be Euros 1.4 million, already included in the amounts for each year explained in the above paragraphs. The Company considers the possibility of these amounts becoming payable to be remote.
Germany
As regards the inspections of taxes for 2007, 2008, 2009 and 2010 initiated in 2011 at the Group subsidiary Acerinox Deutschland, GmbH, the assessments of the income tax, solidarity surcharge and VAT for 2007 to 2010 were received on 8 July 2014. The assessments mostly indicate adjustments to taxable income for transfer pricing adjustments for sales and purchases between the subsidiary and the Group's factories. No penalties have been imposed. The Company filed the pertinent submissions on 8 August 2014.
149

Consolidated Annual Accounts
The amount payable in Germany was Euros 384 thousand for the VAT assessments, Euros 2,804 thousand for income tax plus the solidarity surcharge and Euros 489 thousand in interest. These amounts were paid in 2014. In the event that the ruling on the objections submitted is in favour of the Company, the German authorities will be required to repay these amounts, include 6% in interest.
As is the case with Italy, as most of these transactions are with the companies resident in Spain, any adjustment relating to transfer prices is protected by Convention 90/436/EEC on the elimination of double taxation in connection with the adjustment of profits of associated enterprises. This Convention guarantees the elimination of double taxation due to transfer pricing adjustments within the European Union. Following negotiations between the Spanish and German taxation authorities, or an arbitrator's ruling if necessary, this initial adjustment, or whichever adjustment is agreed, will therefore be neutralised by a counter-adjustment in the other member state.
The Company has submitted a request for elimination of double taxation in both Spain and Germany and has received confirmation from the Spanish taxation authorities of their acceptance. In the case of Germany, a request for additional information was recently received for the proceedings to be approved. The requested information will be sent before the deadline and there do not appear to be any legal reasons to reject the proceedings.
Malaysia
On 24 and 28 December 2014, notice was received of the start of an inspection of taxes for 2010 and 2011 of the Group company Bahru Stainless Sdn. Bhd. Subsequently, on 4 March 2015, notification was received that the inspection was to be extended to 2012 and 2013. All requested information has been submitted to date. On 25 November a notification was received that the inspection had been postponed until further notice.
In addition, on 20 January 2015 notification was received of the commencement of an inspection of Acerinox SC Malasia, Sdn. Bhd. in relation to transfer prices in the period from 2010 to 2013. All the information requested has been submitted and to date, no report on the conclusions has been received which would allow conclusions to be reached with regard to any adjustments.
During 2013 the Group company Acerinox Malasia Sdn, Bhd. underwent an inspection of the 2007-2012 period. The inspection has been completed and no adjustments are required.
Spain
On 15 April 2015 the Group was notified of the commencement of an inspection of its import duties and VAT for 2013. The inspection was completed on 27 October 2015. The Company did not accept the assessment with regard to the external tariff in an amount of Euros 24 thousand plus interest or that concerning VAT on imports amounting to Euros 182 thousand. Both amounts have already been settled. The tax payment arises from the inclusion by the Spanish taxation authorities of services relating to the installation and assembly of machinery imported from Japan as an increase in the value of the imported goods for customs purposes.
On 27 May 2014 the tax assessments were accepted, with no adjustments required, thereby concluding the inspection of Acerinox, S.A.'s import duties and VAT for 2012. Furthermore, on 8 October, a separate tax assessment of the same taxes for 2012 was accepted by Acerinox Europa S.A.U., with no adjustments required, thereby concluding the inspection of this company's taxes.
On 7 January 2016, the Economic-Administrative Tribunal issued a ruling upholding in full the submissions filed by Acerinox, S.A. against the assessment decisions arising from the inspection of rights, antidumping and VAT for 2009, 2010 and 2011. At the date of authorisation for issue of these accounts, the period in which the Spanish taxation authorities could have filed submissions has elapsed. All of the assessments issued in relation to these items are therefore cancelled: Euros 925 thousand for antidumping, Euros 649 thousand of VAT on imports and Euros 41 thousand of recoverable external tariffs. The amounts relating to antidumping and import duties were guaranteed. Over the coming days, the rebate agreements should be received. The Company had not recorded any provisions for these items.
South Africa
On 24 June 2014 notice was received of the initiation of a tax inspection of transfer prices for 2010 to 2012 in the Group company Columbus Stainless (Pty) Ltd. In the course of the year the assessments were received, finalising the inspections. The assessments stipulate adjustments to taxable income in relation to transfer prices, amounting to Euros 32 million. These adjustments do not result in any payable amounts in South Africa, as the Company has carried forward tax losses which exceed the amount of the assessment. The assessment does not impose any penalties. Columbus Stainless has filed submissions relating to 2010 to the administrative courts and is preparing the submissions regarding 2011 and 2012. The Company considers the facts on which the proposed adjustments are based to be incorrect, and also considers the interpretation of the applicable legislation to be erroneous, as this legislation is not in line with the principles or any of the methods approved by OECD guidelines. Columbus has adopted the same OECD-approved transfer pricing method as that applied by the rest of the Group. As this transfer pricing adjustment relates to the sales from South Africa to Group companies, primarily in Europe, the Group is also considering ­ provided that no rectifications are made to the internal claims prior to the final assessment ­ requesting elimination of double taxation in accordance with the double taxation treaties between South Africa and the countries in which the affected distributors are registered (essentially European distributors)
150

Portugal
In 2011 a tax inspection of 2008 and 2009 also took place in the Group company Acerol Ltda. in Portugal. This inspection gave rise to a transfer pricing adjustment for sale and purchase transactions between Acerol, Ltda and the Group's plants, primarily Acerinox, S.A. and Roldán, S.A. The adjustment to taxable income amounted to Euros 10 million. However, as the subsidiary had tax losses of Euros 6.7 million pending offset, the amount paid totalled Euros 708 thousand, including interest of Euros 32 thousand. These assessments considered that no offence had been committed and, accordingly, no tax penalties were imposed. On 31 July 2012 an application was submitted to the Directorate-General for Taxation through the European Arbitration Convention, requesting the elimination of double taxation arising from the tax assessments issued in Portugal pursuant to Convention 90/436/EEC of 23 July 1990. The Spanish authorities have already issued their report to the Portuguese authorities and are awaiting the decision.
NOTE 18 RELATED PARTY BALANCES AND TRANSACTIONS
18.1 Identity of related parties
The consolidated financial statements include transactions with the following related parties:
- equity-accounted associates; - key management personnel of the Group and members of the boards of directors of Group companies, - significant shareholders of the Parent.
Transactions between the Company and its subsidiaries, which are related parties, are carried out in the ordinary course of the Company's business and have been eliminated on consolidation. Therefore, they are not disclosed in this note.
18.2 Related party balances and transactions
All transactions between related parties are carried out at arm's length, and are listed below.
a) Associates No transactions were carried out with associates in 2015 or 2014.
b) Directors and key management personnel Remuneration received by the members of senior management who do not hold positions on the board of directors of Acerinox, S.A. amounts to Euros 2,054 thousand. Euros 1,055 thousand of this amount reflect salaries, Euros 102 thousand are allowances and variable remuneration of Euros 897 thousand corresponding to the prior year's profit. In 2014, the four senior management personnel received Euros 1,510 thousand, of which Euros 979 thousand reflected salaries, Euros 86 thousand were allowances and variable remuneration of Euros 445 thousand corresponding to prior year's profit. The difference, in terms of salaries, is due to the replacement of a member of senior management
In 2015 members of the board of directors of Acerinox, S.A., including those that hold key management positions and sit on the boards of other Group companies, received Euros 2,387 thousand in fixed remuneration for attending board meetings and fixed and variable salaries (the latter based on the results from the prior year), of which Euros 1,356 thousand reflect salaries and fixed board member remuneration, Euros 381 thousand are allowances and variable remuneration of Euros 650 thousand corresponding to prior year's profit. In 2014, the remuneration received totalled Euros 2,036 thousand, of which Euros 1,360 thousand reflected salaries and fixed remuneration, Euros 384 thousand were allowances and variable remuneration of Euros 292 thousand corresponding to prior year's profit.
Commitments with all senior management, totalling Euros 1,555 thousand in 2015, have been accounted for correctly and are adequately covered through insurance contracts (Euros 1,422 thousand in 2014). No commitments have been contracted with directors representing shareholders or independent directors of Acerinox, S.A. At 31 December 2015 no advances or loans have been extended to the members of the board of directors or senior management and the Company has no balances receivable from or payable to these executives.
The directors of the Company and their related parties have had no conflicts of interest requiring disclosure in accordance with article 229 of the Revised Spanish Companies Act.
151

Consolidated Annual Accounts

c) Significant shareholders
The Group has entered into the following financing transactions with Banca March, part of the March Group (shareholder of Corporación Financiera Alba), all under market conditions:

- Credit facilities up to a limit of Euros 4 million, of which Euros 0 million have been drawn down. - Guarantees up to a limit of Euros 0.06 million, of which Euros 0.06 million have been drawn down. - Confirming (reverse factoring) facilities for Euros 16 million, of which Euros 14.01 million has been drawn down. - Non-current loan of Euros 30 million, which has been drawn down in full. - Factoring facilities for Euros 70 million, of which Euros 15.99 million have been drawn down.

In 2014 the Group contracted the following financing transactions with Banca March, all of which were under market conditions:

- Credit facilities up to a limit of Euros 4 million, of which Euros 0 million have been drawn down. - Guarantees up to a limit of Euros 0.06 million, of which Euros 0.06 million have been drawn down. - Confirming (reverse factoring) facilities for Euros 16 million, of which Euros 3.99 million has been drawn down. - Non-current loan of Euros 30 million, which has been drawn down in full. - Factoring facilities for Euros 70 million, of which Euros 50.36 million have been drawn down.

Details of the Group's transactions with Banca March in 2015 and 2014 are as follows:

(Expressed in thousands of Euros)
Interest cost Fee and commission expenses TOTAL

2015 863 52 915

2014 3,004
100 3,104

The terms and conditions of the loans and financial transactions listed in the preceding paragraph are in accordance with market conditions.

Insurance premiums and other transactions totalling Euros 8,967 thousand (Euros 10,672 thousand in 2014) have been brokered through March J.L.T. Correduría de Seguros (a March Group company).

The Acerinox Group has also carried out the following commercial transactions with its shareholder Nisshin or other companies belonging to its Group:

(Expressed in thousands of Euros)
Dividends Finance costs Sales of goods Trade and other receivables Services rendered

2015 422 33
1,232 347 731

2014 110 77 786 197 645

152

NOTE 19 AUDIT FEES

Details of fees and expenses accrued by KPMG Auditores S.L. (principal auditor) and associate firms for services provided to the consolidated companies are as follows:

(Expressed in thousands of Euros) 2015

KPMG Auditores, S.L. KPMG International

TOTAL

Audit services

335

464

799

Tax advisory services

581

581

Other services

60

79

139

TOTAL

395

1,124

1,519

2014 Audit services Tax advisory services Other services TOTAL

KPMG Auditores, S.L. KPMG International

318

432

586

93

13

411

1,031

TOTAL 750 586 106
1,442

The amounts detailed in the above table include the total fees for services rendered in 2015 and 2014, irrespective of the date of invoice.

Other audit firms invoiced the Group fees and expenses for audit services amounting to Euros 88 thousand in 2015 (Euros 84 thousand for audit services in 2014).

NOTE 20 EVENTS AFTER THE REPORTING PERIOD
Winding up of Acerinox Norway AS
The Group plans to wind up Acerinox Norway AS in the first quarter of 2016. The company is fully owned by Acerinox, S.A. The Group has been carrying out the required legal procedures to wind up the company since November 2015. The company previously acted as a commission agent for Acerinox Scandinavia AB, registered in Sweden, for sales in Norway. Acerinox Scandinavia has absorbed the personnel of the entity that is to be wound up. The share capital of Acerinox Norway AS amounts to Euros 11 thousand and accumulated reserves total Euros 610 thousand. The carrying amount of the interest in this company amounts to Euros 12 thousand. Acerinox, S.A. will therefore record a gain in the coming year.
Sale of investment property
In January 2016, the Group company Inoxcenter, S.L.U. disposed of one of its industrial bays, classified as investment property. The carrying amount of the industrial bay was Euros 2 million and its selling price was Euros 3,750 thousand. In December 2015, an advance of Euros 100 thousand was received, recorded under other current financial liabilities.
Antidumping in the United States
The United States government has accepted a request for antidumping measures against imports of stainless steel from China.

153

The Acerinox Group's Individual Companies

6. The Acerinox Group's Individual Companies

1 A cerinox, S.A.
Acerinox S.A. is the Group's parent company and the main holding company of shares in its various subsidiaries. Company shares were accepted for trading on the Madrid and Barcelona Stock Exchanges. The share capital on 31 December 2015 rose to 66,676,848.25 euros, comprised of 266,707,393 shares with a face value of 0.25 euros each.
Acerinox S.A. directs and coordinates the Group's activities worldwide, establishing what strategies to follow, and channelling and performing management activities in the acquisition of raw materials and credits for the entire Group and its companies.
57 people were employed by Acerinox as of 31 December, including senior management.
The General Shareholders Meeting of 03 June 2015 approved payment of a scrip dividend to a maximum sum of 117,765,963.00 euros, equivalent to the sum of approximately 0.45 euros per share. This is the same amount that the company has provided for shareholders since 2007.
The details of this operation are explained further in the section "Return to Shareholders".
Shareholders who chose to subscribe to shares with their free allotment rights saw their number of shares increase by 3.23%.
In relation to the information to be included in Annual Report, pursuant to article 262.1 of the Companies Act and Resolution of January 29th, 2016 the Institute of Accounting and Auditing, the average payment period to suppliers and additional information required, is that detailed below:

Average payment period to suppliers Period of transactions paid Ratio of transactions pending of payment
Data in thousand euros Total payments made Total pending payments

2015 47 days 42 days 122 days
Amount 19,996
1,425

2014 45 days 42 days 96 days
Amount 22,821
1,479

156

Acerinox Europe factory, BA line.
157

6. The Acerinox Group's Individual Companies
2 A cerinox Europa
The head offices of the subsidiary owning the Campo de Gibraltar plant (Spain) were initially in Madrid, together with the Group's parent company. In 2014, its Board of Directors transferred the registered offices and tax address to Los Barrios, Cadiz, immediately becoming one of the largest industries in Andalusia and one of its top exporters. In October 2015, the Board of Directors of Acerinox S.A. approved investments which would be a major landmark in the history of the plant at Campo de Gibraltar: the acquisition of a new Sendzimir rolling mill and a new annealing and pickling line The investment was completed with a cutting line, auxiliary equipment and the civil engineering works required for the new facility, amounting to a total of 140 million euros. These investments are bet on the European market and the recognition of the strategic nature of this plant and the role it is to play in the future of the Group. Essentially it entails improved use, of quality and a notable reduction in costs and energy and environmental impact. The workforce of Acerinox Europa consists of 2,073 workers, not including the partially retired, 60 of whom work in the central offices in Madrid, 40 more in the Service Centre in Gavá, 23 in the Service Centre in Pinto, 10 in the Service Centre of Betanzos and the other 1,940, who work in Campo de Gibraltar. The factory approved its collective agreement in September, the second since the creation of Acerinox Europa, S.A.U., which is valid for four years and will provide stability in labour relations and the linking of salaries to productivity and the results of the company. The agreement was also backed by the Works Committee and the Workforce Assembly.
Stainless Strips at the Acerinox Europe Factory.
158

3 North American Stainless (NAS)
The American subsidiary of the Group retained its leadership of the American market in 2015 and first place in its positive contribution to the profits of the Group, especially in the first half of the year. NAS had to adapt its operations to the circumstances of the U.S. Market, with falling prices and increased imports. It was forced to accept four price cuts which ate into its margins, along with a significant decrease in alloy surcharges, and growing internal competition. The sum of all these price drops represented an overall loss of 1,000$/mt. New investments to the sum of 116 million euros were approved over the year. The most outstanding were a BA (bright annealing) line and a new Sendzimir-type cold rolling mill, as explained in other sections of this report. NAS has 1,370 employees, almost same as in the previous year.
Start of construction to install a bright annealing line and a new cold rolling mill at the NAS factory (Autumn 2015).
159

6. The Acerinox Group's Individual Companies
4 C olumbus Stainless
Columbus achieved an EBITDA of 694.17 million rand. It has been a very hopeful year for the Middelburg plant (South Africa), which has become more competitive as a result of the Excellence Plans, and has once again recorded profits in a continued manner after several years of acutely suffering the effects of the crisis. The stagnation of the South African market has forced Columbus to export most of its production to the other markets where the Group operates, where it has benefited from the competitive level of its native currency, the South African rand. In April, Columbus and a pool of banks negotiated a finance policy worth up to 3,500 million rand, as it has been explained in "results" section. In September 2015, Columbus and the unions approved a collective agreement which was especially important as it covered three years and conditioned most salary increases on the financial results of the company, just like the plant at Campo de Gibraltar. This type of agreement is unusual in South Africa and Columbus has thus been singled out as an example by local authorities. Columbus has a workforce of 1,345 workers, 15 more than last year.
Columbus Stainless Factory.
160

5 B ahru Stainless
The process of starting and developing within a highly competitive market has hindered the results of this company. Even so, this company made a positive contribution to the Group's Ebitda due to the purchase of black coil from Acerinox Europa and Columbus. The start-up of Phase II equipment proceeded as planned, enabling the range of products to be extended in terms of size and types of steel, thus enabling clients to be offered a better range to choose from. This has encouraged increases in production of almost 30% in comparison with the previous year. Accreditation processes for Bahru products were developed in sectors with greater added value and high quality standards such as the automotive, electronics and domestic appliance industries. The sales network continued to expand at the same time throughout the ASEAN zone and the countries bordering it. Bahru's market share continued to rise in Malaysia and neighbouring countries, with over 40% of the share in Malaysia and 10.5% in all the ASEAN countries. Bahru Stainless is a benchmark in Malaysia for the development of local industry, offering direct and indirect support for investment in the area for Spanish companies and businesses in other sectors of activity. The number of employees at year end stood at 521, compared with 447 the previous year, including 9 people seconded here from the different Group companies. The continuous personnel training plans are producing the desired results, and there is now a stable base of experienced workers at all levels.
Bahru Stainless Factory.
161

6. The Acerinox Group's Individual Companies
6 R oldan and Inoxfil
Both of these have had to tackle the problems of the European market for long products and especially the invasion of product from India and Taiwan. Roldan provides an important service to the factory of Gibraltar Field by purchasing billets which optimize the melting shop of the same. The workforce of Roldán on 31 December is 403 people without including pre-retirement employees, and that of Inoxfil 109 individuals.
Wire rod at the Roldan Factory (Ponferrada).
162

7. The Acerinox Group's Commercial Companies
In 2015, the trading companies concluded the process for restructuring their administration activities by outsourcing certain shared services. The work of standardising processes progressed as expected with the result that considerable savings were made in these areas. Throughout the year the Group has improved the market shares in most markets, especially those in Europe.
1 S panish Commercial Companies
2015 was satisfying year for the trading companies in Spain, especially for those of Grupinox network which have regain efficiency and profitability, generating profits while increasing market share, so that Spain has once again become the second most important market for the Group after the United States. The prospects for 2016 are positive, because Spain is one of the European countries where apparent consumption of stainless steel is rising, although prices remain low, as they are in all our other markets.
2 F oreign Commercial Companies
The consolidated sales of these companies were 15.36% higher than those of the preceding year. Continuing with the expansion in Asia, this year it has been opened a new representative office in South Korea. The other offices have restructured, and continue to recruit local personnel who, in the future, will replace the employees seconded there. The Group now has a market share of over 40% in Malaysia (provisional data) and 10.57% across the ASEAN zone.
Office at the Bahru Stainless Factory.
163

Responsibility and Sustainability

8. Responsibility and Sustainability

1 T he Group's Fiscal Policy. Contribution to the
wealth and well-being of the Territories where Acerinox settles down
Acerinox considers that honest and strict compliance with the regulations constitutes an essential requirement for its activities and contributes to proper legal, political and social order. It therefore considers, without compromising its fair and legitimate planning ability that it is its duty to comply with mercantile, environmental, fiscal and social security-related laws without seeking to gain advantages of any kind by means of perfidious or abusive means.
Trading companies, as well as individuals, must collaborate in a responsible fashion in order to uphold the level of well-being and the social protection systems of the societies where they are based. The greatest contribution a company can make is to the wealth of families and individuals. Taking the aforementioned into account, the Acerinox Group hereby details the salaries paid and taxes satisfied, returned and collected by territories:

SALARIES PAID AND CONTRIBUTIONS MADE TO THE DIFFERENT SOCIAL SECURITY SYSTEMS (in euros)

Spain Rest of Europe Asia Africa America TOTAL

Salaries 124,830,258 10,597,197
8,343,199 42,657,081 94,875,558 281,303,292

Social Security 37,247,421 2,478,324 753,359 3,327,924 23,409,308 67,216,337

TAXES PAID or COLLECTED (*) (in euros)

Other indirect Corporation taxes
taxes

Added value taxes

Spain Rest of Europe Asia Africa America TOTAL

1,595,550 1,499,159
170,644 0
87,371,377 90,636,729

5,550,467 1,335,262 1,278,899 766,093 14,206,000 23,136,720

4,895,647 141,254,087 -7,782,554 -28,558,150 17,424,424 127,233,453

* Concerning corporation taxes, payments correspond to profits gained in 2014.

166

Total
12,041,664 144,088,507 -6,333,012 -27,792,057 119,001,801 241,006,903

Personal taxes collected by Tax
Authorities
29,200,655 1,960,449 701,831 8,364,173 25,185,948 65,413,055

Acerinox wishes to clarify that in Dubai, Singapore, Hong Kong and Switzerland, no activities that are not strictly sale-related are carried out. Therefore, the turnover generated in said countries is strictly the result of selling tangible products - stainless steel. The turnover volume of the companies and offices located in said territories is detailed in the corresponding section of the Group's Annual Report. The activity carried out in Luxembourg is strictly related to insurance management for the Group's benefit. The Group's companies carry out their activity in an honest and responsible manner, contributing to the wellbeing and development of the communities where they operate. The Group's basic principles involve creating value and distributing the wealth generated among its shareholders, clients, employees, suppliers and society at large. Thus, it is worth pointing out the following contributions towards the development of society, in addition to the charitable work that the Group has carried out, which is detailed below. The previous amounts and their multiplier effect on the economy constitute, together with the creation of stable and mostly open-ended jobs, the added value that the Group's companies return to society, which provides the very best example of a corporation's social responsibility.
Stainless steel pipes at mining facilities.
167

8. Responsibility and Sustainability
2 E nvironmental Indicators
For Acerinox, improving upon the areas connected with different environmental indicators is a priority strategy. This is the reason why it systematically launched a series of programmes aimed at reducing its environmental impact and employing its resources more efficiently.
Protecting the natural environment where Acerinox operates and fulfilling its environmental commitments are key goals driving the Company, its management and its employees.
Zero Emissions Target
European industries lead the world in reducing emissions. Although emissions are inevitably higher among industries than in other activity sectors, the European steel industry is the industrial sector which has, proportionately, most reduced its emissions.
A few years ago the company devised its ZET or Zero Emissions Target environmental policy. This determines that all emissions must always be reduced as much as feasibly possible, in both absolute and relative/specific terms. The ZET is a constant struggle which stemmed from the Company's own initiative, not from a regulatory imperative.
2.1 ECO-EFFICIENCY
Water The activities developed by Acerinox require a considerable amount of water. Thus, the struggle takes place on two fronts: reducing water consumption and returning the water that is borrowed to the environment as if it had not been used by a steel mill. The company devotes a great deal of time and effort, wherever possible, to reducing water consumption and ensuring that the water which is used is subject to a number of treatment procedures in settling ponds and then duly purified. As well as restoring the quality of the water for its reuse, these practices enable us to recover the substances used in the different processes.
Consumption varies greatly among the Group's factories. The main factors which influence consumption are air temperature - and thus, evaporation temperature - and the different refrigeration requirements of the equipment and products which are manufactured.
As illustrated in the following graphs, consumption is much lower at the Columbus factory in South Africa than at the Group's other factories. The figure which appears is only for water taken from the mains supply. Most of the water used at Columbus is rainwater accumulated in storage tanks during wet periods. Low rainfall in Mpumalanga drove the factory's management to build reservoirs so as not to allow the torrential rains occurring during the wet season to go to waste and to avoid overusing the water circulating through a network with limited capacity.
168

COLUMBUS Specific water
consumption

m 3/Mt steel

4.00 3.50 3.00 2.50 2.00 1.50 1.00 0.50 0.00

1.35 2011

1.78

1.56

2012

2013

1.77

1.89

2014

2015

The many measures aimed at reducing water consumption and promoting high reuse levels have allowed the Acerinox Europe factory in Campo de Gibraltar (Spain) to achieve low water consumption levels. This year its consumption increased slightly compared to the previous year, as a result of higher production levels. Specific consumption also increased slightly due to higher average temperatures.
Acerinox Europe is particularly careful when returning water to the sea, so as to prevent the effects of changes in temperature, acidity and salinity in a region well-known for its great variety of fish. In order to do so, discharges are carried out via an underwater pipeline, which transports the previously treated water several miles offshore, thus facilitating its dilution.

ACERINOX EUROPA
Specific water consumption

m 3/Mt steel 6.00

5.00 4.00

3.74

3.00

2.00

1.00

0.00

2011

3.50

3.43

2012

2013

3.40

3.66

2014

2015

169

8. Responsibility and Sustainability

In the United States, NAS acquires water from the Ohio River, which passes by the factory, and returns it by means of a diffuser to prevent any potential environmental impact. Moreover, like the factory in Campo de Gibraltar, it ensures the quality of the water returned by monitoring, in real time, all the emissions into the river.

NAS Specific water
consumption

m 3/Mt steel

10.00

8.00

6.00 4.00

4.70

2.00

0.00

2011

5.26 2012

4.61 2013

5.15 2014

6.05 2015

Bahru Stainless (Malaysia) takes water from artificial reservoirs fed by rainwater. These reservoirs and their corresponding pipelines were financed by the Company, the government of the state of Johor and the federal government via a Public-Private Partnership agreement. Given that the factory was built recently, we only have data going back to 2012 but, nonetheless, they reflect a clear downward trend concerning specific consumptions, despite the area's high temperatures. All new workers have received training in ZET, which has also contributed to improving employees' environmental awareness and conception of water as a precious resource.

BAHRU STAINLESS Specific water consumption

m 3/Mt steel 6.00

5.00 4.00

4.01

3.00

2.00

1.00

0.00

2012

4.07 2013

3.16 2014

2.57 2015

170

2.2 EMISSION CONTROL
Beyond legal requirements, the Group has implemented a guiding principle concerning the protection of air quality which entails minimising all kinds of atmospheric emissions and constantly monitoring factories' main emission sources. The Group's production activities are subject to strict emission controls, as well as the fulfilment of yearly objectives. In 2020 the GEI emissions registry period currently in force will conclude, and free emissions are expected to come to an end during the following year. Actions Air quality is an increasingly relevant asset. European regulations, which are becoming increasingly strict, require that companies carry out initiatives designed to maintain or improve air quality standards. European industries are global leaders in reducing greenhouse effect gas emissions. In addition to complying with these strict regulations, Acerinox strives to keep reducing gas emissions - CO2 in particular - as much as possible by using regenerative natural gas lighters and improving its hot-rolling furnaces and heat-recovery boilers. According to data published by the International Stainless Steel Forum (ISSF), these initiatives have made it one of the world's most efficient companies in terms of reducing its emissions. Expressed in figures, its direct emission intensity is 20% lower than the average among global stainless steel producers. Recognition Since 2011 Acerinox has participated in the Carbon Disclosure Project (CDP), whose reports are considered to be the most reliable and accurate by experts, analysts and the international community at large. This year, once again, it has awarded Acerinox a high score thanks to its significant CO2 emission control. Acerinox has also collaborated with the World Steel Organization and the UNESID (Spanish National Union of Iron and Steel Companies), maintaining its strategy of transparency in this matter.
Laboratory.
171

8. Responsibility and Sustainability

CO2 In 2020 the current CO2 emission rights assignment period will come to an end.
Thanks to the efforts made since 2005, the factory in Campo de Gibraltar has achieved a gradual decrease in the use of emission rights and operates on a surplus of free CO2 assignment rights, and will continue to do so until 2020.

ACERINOX EUROPA Specific
emissions CO2

Mt CO2 / Mt steel

0.50 0.45 0.40 0.35 0.25 0.20 0.15 0.10 0.05 0.00

0.305 2011

0.298 2012

0.290 2013

0.274

0.285

2014

2015

Columbus employs the same methodology as the ISSF to calculate CO2 emissions, which are always well below the limits required by local legislation.
In terms of specific emissions, Columbus appears to have encountered a minimum threshold it is having trouble reducing. This is due to a lower percentage of scrap metal being used in the melting shop and its replacement by ferrochrome. Further reducing emissions will probably require, in view of the difficulties involved in replacing ferrochrome with scrap metal in South Africa, higher total melting shop output yields, which will contribute to more efficient manufacturing processes. Current demand for stainless steel does not seem capable of making this possible, despite the efforts and means devoted to this field.

COLUMBUS Specific
emissions CO2
172

Mt CO2 / Mt steel

0.50 0.45 0.40 0.35 0.25 0.20 0.15 0.10 0.05 0.00

0.43 2011

0.39

0.39

2012

2013

0.39 2014

0.39 2015

Although the US is not a signatory of the world agreements on the reduction of emissions, the Group has applied to NAS the same good practices as in Europe and achieved similar results, with specific emissions whose levels are very similar to those in our European factories.

NAS Specific emissions co2

Mt CO2 / Mt steel

0.50

0.45

0.40

0.35

0.30 0.25

0.27

0.20

0.15

0.10

0.05

0.00

2011

0.26 2012

0.27 2013

0.29 2014

0.29 2015

The source of the relatively high specific emissions generated by Bahru Stainless is clear: the start-up of its equipment, and the learning stage. As production increases, as it has done gradually since 2013, specific emissions will continue to fall.

BAHRU STAINLESS
Specific emissions co2

Mt CO2 / Mt steel

0.50 0.45 0.40 0.35 0.30 0.25 0.20 0.15 0.10 0.05 0.00

0.20 2012

0.25 2013

0.20 2014

0.18 2015

173

8. Responsibility and Sustainability
2.3 Waste Management
Metals constitute one of the substances which are most respectful to the environment. It is true that the initial collection stage generates considerable amounts of CO2. This is due to the fact that metals are rarely present in their pure expression in nature. They are usually to be found as oxides, which means that they must first be reduced. This involves removing the oxygen, which normally entails combining it with carbon. Nonetheless, once said process comes to an end, the metals have a unique quality which virtually no other substance possesses, amply offsetting the emissions generated during the initial phase. They can be eternally recycled without losing their properties. Therefore, it is not surprising that this virtue has made it one of the core axes of the regulations on circular economy enacted by the European Union. Stainless steel's metallurgical properties are such that it even outlasts the products it forms part of: the tumbler outlasts the washing machine, the sink outlasts the house and the exhaust pipe outlasts the car. Acerinox was clearly driven to recycle from the very beginning: its furnaces only use scrap metal. Every year, Acerinox's factories recycle millions of tonnes of scrap metal. Yet we will not consider or measure the scrap metal recycled in this section; instead, we will focus on the recycling of other products, apart from scrap metal, which are used as raw materials. In order to better serve the ZET's purpose and although the waste generated by the different factories is not 100% identical, we have homogenised the products we consider to be "waste" until we have found a common denominator. The Bahru Stainless factory (Malaysia) is the exception, as it lacks its own steel mill and cannot be compared to the others. Nonetheless, it deliberately publishes its figures as part of an educational exercise aimed at creating awareness of the matter.
Stainless steel barrels at Bodega.
174

Reused waste The materials regarded as waste, solely for the purposes of measurement and comparison, are the following:
· Metals · Acids · Oily paper · Scale
The efforts made by Acerinox to perfect its recycling techniques can be seen in the graphs below.
NAS uses very refined recycling techniques and therefore the recycling figures are higher, due to the greater production. Bahru's figures are no comparable because, as mentioned above, its factory does not have its own melting shop, as a result of which waste production is much lower.

NAS Recycled
waste

000Mt waste

80

70

60

50

54

40

30

20

10

0 2011

70

72

60

2012

2013

2014

10x3 Mt recycled waste

68 2015

ACERINOX EUROPA
Recycled waste

000Mt waste

60

50

48

40

30

20

10

0 2011

56

55

51

52

2012

2013

2014

10x3 Mt recycled waste

2015

175

8. Responsibility and Sustainability

BAHRU STAINLESS Recycled
waste

000Mt waste

6 5

4

3

2

1

1.3

0 2012

5
3.5 2.6

2013

2014

10x3 Mt recycled waste

2015

COLUMBUS Recycled
waste

000Mt waste

70 60
56 50 40 30 20 10
0 2011

63 59
55

2012

2013

2014

10x3 Mt recycled waste

57 2015

The Group has recorded 337.5 million in assets whose purpose is to minimise its environmental impact, 13 million more than during the previous financial year.
During the years 2015 and 2014 the Group did not receive any subsidies for investments in infrastructures aimed at protecting the environment. This year, its total expenditure on environmental issues has totalled 109.6 million.

176

3 H ealth and Safety
Acerinox is particularly strict and demanding in terms of adopting all the measures necessary to guarantee that its employees carry out their duties in the safest conditions possible. The metal industry is not without its risks, which means extra efforts should be made to reduce them as much as possible. Our activity can lead to injuries and therefore, so as to reduce accidents and alleviate their consequences, Acerinox applies rigorous safety regulations that go well beyond current legal requirements. The Company's management and that of its numerous factories are particularly observant in this field and pay special attention to any incidents which may occur. As a result of this rigorous risk monitoring, the number of accidents occurring at all of the Group's factories is steadily decreasing. In 2015, once again, no fatal injuries were registered. Moreover, Acerinox requires that the subcontracted companies working in its facilities accept the requirements established by the Group. Thus, Acerinox determines the models, regulations and certifications applicable to the workers in all its centres.
Fishing boat with stainless steel interior equipment.
177

8. Responsibility and Sustainability

Acerinox Europa Our compliance with our own regulations means that the Group surpasses its legal obligations. Last year the factory in Campo de Gibraltar devoted 12,953 hours to health and safety training.
NAS NAS continues to enforce its Zero Accidents policy and is regarded, on a global scale, as one of the most highly committed companies in terms of the training of its employees in safety matters.
Columbus Columbus also applies its own Safety Management System, while also complying with the regulations of the Occupational Health and Safety Act. The final objective of all these commitments is to achieve zero accidents among its employees and subcontracted personnel.
Bahru Bahru has a Health and Safety Committee which constantly inspects and evaluates potential risks and trains its employees in "General Safety Induction", a programme which teaches employees the intervention protocols and safety measures to be applied in order to prevent or deal with accidents.

Accident rate evolution

17.2

13.9

12.4

9.5
5.9 4.9
0.0 2010

8.8

7.5

7.5

5.6 5.9 3.8

5.4 4.7
2.8

2011

2012

9.0

5.8 4.2
3.8 3.0
2013

5.0 4.5
3.8
2.8

5.9 3.3 3.3 3.0

0.9

2014

2015

ACERINOX

NAS

COLUMBUS

BAHRU

AVERAGE ACX/NAS/CLB /BHR

Recordable accident incidentrate= No. recordable accidents * 200,000/No. worked hours

178

4 Q uality of the Employment Provided
Countries' industries must compete using their own assets, which are the only ones which are sustainable in the long term: quality, a forward-looking approach, imagination and the human capital capable of ensuring all of the above. The industry sector, including metalworking, has always stood out thanks to its ability to create stable, high-quality jobs with good working conditions. Acerinox is a good example of the above and a sense of belonging and of one's possibilities of advancement and professional development, based on personal effort, dedication and skill, are deep-seated values within the Group. The Group has a very faithful workforce with a low turnover of personnel. Its employees are aware of the work opportunities they enjoy and are willing to accept challenges and responsibilities; said opportunities are particularly appreciated among the younger employees, who are often highly-qualified professionals who find, in our Company, an organisation allowing them to begin and advance their careers. Nearly 97% of all Acerinox employees have an open-ended contract. The Group is aware that impermanence is incompatible with the type of activity it conducts. Even more striking, in terms of job security and stable employment, is the figure for the average number of years spent within the Group by its employees in Spain; it stands above 18.27 years (20.61 in the central offices in Madrid and 17.92 at the factory in Campo de Gibraltar). This figure can only occur when good work conditions exist and the employees feel confident about their future. The professional category of the workers which make up (or have made up) the Acerinox Group has always been a key factor in the company's establishment and development, and said focus has helped it lead the sector in terms of technology and adapt to the conditions of the market. The Group's different factories invest a great deal of resources and money in training courses for the more than 6,700 employees which make up its global workforce.
Worker at the Bahru Stainless Factory.
179

8. Responsibility and Sustainability

5 H uman Rights,
Diversity and Equal opportunities
Acerinox's diversity management does not stem from a trend, an organic decision or a principle guiding its Corporate Social Responsibility; it originates from reality itself.
Since its beginnings, Acerinox has been a company in which the shareholders are multinational and multilingual and in which its technicians have received or provided technical support in different places or have had to travel to other continents.
It is the Group's wish, whose advancement it actively encourages, for its companies to be managed mostly by local personnel rather than by expats, as it considers that one of the keys to success is understanding the local culture in order to act and think in a global manner.
The management of that diversity, of those differences - experiencing all those cultures at the same time and watching them mix with one another - is the most exciting challenge of all for all those who live and work in the Group, reminding us that we live in a global world.

5.1 HUMAN RIGHTS
Acerinox joined the United Nations Global Compact, thereby undertaking to adopt, support and promote the ten universal principles the initiative is based on and incorporate them into its corporate management, so as to prove its will to maintain proactive commitment to the area of corporate social responsibility and sustainable development.

In 2015 it joined, once again, to the United Nations Global Compact, with an advanced level, informing its interest groups of the initiatives it had carried out

Red Pacto Mundial España WE SUPPORT

to implement the Pact's ten guiding principles. The company complies with all

ten of these basic universal principles in all the countries in which it operates. In order to ensure that they are

respected, it has a management system which ensures integrity in the relationships the company enters into

with suppliers and contractors, requiring them to comply with these internationally recognized principles. This

requirement is covered in the general terms and conditions or framework contracts signed by the main suppliers.

5.2 PREVENTION OF HARASSMENT IN THE WORKPLACE
Acerinox's Code of Conduct and Good Practices, as well as its Collective Agreements, contain essential declarations to prohibit and prevent harassment of any kind in the work environment.
In order to prevent such situations, Acerinox has implemented a whistle-blowing system in all the Group's companies. As well as reporting harassment incidents, employees have the possibility of requesting the adoption of precautionary measures. These measures are applied automatically while the investigation takes place and even if no decision has been made.

180

Stainless steel sheets.
181

8. Responsibility and Sustainability
6 S ustainability Certifications
In 2015 the Group took part in numerous projects, including the following:
- Carbon Disclosure Project (CDP) Once again, Acerinox participated in the "Carbon Disclosure Project" (hereinafter, the CDP), having done so since 2011. The CDP's reports are regarded as the most reliable and accurate by experts and analysts among the international community. This report evaluates the risks, opportunities and measures related to climate change and companies' emissions. It is one of the most highly viewed reports by investors worldwide.
Acerinox received an award for being the world's leading stainless steel producer in the fight against climate change and obtained the highest possible qualification - "A" - on several occasions.
Similarly, Acerinox carries out voluntary data verification exercises by means of the ISO 14.064 certification on emission quantification and the reduction of greenhouse effect gases. Since starting this verification activity in 2011, Acerinox has increased its scope year by year, reporting on emissions in 2015 within Scope 1, Scope 2 and Scope 3.
- Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) Since 2013 Acerinox has submitted its practice to the criteria of the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) when drawing up its Annual Reports. Acerinox has obtained the GRI certificate in its G4 version.
- Climate Action Programme ­ World Steel Association Since 2010 Acerinox has participated in the programme for a global initiative against climate change developed by the World Steel Association, which monitors compliance of environmental regulations, promotes best practices and develops new technologies to reduce emissions at the source. This association granted Acerinox an award in recognition of its actions taken in the fight against climate change.
- Life Cycle Inventory (LCI) Life Cycle Assessments (LCAs) are tools developed by the most sustainable sectors in industry to gain insight into the potential environmental impact that a process may have on its supply chain. The methodology assesses the environmental implications of the whole stainless steel life cycle, from the producing process to the end of its useful life, together with the quantity of recycled material.
Said tool allows any impact to be minimized by means of the implementation of more effective measures and leads to a "greener" product. Acerinox therefore participates every year in this LCI project, promoted by EUROFER.
182

- Environmental Management System (EMS) The EMS has become the work tool, in Acerinox and at Columbus, which provides an overview of the organization within the surrounding environment and allows the obtaining of improvements for both the company and the environment. They have implemented a robust EMS in accordance with the parameters in the ISO 14001 standards. In Spain, Acerinox has collaborated with the UNESID (Unión Nacional de Empresas Siderúrgicas - National Union of Iron and Steel Companies) in developing and approving the SID-MIRAT methodology, preparing the inventory of CO2 emissions for the Spanish Ministry of the Environment and developing the Law on Environmental Responsibility. Acerinox Europe joined the Sustainable Steel Association in 2014. Said association is developing a set of regulations which will establish the standard required to obtain the "sustainable steel" stamp. Said stamp will only be granted to factories able to prove that their steel is manufactured under conditions which are both environmentally and socially respectful. The Sustainable Steel stamp must guarantee private and public tenderers, end customers and consumers that their purchase promotes a more sustainable and fairer world. - Kentucky Excellence in Environmental Leadership (KY EXCEL) In 2015 NAS once again obtained the KY EXCEL certificate, achieving the programme's highest rating level. It has been regarded as an inaugural member of KY EXCEL in 2007. The KY EXCEL rigorously evaluates companies' environmental commitment, requiring that, for a minimum period of three years, they submit to a series of strict environmental rules and prove, by means of plans and projects, that they constantly strive to reduce their environmental impact.
Bahru Stainless Factory.
183

8. Responsibility and Sustainability
7 S ocial Action
7.1 CONTRIBUTIONS TO CHARITABLE CAUSES
In Acerinox Europe, the factory's Donations Committee collaborates with different NGOs and Associations which help people in need in Campo de Gibraltar. Every month donations are allocated to organisations devoted to helping families which are at risk of being socially excluded.
As a result of this initiative, Cáritas (Parish Charitable Association) received several contributions which were used to help its applicants and promote campaigns such as "No child without a toy". Acerinox Europe also had the opportunity to collaborate with the Association of Relatives of People with Alzheimer's Disease in La Línea de la Concepción, as well as the María Auxiliadora School Soup Kitchen in Algeciras and the Parents of People with Mental Disabilities Association (APAIS) in Bahía de Algeciras. All the above donations, together with those made to other organisations who were offered help, amounted to a total of 35,324.
In South Africa, Columbus organised solidarity sports events to raise funds and collaborate with the handing out of food to children via the "Feed a Child" organization. The Group also helped children to make donations to the "Paul Mthimunye Bursary Fund" solidarity institution, which provides funds for students in need. Donations were also made to the Christlike Maatskapy Raad organization, which helps children and young people who have been abused, as well as their families. Columbus collaborated by supporting the country's HIV victims through the `Vukanethemba Home Based Care' association, which strives to improve the quality of life of those suffering from the disease, as well as their families.
Bahru Stainless participated in the state food and basic-need product collection programme in the Pasir Gudang region, during the month of Ramadan. Among other initiatives, it has also collaborated with the Malaysian government in the organization of the "UEM-Sunrise" solidarity race in Nusajaya, aimed at promoting a healthy lifestyle among the population. Moreover, to improve the quality of life and health conditions of those living nearby, Bahru Stainless participated in conditioning the Tanjung Langstat landfill. Bahru Stainless, together with its workers, made several contributions to the victims of the earthquake which took place in Nepal - where some of the factory's workers come from - in the spring of 2015.
North American Stainless (NAS) joined forces with other institutions from the State of Kentucky in collecting 3.69 million ($4 million) for the construction of the New Jefferson Community Technical College in Louisville (Kentucky). Said project involves the construction of an important educational centre in the county of Carrol. The government of Kentucky asked locals to help to raise 25% of the total investment (the cost of the project was $16.3 million) within a period of 24 months. The amount was collected within 8 months, partly thanks to NAS's collaboration - it donated $250,000.
184

7.2 PERSONNEL WITH REDUCED MOBILITY
Acerinox's care of and respect for its employees can also be noted with regard to its personnel with reduced mobility. Acerinox Europe has 40 employees who have an officially recognised total and permanent disability. The Mobility Committee made 109 changes to work places to adapt them to the special needs of employees with partial disabilities. 94 changes to work places were made for health reasons (89 active workers, 5 pre-retired employees); the duties of 3 employees were adapted to their situation and posts requiring no mobility were requested in 12 cases.
7.3 BROAD-BASED BLACK ECONOMIC EMPOWERMENT
Due to the fact that it does not benefit from State concessions or carry out banking activities, Columbus is not under any legal obligation to obtain a specific classification. Nonetheless, the Board of Directors of Acerinox, S.A. decided to support the South African government's policies on this issue. The different improvement policies implemented by Columbus' new management allowed the factory to reach the significant figure of 50 points. The reforms introduced in 2015 by the new classification system have forced Columbus to increase its efforts. This has materialised in the form of new projects and goals, all of them aimed at improving its classification in this matter.
Workers at the Columbus Stainless Factory.
185

8. Responsibility and Sustainability
7.4 OTHER AID PROVIDED IN CAMPO DE GIBRALTAR
Said factory's Corporate Association distributes funds to organisations focusing on different fields, ranging from sports to social activities and festivities. This social work is based on the monthly donations made by employees. The company participates by contributing the same amount donated by its employees, thereby doubling the amount of the donation.
A total of 16,306 were donated to social causes, including the Gibraltar Food Bank, the "La Montera" Association for Disabled Persons and the installation of multiple service modules at the Palmones beach. In addition to the above donations, cultural activities were also promoted, including a photography contest for Women's Day, collaboration with the Municipal Cultural Foundation of Algeciras and the 9th "Diverciencia" Outdoor Science Days.
The Association also makes donations to preserve local traditions and customs such as the Feria de los Barrios (popular festival), the Veladas de Palmones and Los Cortijillos, as well as the festivities for the patron saint of the Civil Guard Los Barrios and Algeciras.
The Group also collaborates in promoting sports by holding the Acerinox Cup, a tournament organised by the Spanish Football Association for amputees. Still in the field of sports, it made donations for transport and sports material to Los Barrios Sports Association and other local sports organisations which compete in handball, basketball, football and swimming.
7.5 SUCCESS IN THE BATTLE AGAINST AIDS IN SOUTH AFRICA
Columbus participates, with initiatives of its own, in the South African Government's Strategic National Plan against HIV and other sexually transmitted diseases.
On 1 December every year (World AIDS Day), Columbus holds an event to create awareness of the disease among its employees and the surrounding population. It is the perfect occasion to publicize its information campaigns, blood tests, free distribution of contraceptives, education and prevention courses and other measures that the company continually carries out to contribute to containing the virus' propagation.
Said checks, which are voluntary and open to everyone, are constantly encouraged by the company, which provides information to its staff on both the blood tests and the different options available to them.
These measures are yielding results. Last year the results were particularly gratifying, given that, of the 72 tests carried out, no positive incidences of HIV were detected.
For years Columbus has been resolutely training a team of advisers who can be consulted by any employee if they find themselves at risk or are carrying the virus. These collaborators have all the relevant information on the virus and its mode of transmission and are prepared to provide advice on the steps to be followed in the event of a positive test result. In addition, with the aim of guaranteeing the highest degree of confidentiality, the company has launched a website providing detailed information on all the above processes.
Moreover, the medical teams at Columbus have access to the most advanced programmes available for monitoring the disease, which also enable those who are already suffering from it to enjoy a long, high-quality life.
186

7.6 MAIN INITIATIVES IN MALAYSIA
Last year Bahru participated in the World Steel Safety Date, which includes safety practices and audits, video screenings on safety measures to be applied and a programme aimed at blood donation managed by the Sultanah Amirah hospital. The latter was a very successful initiative, as 77 employees donated their blood. Bahru also collaborated with the Department of Well-Being of Pasir Gudang, a region where the company was appointed by the Malaysian government to lead the programme aimed at transforming the region into a modern industrial complex. It is also worth mentioning that Bahru collaborates closely with the national MIDA programmes aimed at generating wealth and employment in the country while boosting economic development.
Stainless steel chimneys at the Bahru Stainless Factory.
187

8. Responsibility and Sustainability
7.7 ALLIANCES AND EXTERNAL INITIATIVES
The Group is highly active in associating with other organisations among civil society. It belongs to the following associations and organisations:
ACERINOX AND ACERINOX EUROPE ISSF (International Stainless Steel Forum) International Chromium Development Association EUROFER (European Steel Association) Euro Inox Spain-USA Council Foundation Chamber of Commerce of the United States in Spain UNESID (National Union of Iron and Steel Companies) The Association of Large Industries of Campo de Gibraltar The Alavés Business Association CEDINOX (The Association for Research and Development in Stainless Steel) The Elcano Royal Institute AEGE (Association of Large Energy Consumption Companies) Institute of Internal Auditors Association Spanish Institute of Engineering Spanish Network of the United Nations Global Compact IGREA (Risk Management Initiatives) APD (Management Progress Association)
NAS ISSF (International Stainless Steel Forum) American Society of Testing and Materials (ASTM) Stainless Fuel Tanks (SASFT) Kentucky Automotive Industry Association (KAIA) Concrete Reinforcing Institute (CRSI) Specialty Steel Industry of North America (SSINA) Metals Service Center Institute (MSCI) American Iron and Steel Institute (AISI) Carroll County Chamber of Commerce Carroll County Training Consortium Kentucky Chamber of Commerce Kentucky Association of Manufacturers (KAM) National Association of Manufacturers Kentucky Excellence in Environmental leadership (Ky Excel) Carroll County Local Emergency Planning Committee (LEPC) US Chamber of Commerce National Association of Corrosion Engineers (NACE)
188

COLUMBUS International Stainless Steel Forum (ISSF) South African Stainless Steel Development Association (SASSDA) South African Iron and Steel Institute (SAISI) Manufacturing Circle Steel and Engineering Industrial Federation of South Africa (SEIFSA) Energy Intensive Users Group Middelburg Chamber of Commerce (MCCI) Spanish Chamber of Commerce
BAHRU Federation of Malaysian Manufacturers (MM) Malaysian Iron and Steel Industry Federation (MISIF) Malaysia Steel Institute (MSI)
Bahru Stainless Factory.
189

9. Important recent events since the closing of the Acerinox's financial year
Important recent events since the closing of the
Acerinox's financial year
- S ince the General Shareholders' Meeting of 2015, the Board of Directors has been studying a change to its Regulations aimed at complying with the provisions of the Account Auditing Laws by redistributing the Audit Committee of Acerinox, S.A. so that it is made up mostly of independent board members.
- The President of the Government of Andalusia, Ms Susana Díaz, visited the factory in Campo de Gibraltar on 25 February for an event at which the company announced the purchase of new equipment costing approximately 140 million to expand and improve the factory.
- The Public Administration of the United States has accepted proceedings requesting anti-dumping measures against imports of stainless steel from China.
Visit from Ms. Susana Díaz to the Acerinox Europe factory.
190

Construction to install a Brigh Annealing line and a new cold rolling mill at the NAS Factory (march 2016)
NAS Factory, construction of furnace in BA line.
191

Composition of the Board of Directors of Acerinox, S.A.

Executive Committee

Chairman:
RAFAEL MIRANDA ROBREDO
Chief Executive Officer:
BERNARDO VELÁZQUEZ HERREROS
Members of the Board:
PEDRO BALLESTEROS QUINTANA MANUEL CONTHE GUTIÉRREZ ÓSCAR FANJUL MARTÍN JAVIER FERNÁNDEZ ALONSO ROSA MARÍA GARCÍA GARCÍA JOSÉ RAMÓN GUEREDIAGA MENDIOLA RYO HATTORI GEORGE DONALD JOHNSTON SANTOS MARTÍNEZ-CONDE GUTIÉRREZ-BARQUÍN BRAULIO MEDEL CÁMARA YUKIO NARIYOSHI DIEGO PRADO PÉREZ-SEOANE MVULENI GEOFFREY QHENA
Secretary of the Board:
ÁLVARO MUÑOZ LÓPEZ

RAFAEL MIRANDA ROBREDO (Chairman) BERNARDO VELÁZQUEZ HERREROS ÓSCAR FANJUL MARTÍN JAVIER FERNÁNDEZ ALONSO JOSÉ RAMÓN GUEREDIAGA MENDIOLA RYO HATTORI GEORGE DONALD JOHNSTON SANTOS MARTÍNEZ-CONDE GUTIÉRREZ-BARQUÍN
Secretary:
ÁLVARO MUÑOZ LÓPEZ
Appointments, Remuneration, and Corporate Governance Committee
MANUEL CONTHE GUTIÉRREZ (Chairman) RAFAEL MIRANDA ROBREDO OSCAR FANJUL MARTÍN SANTOS MARTÍNEZ-CONDE GUTIÉRREZ-BARQUÍN BRAULIO MEDEL CÁMARA
Secretary:
ÁLVARO MUÑOZ LÓPEZ

Audit Committee
JOSÉ RAMÓN GUEREDIAGA MENDIOLA (Chairman) PEDRO BALLESTEROS QUINTANA GEORGE DONALD JOHNSTON DIEGO PRADO PÉREZ-SEOANE
Secretary:
ÁLVARO MUÑOZ LÓPEZ

192

Management Committee and Main Executives of the Group's Companies
Management Committee
BERNARDO VELÁZQUEZ HERREROS Chief Executive Officer ANTONIO FERNÁNDEZ-PACHECO MARTÍNEZ Managing Director DANIEL AZPITARTE ZEMP Commercial Director MIGUEL FERRANDIS TORRES Chief Financial Officer LUIS GIMENO VALLEDOR General Counsel
Top Executives in our Industrial Companies
Acerinox Europa: ANTONIO MORENO ZORRILLA North American Stainless: CRISTÓBAL FUENTES TOVAR Columbus Stainless: LUCIEN MATTHEWS Bahru Stainless: OSWALD WOLFE GÓMEZ Roldán: JORGE RODRÍGUEZ ROVIRA Inoxfil: ÁNGEL BRUÑÉN CEA
193

Top Executives in our Commercial Companies

1. SPAIN Inoxcenter: LUIS GUTIÉRREZ MÁS Inoxidables de Euskadi: JOSÉ CRUZ DE VICIOLA GARCÍA C.S. de Pinto: FLORENCIO ZURDO GÓMEZ C.S. de Gavá: JUAN ESTEVE VESTIT C.S. de Betanzos: ÁLVARO SUÁREZ LLANOS
2. EUROPE Acerinox Deutschland (Germany): JOACHIM MAAS Acerinox Benelux (Belgium): LUIS PABLO GONZÁLEZ ROBLES Acerinox France (France): PHILIPPE AUDEON Acerinox Italia (Italy): GIOVANNI DE CARLI Acerol Comércio e Industria de Aços Inoxidáveis (Portugal): FERNANDO MONTEIRO Acerinox Polska (Poland): PILAR SENISE GARCÍA Acerinox Scandinavia (Suecia): JAN GJERLAUG Acerinox Schweiz (Schweiz): IVANA HORAKOVA Acerinox UK (United Kingdom): PABLO CANTLE CORNEJO Acerinox Russia (Russia): ROMAN BUTYRIN Acerinox Metal Sanayi (Turkey): JAAN ROXAN ARROYO

3. AMERICA Acerinox Argentina (Argentina): JOSÉ CARLOS RODRÍGUEZ ARANDA
Acerinox Brasil (Brasil): JUAN ANTONIO RODRÍGUEZ
Acerinox Chile (Chile): IGNACIO MARTÍNEZ ALLUE
Acerinox Colombia Colombia): GONZALO DEL CAMPO BARCÓN
Corporación Acerinox Perú (Perú): GONZALO DEL CAMPO BARCÓN
Acerinox, SA. Venezuela (Venezuela): GONZALO DEL CAMPO BARCÓN
North American Stainless México (México): BÁRBARA THIRION
North American Stainless Canada (Canadá): ROGER MANSFIELD

194

4. ASIA Acerinox South East Asia (Singapore): IRENE TEO LIN LING Acerinox India (India): PRATIK KACHCHHI Acerinox SC. Malaysia (Malaysia): BARRY FOO Acerinox SA. Shanghai (China): MARY XU Acerinox Indonesia SA. (Indonesia): EFRAT AGUNG Acerinox SEA (Vietnam): JAIME DEL DIEGO SANZ Acerinox (SEA) (Thailand): PRAWIT LERTWIMONRAT Acerinox (SEA) (Philippines): ENRIQUE DAVID B. SANTIAGO Acerinox Pacific (Korea): JUNGHO CHOI Acerinox Pacific (Hong Kong): MARY XU Acerinox Pacific (Taiwán): SAMUEL TAM Acerinox Middle East (United Arab Emirates): FERNANDO GÓMEZ AIELLO
5. OCEANÍA Acerinox Australasia (Australia): CLAUDIO LEÓN DE LA BARRA
195

Published by ACERINOX S.A.
Designed by Diálogo Digital, S.L.

SHAREHOLDERS OFFICE Santiago de Compostela, 100. 28035 Madrid Tel.: +34 91 398 52 85 / 51 74 Fax: +34 91 398 51 95
w w w. a c e r i n o x .c o m

