ANNUAL REPORT 2016/2017

The year in brief
SUCCESSFUL YEAR EXCEEDS FINANCIAL TARGETS

CEO comment
EFFICIENCY WORK AND ACQUISITIONS GAVE STRONG PROFIT GROWTH

Net sales
7 178
MILLIONS

ADDTECH IN BRIEF

Addtech is a Swedish publicly listed technology trading group that provides both technological and economic value added in the link between manufacturers and customers. The business consists of about 120 independent companies that sell high-tech products and solutions to customers chiefly in the manufacturing and infrastructure sectors in around 20 countries. About half of sales are generated from standard products and solutions and half from specially adapted products. Addtech creates optimal conditions for the profitability and growth of subsidiaries.
Addtechs position in the value chain

suppliers

addtech

customers

standard

50%

products

customised solutions

niche production

50%

services

Addtech's shareholder value is driven by:
 120 subsidiaries' ability to
generate profit growth
 Corporate governance that
drives the subsidiaries to achieve even better results and development
 Acquisitions that bring
new employees, customers and suppliers to Addtech

CONTENTS

REPORT ON OPERATIONS

The year in brief

1

Comments by the

2

President and CEO

Vision, business concept,

goals and strategies

4

Acquisitions

6

Organisation

7

Our business areas

8

Corporate culture

12

Market drivers

13

Sustainability

14

Addtech shares

15

ADMINISTRATION REPORT

Financial development 21

Risks and uncertainties 22

Proposed allocation of

earnings

28

Corporate governance 29

Board of Directors and

Group Management

36

FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

Group

40

Parent company

45

Notes

49

Auditor's report

99

OTHER INFORMATION

Multi-year summary

103

Annual General Meeting 104

Definitions

105

The year in brief REPORT ON OPERATIONS
The year in brief
SUCCESSFUL YEAR EXCEEDS FINANCIAL TARGETS
In the 2016/2017 financial year, Addtech reported growth in both sales and earnings. Our strong profit growth and improved operating margin increased through higher sales of our solutions and products, combined with successful efficiency work. During the year, ten acquisitions were made, adding annual sales of around SEK 500 million. Cash flow from operating activities during the year totalled SEK 551 million.

Q1 HIGH PACE OF ACQUISITIONS

Q3 STRONG DEMAND

The business performed well during the quarter. Both sales and earnings increased organically and via acquisitions. The selective cost-savings implemented started to deliver a positive impact on earnings. Four acquisitions were made.

Demand during the quarter was firm and the economic situation in our markets stabilised. We continued to grow in all four business areas. Three acquisitions were made.

Q2 POSITIVE EARNINGS GROWTH
The Group continued to perform strongly and grew despite the challenging economic situation. The selective cost-savings implemented delivered a positive impact on earnings and the operating margin improved.

Q4 STRONG FINISH
The quarter brought a strong finish to a year of profit growth in all of our four business areas. The business climate improved and the operating margin continued to strengthen. Three acquisitions were made.

% %

Net sales Net sales

Net sales and EBITA-margin, year

7500

12

5000

10

2500

8

0 14/15

15/16

6 16/17

Net sales, SEKm EBITA-margin, %

Net sales and EBITA-margin, quarter

2000

12

1500

10

1000

8

500

6

Q1

Q2

Q3

Q4

Net sales, SEKm EBITA-margin, %

2016/2017

2015/2016

Change, %

Net sales, SEKm

7,178

6,155

17

EBITA

715

536

34

EBITA-margin, %

10.0

8.7

Operating profit, SEKm

604

443

36

Cash flow from operations, SEKm

551

474

16

Earnings per share before dilution, SEK

6.60

4.85

36

Earnings per share after dilution, SEK

6.55

4.85

35

Shareholders' equity per share, SEK

25.45

22.10

15

Return on working capital (P/WC), %

53

44

Return on equity, %

28

20

Equity ratio, %

39

40

For definitions, see page 105.

All data in this report refer to continuing operations, excluding the distribution of AddLife, unless otherwise stated. All figures regarding the income statement refer to continuing operations retroactively from 1 April 2014. All figures regarding the balance sheet refer to continuing operations from 31 March 2016 without retroactivity for earlier periods.

Comments by the President and CEO

1

Comments by the President and CEO
A SUCCESSFUL YEAR FOR ADDTECH
Strengthened positions and an improved market situation, combined with efficiency work and contributions from acquisitions delivered very strong profit growth.
STRONG PROFIT GROWTH AND HIGHER OPERATING MARGIN
I am pleased to confirm that in all four business areas, we continued to grow, both through sound organic growth and through contributions from acquisitions. Increased sales of our products and solutions, combined with successful efficiency work, led to an increase of 35 percent in our profit and an improvement in our EBITA margin from 8.7 to 10.0 percent.
Addtech's operations span many niche markets, customer segments and countries, providing us with a source of strength and a good spread of risks. All in all, the market situation improved for the Group over the year, and we strengthened our positions in most of our markets. Of Addtech's sales, half consists of production components sold to manufacturing companies and half of products and solutions sold to end customers. The latter part has grown more rapidly during the year, driven by the increase in infrastructure investments among Nordic electricity network companies. Demand for production components also increased overall during the year and the business situation was favourable in most customer segments.
THROUGH ACQUISITIONS WE ARE DEVELOPING AND BUILDING A SUCCESSFUL ORGANISATION
We develop and build our Group systematically in accordance with our well-established strategy. Every company represents a unique building block that fits in with the Group structure. We continuously evaluate both acquisitions of independent, profitable technology companies with market-leading niche positions, and small bolt-on acquisitions that may strengthen the market positions and profitability of our existing companies. Business development at Addtech is based on our excellent entrepreneurship, and the acquisitions contribute with new business opportunities and employees who want to develop. Many privately-owned companies want to sell to Addtech so they can retain their decentralised responsibility but also gain support for development via an active, long-term owner.
Addtech believes in freedom with responsibility and having a small scale approach on a large scale. This means that every business that joins Addtech must stand on its own feet and fit in with the Group structure.
Addtech believes in freedom with responsibility and having a small scale approach on a large scale. This means that every business that joins Addtech must stand on its own feet and fit in with the Group structure. On that basis, acquired businesses are incorporated into Addtech, but continue to operate under their own well-established company name and brands. Our acquisitions are generally small, enabling us to spread our risks and making for easier integration into the Group. Our basic philosophy is to build the Group from relatively small, flexible businesses with in-depth technical expertise, which work close to the customer and can respond rapidly to changes in the market. We are convinced that the organisation performs best when our entrepreneurs and subsidiaries have great freedom in how they manage and develop their business, underpinned by support from Addtech's network, accumulated expertise and financial resources.
Acquisition activity during the financial year remained high, and ten new companies joined Addtech. The acquisitions together add annual sales of around SEK 500 million and 129 employees.
INCREASED FOCUS ON THE GROUP'S SUSTAINABILITY WORK
Our long-term sustainability work focuses on economic, social and environmental responsibility. This commitment is a foundation for both maintaining and further developing our business with products and solutions that meet or surpass our customers' expectations. Satisfied customers who can depend on Addtech's expertise and ethical agenda are our most important task. Our focus on profitability also gives us the muscle to invest in sustainable business development and to constantly refine our acquisition agenda. Just as our customers must always be able to rely on Addtech as a partner, we have a deeplyrooted focus on being a reliable and attractive owner, both of our existing subsidiaries and the businesses that we are seeking to acquire.
2

In our well-established corporate culture, our business activities are driven forward via a system of decentralised responsibility in our companies, underpinned by support at Group level. We work in exactly the same way on sustainability. The Group supports its companies via ongoing skills development via the wide-ranging programme of our Business School, and offers tools and processes for employee surveys, supplier evaluation and quality and environmental assurance etc. This gives strength to our independent, often relatively small entrepreneurial businesses, making them more attractive and at the same time enabling us to reduce our risks.
TOWARDS THE FUTURE
Our employees' day-to-day dedication makes a big difference, and is an absolute prerequisite for our success. Skills and an appetite for change create opportunities to develop Addtech for our shareholders and customers. These factors, combined with gradually improving markets over the past year, makes me have good hopes for another successful year. Our strong financial position will also allow us to continue complementing existing companies with attractive acquisitions.
To us, being a leader is not about being the biggest but about being very good at what we choose to focus on.
We will continue to work to achieve our vision of being a leader in value-adding technology trading. To us, being a leader is not about being the biggest but about being very good at what we choose to focus on. This demands entrepreneurship in a continuous process of business and organisational development. We have a very strong driving force that delivers clear results in the initiatives we take. This driving force comes from our corporate culture, where freedom with responsibility has a central role but is supported by our other core values ­ simplicity, efficiency and change. Our corporate culture drives entrepreneurship and sets us apart from our competitors. Addtech continues to combine the flexibility, personality and efficiency of a small company with the resources, networks and long-term approach of a large business. Through our small scale approach on a large scale, we optimise our opportunities for longterm profitable growth. I would like to thank all our employees for a successful year ­ together we are strong!
Johan Sjö, President and CEO, Addtech AB
VThisisioins, Abdudsitneecshs concept, goals and strategies
3

TVhisisioins, Abdudsitneecshs concept, goals and strategies
Vision, business concept, goals and strategies
WE WILL BE LEADING IN VALUE-ADDING TECHNOLOGY TRADING
Our vision is to be the leading value adding tech provider. As a Group-wide guiding principle, our vision directs how we should act in various situations, while effectively and successfully combining continuity with development. To achieve this vision we have broken it down into goals, strategy and business concept.
FINANCIAL TARGETS AND FOLLOW-UP DURING THE YEAR
At Addtech, the expectations on earnings growth, profitability and development determine the conditions for each individual business. Our financial target is average earnings growth of more than 15 percent over a business cycle. In practice, this means doubling our earnings every five years. The economic climate naturally has a bearing on our opportunities each year. Over the financial year, earnings growth totalled 35 per cent, well above our long-term target. At Addtech we measure profitability via the P/WC ratio. To calculate that, we apply the EBITA earnings measure (P) to our working capital (WC). The P/WC ratio in every unit shall amount to no less than 45 per cent. Everything done day-to-day can be linked to the P/WC target, with the aim of optimising operations. P/WC places a premium on high earnings and low levels of tied-up capital, which in combination with earnings growth, provides good opportunities for a positive cash flow and long-term profitable growth. The P/WC ratio for the financial year was 53 per cent, well above our target.
STRATEGIES
We are developing and building our Group systematically in accordance with our well-established strategy. Every company represents a unique building block that fits in with the Group structure. During our acquisition process, we assess new businesses in order to identify new building blocks that fill the gaps we have, or that can strengthen our existing companies.
MARKET-LEADING NICHE POSITIONS
Addtech strives to be market-leading and active in carefully selected niches with high levels of knowledge and technology. Our customers are seeking carefully selected solutions, sub-systems or products, often in small or medium-sized volumes. We customise and sell solutions to our customers in partnership with selected suppliers. The market-leading position is important to achieve stable growth and profitability.
4

OPERATING MOBILITY - FLEXIBLITY AND ACTIVE OWNERSHIP
Operational mobility is characterised by a flexible organisation with solution-oriented, innovative employees who recognise and take full advantage of new business opportunities. Via active ownership of our companies, we can merge or separate whole or parts of businesses. That way, we can fully develop the growth potential of the individual subsidiary or segment. Operational mobility also requires us to have effective processes for integrating new companies into the Group.
GROWTH THROUGH ACQUISITIONS
Addtech is constantly growing through acquisitions of independent technology companies with marketleading niche positions. This makes it possible to complement business areas through new market segments in areas where we see the right conditions for gaining market leadership. Business units can expand and build market and/or product positions in selected market segments. We also make small bolton acquisitions that may serve to strengthen the market positions of our existing companies. The ability to apply the Group's business model is a success factor in all acquisitions.
PARTNER THAT CREATES TECHNICAL AND FINANCIAL ADDED VALUE
Addtech has maintained the same successful business concept for more than 100 years. Our business concept is to offer high-technology products and solutions to companies in the manufacturing and infrastructure sectors. We provide both technological and economic added value by serving as an expert and professional partner to both customers and suppliers.
Addtech acts as a value-adding link between customers and suppliers. At one end of the chain, our customers seek a technical solution to meet their unique needs. As their business partner, we customise solutions in collaboration with our carefully selected suppliers. We create and add value for our customers to ensure that their products are more competitive in the end market. We have a large number of suppliers across the world and our purchases are made in large part from suppliers outside the Nordics, in Europe, the USA and Asia. Addtech conducts its own production on a minor scale, and so the major share of production takes place via orders to our suppliers.
SUCCESS FACTORS
Addtech was listed in 2001, and has since then performed well both in terms of sales and profitability. Profitable growth is achieved through continuous business and organisational development. The following are the most important factors behind our successful business model.
COMPETENT EMPLOYEES
Addtech's employees are the absolutely key condition for our success. Our employees represent high business acumen and technical expertise that are continuously focused on developing existing and new lines of business. When employees enjoy their work and can develop personally, it is possible to drive up sales of products, solutions and sub-systems. Employees who are creative and decisive can prioritize among their tasks and raise their sights and look forward.
DECENTRALISED ORGANISATION
Addtech has organised its business on the basis of decentralised responsibility for profitability and earnings. This offers good opportunities for combining the flexibility, personality and efficiency of a small company with the resources, networks and long-term approach of a large business. Every company has great freedom as to which customers it serves, but also has great responsibility to live up to expectations of earnings growth and profitability.
CONSISTENCY AND STRONG BUSINESS CULTURE
Addtech is charactarised by a deeply rooted culture based on strategic and consistent acting, good planning, a long-term approach, diligent decision-making and effective implementation. Furthermore, Addtech is charactarised by strong business acumen, a firm focus on profitability and an ethical approach.
5

Acquisitions
Acquisitions
WE LOOK FOR COMPANIES TO MAINTAIN AND DEVELOP
Acquisitions are an important part of Addtech's strategy. We continuously evaluate both acquisitions of independent, profitable technology companies with market-leading niche positions, and small bolt-on acquisitions that may serve to strengthen the market positions and profitability of our existing companies. Over the financial year, ten acquisitions were made. Of these, six were independent companies and four complementary acquisitions.
Addtech owns around 120 independent subsidiaries and is a financially strong, well-established and committed owner. Each year, we acquire entrepreneur-led technology trading companies that support existing operations or bring in new product or market segments where the conditions are right for gaining leading niche positions. We hold on to our companies and develop them long term. New companies contribute with a presence on new sub-markets, and bring skilled employees with a strong entrepreneurial spirit.
SPECIALISTS IN ACQUISITIONS
In each acquisition process the company is evaluated according to a series of criteria that, when met, create good conditions for further development within Addtech. Acquired companies are expected to contribute to the Group's profitability in both the short and long term and have good growth prospects. Addtech's subsidiaries are generally wholly owned.
The route to a successful acquisition for both buyer and seller is rarely a rapid process. Giving the parties time to get to know each other reduces the risk of misplaced expectations. It also creates trust, which lays the foundation for the parties and employees to be satisfied with the outcome once the acquisition has been completed.
Over the years, Addtech has acquired and integrated more than 80 companies, and from these experiences a clear, successful process for integrating and developing the companies acquired has emerged. We set clear goals and provide tools for development and profitability.

Acquistions
Number of acquisitions Acquired annual sales* Number of employees

2016/2017 2015/2016 2014/2015 2013/2014 2012/2013

10

10

9

5

8

503

643

540

299

591

129

161

140

87

300

* Refers at the time of acquisition on a full-year basis.

NEW COMPANIES DEVELOP WITHIN ADDTECH
Many privately-owned companies want to sell to Addtech so they can maintain their decentralised responsibility, but also to gain support for development via an active, long-term owner. Each business area includes a number of niche business units. As a result, many entrepreneurs see a natural position where their companies could fit within the Group. The year's acquisitions have strengthened our business areas and have contributed to earnings growth. As our markets are changing, opportunities continue to be created for developing new business segments. At the same time Addtech is gradually moving its positions forward.

6

Organisation
SUCCESSFUL ENTREPRENEURIAL COMPANIES ON A LARGE SCALE
The Group has about 2,200 employees in around 120 subsidiaries. Freedom with responsibility is the core principle that applies throughout Addtech's decentralised organisation as we are convinced that the best business decisions are made close to the customer and the market. ORGANISATION THAT PROMOTES EFFICIENCY AND DEVELOPMENT
Addtech works actively to utilise the organisation as efficiently as possible and its companies cooperate with one another to varying degrees. The organisation is structured into four business areas: Components, Energy, Industrial Process and Power Solutions. Addtech's business areas consist of a number of business units corresponding to different market segments. The task of each business unit is to identify and capitalise on business opportunities in their respective market segments and create exchanges between subsidiaries. The business units therefore form the basis for Addtech's strategy in which success factors are based on combining the flexibility, personality and efficiency of a small company with the resources, networks and long-term approach of a large business.
DEVELOPMENT OPPORTUNITIES FOR SUBSIDIARIES
The independence of the subsidiaries is crucial in recruiting and retaining talented employees and entrepreneurs. Addtech does not micromanage its companies. Instead, it exercises active ownership through Board work and financial follow-up. Every subsidiary has good presrequisites for growth and development of its business, in the form of both support from its Board of Directors and via a range of common Group tools. These tools are available in areas that contribute to the subsidiaries' efficiency and profitability, including law, accounting and finance, training, quality management and IT systems, as well as in framework agreements (master contracts) for the purchase of services.
MARKET LEADER IN SELECT NICHES
The common denominator of the subsidiaries' business concepts is that they market and sell technology products in select niches. Irrespective of whether the subsidiaries conduct technology trading or their own production operations, Addtech is a technology partner and specialist that helps its customers find the right technical solution and product. Acquisitions of new subsidiaries enable expansion to new markets and a broader range of niche products and services. The subsidiaries' technological capabilities, long-term customer relationships and a good understanding of customers' business have led to cooperation with a large number of world-leading companies. Our business areas
7

Our business areas
COMPONENTS
Components markets and sells components and subsystems in mechanics, electro mechanics, hydraulics and electronics, as well as automation solutions. Its customers mainly operate in the Nordic manufacturing industry.
BUSINESS
Components focuses on technology trading, based on suppliers' range of components. For more complex customer needs, the subsidiaries offer solutions that may be a combination of components and subsystems. Companies in the business area strive continuously to increase the added value in their offering. Products and solution are often cusomised in collaboration with the customer and supplier.
MARKET
The business area holds a strong market position in the Nordics. A local base combined with high levels of technical expertise provide the companies with competitive advantages in their respective niche markets. Demand tracks developments in the manufacturing industry. Competition is tough for standard products in large volumes. Segments with lower volumes, which is our focus, prioritise service, customisation and delivery capacity. Long-term relationships with leading global suppliers are essential and a high priority.

Components - Geographic market
Sweden (32%) Denmark (20%) Finland (18%) Norway (16%) Other (14%)

Components - Customer segment
Building & installation (7%) Data & telecommunication (7%) Electronics (11%) Energy (10%) Vehicle (10%) Medical technology (7%) Mechanical industry (28%) Forestry & process (7%) Other (13%)

DEVELOPMENT DURING 2016/2017

Increased sales of production components to Nordic manufacturing companies combined with acquisitions generated strong profit growth. Demand increased in all our major customer segments, such as the mechanical industry, electronics, wind energy and special vehicles. The business situation improved in both Sweden and Finland and stayed positive in Denmark. The Norwegian oil and gas market was weak, but thanks to good demand in infrastructure and the food industry, the business situation was stable overall.

Key financial indicators
Net sales, SEKm EBITA, SEKm EBITA-margin, % Return on working capital, % Average number of employees Acquired annual sales*

2016/2017 2015/2016

2,355 187 8.0 42 561 233

2,029 149 7.4 37 510 242

* Refers to conditions at the time of acquisition on a full-year basis.

A large share of sales go to OEM customers. In more concrete terms, this means customised components and sub-systems that are sold to customers who produce machinery. One area that performed well during the year was sales to companies in wind power. This involves sales of, for example, cable and connection systems.

8

Our business areas
ENERGY
Energy markets and sells products for the transmission and distribution of electricity and products in electrical safety, electrical installation and connection technology. Its customers mainly operate in the energy and electrical installation market.
BUSINESS
Energy focuses on the markets for electrical power distribution and electrical installation, as well as products and solutions in electrical safety, energy efficiency and connection technology. Companies also carry out the customisation of standard components and solutions for products, primarily in electric power transmission.
MARKET
Energy's companies hold leading market positions in their respective niche areas in electrical power products and electrical safety. In addition to trading, several companies also manufacture niche products under their own brands. Demand in the energy market is relatively stable and is affected by the electricity companies' investment rate. Energy's subsidiaries also offer aftermarket services such as education, service and support, which generates both long-term customer relationships and current income.

Energy - Geographic market

Sweden (34%) Denmark (11%) Finland (10%) Norway (26%) Other (19%)

Energy - Customer segment
Building & installation (26%) Data & telecommunication (3%) Electronics (4%) Energy (46%) Vehicle (2%) Medical technology (0%) Mechanical industry (6%) Forestry & process (4%) Other (9%)

DEVELOPMENT DURING 2016/2017

The market has been favourable throughout the financial year. During the quarter demand increased somewhat more from an already high level. Acquisitions and above all greater efficiency in our operations generated very favourable profit growth. Infrastructure investments in national and regional networks in the Nordic countries have continued to increase, and they are at a high level in Sweden in particular. Demand for niche products in electrical power distribution remained stable. Sales of products in the areas of electrical installation and electrical safety developed well in the Nordics and Great Britain.

Key financial indicators
Net sales, SEKm EBITA, SEKm EBITA-margin, % Return on working capital, % Average number of employees Acquired annual sales*

2016/2017 2015/2016

1,807 225 12.5 69 585 100

1,487 149 10.1 55 576 251

* Refers to conditions at the time of acquisition on a full-year basis.

Sales in the electrical installation and electrical safety sectors include products with an important role in renovation and new-building, such as fuses, cable ducts and presence and movement detectors. With a continued high tempo in the construction and installation sector, demand for Energy's subsidiaries also continues to rise.

9

Our business areas
INDUSTRIAL PROCESS
Industrial Process markets and sells solutions, subsystems and components that contribute to optimized industrial process flows. Customers have an emphasis on industry in northern Europe.
BUSINESS
Industrial Process focuses on developing customers' business benefits and offer service and product solutions that help streamline customers' solid, liquid or gaseous industrial process flows. The added value created involves more competitive products, resource savings, positive environmental impact, time gains and other favourable outcomes that help improve quality and profitability for the customer. The solutions are customised and applied in a wide range of areas.
MARKET
Through their technical expertise the subsidiaries hold leading positions within several narrow niches. High development and innovation rate for industrial process flows and increased demands for reduced environmental impact drives the pace of investment. Competition is relatively hard but for companies who work closely with customers and offer high technical competence, efficiency and system solutions, the competition is much lower.

Industrial Process - Geographic market
Sweden (36%) Denmark (20%) Finland (8%) Norway (10%) Other (26%)

Industrial Process - Customer segment
Building & installation (3%) Data & telecommunication (0%) Electronics (1%) Energy (9%) Vehicle (9%) Medical technology (5%) Mechanical industry (31%) Forestry & process (28%) Other (14%)

DEVELOPMENT DURING 2016/2017

Sales to the production industry in the Nordics increased overall during the year and demand increased from the majority of customer segments. Investments in the Nordic process and manufacturing industry grew. Demand in the shipping market improved, while the business situation in oil and gas remained weak. The situation for our operations outside the Nordics remained good, especially in customer segments such as vehicles and energy. Efficiency improvements are being implemented in several operations to meet the Group's demands on profit growth, profitability and development.

Key financial indicators
Net sales, SEKm EBITA, SEKm EBITA-margin, % Return on working capital, % Average number of employees Acquired annual sales*

2016/2017 2015/2016

1,585 125 7.9 38 639 110

1,423 116 8.1 35 631 ­

* Refers to conditions at the time of acquisition on a full-year basis.

One sector where the business area expanded strongly during the year was sales of measurement systems for ships. With new environmental regulations imposing stricter demands on emissions from ships, investments in e.g. measurement equipment rises. Increased need for inspection and analysis of e.g. fuel consumption and purity and composition of discharged process water will affect not just the marine sector, but also industries such as the paper, energy, chemical and pharmaceutical industries.

10

Our business areas
POWER SOLUTIONS
Power Solutions develops, markets and sells components and system solutions that ensure power supply, as well as operation and control of movements or energy flows. Customers mainly work with special vehicles and telecoms.
BUSINESS
Power Solutions focuses on creating automated systems. The companies often work with the customer during the design phase, allowing them to be involved in controlling and optimizing the end product. Most of the customers are therefore OEMs, but also a large number of end users. The business area has developed a large range of its own strong brands and has significant R&D expertise and niche production.
MARKET
The business area is the Nordic region's largest independent distributor of batteries and has agents for several leading global brands. The companies hold cutting-edge expertise and leading market positions in their respective niche areas. Demand depends on the development in the markets for vehicles, telecom, environmental technology and medical technology. Rapid technological development drives demand for technically skilled companies who can contribute in the products' design phase.

Power Solutions - Geographic market
Sweden (45%) Denmark (3%) Finland (12%) Norway (7%) Other (33%)

Power Solutions - Customer segment
Building & Installation (5%) Data & Telecommunication (10%) Electronics (13%) Energy (19%) Vehicle (33%) Medical technology (7%) Mechanical industry (4%) Forest & Process (1%) Other (8%)

DEVELOPMENT DURING 2016/2017

All in all, demand was good, and profit growth was driven by a very strong organic sales increase. Greater demand for controls and ergonomics products for the special vehicles industry ­ the largest customer segment in this business area ­ made a strong contribution. The market for solutions with new battery technology and power supply solutions in the Nordic markets continued to improve. Demand decreased, however, from telecom and wind power customers.

Key financial indicators
Net sales, SEKm EBITA, SEKm EBITA-margin, % Return on working capital, % Average number of employees Acquired annual sales*

2016/2017 2015/2016

1,439 187 13.0 72 305 60

1,226 136 11.1 63 273 150

* Refers to conditions at the time of acquisition on a full-year basis.

The strongest increase in demand during the year came from manufacturers of special vehicles, in segments such as forklift trucks and mining and forestry machinery. As more and more goods are being shipped worldwide and logistics management is taking on an increasingly important role, the need for modern transport vehicles is also growing. Many such vehicles use systems solutions and products from Power Solutions. Corporate Culture

11

Corporate culture
BUSINESS SKILLS AND FREEDOM WITH RESPONSIBILITY
Our employees' combined expertise and dedication is the foundation of Addtech's development. Our established corporate culture and shared values connect our employees and guide us forward.
EMPLOYEES WHO DEVELOP PERSONALLY INCREASE OUR COMPETITIVENESS
Our employees are our most important resource and competitive asset. They drive our business development and play a part in the development of society. Our CEOs at the subsidiaries are supported via active Board work, and through that interaction our competitiveness grows.
We look after our employees' interest in developing their capacity to take on more and more responsibility in their particular company or other parts of the Group. As our employees develop their capacity, we also gain an inhouse supply of management resources. We view inhouse recruitment favourably and most of those in managerial positions in the Group have started their careers in sales in one of the subsidiaries.
Our personnel policy centres on being an attractive employer and providing a workplace where employees enjoy their work, have a sense of pride and develop personally. For more information on how we work on and follow up personnel matters, see Addtech's Sustainability Report 2016/2017.
COOPERATION AND THE ADDTECH BUSINESS SCHOOL
We encourage our companies to work with each other. Experience and expertise sharing helps to advance the development of the Group, the companies and the employees. Examples of internal networks that reinforce the corporate culture and expertise include our own Business School, CEO meetings and partnerships among subsidiaries, business areas and business units.
Addtech's business school includes all employees and is an important platform for spreading our business culture and further developing the business acumen. The various courses offered by the business school provide employees with training adapted to their experience and roles, and are aimed at both newly employed and senior executives in the companies. It is important that our sales staff receive a thorough education in business acumen so they can combine it with their deep skills in their specific product areas. In connection to the acquisition of new companies, an education in Addtech's Vision and Corporate Philosophy is held.
CORPORATE CULTURE THAT LEADS THE WAY
To be able to live up to our vision of being the leading value-adding tech provider, we must comply with our corporate culture and core values. We call this Addtech's soul. Our culture helps our employees relate to their responsibilities, customers, partners, colleagues and the outside world.
Responsibility and Freedom are two of Addtech's core values and are summarized as "Freedom with responsibility". This is a central concept within the Group and a key prerequisite to enable subsidiaries and employees to work closely with customers and suppliers. Our decentralised organisation is based on our conviction that decisions achieve the best results when they are taken close to the market.
Over time, Addtech's corporate culture has become a deeply anchored root system that links employees and subsidiaries. It also paves the way for Addtech's future, and all employees are trained in the corporate philosophy via the Addtech Business School. In total, there are five core values that should permeate employees' work. Freedom and responsibility have already been mentioned, the other three are simplicity, efficiency and change.
Market drivers
12

Market drivers
Market Drivers
GLOBALISATION AND TECHNOLOGICAL DEVELOPMENT
Addtech operates in the international technology trading market, where companies buy, adapt and sell technical products and solutions. We have chosen to focus on special niches with a high technology and knowledge content. The rapid development of technology makes it vital to constantly stay at the forefront of technological development. This is where we can make a difference for our customers and manufacturers.
THE NORTHERN EUROPEAN MARKET
Addtech is based in Nordic industry, but operates internationally. The emphasis is on the Nordic region, but we have performed well in markets outside the Nordic countries and these have increased in significance. Besides having its own operations in around 15 countries outside the Nordic region, Addtech also exports to a further 20 or so countries. Many of Addtech's products are incorporated into the end products of globally exporting customers. Addtech often continues to supply its parts to these customers when they relocate their manufacturing operations abroad.
MACROTRENDS
Global macrotrends such as increased globalisation, climate change and a growing middle class pose challenges for both Addtech and our customers, but they also entail good business opportunities. Demographic changes in terms of population growth and a growing middle class entail increased demand for capital and consumer goods, as well as an increased need for infrastructure investments. Climate change also increases requirements and the demand for sustainable technological solutions, a market trend that benefits Addtech. Our focus on offering products, services and systems that streamline our customers' operations often involves measures to improve energy efficiency while reducing environmental impact. We apply Addtech's expertise in sustainable technology to help our customers meet external challenges and to reduce their environmental impact.
MARKET DEVELOPMENT
The long-term growth and profitability of the market depends on the size and diversity of the industrial and service sectors. Northern Europe's relatively high costs have spurred the development of knowledgeintensive, automated and specialised industrial and service sectors. This has also contributed to differentiation of the value chain, increased trade and greater reliance on external partners like Addtech for product development and component modifications as well as for maintenance and other aftermarket services.
The supplier market is becoming increasingly complex and customers have a growing need for partners who help them select the right supplier and technology. When we can provide a range of market-leading products, combined with our own technological and market knowledge alongside flexible customisation options, we become an attractive partner for customers. Our goal is to always be a value-adding company, which means that we can add value to our customers' products and processes through our expertise, understanding and resources.
GROWTH AND PROFITABILITY
In the short term, growth and profitability are closely tied to industrial economic conditions and the economic conditions prevailing in Addtech's markets. Addtech's focus on infrastructure and narrow market niches, as well as large number of subsidiaries, reduces sensitivity to economic volatility. However, growth and profitability are highly dependent on the state of competition among our customers and their possibilities of performing well domestically and/or globally. Addtech therefore evaluates each of its markets on an ongoing basis to ensure that there are conditions for reaching the Group's financial targets.
Sustainability
13

Sustainability
Sustainability
WE ENGAGE IN SUSTAINABLE TECHNOLOGICAL DEVELOPMENT
Addtech's vision is to be the leading value-adding tech provider. The vision entails a long-term focus on developing the business by constantly being a value-adding knowledge provider. To achieve that vision we must run our business sustainably. Addtech aims to meet the sustainability requirements and expectations set by customers, shareholders and employees and to promote sustainable technological development.
We take long-term responsibility for sustainable development of profitability, employees and the environment. Global and local demand for lower emissions and greater sustainability in society are making sustainable products and solutions into a competitive asset in the technology trading market. We aim to be a better choice than our competitors and focus actively on meeting this demand. With a structured sustainability programme, we are developing the business to make it both stronger and more sustainable, for example by highlighting the potential for savings and improvements, as well as the risks. We are also meeting this demand by ensuring that our companies are committed to developing and offering solutions that increase customers' energy efficiency and reduce their negative environmental impact. By continuing to develop sustainable solutions for our customers, we increase our competitiveness while helping to bring about a sustainable society.
THREE AREAS OF FOCUS FOR STRATEGIC SUSTAINABILITY WORK
Addtech's aim is to create value for its five stakeholders: customers, suppliers, employees, shareholders and society. During the year, a new stakeholder dialogue was carried out, indicating that the areas of highest priority in sustainability were development of products to take account of environmental impact, business ethics and liability for suppliers, creating and delivering economic added value and looking after our employees and their health. It is in these areas that our sustainability work will be conducted, which we bring together within three categories: economic, social and environmental value added.
Economic value added. Financial strength is a cornerstone of our ability to invest in sustainable development, and Addtech is dedicated to ensuring that we are both competitive and cost-efficient.
Social value added. The key to continued sustainable business development and success at Addtech lies in the long-term relationships we have built with our employees, customers and suppliers. To uphold our good reputation, we must maintain high quality and a high standard of business ethics in all our undertakings. We strive at all times to be a responsible operator.
Environmental value added. Conservation of the environment is an important part of our strategy. The aim is to minimise our environmental impact and we therefore focus actively on cutting our carbon dioxide emissions, raising the proportion of renewable energy consumed in our operations and finding ways of using natural resources more efficiently and carefully. The subsidiaries are also actively working to develop more energy-efficient solutions for their customers.
SUSTAINABILITY REPORT
The sustainability report is an important part of the sustainability work of the Addtech Group as it focuses on these issues so that employees, shareholders and other stakeholders are given the opportunity to take part of the development of the work. The reports are the basis for the Group's further development within sustainability. Some of the topics presented are the Group's energy consumption, carbon footprint, employee turnover, and employee occupational health and safety.
In our separate sustainability report for 2016/2017 more information on how the Group works with sustainability issues, goals and follow-up can be found. Please, see www.addtech.com.
Share capital, repurchase of treasury shares, incentive programmes and dividend
14

Share capital, repurchase of treasury shares, incentive programmes and dividend
Addtech Shares
SHARE PRICE TREND AND RETURN
The Addtech shares are listed on Nasdaq OMX Stockholm. Since their listing in September 2001 until 31 April 2017, the total return on the shares until 31 March 2017 has averaged 18 percent per year. The OMX Stockholm index on the Nasdaq OMX Stockholm Exchange increased by 6 percent in the corresponding period.
The Addtech share increased by 33 percent in value during the financial year. The OMX Stockholm index on the Nasdaq OMX Stockholm Exchange increased by 16 percent in the corresponding period. The highest price paid during the year was SEK 157.00 and was quoted on 2 February 2017. The lowest was SEK 95.25 on 16 June 2016. The final price paid before the end of the financial year was SEK 148.50, corresponding to a market value of SEK 9.6 billion (7.3).
During the period 1 April 2016 - 31 March 2017, 12 million (8) shares were traded with an aggregate value of approximately SEK 2 billion (1 billion). Relative to the average number of Class B shares outstanding, this is equivalent to a turnover rate of 18 percent (13). Broken down by trading day, an average of 45,716 (33,295) Addtech shares were traded at an average value of about SEK 6 million (4).
SHARE CAPITAL
At 31 March 2017, Parent Company share capital stood at SEK 51,1 million, distributed over the following number of shares with a quotient value of SEK 0.75 per share.

Class of shares
Class A shares, 10 votes per share Class B shares, 1 vote per share Total number of shares before repurchases Of which repurchased class B shares Total number of shares after repurchases

Number of shares
3,237,564 64,960,932 68,198,496
1,374,721 66,823,775

Number of votes
32,375,640 64,960,932 97,336,572

Percentage of capital
4.7 95.3 100.0
2.0

Percentage of votes
33.3 66.7 100.0
1.4

Chapter 6, Section 2a of the Swedish Annual Accounts Act requires listed companies to disclose specific circumstances that may affect the prospects for acquiring the Company via a public share offer. In the event of the Company being delisted from Nasdaq OMX Stockholm or a party other than the present principal shareholder attaining an ownership holding exceeding 50 percent of the capital or votes, the granted credit line in terms of contractual credit facilities of SEK 400 million and overdraft facilities of SEK 1,100 million can be terminated.
REPURCHASE OF TREASURY SHARES AND INCENTIVE PROGRAMMES
The Annual General Meeting in August 2016 authorised the Board of Directors to repurchase a maximum of ten percent of all shares in the Company during the period until the Annual General Meeting in 2017. During the financial year Addtech repurchased 300,000 of its own Class B shares. At year-end the number of treasury shares was 1,374,721 (1,240,000), with an average purchase price of SEK 81.17 (68.83). These shares correspond to 2.0 percent (1.8) of the number of shares issued and 1.4 percent (1.3) of the votes.
Addtech has four outstanding call option programmes for a total of 1,374,721 shares. Call options issued on repurchased shares entail a dilution effect of about 0.3 percent during the latest 12-month period. Addtech's own shareholdings fully meet the needs of the outstanding call option programmes.
The Board intends to propose that the Annual General Meeting in August 2017 approve an incentive programme according to the same, or an essentially similar, model as decided at the 2009-2016 AGMs.

Outstanding programme
2016/2020 2015/2019 2014/2018 2013/2017

Number of Corresponding options number of shares

300,000 350,000 350,000
57,762

300,000 430,500 430,500 213,721

Proportion of total shares
0.4% 0.6% 0.6% 0.3%

Initial exercise price
159.00 154.50 116.70 106.13

Adjusted exercise price
125.10
94.50 85.90

Expiration period
16 Sep 2019 - 5 Jun 2020 17 Sep 2018 - 3 Jun 2019 17 Sep 2017 - 1 Jun 2018 19 Sep 2016 - 2 Jun 2017

15

Addtech share
OWNERSHIP STRUCTURE
The total number of shareholders on 31 March 2017 was 4,791 (4,266), including 3,490 (2,929) owners who held stakes of 1,000 shares or less. The 15 largest shareholders accounted for 56.2 (57.8) percent of the total number of shares and 67.3 (68.2) percent of the total votes. Anders Börjesson (with family interests) is the largest owner in terms of votes he owns shares corresponding to 15.4 percent, followed by Tom Hedelius, who owns shares corresponding to 14.9 percent. The proportion of foreign owners was 29 percent (28) of total capital.
ADDITIONAL INFORMATION
Addtech's website www.addtech.com is updated continuously with information about shareholder changes and share price performance. The site also contains information about which analysts follow Addtech. Key Indicators
KEY INDICATORS

2016/2017

2015/2016

2014/2015

Earnings per share before dilution (EPS), SEK

6.60

4.85

4.70

Shareholders' equity per share, SEK

25.45

22.10

22.60

Price/earnings ratio

23

23

25

Dividend per share, SEK

3.50 1)

3.25

3.25

Payout ratio, %

55

55

55

Dividend yield, %

2.4

2.9

2.8

Last price paid, SEK

148.50

112.00

115.75

Price/equity, multiple

5.8

5.1

5.1

Market capitalisation, SEKm

9,647

7,276

7,519

Average number of shares outstanding

66,823,990

66,703,379

66,288,174

Number of shares outstanding at year-end

66,823,775 2)

66,958,496

66,456,196

Number of shareholders at year-end

4,791

4,266

3,932

1) Dividend proposed by the Board of Directors

2) The difference between the total number of shares and shares outstanding equals the shares repurchased by Addtech: 1,374,721 Class B shares at 31 mars 2017.

Addtech's largest shareholders

ADDTECH'S LARGEST SHAREHOLDERS, 31 MARCH 2017

Shareholder

Class A shares Class B shares

Anders Börjesson (family) Tom Hedelius Swedbank Robur Fonder Lannebo Fonder SEB Investment Management Livförsäkringsbolaget Skandia AMF Försäkringar och Fonder State Street Bank And Trust Com. Boston Odin Fonder State Street Bank And Trust Client Familjen Säve Sandrew AB Didner & Gerge Fonder Aktiebolag Handelsbankens Fonder Fidelity Low Priced Stock Found Total 15 largest owners 3)

1,492,776 1,447,776
0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 60,000 0 0 0 0 3,000,552

121,050 16,200
6,420,560 5,987,813 5,095,610 2,538,485 2,125,000 2,020,451 2,000,633 1,846,318 1,210,000 1,800,000 1,454,154 1,383,334 1,323,400 35,343,008

3) The proportion of capital and votes includes the shares held in treasury by Addtech AB.

Proportion of
capital, %
2.4 2.2 9.4 8.8 7.5 3.7 3.1 3.0 2.9 2.7 1.9 2.6 2.1 2.0 1.9 56.2

votes, %
15.5 14.9
6.6 6.2 5.2 2.6 2.2 2.1 2.1 1.9 1.9 1.8 1.5 1.4 1.4 67.3

Size classes 16

Size classes
SIZE CLASSES
Number of shares 1 - 500 501 - 1 000 1 001 - 5 000 5 001 - 10 000 10 001 - 15 000 15 001 - 20 000 20 001 Total Holdings by category
HOLDINGS BY CATEGORY
Swedish owners Foreign owners Total
Legal entities Natural persons Total Addtech B share price
SHARE PERFORMANCE CHART

% of share capital
1 1 3 2 1 1 91 100

Number of shareholders
2,872 618 861 176 57 26 181
4,791

% of number of shareholders
60 13 18
3 1 1 4 100

2016/2017

Number of shareholders
4,514 277
4,791

Proportion of capital, %
71 29 100

519

77

4,272

23

4,791

100

2015/2016

Number of shareholders
4,020 246
4,266

Proportion of capital, %
73 27 100

517

76

3,749

24

4,266

100

Operations and markets 17

Operations and markets ADMINISTRATION REPORT
ADMINISTRATION REPORT
1 APRIL 2016 - 31 MARCH 2017
The Board of Directors and the CEO of Addtech AB, company ID number 556302-9726, hereby submit the annual accounts and consolidated financial statements for the 2016/2017 financial year. All data in this report refer to continuing operations, excluding the distribution of AddLife, unless otherwise stated. All figures regarding the income statement refer to continuing operations retroactively from 1 April 2014. All figures regarding the balance sheet refer to continuing operations from 31 March 2016 without retroactivity for earlier periods. Comparisons in parentheses refer to the corresponding period of the previous year, unless stated otherwise.
THE OPERATIONS
Addtech is a Swedish listed technology trading group that provides technological and economic value added in the link between manufacturers and customers. Addtech operates in selected niches in the market for advanced technology products and solutions. Its customers primarily operate in the manufacturing industry and infrastructure. Addtech has around 120 independent subsidiaries that operate under their own brands and about 2,200 employees. The Group's sales amount to over SEK 7 billion and half consist of sales of standard products and half consist of sales of customised products and solutions. Addtech creates optimal conditions for the profitability and growth of subsidiaries. The Addtech share is listed on Nasdaq Stockholm since 2001.
MARKET TREND DURING THE YEAR
The business situation improved during 2016/2017, and we consolidated our positions in the majority of our markets. As before, sales of production components to manufacturing companies and sales of products and solutions to end customers each accounted for roughly half of the Group's sales. The latter grew more rapidly during the year, driven by the increase in infrastructure investments among Nordic power network companies. In the customer segment Energy, which includes the wind power industry, demand rose during the year. Investments in oil & gas remained low, but in our view the lowest point has been passed. Demand for production components increased overall, and the business situation was favourable in most customer segments, including the mechanical industry, electronics and medical technology. The biggest increase in demand came from manufacturers of special vehicles, in segments such as forklift trucks, mining, forestry and contracting. The business situation among customers in telecom remained weak. Sales of products to the industrial aftermarket, for example, the mechanical, forest and process industries, developed strongly in both the Nordic region and Europe. Demand from the ship supply market was very buoyant. The business situation remained positive for electricity-related products in building and installation.
THE YEAR IN BRIEF
The 2016/2017 financial year was highly eventful, and we delivered in line with our financial targets for growth combined with profitability. The Group increased sales by 17 percent, EBITA rose by 34 percent and we posted an EBITA margin of 10 percent. Return on working capital was 53 percent and return on equity 28 percent. The Group's strong profit growth and its improved operating margin arose through higher sales of our products and solutions, combined with a successful efficiency drive. The focus was on further developing the Group's various operations and making acquisitions in selected segments and niches. We maintained a high rate of acquisitions and ten were made during the year, which will add annual sales of around SEK 500 million.
18

PERFORMANCE BY QUARTER
First quarter. The Group performed well during the first quarter. Sales and earnings rose, both organically and via acquisitions. The selective cost adjustments implemented had a positive impact on earnings. Demand showed firm growth in the majority of niche markets, although there were wide variations between various customer segments. Demand rose strongly from customers in infrastructure sectors such as power transmission and building & installation in the Swedish market, while other geographical markets were relatively stable. In the energy sector, the market situation was particularly favourable in wind power. Demand in oil & gas in Norway remained at the same low level as in the preceding quarter. Sales of production components to manufacturers rose slightly in all the Nordic markets. This was evident in the majority of customer segments, including machinery manufacture, medical technology, ship supply and electronics. Demand for products in telecom weakened, while demand for products for special vehicles was relatively stable. Overall, the business situation in our markets outside the Nordic regions was favourable. Four acquisitions were carried out during the quarter.
Second quarter. The Group turned in a very strong performance in the second quarter, and despite a challenging economic situation, we continued to expand. Our operating margin strengthened and the increase in earnings was, in equal measure, acquisition-related and an effect of organic growth with good control of costs. The selective cost savings implemented had a positive impact on earnings. Overall, the underlying demand was stable during the quarter, but the market situation varied according to geographical region and customer segment. Demand for production components from Nordic manufacturing companies remained stable at a high level in the majority of customer segments, including machinery manufacturers, the engineering industry and medical technology. The business situation with customers in special vehicles, transport and wind power improved. Demand for products in telecom fell away considerably and investments in oil & gas in Norway remained at a low level. On the Norwegian market, rising demand was recorded in areas such as infrastructure and the food industry. Demand from industrial aftermarket customers was generally unchanged. Investments by customers in power transmission increased, but demand from customers in power distribution remained stable at a high level. The market for electricity-related products in building and installation grew strongly. One acquisition was carried out during the quarter.
Third quarter. During the third quarter, the Group recorded strong demand and the economic situation in our markets stabilised. In all four business areas, the Group continued to expand, both through firm organic growth and contributions from acquisitions made. Higher sales of our products and solutions combined with a successful efficiency drive led to further strong growth in profits and the operating margin improved. Demand for production components from Nordic manufacturing companies rose overall, but the business situation continued to vary from one customer segment to another. Demand from machinery manufacturers, the engineering industry and medical technology was relatively stable, but increased in customer segments such as special vehicles, electronics and transport. The market situation remained weak in oil & gas and declined somewhat in telecom and wind power. Overall, the business situation for production components in our markets outside the Nordic regions was favourable. Sales of products to industrial aftermarket customers in the Nordic region were generally stable. Demand from customers in infrastructure sectors such as power transmission and power distribution remained on the same level as in the preceding year. The business situation remained positive for electricity-related products in building and installation. Two acquisitions were made during the quarter.
Fourth quarter. The fourth quarter brought a strong finish to a year of profit growth in all of our four business areas. Infrastructure investments in national and regional grids in the Nordic region continued to increase. The wind power industry, which is serviced via the customer segment Energy, experienced higher demand. Investments in oil & gas remained low, but in our view the lowest point has been passed. Demand for production components increased overall, and the business situation was favourable in most customer segments, including the mechanical industry, electronics and medical technology. The biggest increase in demand came from manufacturers of special vehicles, in segments such as forklift trucks, mining, forestry and contracting. The business situation among customers in telecom remained weak. Sales of products to the industrial aftermarket, for example, the mechanical, forest and process industries, developed strongly in both the Nordic region and Europe. Demand from the ship supply market was very buoyant. The business situation remained positive for electricityrelated products in building and installation. Three acquisitions were made during the quarter.
19

Acquisitions
ACQUISITIONS
Addtech is constantly on the lookout for companies to acquire and is engaged in discussions with a number of possible companies. This financial year Addtech completed ten acquisitions in the continuing operations that came into effect during the year. Ten companies were acquired in the previous year. The year's acquisitions were carried out in all business areas and are diverse both in terms of the markets and products covered.
Since becoming a listed company in 2001, Addtech has acquired around 80 companies. The following companies were acquired during the year:
Sammet Dampers Oy. On 1 April, Addtech acquired Sammet Dampers Oy to become part of the Industrial Process business area. Sammet Dampers is a leading developer and supplier of industrial dampers in Northern Europe. The company has sales of around EUR 5 million and 12 employees.
Poryan China Company Ltd. On 5 April, Addtech acquired Poryan China Company Ltd to become part of the Power Solutions business area. Poryan China Company Ltd provide component solutions and subsystems in circuit protection primarily to the train and signaling market in China. The company has sales of around SEK 50 million and 22 employees.
ETS Cable Components. On 5 April, Addtech acquired ETS Cable Components to become part of the Energy business area. ETS Cable Components supplies products, systems and services in the field of cable accessories for power cable installation, including cable cleats brackets, cable glands, cable lugs, flexible conduits, cable ties and cable tooling above all for the UK market. The company has sales of around GBP 8.5 million and 35 employees.
Elektro-Tukku Oy. On 2 May, Addtech acquired 100 percent of the shares in Elektro-Tukku Oy, Finland, to become part of the Components business area. Elektro-Tukku Oy sells measuring and control instruments to industry, OEMs and the public sector. The company has sales of around SEK 8 million and 3 employees. The operation will be part of an existing company.
Penlink AB. On 3 October, Penlink AB was acquired to become part of the Components business area. Penlink delivers products and solutions in the fields of rotating transmission and electro optics. The company has sales of around SEK 25 million and five employees.
Itek AS. On 9 November, Itek AS was acquired to become part of the Industrial Process business area. Itek is a leading supplier in Norway of energy efficient solutions and systems for clean air, process cooling and dust collection. The company has sales of around NOK 60 million and 13 employees.
Carmac Inc. On 12 December, the net assets of Carmac Inc. were acquired to become part of the Power Solutions business area. Carmac supplies drivers' seats and accessories to dealers/retailers and small OEMs. The acquisition of the net assets adds two employees and sales of about USD 1 million.
Sensor Control Nordic AB and Sensor ECS AB. On 2 January 2017, Sensor Control Nordic AB and Sensor ECS AB, Sweden, were acquired to become part of the Components business area. The Sensorcompanies deliver products and solutions in the fields of sensor, control and drives. The companies have sales of around SEK 160 million and 30 employees.
Vallentin Elektronik A/S. On 2 January 2017, Vallentin Elektronik A/S, Denmark, was acquired to become part of the Components business area. Vallentin is a technology trading company that supplies thermal solutions for OEM/built-in to customers, mainly in the area of electronics. The company has sales of about DKK 15 million and four employees.
Ex-Tekniikka Oy. On 1 March 2017, Ex-tekniikka Oy, Finland, was acquired to become part of the Components business area. Ex-Tekniikka Oy is a technology trading company that supplies Ex products for OEM installation as well as process industry. The company has sales of about EUR 2 million and three employees.
The total initial purchase consideration, for the year's acquisitions amounted to SEK 457 million, including cash and cash equivalents in the acquired companies of SEK 141 million.
If all the acquisitions had been completed on 1 April 2016, their impact would have been an estimated SEK 528 million on Group net sales, about SEK 55 million on operating profit and about SEK 39 million on profit after tax for the financial year. During the financial year, the acquisitions increased the number of employees with 129. Financial development
20

Financial development
FINANCIAL DEVELOPMENT
NET SALES AND PROFIT
Net sales in the Addtech Group increased by 17 percent during the financial year to SEK 7,178 million (6,155). The organic growth amounted to 7 percent and acquired growth amounted to 9 percent. Exchange rate changes had a positive effect of 1 percent on net sales, corresponding to SEK 46 million, and a marginally positive effect on operating profit. Operating profit increased during the financial year by 36 percent to SEK 604 million (443) and the operating margin amounted to 8.4 percent (7.2). Net financial items were SEK -24 million (-20) and profit after financial items increased by 37 percent to SEK 580 million (423). Profit after tax for the financial year rose by 35 percent to SEK 450 million (333) and the effective tax rate was 22 percent (21). Earnings per share before dilution for the financial year amounted to SEK 6.60 (4.85).

% %

SEKm SEKm

Net sales and EBITA margin

8000

12

6000

10

4000

8

2000

14/15

15/16

6 16/17

Net sales, SEKm EBITA margin, %

EBITA and return on working capital (P/WC)

800

60

600

45

400

30

200

14/15

15/16

15 16/17

EBITA, SEKm P/WC, %

Profitability, financial position and cash flow
Shareholders' equity at the end of the financial year amounted to SEK 1,741 million (1,514). The return on equity at the end of the financial year was 28 percent (20), and return on capital employed was 23 percent (16). Return on working capital P/WC (EBITA in relation to working capital) amounted to 53 percent (44).
At the end of the financial year the equity ratio stood at 39 percent (40). Equity per share, excluding non-controlling interest, totalled SEK 25.45 (22.10). The Group's net debt at the end of the year amounted to SEK 801 million (623), excluding pension liabilities of SEK 210 million (199). The net debt/equity ratio, calculated on the basis of net debt excluding provisions for pensions, amounted to 0.5 (0.4).
Cash and cash equivalents, consisting of cash and bank balances together with approved but non-utilised credit facilities, amounted to SEK 818 million (754) at 31 March 2017.
Cash flow from operating activities amounted to SEK 551 million (474) during the financial year. Company acquisitions and disposals including settlement of contingent consideration regarding acquisitions implemented in previous years amounted to SEK 335 million (623). Investments in non-current assets totalled SEK 68 million (90) and disposal of non-current assets amounted to SEK 5 million (24). Dividend from associated company amounted to SEK 3 million (0). Repurchase of treasury shares amounted to SEK 40 million (45) and repurchase of call options amounted to SEK 6 million (0). Exercised and issued call options totalled SEK 18 million (61). Dividends paid to the shareholders of the Parent Company totalled SEK 218 million (217), corresponding to SEK 3.25 (3.25) per share. Business areas

21

Business areas
BUSINESS AREAS
The division into business areas reflects Addtech's internal organisation and reporting system. Addtech reports its business areas as operating segments. Addtech's operating companies have been organised in the four business areas Components, Energy, Industrial Process and Power Solutions. For further information on the Group's operating segments, see note 5.

Revenue by business area
100

Components

Energy

50

Industrial Process

Power Solutions

Share of net sales, %

0 12/13 13/14 14/15 15/16 16/17
COMPONENTS
Net sales in Components during the financial year increased by 16 percent to SEK 2,355 million (2,029) and EBITA increased by 25 percent to SEK 187 million (149).
ENERGY
Net sales in Energy during the financial year increased by 22 percent to SEK 1,807 million (1,487) and EBITA increased by 50 percent to SEK 225 million (149).
INDUSTRIAL PROCESS
Net sales in Industrial Process during the financial year increased by 11 percent to SEK 1,585 million (1,423) and EBITA increased by 9 percent to SEK 125 million (116).
POWER SOLUTIONS
Net sales in Power Solutions during the financial year increased by 17 percent to SEK 1,439 million (1,226) and EBITA increased by 38 percent to SEK 187 million (136). Risks and uncertainties
RISKS AND UNCERTAINTIES
An investment in securities is always associated with risk. Addtech's profit and financial position, as well as its strategic position, are affected by various internal factors within Addtech's control and various external factors over which Addtech has limited influence. Effective risk assessment unites Addtech's business opportunities and performance with the demands of shareholders and other stakeholders for stable long-term value growth and control. When assessing the future development of Addtech it is therefore important to consider not only the opportunities for positive development, but also the various risks in operations. Naturally, not all risk factors can be described in this section, for which reason an overall assessment must also include other information in the annual report, as well as a general assessment of external circumstances.
Addtech works with risk management on both a strategic and operational level. Risk management involves identifying and measuring risks and preventing them from occurring, as well as continually making improvements to reduce future risks. The Addtech Group has guidelines and policies to identify deviations that could develop into risks. The level of risk in the operations is systematically followed up at Board meetings and in monthly reports, in which deviations or risks are identified and remedied. Addtech's most significant risks are the state of the economy combined with structural changes and competition. Addtech is also affected by financial risks such as transaction exposure, translation exposure, financing and interest rate risk, as well as credit and counterparty risk. See Note 3 for a more detailed description of how Addtech manages financial risks.

22

RISK/DESCRIPTION

ADDTECH'S RISK MANAGEMENT

ECONOMY AND MARKET

Demand for Addtech's products and services is greatly influenced by macroeconomic factors beyond Addtech's control, such as growth and the appetite for investment in the manufacturing industry, the state of the economy in general and conditions in the global capital market. A weakening in these factors in the markets in which Addtech operates could have adverse effects on the financial position and earnings.

With a large number of subsidiaries focusing on different niche markets and add-on sales of technical service, support and consumables, Addtech may be less sensitive to economic fluctuations in individual industrial businesses, sectors and geographical regions. Addtech also strives continuously to develop businesses that are less dependent on a specific market and to align costs to specific conditions.

STRUCTURAL CHANGES

Globalisation, digitalisation and rapid technological development drive structural change in customers' operations. The trend can increase demand for Addtech's advanced services, but it can also result in Addtech's customers disappearing through mergers, closures and relocations to low-cost countries.

Addtech's clear and unique added value services with high technological content, specialisation in advanced technical advisory services, outstanding service and strong presence on niche markets offset price competition, while increasing competitiveness and generating opportunities to deliver beyond the immediate geographic area. Addtech's competitiveness also enables the Company to deliver beyond its immediate geographical region. The Group's exposure to a large number of industries and the fact that no customer accounts for more than 2 per cent of the Group's sales constitute a certain degree of protection against adverse impact on earnings.

COMPETITION

The majority of Addtech's subsidiaries operate in sectors that are vulnerable to competition. In addition, consolidation may take place on the supplier side of the sector, and larger merged suppliers may have a broader offering, which may create pressure on prices. Future competitive opportunities for the subsidiaries will depend on their ability to be at the leading edge of technology and to respond quickly to new market needs. Increased competition or a decline in the ability of a subsidiary to meet new market needs could have a negative impact on Addtech's financial position and earnings.

Addtech strives to offer products and services for which price is not the sole deciding factor. By working closely with both suppliers and customers, we are continuously developing our know-how and competitiveness. We add value in the form of wideranging technological knowledge, delivery reliability, service and availability, which reduces the risk of declining demand from the customer. To reduce the risk of competition from suppliers, Addtech focuses continuously on ensuring that collaboration with the Group is the most profitable sales strategy.

ENVIRONMENT

Changed environmental legislation could affect product sales, goods transports and the way in which our customers use the products. There is also a risk that one of the Group's subsidiaries, through its corporate ID number, could be linked to a historical responsibility under the Swedish Environmental Code.

Addtech's subsidiaries are primarily engaged in commerce and business that has a limited direct environmental impact. The Group conducts in limited production. The Group monitors operations and environmental risks with its sustainability report and all companies comply with the Group's Code of Conduct. In conjunction with acquisitions, Addtech conducts an analysis of the prospective object's corporate ID number to counter the risk of being liable for historical environmental issues.

23

RISK/DESCRIPTION

ADDTECH'S RISK MANAGEMENT

ABILITY TO RECRUIT AND RETAIN STAFF

Addtech's continued success depends on being able to retain experienced employees with specific skills and to recruit new skilled personnel. There are a number of key personnel both among senior executives and among the Group's employees in general. A risk exists that one or several senior executives or other key personnel could leave the Group at short notice. In the event that Addtech fails to recruit suitable replacements for them or new skilled key personnel in the future, this could have a negative impact on Addtech's financial position and earnings.

Addtech prioritises the creation of good conditions enabling the personal development and well-being of employees within the Group. The Group's acquisition strategy includes ensuring that key personnel of the companies are well motivated to continue to run their company independently as part of the Group. The Addtech Business School is aimed at both new employees and senior executives. Its purpose is to expand in-house knowledge transfer, promote personal development of employees and develop the corporate culture. The Group's regular employee surveys serve to find out how employees view their employers and their work situation, and what might be improved and developed.

ACQUISITIONS AND GOODWILL

Historically, Addtech has for the most part grown through acquisitions. Strategic acquisitions will continue to represent an important part of our growth. However, there is a risk that Addtech will not be able to identify suitable objects for acquisition because of, for example, competition with other acquirers. Also, costs connected with acquisitions may be higher than expected, and positive impacts on earnings may take longer to realise than expected. Goodwill risk arises when a business unit under-performs in relation to the assumptions that applied at the time of measurement, and any impairment loss may adversely affect the Group's financial position and earnings. Further risks associated with acquisitions include integration risks and exposure to unknown commitments.

Addtech has many years of solid experience in acquiring and pricing companies. All potential acquisitions and their operations are carefully examined before completing the acquisition. There are well-established procedures and structures for pricing and implementing the acquisition, as well as for integrating the acquired companies. An effort is made in the agreements to obtain the necessary guarantees to limit the risk of unknown liabilities. The large number of companies acquired entails a significant distribution of risk.

FINANCIAL RISKS

The Group is exposed to various financial risks. Currency risk is the risk that exchange rates have an adverse impact on Addtech's financial position and earnings. Transaction exposure is the risk that arises because the Group has incoming and outgoing payments based on payment flows in foreign currencies. Translation exposure arises because the Group, through its subsidiaries, has net investments in foreign currencies. The Group is also exposed to financial risk, that is, the risk that financing for the Group's capital requirements becomes less readily available or more expensive. Interest rate risk is the risk that unfavourable changes in interest rates have an adverse impact on Addtech's financial position and earnings.

Addtech strives for structured and efficient management of the financial risks that arise in its operations, in accordance with the financial policy adopted by the Board of Directors. The financial policy expresses the goal of identifying, minimising and controlling financial risks, and establishes responsibility for managing how such risks are to be delegated within the organisation. The aim is to minimise the impact of financial risks on earnings. See Note 3 to the Financial Statements for a more detailed description of how Addtech manages its financial risks.

24

RISK/DESCRIPTION

ADDTECH'S RISK MANAGEMENT

SUPPLIERS AND CUSTOMERS

In order to deliver products, Addtech is dependent on the ability of external suppliers to fulfil agreements in terms of volume, quality, delivery date etc. Incorrect or delayed deliveries, or nondeliveries, may have adverse impact on Addtech's financial position and earnings. Addtech's reputation is also dependent on its suppliers' ability to maintain a high level of business ethics, for example in terms of human rights and working conditions. Addtech's many and excellent relationships with carefully selected suppliers reduce the risk that Addtech might be unable to deliver in line with commitments. Agreements with customers vary, for example in terms of contract length, warranties and limitations of liability. In some supplier relationships there are no written supplier agreements, which could result in legal uncertainty regarding the content of the agreement

Addtech's long-term close relationships with reliable suppliers reduce the risk of not being able to deliver as promised. To ensure that the Group's high standards in terms of business ethics are maintained, all suppliers are also required to observe Addtech's Code of Conduct for Suppliers. In a longer-term perspective, Addtech is not dependent on any individual supplier or customer. Addtech's biggest customer accounts for about 2 percent of the Group's net sales.

ORGANISATION

Addtech's decentralised organisation is based on subsidiaries having a large responsibility for their own operations, which sets high standards for financial reporting and monitoring shortcomings in this area could lead to inadequate control of the operations.

Addtech controls its subsidiaries through board work, a Group-wide framework for overarching policies and financial reporting. By continuously monitoring the development of its subsidiaries and being active owners, risks at the subsidiary level and potential deficiencies in operations or reporting can quickly be identified and addressed in accordance with the Group's internal guidelines.

SEASONAL EFFECTS

There is a risk that Addtech's operations, earnings and cash flow could be affected by strong seasonal effects driven by customer demand.

No significant seasonal effects are associated with Addtech's sales of high-tech products and solutions to companies in the manufacturing and infrastructure sectors. However, the number of production days, customer demand and the will to invest may vary from one quarter to another.

Employees and development

25

Employees and development
EMPLOYEES AND DEVELOPMENT
EMPLOYEES
The average number of employees in the latest 12-month period was 2,133 (2,386). At the end of the financial year, the number of employees was 2,176, compared to 2,076 at the beginning of the financial year. During the financial year implemented acquisitions increased the number of employees by 129.

Average number of employees proportion of men proportion of women Age distribution -up to 29 years old 30-49 years 50 and older Average age Personnel turnover Average length of employment

2016/2017
2,133 75% 25%

2015/2016
2,386 75% 25%

2014/2015
2,224 74% 26%

10% 53% 37% 45 years 13% about 10 years

10% 54% 36% 45 years 14% about 10 years

10% 54% 36% 45 years 13% about 10 years

RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT
The Addtech Group conducts limited research and development. The Group's business model includes continuous dialogue with and feedback to the Group's suppliers, who conduct most of the R&D that is relevant to the Group's product range. Principles for remuneration to senior management
PRINCIPLES FOR REMUNERATION TO SENIOR MANAGEMENT
The Board has decided to propose that the Annual General Meeting in August 2017 to approve the same guidelines as in the preceding year:
The guidelines are to relate to remuneration of the CEO and other members of Addtech Group management ('Group management').
Addtech seeks to offer a reasonable and competitive total remuneration package capable of attracting and retaining skilled individuals. The size of the overall package varies in relation to the performance of the employee and the Group and may comprise the different elements stated below.
A fixed salary forms the foundation of the total remuneration. The salary should be competitive and reflect the responsibilities of the position. Fixed salaries are reviewed annually. Variable pay can be based on factors such as the Group's earnings growth, profitability and cash flow. Annual variable remuneration can be at most 40 percent of the fixed salary. Retirement pension, sickness and healthcare benefits should be structured in accordance with applicable rules and market norms. The pensions should be based on defined contribution plans where possible. Other benefits may be provided to individual or all members of Group management and are structured to reflect market norms. These benefits may not account for a material portion of an individual's total remuneration package.
The Board of Directors will evaluate on an annual basis whether or not a long-term incentive programme shall be proposed to the Annual General Meeting and, if such is the case, whether or not the proposed long-term incentive programme shall include a transfer of shares in the Company.
A notice period of 6 months applies to termination of own employment by members of Group management. They are entitled to a maximum notice period of 12 months if the Company terminates their employment contracts. Members of Group management whose contracts are terminated by the Company are entitled to severance pay of up to 12 months' salary, in addition to salary and other employment benefits during the notice period. No severance pay is payable if the employee initiates termination.
The Board of Directors is entitled to waive the above guidelines for remuneration in individual cases and if there are special reasons for doing so. In the event of any such deviation, information about this and the reasons for the deviation shall be reported at the next Annual General Meeting.

26

The remuneration committee appointed by the Board prepares and submits proposals for the remuneration of the CEO to the Board, which decides on the matter. The remuneration committee sets the remuneration of other members of Group management based on proposals from the CEO. The Board is informed of the remuneration committee's decisions.
See Note 6 "Employees and employee benefits expense" for more details. Dividend
DIVIDEND AND AMENDED DIVIDEND POLICY
Addtech's dividend policy is to propose a dividend that exceeds 50 percent of average Group profit after tax over a business cycle. The Board of Directors proposes dividend of SEK 3.50 (3.25 includes Addlife) per share. The dividend corresponds to a total of SEK 234 million (218). The year's proposed dividend represents a payout ratio that exceeds 50 percent.
Addtech has a succesful record of making acquisitions. There are still good opportunities to make acquisitions with good returns benefiting Addtech's shareholders so therefore, the Board of Directors of Addtech has decided on an altered dividend policy. The new policy has the objective of proposing a dividend that exceeds 30 percent of average Group profit after tax over a business cycle. In the dividend proposal, the Group's equity, long-term financing and investment requirements, growth plans and other factors that the Company Board deems significant are considered. Parent company
PARENT COMPANY
Operations of the Parent Company, Addtech AB, include Group management, Group reporting and financial management.
Parent Company net sales amounted to SEK 54 million (58) and profit after financial items was SEK 312 million (200). This amount includes revenues of SEK 318 million (190) from shares in Group companies. Net investments in non-current assets were SEK 0 million (2). The Parent Company's net financial liabilities was SEK 88 million (+21) at the end of the year. Future prospects and events after the reporting period
FUTURE PROSPECTS AND EVENTS AFTER THE REPORTING PERIOD
FUTURE PROSPECTS
Addtech operates on an international technology trading market where demand is largely influenced by macroeconomic factors. Group companies operate in different but carefully selected niches, resulting in a smoothing effect between sectors, geographical markets and customer segments. Our independent companies continually work to adapt to changes based on their market and the competitive situation.
Historically, Addtech's continuous pursuit of profit growth, profitability (P/WC) and development have provided good average value growth. Our cash flow and financial position form a stable foundation for continued long-term profitable growth based on the same mission.
EVENTS AFTER THE REPORTING PERIOD
On 3 April 2017, Dovitech A/S, Denmark, was acquired to become part of the Components business area. Dovitech delivers inductive special solutions as well as electromechanical- and automation products. The company has sales of around DKK 80 million and five employees.
On 6 April 2017, Craig & Derricott Holdings Ltd, Great Britain, was acquired to become part of the Power Solutions business area. Craig & Derricott is engaged in design, manufacturing and marketing of low electrical control equipment and switchgear for the UK market and export markets. The company has sales of about GBP 10 million and 90 employees.
On 11 May 2017, Addtech announced that the Board of Directors has decided on a new dividend policy. The new policy has the objective of proposing a dividend that exceeds 30 percent of average Group profit after tax over a business cycle.
On 12 June 2017, Addtech sold Batteriunion i Järfälla AB to Midac S.P.A. Batteriunion AB with a sales of about SEK 140 million and 16 employees, has belonged to the business area Power Solutions.
27

PROPOSED ALLOCATION OF EARNINGS 2016/2017

The following amounts are available for distribution by the Annual General Meeting of Addtech AB:

Retained earnings Profit for the year

516 SEKm 210 SEKm 726 SEKm

The Board of Directors and the CEO propose that the funds available for distribution be allocated as follows:

A dividend paid to shareholders of SEK 3.50 per share 1) To be carried forward

234 SEKm 492 SEKm 726 SEKm

1) Based on the number of shares outstanding at 31 May 2017. The total dividend payout may change if the number of treasury shares repurchased changes prior to the proposed dividend record date of 4 September 2017.

Corporate governance

28

Corporate governance
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
PRINCIPLES FOR CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
The Addtech Group considers sound corporate governance to be an important foundation for achieving a confiding relationship with shareholders and other important stakeholders. The Swedish Corporate Governance Code, which is applied by the Addtech Group, aims to create a good balance between shareholders, the Board of Directors and senior management. Sensible corporate governance, with high standards for openness, reliability and ethical values, has always been a guiding principle for Addtech's operations.
COMPLIANCE WITH THE SWEDISH CODE OF CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
Addtech's shares are traded on Nasdaq Stockholm and Addtech therefore follows the Nasdaq Stockholm Rule Book for Issuers. As a listed company Addtech also applies the Swedish Code of Corporate Governance (the Code), which is available at www.corporategovernanceboard.se. Deviations from aspects of the Code and justification for such deviations are stated where applicable throughout the text. The Company deviates on three points, two of which are included in the section on the Nomination committee and one in the section on Quarterly review by auditors. The Company's auditor has examined this corporate governance report. The Company's URL is: www.addtech.com.
COMPLIANCE WITH APPLICABLE RULES FOR TRADING
No violations of any applicable stock exchange rules occurred in 2016/2017 and Addtech's operations were conducted in accordance with good practices in the stock market.
SHARES AND SHAREHOLDERS
The Addtech AB share register is maintained by Euroclear Sweden AB. As of 31 March 2017 Addtech had 4,791 shareholders according to the shareholder register and the total number of shares was 68,198,496 divided among 3,237,564 A shares, each carrying 10 votes, and 64,960,932 B shares, each carrying one vote. The total number of voting rights was 97,336,572. More information about the Addtech share and shareholders can be found in the annual report under the section the Share.
KEY EVENTS IN 2016/2017
On 15 July 2016, it was announced that Hans Andersén took office as new business area manager for Energy and joined Addtech's Group Management from 1 April. He succeeded Åke Darfeldt who retired. On 31 August 2016, the resolutions adopted at Addtech's AGM were announced. These included approval of a dividend of SEK 3.25 per share, equivalent to a payout ratio of 55 percent, amounting to SEK 218 million. It was further resolved to introduce a long-term incentive programme in which participants are offered the chance to, at market price, acquire call options on repurchased shares in Addtech AB. On 16 September 2016, it was announced that 300,000 class B shares had been bought back at an average price of SEK 132.00. On 23 September 2016, it was announced that the share-related incentive programme, approved by the AGM in 2016, aimed at approximately 20 members of management comprising a maximum of 300,000 call options on repurchased class B shares, had been fully subscribed.
29

During the financial year 10 acquisitions were made, adding annual sales of about SEK 500 million.
ARTICLES OF ASSOCIATION
According to the Articles of Association, the Company's name is Addtech Aktiebolag and the financial year is from 1 April to 31 March. The Articles of Association have no special provisions about the appointment and dismissal of Board members and about amendments to the Articles. The Articles of Association do not limit the number of votes that each shareholder may cast at an Annual General Meeting. For the full Articles of Association, which the EGM adopted in their present form on 19 November 2013, please see the Company's website under Investors/Corporate governance/Articles of Association of Addtech.
ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING
Shareholder influence in the Company is exercised by the Annual General Meeting (AGM) or, where appropriate, an Extraordinary General Meeting, which is Addtech's highest decision-making body. The AGM must be held in Stockholm within six months of the end of the financial year. The items on the agenda of the AGM for resolution include the election of the Board of Directors and the Chairman of the Board, the appointment of an auditor, the adoption of the income statement and balance sheet, the appropriation of the Company's unappropriated earnings, the discharge from liability for the Members of the Board and the CEO, the Nomination Committee and its work, and remuneration guidelines for senior executives. Details of the company's previous AGMs can be found on Addtech's website, which also includes information on shareholders' entitlement to raise matters for consideration at the AGM, and on when such requests for consideration should be received by Addtech. No special arrangements regarding the function of the AGM, due to any provisions in the Articles of Association or as far as is known to the Company due to shareholder agreements, apply in the Company. Most decisions at shareholders' meetings are taken with a simple majority and for elections the candidate who receives the most votes in an election is considered to be elected. Certain decisions, however, such as amendments to the Articles of Association, require a qualified majority.
2016 ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING
Addtech's Annual General Meeting was held on Wednesday, 31 August 2016 in Stockholm. 93 shareholders were present at the AGM, in person or by proxy, representing 66.79 percent of votes and 55.09 percent of capital. Chairman of the Board Anders Börjesson was elected to serve as chairman of the AGM. All members of the Board and Group Management attended the AGM. Authorised public accountant George Pettersson, principal auditor for Addtech, and Authorised public accountant Jonas Eriksson were also present at the meeting. The decisions taken by the AGM were:
Dividend of SEK 3.25 per share.
Re-election of directors Anders Börjesson, Eva Elmstedt, Tom Hedelius, Malin Nordesjö, Ulf Mattsson and Johan Sjö. Kenth Eriksson was elected to serve on the Board of Directors. Anders Börjesson was elected Chairman of the Board. At the subsequent first meeting of the new Board following its election, Tom Hedelius was reappointed Vice Chairman of the Board.
Re-election of registered auditors, KPMG AB, for a period of one year.
Introduction of a long-term incentive programme in which participants are offered the chance to acquire, at market price, call options on repurchased shares in Addtech AB.
Authorisation to the Board of Directors to repurchase, until the next AGM, up to the maximum number of class B shares that the Company's holding of treasury shares at any given time does not exceed 10 percent of the total number of shares outstanding in the Company.
The other resolutions of the AGM can be seen in the complete agenda from the AGM, which is available along with other information about the 2016 AGM at www.addtech.com.
2017 ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING
Addtech 2017 Annual General Meeting will be held Thursday 31 August at IVA in Stockholm. For additional information about the 2017 AGM please see the section called "Welcome to the Annual General Meeting" in the annual report, as well as Addtech's website www.addtech.com.
30

NOMINATION COMMITTEE DUTIES
The Nomination Committee's mandate from the Annual General Meeting is to evaluate the composition and work of the Board of Directors as well as to submit proposals to the AGM for the Chairman of the AGM, Directors and Chairman of the Board, remuneration to directors who are not employed by the company, election, where appropriate, of a registered auditing firm and auditors' fees, as well as principles for election of members to the Nomination Committee. The members of the Nomination Committee receive no remuneration from the Company for their work on the committee. The committee had three meetings at which minutes were taken prior to the 2017 AGM. The complete proposals of the Nomination Committee to the AGM are presented in the notice to attend the meeting and on the Company's website.
COMPOSITION OF THE NOMINATION COMMITTEE
The meeting decided that the following principles will apply until further notice. Consequently, the AGM does not decide on these principles and the Nomination Committee assignments annually, unless the principles or the assignments are to be changed. The Nomination Committee consists of representatives of the five largest known shareholders by vote at year-end (grouped by shareholdings on 31 December) and the Chairman of the Board, who was also tasked with convening the first meeting of the Nomination Committee. The Nomination Committee will appoint a Chairman among its members. The composition of the Nomination Committee shall be announced not later than six months before the AGM.
The following were thus chosen as of 31 December 2016: Åsa Nisell (representing Swedbank Robur), Martin Wallin (representing Lannebo Fonder), Johan Strandberg (representing SEB fonder), and Tom Hedelius and Anders Börjesson, Chairman of the Board. The composition of the Nomination Committee was disclosed in conjunction with the presentation of the interim report for the third quarter on 2 February 2017.
Two Nomination Committee members are Board members and are not independent of the Company's major shareholders, which deviates from the Code's rules 2.4 on composition of the Nomination Committee. If more than one Board member is included on the Nomination Committee, no more than one of them may be in a position of dependence in relation to the Company's major shareholders. The composition of the committee follows the principles set by the AGM. Anders Börjesson is chairman of the Nomination Committee and Board Chairman. This deviates from the Code's rules 2.4, which state that the chairperson of the Nomination Committee shall not be a Board member of the Company. In conjunction with its first meeting, the Nomination Committee also deemed it suitable that the committee chairperson should be the member who represents the largest group of shareholders and who has good knowledge of both the company and other shareholders.

Members of Nomination Committee

Nomination Committee prior to 2017 AGM (appointed by the largest shareholders in terms of voting rights on 31 December 2016)

Name

Representing

Percentage of votes in percent, 2016-12-31

Anders Börjesson (Chairman) Tom Hedelius Åsa Nisell Martin Wallin Johan Strandberg Total

A-Shareholders A-Shareholders Swedbank Robur Fonder Lannebo fonder SEB Investment Management fonder

15.5 14.9
7.0 6.6 5.6 49.6

BOARD DUTIES
The primary duty of the Board of Directors is to manage the Group's operations on behalf of the owners in such a way that the owners' interests in a long-term return on capital are optimally protected. The Board of Directors holds overall responsibility for Addtech's organisation and management of Addtech's business. It is responsible for the Group's long-term development and strategy, for continuously monitoring and assessing the Group's operations, and for any other task conferred by the Swedish Companies Act.

31

COMPOSITION OF THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS
In accordance with the Articles of Association, the Board is to consist of at least three and at most nine members. The directors serve from the end of the AGM when they are elected until the end of the next AGM. There is no limit to the number of consecutive terms a director may serve on the Board. The 2016 AGM re-elected directors Anders Börjesson, Eva Elmstedt, Tom Hedelius, Ulf Mattsson, Malin Nordesjö and Johan Sjö and elected director Kenth Eriksson. Anders Börjesson was elected Chairman of the Board.
At the subsequent first meeting of the new Board following its election, Tom Hedelius was reappointed Vice Chairman of the Board. The members of the Board of Directors are presented in the Board of Directors section of the annual report and on the Company's website.
Independence of the Board of Directors
Several different types of independence requirements apply to the Board of Directors and its committees. Addtech applies independence requirements taken from applicable Swedish legislation, the Swedish Code of Corporate Governance, and the rules of the Nasdaq Stockholm Stock Exchange. The Nomination Committee evaluates the Board's independence ahead of the Annual General Meeting. All Board members are independent of the Company, apart from Johan Sjö, who is employed in the Company as the CEO. In addition to being independent of the Company, Eva Elmstedt, Kenth Eriksson and Ulf Mattsson are also independent of the Company's major shareholders. The Board has thus been assessed as complying with the requirement that at least two of the members who are independent of the Company are also independent of major shareholders.
Rules of procedure
The Board of Directors adopts written Rules of Procedure every year in accordance with the provisions of the Swedish Companies Act. The rules of procedure clarify the distribution of work between members of the Board, including its committees, the number of regular Board meetings, matters to be addressed at regular board meetings and duties as the Chairman of the Board. The Chairman shall organise and lead the work of the Board, be responsible for contacts with the owners regarding ownership issues and communicate shareholders' views to the Board, ensure that the Board receives satisfactory information and decision support documentation for their work and verify that the Board's decisions are implemented. The Board has also issued written instructions specifying the details of financial reporting to the Board and the distribution of work between the Board and the CEO.
Duties of the Chairman of the Board
The Chairman is responsible for ensuring that the Board's work is well-organised and conducted efficiently and that the Board fulfils its obligations. The Chairman monitors operations in dialogue with the Chief Executive Officer. The Chairman is also responsible for ensuring that other Board members receive the introduction, information and documentation necessary to maintain the high quality of the discussions and decisions, as well as for monitoring that the Board's decisions are implemented. The Chairman represents Addtech in ownership issues.
Work of the Board of Directors 2016/2017
According to the Board's rules of procedure, the Board is to meet in conjunction with presentation of the interim reports, at an annual strategy meeting and at the first post-election meeting of the new Board per year as well as on other occasions if required. The Board held nine meetings in 2016, three of which were before the 2016 AGM and six after the AGM. The following table shows attendance at Board meetings:

Board member

Independent in

Independent in

relation to

Total

Remuneration

Audit relation to the

major compensation,

Elected Born Board committee committee

Company shareholders

SEK

Anders Börjesson (ordförande) 2001 1948 9 (9)

1 (1)

2 (2)

Yes

No

500,000

Eva Elmstedt

2005 1960 9 (9)

2 (2)

Yes

Yes

250,000

Kenth Eriksson 1)

2016 1961 5 (5)

2 (2)

Yes

Yes

250,000

Tom Hedelius (vice ordförande) 2001 1939 9 (9)

1 (1)

2 (2)

Yes

No

380,000

Ulf Mattsson

2012 1964 9 (9)

2 (2)

Yes

Yes

250,000

Malin Nordesjö

2015 1976 9 (9)

2 (2)

Yes

No

250,000

Johan Sjö 2)

2008 1967 9 (9)

2 (2)

No

Yes

-

1) Took over at 2016 Annual General Meeting

2) No fee is paid to directors who are employed at Addtech

32

All meetings followed an agenda, which was provided to members prior to Board meetings along with documentation for each item on the agenda. Regular board meetings usually last half a day to allow time for presentations and discussions. The Chief Executive Officer or his designee presents all matters relating to the operations of the Company and the Group. Other salaried employees in the Company take part in Board meetings to present certain issues or when otherwise deemed suitable. The Company's CFO is the Board Secretary and the secretary of the Nomination Committee. The Board discussed the following matters at its meetings:
Approval of significant policies such as the Board's rules of procedure, attestation policy, financial policy, Code of Conduct, insider policy, communication policy and dividend policy.
Strategic direction and significant goals.
Significant issues concerning optimisation of capital structure, financing, dividend, repurchase of treasury shares, investments, acquisitions and divestments of operations.
Monitoring and control of operations, financial development, information provision and organisational issues.
Review with and report from the Company's external auditors. Review with auditors, without Group management's attendance, for evaluation of the CEO and Group management.
Evaluation of the work of the Board of Directors. Every year, the Board Chairman initiates and oversees the evaluation.
Approval of interim reports, year-end report and annual report.
Evaluation of the work of the Board
The Board conducts an annual evaluation of its work. Each year the Chairman initiates and leads the evaluation of the Board's work. The purpose of the evaluation is to further improve working methods, dynamics, efficiency and working environment, as well as the main focus of the Board's work. This evaluation also focuses on access to and the need for special expertise on the Board. The evaluation includes interviews and group discussions. In addition, the Chairman of the Board conducts individual discussions with each director. The evaluations were discussed at a Board meeting and also serve as a basis for the Nomination Committee's work when proposing directors.
Remuneration committee
The remuneration committee elected by the Board of Directors consists of: Anders Börjesson (Board Chairman) and Tom Hedelius (Vice Chairman), and Johan Sjö as the reporting member. The remuneration committee draws up the 'Board's proposal for principles regarding remuneration to senior management'. The Board discusses the proposal, which is then presented to the AGM to decide on. The Board sets the remuneration of the CEO based on the AGM's decision. The CEO does not report on his own remuneration and does not take part in making the Board decision. The remuneration committee sets the remuneration of other members of Group management based on proposals from the CEO. The Board is informed of the remuneration committee's decisions. The remuneration committee then has the task of monitoring and evaluating application of the guidelines for remuneration to senior management as decided on by the AGM. In addition, the remuneration committee must monitor and evaluate ongoing programmes, and those completed during the year, for variable remuneration to the Company management. The remuneration committee had one meeting during the financial year.
Audit committee
The tasks of the Audit Committee are performed by the Board and conducted as an integral part of the Board's work at its regular meetings. The Committee's Chairman has knowledge of accounting and auditing. The role of the Audit Committee is to monitor the Company's financial reporting to monitor the effectiveness of the Company's internal control and risk management regarding the financial reporting to stay informed about the audit of the annual accounts and the consolidated financial statements to assess and monitor the impartiality and independence of the auditor and in doing so to pay particular attention to whether the auditor provides the Company with other services besides auditing services and to assist in drawing up proposals for the AGM's decision on selection of an auditor.
In conjunction with the adoption of the 2016/2017 annual accounts, the Board held discussions with the Company's external auditors and received their reporting. The Board also discussed matters with the auditors at this meeting, which was not attended by the CEO or other members of Company management. Auditor
33

Auditor
AUDITOR
The Articles of Association stipulate that a registered auditing firm must be selected as auditor. The 2016 Annual General Meeting elected KPMG to serve as the Company's auditor until the close of the 2017 Annual General Meeting. Joakim Thilstedt is the Auditor in charge, assisted by Jonas Eriksson.
The Company's auditor works according to an audit plan that includes comments from the Board and reports his or her findings to company managements and business area managements, Group management and the Board of Addtech AB. This takes place during the audit and when establishing the annual accounts. KPMG audits Addtech AB and practically all its subsidiaries. The Company's auditor also takes part in the Annual General Meeting, describing and commenting on his or her audit work.
The independence of the external auditor is regulated in a special directive decided by the Board. It states the areas in which the services of the external auditor may be used regarding issues that are not part of regular auditing. The Company's auditor continually assesses its independence of the Company and submits written affirmation to the Board each year stating that the auditing firm is independent of Addtech. In the past year, the auditors performed advisory assignments, mainly concerning accounting, taxation issues and listing rules.
Quarterly review by auditors
Addtech's six-month or nine-month reports were not reviewed by Addtech's external auditors during the 2016/2017 financial year, which deviates from the rules of the Code 7.6. Among other things, after consultation with the Company's external auditors, the Board has so far judged that the benefit and additional cost to the Company of extended quarterly reviewing by the auditors cannot be justified. The Group's auditors
Chosen auditors KPMG AB
JOAKIM THILSTEDT
Auditor in charge
Authorised Public Accountant, Stockholm. Born 1967. Joakim Thilstedt has been auditor in charge for the Addtech Group since 2016/2017. He also serves as auditor in charge for companies including Sandvik, Modern Times Group MTG, Ahlsell and L E Lundbergföretagen.
JONAS ERIKSSON
Assistant auditor
Authorised Public Accountant, Stockholm. Born in 1974. Jonas Eriksson has been the assistant auditor for the audit of the Addtech Group since 2013/2014 and is also involved in auditing companies including AddLife AB and Sandvik AB. Jonas is also in charge of auditing Seco Tools AB and numerous medium-size companies, including Carglass Sweden AB and the Silva Group. Operating Management
CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER AND GROUP MANAGEMENT
The Chief Executive Officer, Johan Sjö, heads the operations in accordance with requirements of the Swedish Companies Act and the frameworks set by the Board. In consultation with the Board Chairman, the CEO prepares requisite documentation for information and decisions prior to Board meetings, gives presentations and motivates proposals for decisions. The Chief Executive Officer leads the work of the Group Executive Board and makes decisions in consultation with other members of Group Management. At the end of 2016/2017, in addition to Johan Sjö (CEO), Group Management included Christina Kassberg (Chief Financial Officer), Anders Claeson (Executive Vice President and Business Area Manager of Components), Hans Andersén (Business Area Manager of Energy) , Johan Dyberg (Business Area Manager of Industrial Process) and Niklas Stenberg (Business Area Manager of Power Solutions). Group management regularly reviews operations in meetings chaired by the CEO. The Chief Executive Officer is presented in more detail in the Board and Management section of the annual report and on the Company's website.
REMUNERATION TO SENIOR MANAGEMENT
Principles for remuneration to senior management at Addtech are adopted by the Annual General Meeting. Senior management consists of the CEO and other people in Group Management. The 2016 AGM adopted the recommendations of the Nomination Committee regarding remuneration guidelines for senior executives. These guidelines are essentially consistent with the principles previously applied.
34

Addtech aims to offer a reasonable as well as competitive total remuneration package capable of attracting and retaining skilled individuals. The size of the overall package varies in relation to the performance of the employee and the Group and may comprise the different elements stated below. A fixed salary forms the foundation of the total remuneration. The salary should be competitive and reflect the responsibilities of the position. Fixed salaries are reviewed annually. Variable compensation is primarily based on the Group's growth in earnings, profitability and cash flow. Annual variable remuneration can be at most 40 percent of the fixed salary. Each year the Board of Directors evaluates whether or not to propose a long-term incentive scheme to the Annual General Meeting and, if such is the case, whether or not the proposed long-term incentive scheme should include a transfer of shares in the Company. Retirement pension and sickness and other benefits should be structured in accordance with applicable rules and market norms. Pensions should be based on defined-contribution plans where possible.
For more details regarding remuneration to senior management, please see note 6 of the Annual Report. In 2016 the Company complied with the principles for remuneration to senior management as approved by the AGM and the principles proposed to the 2017 AGM are unchanged. Please see page 104, for the Board's complete proposals to the 2017 Annual General Meeting.
LONG-TERM INCENTIVE SCHEMES
Addtech has four outstanding call option programmes totalling 1,374,721 B shares. The purpose of longterm incentive schemes is to give management personnel within the Addtech Group the opportunity to learn about and work towards an increase in the value of the Company's shares through their own investment. The schemes are also expected to create improved conditions for retaining and recruiting skilled personnel for the Addtech Group, to provide competitive remuneration and to unite the interests of the shareholders and the management personnel. The intention of the schemes is to contribute towards senior executives increasing their shareholdings in Addtech in the long term. Those members of management personnel included in the schemes are the group who, in an otherwise heavily decentralised organisation, are able to have a positive impact on profits through cooperation between the Group's subsidiaries. The share-related incentive schemes approved by the AGM do not involve any net charge to the Company's equity.
REMUNERATION TO THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS AND AUDITOR
The AGM of Addtech AB resolves each year regarding guidelines for remuneration to the Board of Directors and the auditor. According to the resolution of the 2016 Annual General Meeting, Board fees for each director will remain unchanged from the previous year.
Fees shall be paid as follows: SEK 500,000 to the Chairman of the Board, SEK 380,000 to the Vice Chairman of the Board and SEK 250,000 to each other director appointed by the AGM who is not employed by the Company. Total Board fees amount to SEK 1,880,000. No fee is paid for work on committees. For further details of Board fees, see Note 6 to the Financial Statements.
Auditor's fees will be paid according to approved invoice, as directed by the AGM. For further details of Auditor's fees and of fees for non-auditing services, see Note 7 to the Financial Statement.
OPERATING ORGANISATION AND MANAGEMENT
Addtech's operating companies have been organised in the four business areas Components, Energy, Industrial Process and Power Solutions. The division into business areas reflects Addtech's internal organisation and reporting system.
Taken together the Addtech Group consists of approximately 120 independent companies in about 20 countries. Decisions about the companies' operations are taken close to the market, but from a governance perspective it is important to integrate the acquired company in certain issues of significance to the Group, such as financial reporting, administrative procedures and common core values.
Each operating company has a board of directors, on which the company's managing director and management employees from business areas or business units are represented. Within each business area, the companies are organised in business units linked to product or market concepts. Each company's managing director reports to a business unit manager, who in turn reports to the head of business area. Each head of business area reports to Addtech AB's CEO. The business areas and business units hold internal board meetings chaired by the CEO and attended by the CFO of Addtech AB, along with the respective head of business area and controller. Other salaried employees take part in the business area's Board meetings to present certain issues or when otherwise judged suitable.
Board of directors
35

Board of directors
BOARD OF DIRECTORS
The information about shareholdings and call options is as per 31 May 2017.
ANDERS BÖRJESSON
M.Sc. Econ. Born in 1948. Board Chairman since 2001. Other board assignments: Chairman of Bergman & Beving Holding, Tisenhultgruppen and Lagercrantz. Director of Bostad Direkt, Futuraskolan, Ventilationsgrossisten Nordic, Expando Electronics and Northpower Stålhallar. Professional experience: President and CEO of Bergman & Beving. Ownership (incl. associated): 1,492,776 Class A shares and 121,050 Class B shares.
EVA ELMSTEDT
Bachelor of Economics and Computer Science Born in 1960. Director since 2005. Other board assignments: Director of Proact IT, Gunnebo, Know IT, and Thule. Professional experience: Senior management at NSN, Nokia Networks, Ericsson, 3, Semcon and IBM. Ownership (own and company): 26,450 Class B shares.
TOM HEDELIUS
M.Sc. Econ., Hon. Dr. of Economics. Born in 1939. Vice Chairman since 2001. Other board assignments: Honorary Chairman of Svenska Handelsbanken. Chairman of Anders Sandrews Stiftelse and Jan Wallanders and Tom Hedelius Stiftelse. Professional experience: Senior management at Svenska Handelsbanken and Industrivärden. Ownership: 1,447,776 Class A shares and 16,200 Class B shares.
ULF MATTSSON
M.Sc. Econ. Born in 1964. Director since 2012. Industrial advisor at EQT. Other board assignments: Chairman of AcadeMedia, itslearning and Crem International. Director of Oras Invest Oy. Professional experience: Senior management at Tarkett, CEO of Domco, Mölnycke Health Care, Capio and Gambro. Ownership: 8,000 Class B-shares.
MALIN NORDESJÖ
M.Sc. Econ. Born in 1976. Director since 2015. Other board assignments: Chairman of Expando Electronics and Futuraskolan. Director of Bergman & Beving Holding, Tisenhultgruppen, Bostad Direkt, Northpower Stålhallar and Ventilationsgrossisten Nordic. Professional experience: Senior management at Tisenhultgruppen and Tritech Technology. Ownership: 19,502 Class B shares.
KENTH ERIKSSON
M. Eng. and MBA Born 1961. Director since 2016. Other board assignments: Director, Concentric and Technology Nexus. Professional experience: CEO, Tradimus, and senior roles at Electrolux. Partner, Athanase Industrial Partner. Ownership: 15,000 Class B shares.
JOHAN SJÖ
M.Sc. Econ. Born in 1967. Director, President and CEO. Director since 2008. Other board assignments: Chairman of AddLife and director of Bergman & Beving Holding. Professional experience: Senior management at B&B TOOLS, Alfred Berg/ABN Amro. Ownership: 10,080 Class A shares and 208,786 Class B shares. Call options corresponding to 99,150 shares.
36

Group management
GROUP MANAGEMENT
The information about shareholdings and call options is as per 31 May 2017.
JOHAN SJÖ
M.Sc. Econ. Born in 1967. Director, President and CEO. Employed in the Group since 2007. Other board assignments: Chairman of AddLife and director of Bergman & Beving Holding. Professional experience: Senior management at B&B TOOLS, Alfred Berg/ABN Amro. Ownership: 10,080 Class A shares and 208,786 Class B shares. Call options corresponding to 99,150 shares.
CHRISTINA KASSBERG
B. Sc. Business Administration Born in 1968. Chief Financial Officer. Employed in the Group since 2016. Professional experience: CFO Stim, EVP Finance and Administration Medivir, controller Medivir and accountant Öhrling PricewaterhouseCoopers. Ownership (incl. associated) : 1,600 Class B shares. Call options corresponding to 30,000 shares.
ANDERS CLAESON
M.Eng. Born in 1956. Executive Vice President and Business Area Manager of Components. Employed in the Group since 1982. Professional experience: Various managerial positions at Bergman & Beving. Ownership: 271,785 Class B shares. Call options corresponding to 91,500 shares.
HANS ANDERSÉN
Electric Power Engineer Born in 1961. Business Area Manager of Energy. Employed in the Group since 2006. Professional experience: CEO and owner of AB Gevea and Business Unit Manager Energy Supply. Ownership: 61,835 Class B shares. Call options corresponding to 76,125 shares.
JOHAN DYBERG
M.Sc Mechanical eng. Born in 1967. Business Area Manager of Industrial Process. Employed in the Group since 2012. Professional experience: Leading positions at small entrepreneur-driven companies as well as at large service and product companies including Electrolux and Husqvarna. Ownership: 28,218 Class B shares. Call options corresponding to 76,125 shares.
NIKLAS STENBERG
Bachelor of Laws Born in 1974. Business Area Manager of Power Solutions. Employed in the Group since 2010. Professional experience: Leading positions at B&B TOOLS, prior to which he was an attorney-at-law. Ownership: 14,000 Class B shares. Call options corresponding to 61,125 shares.
System for internal control and risk management in financial reporting
37

System for internal control and risk management in financial reporting
SYSTEM FOR INTERNAL CONTROL AND RISK MANAGEMENT IN FINANCIAL REPORTING Internal control
The Board of Directors has overall responsibility for ensuring that the Group has an effective system for management and internal control. This responsibility includes annually evaluating the financial reports it receives and stipulating the content and format of these reports to ensure their quality. This requirement means that the financial reporting must fulfil its purpose and comply with applicable accounting rules and other requirements incumbent on listed companies. The CFO annually reports on the Group's internal control work to the Board.
Control environment
Addtech builds and organises its business on the basis of decentralised responsibility for profitability and earnings. Internal control in a decentralised operation is founded on a firmly established process for defining goals and strategies for each operation. Internal directives and Board-approved policies convey defined decision-making channels, powers of authority and responsibilities. The financial policy, reporting manual and instructions for each annual/quarterly accounts are the Group's primary financial policy documents. A Group-wide reporting system with related analysis tools is used in the Group's annual/quarterly accounts process. At a more comprehensive level, all operations in the Addtech Group must comply with the Group's Code of Conduct.
Risk assessment
Addtech operates well-established routines for internal control and risk management in financial reporting with regard to the risks that the Board of Directors and Group management see as significant. Risk assessments start with the Group's income statement and balance sheet to identify the risk of material errors. In the Addtech Group as a whole, the greatest risks in financial reporting are linked to intangible non-current assets related to business acquisitions. The degree of exposure is determined by the degree of dependence on internal control or judgements that may affect financial reporting. The Group operates annual procedures for impairment testing in order to identify any indications of impairment.
Control activities
Control activities include transaction-related controls such as authorisation and investment rules and clear payment procedures, but also analytical controls performed by the Group controller function and the central finance and accounting function. Controllers and financial managers at all levels of the Group play a key role in creating the right environment for transparent and accurate financial reporting. This role places great demands on integrity, expertise and the capabilities of individuals.
Regular finance conferences are held to discuss current issues and safeguard effective sharing of knowledge and experience within the finance and accounting functions. The monthly review of results that is performed via the internal reporting system and is analysed and commented on internally by the Board is a key overall control activity. The review includes an evaluation of results compared to targets set and previous performance as well as a follow-up of key indicators.
A 'self-evaluation' of internal control issues is performed in all Group companies each year. The companies comment on how important issues were handled, such as business terms and conditions in customer contracts, assessments of customers' credit ratings, valuation and documentation of inventories, payment procedures, documentation and analysis of financial statements/closing accounts, and compliance with internal policies and procedures. An accepted minimum level has been set for critical issues and processes, and all companies are expected to meet this level. The responses of each company are validated and commented on by that company's external auditor in conjunction with the ordinary audit. The responses are then compiled and analysed, after which they are presented to business area management and Group management. The results of self-evaluation are taken into consideration in planning the self-evaluation and external auditing for the coming year.
In addition to the work of self-assessment, a more in-depth analysis of the internal control in about 25 operating companies takes place each year. This is termed `internal auditing' and is performed at the companies by business area controllers and employees from the Parent Company's central finance and accounting function. Central processes at the companies, and control points for the latter, are analysed, tested and recorded. The external auditors study the records kept in conjunction with auditing of the companies. The process provides a solid basis on which to chart and assess the internal control in the Group. An external party also regularly reviews and assesses the Group's internal control processes.
38

Information and communication
Governing guidelines, policies and instructions are available on the Group intranet. The documents are regularly updated as needed. Changes are communicated separately via e-mail and at meetings for those concerned. Access to the documents for internal information on the intranet is governed via levels of authorisation. The Group's employees are divided into different groups and the groups have various levels of access to information. All financial guidelines, policies and instructions are available for each company's managing director and financial manager, business unit managers, business area managers, business area controllers and the central finance and accounting function. Access to financial data for the Group is also governed centrally via levels of authorisation.
Follow-up
The outcome of the internal control is analysed and communicated annually. An assessment is made of the improvement measures that are to be implemented in the various companies. The boards in the Group companies are informed of the outcome of the internal control in each company and the improvement measures that should be implemented. The business area controllers and company boards subsequently follow up this work on a continual basis during the following year. The Board receives monthly comments from the CEO regarding the business situation and development of operations. The Board reviews all quarterly reports and the annual report before their publication. The Board is updated annually about the internal control work and its results. The Board also examines the assessment made by KPMG of the Group's internal control processes.
Internal auditing
In light of the above risk assessment and structure of control activities, including self-evaluation and a more in-depth analysis of internal control, the Board has chosen not to have a separate internal auditing function.
39

FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
GCoronuspolidated income statement
CONSOLIDATED INCOME STATEMENT
SEKm
Continuing operations Net sales Cost of sales GROSS PROFIT Selling expenses Administrative expenses Other operating income Other operating expenses Income from associated companies OPERATING PROFIT Finance income Finance costs NET FINANCIAL ITEMS
PROFIT BEFORE TAX Income tax expense PROFIT FOR THE YEAR, CONTINUING OPERATIONS Discontinued operations Net profit from discontinued operations PROFIT FOR THE YEAR, DISCONTINUED OPERATIONS
PROFIT FOR THE YEAR Attributable to:
Equity holders of the Parent Company Non-controlling interests Earnings per share before dilution (EPS), (SEK) Continuing operations Discontinued operations Total earnings per share before dilution Earnings per share after dilution (EPS), (SEK) Continuing operations Discontinued operations Total earnings per share after dilution Average number of shares after repurchases ('000s) Number of shares at end of period after repurchases ('000s)

Notes 4, 5
9 9 3-10,16 11 11 13
34
30
30

2016/2017
7,178 -4,939 2,239 -1,241
-432 48 -12 2
604 2
-26 -24 580 -130 450
­ ­ 450
440 10
6.60 ­
6.60
6.55 ­
6.55 66,824 66,824

2015/2016
6,155 -4,244 1,911 -1,100
-384 28 -13 1
443 2
-22 -20 423 -90 333
1,636 1,636 1,969
1,950 19
4.85 24.35 29.20
4.85 24.35 29.20 66,703 66,958

40

CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF COMPREHENSIVE INCOME
SEKm Profit for the year Components that will be reclassified to profit of the year Cash flow hedges Foreign currency translation differences for the period Tax attributable to items that can later be reversed in profit or loss Components that will not be reclassified to profit of the year Revaluations of defined benefit pension plans Tax attributable to items not to be reversed in profit or loss OTHER COMPREHENSIVE INCOME Comprehensive income for the year Attributable to:
Equity holders of the Parent Company Non-controlling interests
Consolidated balance sheet

2016/2017 450
1 52
0
-13 3
43 493
482 11

2015/2016 1,969
-2 -58
0
44 -10 -26 1,943
1,925 18

41

Consolidated balance sheet
CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEET
SEKm ASSETS NON-CURRENT ASSETS Intangible non-current assets Property, plant and equipment Deferred tax assets Other financial assets TOTAL NON-CURRENT ASSETS CURRENT ASSETS Inventories Tax assets Accounts receivable Prepaid expenses and accrued income Other receivables Cash and cash equivalents TOTAL CURRENT ASSETS TOTAL ASSETS
EQUITY AND LIABILITIES SHAREHOLDERS' EQUITY Share capital Other contributed capital Reserves Retained earnings, including profit for the year Equity attributable to equity holders of the Parent Company Non-controlling interests TOTAL SHAREHOLDERS' EQUITY LIABILITIES NON-CURRENT LIABILITIES Non-current interest-bearing liabilities Provisions for pensions Deferred tax liabilities Non-Interest-bearing long-term liablities Total non-current liabilities CURRENT LIABILITIES Current interest-bearing liabilities Accounts payable Tax liabilities Other liabilities Accrued expenses and deferred income Provisions Total current liabilities TOTAL LIABILITIES TOTAL SHAREHOLDERS' EQUITY AND LIABILITIES
For information about contingent liabilities and pledged assets, see Note 27
Consolidated statement of changes in equity
42

Notes

2017-03-31

2016-03-31

14

1,892

1,498

15

190

168

13

8

6

19

21

2,109

1,693

18

942

874

10

24

3

1,170

972

19

68

74

38

28

178

140

2,406

2,112

4,515

3,805

20

51 344 -25 1,331 1,701

51 344 -77 1,161 1,479

40 1,741

35 1,514

24

69

41

22

210

199

13

278

242

18

0

575

482

25

910

721

622

570

45

23

273

190

26

323

292

23

26

13

2,199

1,809

2,774

2,291

4,515

3,805

Consolidated statement of changes in equity
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF CHANGES IN EQUITY

SEKm
EQUITY, OPENING BALANCE 2016-04-01 Profit for the year Cash flow hedges Foreign currency translation differences Revaluations of defined benefit pension plans Tax attributable to other comprehensive income Other comprehensive income
Total comprehensive income Call options issued Call options exercised Call options repurchased Repurchase of treasury shares Dividend Option debt, acquisition Distribution of AddLife Change in non-controlling interests EQUITY, CLOSING BALANCE 2017-03-31

Share capital

Other contributed
capital

Reserves

Retained earnings, including profit for
the year

Total, equity holders of the Parent Company

Noncontrolling
interests

Total equity

51

344

-77 1,161 1,479

35 1,514

­

­

­

440

440

10 450

­

­

1

­

1

­

1

­

­

51

­

51

1

52

­

­

­

-13

-13

­

-13

­

­

­

3

3

­

3

­

­

52

-10

42

1

43

­

­

52

430

482

11 493

­

­

­

4

4

­

4

­

­

­

14

14

­

14

­

­

­

-6

-6

­

-6

­

­

­

-40

-40

­

-40

­

­

­

-218

-218

-8 -226

­

­

­

-9

-9

-

-9

­

­

­

-5

-5

0

-5

­

­

­

­

­

2

2

51

344

-25 1,331 1,701

40 1,741

SEKm

Share capital

Other contributed
capital

Reserves

Retained earnings, including profit for
the year

Total, equity holders of the Parent Company

Noncontrolling
interests

Total equity

EQUITY, OPENING BALANCE 2015-04-01 Profit for the year Cash flow hedges Foreign currency translation differences Revaluations of defined benefit pension plans Tax attributable to other comprehensive income Other comprehensive income

51

344

-18 1,127 1,504

35 1,539

­

­

­ 1,950 1,950

19 1,969

­

­

-2

­

-2

­

-2

­

­

-57

­

-57

-1

-58

­

­

­

44

44

­

44

­

­

0

-10

-10

­

-10

­

­

-59

34

-25

-1

-26

Total comprehensive income
Call options issued Call options exercised Repurchase of treasury shares Issue in kind Dividend Distribution of AddLife Change in non-controlling interests EQUITY, CLOSING BALANCE 2016-03-31

­

­

-59 1,984 1,925

18 1,943

­

­

­

3

3

­

3

­

­

­

58

58

­

58

­

­

­

-45

-45

­

-45

­

­

­

234

234

­ 234

­

­

­

-219

-219

-8 -227

­

­

­ -1,927 -1,927

-63 -1,990

­

­

­

-54

-54

53

-1

51

344

-77 1,161 1,479

35 1,514

For comments on shareholders' equity, refer to Note 20.

SEK Dividend per share 1) As proposed by the Board of Directors.

2016/2017 2015/2016

3,50 1)

3,25

43

Consolidated cash flow statement
CONSOLIDATED CASH FLOW STATEMENT
SEKm OPERATING ACTIVITIES Profit after financial items Profit from discontinued operations after financial items Adjustment for items not included in cash flow Income tax paid Cash flow from operating activities before changes in working capital Cash flow from changes in working capital Changes in inventories Changes in operating receivables Changes in operating liabilities CASH FLOW FROM OPERATING ACTIVITIES
INVESTING ACTIVITIES Acquisition of property, plant and equipment Disposal of property, plant and equipment Acquisition of intangible non-current assets Disposal of intangible non-current assets Acquisition of operations, net liquidity effect Disposal of operations, net liquidity effect Change in financial assets Disposal of discontinued operations, net liquidity effect CASH FLOW FROM INVESTING ACTIVITIES
FINANCING ACTIVITIES Repurchase of treasury shares Exercised and issued call options Borrowings Repayments on loans Other financing Dividend paid to equity holders of the Parent Company Dividend paid to non-controlling interests CASH FLOW FROM FINANCING ACTIVITIES
Cash flow for the year
Cash and cash equivalents at beginning of year Exchange differences on cash and cash equivalents Cash and cash equivalents at year-end
Parent Ccoommppaanny income statement

Notes 28

2016/2017
580 ­
134 -123 591
-7 -104
71 551

2015/2016
423 1,658 -1,413 -160
508
-53 -36 55 474

-58

-70

4

9

-10

-19

­

14

28

-336

-629

1

6

4

­

­

337

-395

-352

-40 12 462 -332 -2 -218 -8 -126
30
140 8
178

-45 61 164
6 -13 -217
-8 -52
70
83 -13 140

44

Parent Ccoommppaanny income statement
PARENT COMPANY INCOME STATEMENT
SEKm Net sales Administrative expenses OPERATING PROFIT/LOSS Profit from interests in Group companies Profit from non-current financial assets Interest income and similar items Interest expense and similar items PROFIT AFTER FINANCIAL ITEMS Year-end appropriations PROFIT BEFORE TAX Income tax expense PROFIT FOR THE YEAR OTHER COMPREHENSIVE INCOME Total comprehensive income for the year
Parent company balance sheet

Notes
6­8, 16 11 11 11 11
12
13

2016/2017
54 -63 -9 318 15
7 -19 312 -42 270 -60 210
­ 210

2015/2016
58 -69 -11 190 27 10 -16 200 -20 180 -38 142
­ 142

45

Parent company balance sheet
PARENT COMPANY BALANCE SHEET
SEKm ASSETS NON-CURRENT ASSETS Intangible non-current assets Property, plant and equipment Non-current financial assets Interests in Group companies Receivables from Group companies Total non-current financial assets TOTAL NON-CURRENT ASSETS CURRENT ASSETS Receivables from Group companies Tax assets Other receivables Prepaid expenses and accrued income Total current receivables Cash and bank balances TOTAL CURRENT ASSETS TOTAL ASSETS EQUITY AND LIABILITIES SHAREHOLDERS' EQUITY Restricted equity Share capital (3 237 672 A shares, 64 960 824 B shares) Legal reserve Unrestricted equity Retained earnings Profit for the year TOTAL SHAREHOLDERS' EQUITY UNTAXED RESERVES PROVISIONS Provisions for pensions and similar obligations LIABILITIES Liabilities to Group companies Total non-current liabilities Liabilities to credit institutions Accounts payable Liabilities to Group companies Tax liabilities Other liabilities Accrued expenses and deferred income Total current liabilities TOTAL SHAREHOLDERS' EQUITY AND LIABILITIES
Parent company statement of changes in equity

Notes

2017-03-31

2016-03-31

14

­

0

15

3

4

17

1,004

1,004

17

1,478

1,442

2,482

2,446

2,485

2,450

406

283

­

9

2

5

19

8

7

416

304

­

­

416

304

2,901

2,754

20

51

51

18

18

516

625

210

142

795

836

21

417

375

22

15

16

24

278

390

278

390

25

861

687

1

8

500

422

16

­

2

3

26

16

17

1,396

1,137

2,901

2,754

46

Parent company statement of changes in equity
PARENT COMPANY STATEMENT OF CHANGES IN EQUITY

SEKm
EQUITY, OPENING BALANCE 1 APR 16 Profit for the year
Comprehensive income for the year Dividend Distribution of AddLife Call options issued Call options exercised Repurchase call options Repurchase of treasury shares EQUITY, CLOSING BALANCE 31 MAR 17

Restricted equity

Unrestricted equity

Share capital
51 ­
­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ 51

Retained earnings,

including profit

Legal reserve

for the year

18

767

­

210

­

210

­

-218

­

-5

­

4

­

14

­

-6

­

-40

18

726

Total equity
836 210
210 -218
-5 4 14 -6 -40 795

SEKm
EQUITY, OPENING BALANCE 1 APR 15 Profit for the year Comprehensive income for the year Dividend Distribution of AddLife Call options issued Call options exercised Repurchase of treasury shares EQUITY, CLOSING BALANCE 31 MAR 16

Restricted equity

Unrestricted equity

Share capital
51 ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­
51

Retained earnings,

including profit

Legal reserve

for the year

18

905

­

142

­

142

­

-217

­

-79

­

3

­

58

­

-45

18

767

For comments on shareholders' equity, refer to Note 20. Parent company cash flow statement

Total equity
974 142 142 -217 -79
3 58 -45 836

47

Parent company cash flow statement
PARENT COMPANY CASH FLOW STATEMENT
SEKm OPERATING ACTIVITIES Profit after financial items Adjustment for items not included in cash flow Income tax paid Cash flow from operating activities before changes in working capital Cash flow from changes in working capital
Changes in operating receivables Changes in operating liabilities CASH FLOW FROM OPERATING ACTIVITIES
INVESTING ACTIVITIES Acquisition of property, plant and equipment and intangible non-current assets Acquisition of financial non-current assets Rights issue AddLife CASH FLOW FROM INVESTING ACTIVITIES
FINANCING ACTIVITIES Repurchase of treasury shares Exercised and issued call options Change in loans Repayment of loans Change in receivables from Group companies Change in liabilities to Group companies Dividend paid Group contributions Other financing activities CASH FLOW FROM FINANCING ACTIVITIES
Cash flow for the year
Cash and cash equivalents at beginning of year Cash and cash equivalents at year-end

Notes 28

2016/2017
312 -317
-35 -40
0 -8 -48

2015/2016
200 -192
-51 -43
-2 10 -35

0 ­ ­ 0
-40 12 474 -300 -31 -34 -218 190 -5 48
0
0 0

-2 0 -67 -69
-45 61 200 -21 76 -168 -217 230 -12 104
0
0 0

48

NOTES FOR P&L NOTE 1 ACCOUNTING AND VALUATION POLICIES
NOTE 1 ACCOUNTING AND VALUATION POLICIES
GENERAL ACCOUNTING POLICIES
The consolidated annual accounts were prepared in compliance with International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS) issued by the International Accounting Standards Board (IASB) and with interpretations issued by the International Financial Reporting Interpretations Committee (IFRIC) as approved by the European Union (EU). Recommendation RFR 1 Supplementary Accounting Rules for Groups, issued by the Swedish Financial Reporting Board, was also applied.
The annual accounts of the Parent Company were prepared in accordance with the Swedish Annual Accounts Act (1995:1554) and recommendation RFR 2 Accounting for Legal Entities issued by the Swedish Financial Reporting Board.
The Parent Company's and the Group's accounting policies are consistent with each other, except in the case of reporting pensions, untaxed reserves and appropriations. See also "Accounting policies of the Parent Company".
The Board approved the Parent Company's annual report and the Group's consolidated financial statements for publication on 22 June 2017. The Parent Company's and Group's respective income statements and balance sheets will be submitted for adoption to the Annual General Meeting on 31 August 2017.
PRESENTATION OF THE ANNUAL REPORT
The financial reports are stated in million Swedish kronor (SEK million) unless otherwise specified. The Parent Company's functional currency is the Swedish krona, as is the presentation currency for the Parent Company and the Group. Assets and liabilities are recognised at historical cost, except for certain financial assets and liabilities that are measured at fair value. Assets held for sale are recognised at the lower of the previous carrying amount and fair value, less selling expenses.
Preparing financial reports according to IFRS requires that management makes judgements and estimates as well as assumptions that affect the application of the accounting policies and the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, income and expenses. These estimates and assumptions are based on historical experience and numerous other factors deemed reasonable under the circumstances at the time. Estimates and assumptions are reviewed periodically.
The annual accounts were prepared in compliance with IAS 1 Presentation of Financial Statements, such that separate income statements and balance sheets, as well as statements of other comprehensive income, financial position, changes in shareholders' equity and cash flow, are prepared and notes are provided that detail the accounting policies and disclosures applied.
Receivables and liabilities, as well as income and expenses, are offset only if required or if expressively permitted according to IFRS.
New or revised IFRS applied during the 2016/2017 financial year
No new or revised IFRS, implemented as of the current year, have materially affected the Consolidated or Parent Company financial statements financial reporting.
New or amended IFRSs issued but not yet in force
IFRS 9 Financial Instruments replaces IAS 39 Financial Instruments: Recognition and measurement for financial years beginning on or after 1 January 2018, which in Addtech's case means beginning with the 2018/2019 financial year. IFRS 9 defines new criteria for classification and measurement of financial instruments, a forward-looking ("expected loss") model for impairment and a simplified approach to hedge accounting. The effects of IFRS 9 on the Group are in the process of being analysed and have not yet been quantified. Because the Group does not use hedge accounting, the relevant parts of IFRS 9 do not affect Addtech's financial statements. In addition, classification and measurement of Addtech's financial assets and liabilities are not expected to be materially affected by IFRS 9. Finally, it is noted that due to the marginal scale of the Group's bad debt losses and financial assets other than receivables, the new model for impairment is not expected to have any material effect either.
49

IFRS 15 Revenue from Contracts with Customers is a new standard for revenue recognition. The standard establishes principles regarding the nature, amount, timing, and uncertainty of revenue and cash flows arising from contracts with customers. IFRS 15 enters into force on 1 January 2018. In Addtech's case, this means implementation for the financial year beginning on 1 April 2018. IFRS 15 will replace the current IAS 11 Construction Contracts, IAS 18 Revenue and the relevant interpretations IFRIC 13, 15, 18 and SIC-31. Any effects of IFRS 15 have been analysed per business area, namely Components, Energy, Industrial Process and Power Solutions. Various income streams have been identified per business area, after which contracts with customers have been analysed per income stream. The Group's revenue is generated above all from the sale of goods and contracts are generally short. On the basis of analysis performed, IFRS 15 is not deemed to have any material impact on how and when revenue is recognised within the Group. The adoption of IFRS 15 will therefore not have any effects on the Group's revenue recognition. On the other hand, the disclosure requirements will be more extensive and their impact has not yet been analysed. As a result, no choice of transitional method has yet been decided.
IFRS 16 Leases is a new standard on recognition of leases. In accounting by lessees, the classification into operational and finance leases in IAS 17 is eliminated and replaced by a system in which assets and liabilities relating to all lease contracts are recognised on the balance sheet and related depreciation costs and interest expenses in the income statement. Exemptions to balance sheet recognition are allowed for lease contracts of minor value and contracts with a term of no more than 12 months. IFRS 16 will be applied for the first time in the 2019/2020 financial year. The effects of recognising the Group's operating leases in terms of assets and liabilities, with depreciation costs and interest expenses, have not yet been quantified and transitional method has not been decided. For further information on existing leases, see Note 16.
In accordance with an additional provision in IAS 7 Statement of Cash Flows, for implementation in financial years beginning on or after 1 January 2017, a disclosure will be added in the next annual report with reconciliation of the year's change in liabilities within financing activities.
No new or amended IFRS scheduled for implementation in the future are expected to have any material impact on Addtech's financial statements.
CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
The consolidated financial statements include the annual accounts for the Parent Company and those companies that are under controlling influence of the Parent Company. Controlling influence exists if the Parent Company has influence over the object of investment, is exposed or entitled to variable yield from its involvement and can exert its influence over the investment to affect the yield. In the assessment of whether controlling influence exists, potential shares with an entitlement to vote are considered and whether de facto control exists. Shareholdings in Group companies are eliminated using the acquisition method. In brief, this means that identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities in the company acquired are measured and recognised in the consolidated financial statements as if they had been acquired directly by purchase and not indirectly by acquisition of the company's shares. The valuation is based on fair values. If the value of the net assets is less than the acquisition price, consolidated goodwill arises. If the opposite occurs, the difference is recognised directly in profit or loss. Goodwill is determined in local currency and is recognised at cost, less any impairment losses. Consolidated equity includes the Parent Company's equity and the portion of subsidiaries' equity earned after the time of acquisition. Companies acquired or disposed of are consolidated or deconsolidated, respectively, from the date of acquisition or disposal.
Contingent considerations are measured at fair value at the time of the transaction and are subsequently revalued on each reporting occasion. Effects of the revaluation are recognised as income or expense in consolidated profit or loss. Transaction costs in conjunction with acquisitions are expensed. It is possible for a holding that is not a controlling interest to be measured at fair value upon acquisition, which means that goodwill is included in non-controlling interests. Alternatively, non-controlling interests constitute part of net assets. The choice is determined individually for each acquisition.
Intra-Group receivables and liabilities and transactions between companies in the Group, as well as related unrealised gains, are wholly eliminated. Unrealised losses are eliminated in the same way as unrealised gains, except in the case of impairment.
50

EXCHANGE RATE EFFECTS Translation of the financial reports of foreign Group companies
Assets and liabilities in foreign operations, including goodwill and other surpluses and deficits on consolidation, are converted to Swedish kronor using the exchange rate prevailing at the end of the reporting period. Income and expenses in foreign businesses are converted to Swedish kronor using the average rate, which is an approximation of the rates prevailing at the time of each transaction. Translation differences resulting from the conversion of foreign operations' accounts are recognised through other comprehensive income in the foreign currency translation reserve in equity.
Transactions denominated in foreign currencies
A transaction denominated in a foreign currency is converted to the functional currency at the rate of exchange on the transaction date. Monetary assets and liabilities in foreign currency are converted to the functional currency using the rate prevailing at the end of the reporting period. Non-monetary assets and liabilities recognised at historical cost are converted using the exchange rate at the time of the transaction. Exchange differences that arise in conversion are recognised in profit or loss. Exchange differences on operating receivables and operating liabilities are included in operating profit or loss, while exchange differences on financial receivables and liabilities are recognised among financial items.
FINANCIAL ASSETS AND LIABILITIES, RECOGNITION AND DERECOGNITION
Financial instruments recognised in the balance sheet primarily include, on the assets side, cash and cash equivalents, accounts receivable and derivatives. The liabilities include accounts payable, loans payable, contingent considerations and derivatives. A financial asset or financial liability is recognised in the balance sheet when the Company becomes a party to the terms and conditions of the instrument. Accounts receivable are recognised in the balance sheet when an invoice has been sent. A liability is recognised when the counterparty has completed its undertaking and a contractual obligation to pay exists, even if no invoice has yet been received. A financial asset (or part thereof) is removed from the balance sheet when the rights in the contract are realised or expire or the Company loses control over them. A financial liability (or part thereof) is removed from the balance sheet when the obligation in the contract is fulfilled or in some other way ceases to exist. A financial asset and a financial liability are only offset and recognised at the net amount in the balance sheet when the Company is legally entitled to offset their amounts and the Company intends to settle the items with a net amount or simultaneously realise the asset and settle the liability.
FINANCIAL ASSETS AND LIABILITIES, MEASUREMENT AND CLASSIFICATION
A financial instrument that is not a derivative is initially recognised at cost, equivalent to the instrument's fair value plus transaction costs this applies to all financial instruments except those in the category of financial assets measured at fair value through profit or loss. At initial recognition, a financial instrument is classified based on the purpose for which it was acquired. The classification determines how the financial instrument is measured after initial recognition, as described below.
Financial instruments measured at fair value are classified in a hierarchy based on the origin of the inputs used in the evaluation. At level 1 are financial instruments with a price quoted in an active market. Level 2 comprises financial instruments whose value is determined based on observable market data, though not prices quoted in an active market. Level 3 includes using inputs, such as cash flow analyses, not based on observable market data.
Financial assets and liabilities measured at fair value through profit or loss
This category consists of two subgroups: financial assets and liabilities held for trading, and other financial assets and liabilities that the Company initially chose to place in this category. The first group includes derivatives unless they are designated hedging instruments. The other group contains contingent considerations in conjunction with acquisitions of subsidiaries.
Accounts receivable and loan receivables
Loan receivables and accounts receivable are financial assets that are not derivatives, with fixed payments or with payments that can be determined, and that are not quoted on an active market. Assets in this category are measured at amortised cost.
Accounts receivable are recognised at the amount expected to be recovered, after deduction for doubtful receivables, assessed individually. The expected maturities of accounts receivable are short, so they are recognised at nominal amounts without discounting. Impairment losses on accounts receivable are recognised in operating expenses.
51

Cash and cash equivalents
Cash and cash equivalents consists of cash and funds immediately available in banks and equivalent institutions, as well as short-term liquid investments that mature within three months of the time of acquisition and are subject to only a negligible risk of fluctuation in value.
Unlisted equity instruments carried at cost
A holding of unlisted shares in housing companies, whose fair value cannot be reliably calculated, is measured at cost and tested for impairment when an indication of impairment is observed.
Other financial liabilities
Loans and other financial liabilities, such as accounts payable, are included in this category. These liabilities are measured at amortised cost. Accounts payable are measured at nominal amounts without discounting.
Derivatives and hedge accounting
Derivative instruments include currency clauses, forward foreign exchange contracts, currency options and currency swaps used to cover the risk of foreign exchange rate fluctuations. An embedded derivative, for example a currency clause, is disclosed separately unless closely related to its host contract. Hedge accounting is not used. Derivatives are initially recognised at fair value, with the result that transaction costs are charged to profit or loss for the period. After the initial recognition, the derivative instrument is measured at fair value via income statement.
Increases and decreases in the value of such derivatives are recognised as income and expense, respectively, in operating profit or loss or in net financial items, based on the intended use of the derivative and whether or not its use is related to an operating item or a financial item.
ASSETS AND LIABILITIES, CLASSIFICATION
Current assets consist of assets expected to be realised within one year or the company's normal business cycle. Other assets are non-current assets. A liability is classified as non-current if, at the end of the reporting period, the entity has an unconditional right to defer settlement for at least twelve months after the reporting period and if it is not an operating debt expected to be settled within the entity's normal business cycle. Other liabilities are classified as current.
DISCONTINUED OPERATIONS
The Group's discontinued operations, as indicated in the income statement for the year shown for comparison, consist of a separate major line of business (AddLife). The operation was classified as discontinued from the time of the divestment. Income after tax from discontinued operations is recognised on a separate line in the income statement for the year 2015/2016 shown for comparison.
PROPERTY, PLANT AND EQUIPMENT
Property, plant and equipment are recognised at cost, less accumulated depreciation and any impairment losses. The cost comprises the purchase price, including customs and excise duties, as well as costs directly attributable to the asset to bring it to the location in such condition that it can be used as intended by the acquisition. Discounts and the like are deducted from the purchase price. Examples of directly attributable costs included in the cost are shipping and handling, installation, legal ratification and consulting services.
Borrowing costs are also capitalised in the cost of qualifying assets. The Group does not normally have qualifying assets.
Additional expenditure for an item of property, plant and equipment is only added to the cost if it increases the future economic benefits. All other expenditure, such as expenditure for repair and maintenance, is expensed on a current basis. A decisive factor as to when an incremental expenditure should be added to the cost is whether the expenditure refers to the replacement of identified components or parts thereof, in which case the expenditure is capitalised. Also, if a new component has been created, the expenditure is added to the cost. Any undepreciated carrying amounts for replaced components, or parts of components, are retired and expensed in conjunction with the replacement.
Depreciation is effected on a straight-line basis over the estimated useful life and taking account of any residual value at the end of that period.
Property, plant and equipment comprising parts that have different useful lives are treated as separate components.
52

The carrying amount of an item of property, plant and equipment is removed from the balance sheet upon retirement or disposal of the asset, or when no future economic benefits are expected to be derived from its use. Gains or losses realised upon the disposal or retirement of an asset consist of the difference between the selling price and the carrying amount of the asset, less direct selling expenses. Gains or losses are recognised as other operating income or other operating expense.

Property, plant and equipment
Buildings Leasehold improvements Equipment Land improvements Machinery

Useful life
15­100 years 3­5 years 3­5 years 20 years
3­10 years

LEASES
Distinction is made between finance and operating leases. A finance lease is characterised by the lessee assuming, in all essential respects, the economic benefits and risks associated with ownership of the asset. If that is not the case, the lease is regarded as an operating lease.
The Group for the most part uses operating leases, such that lease payments are charged as an operating expense on a straight-line basis over the term of the lease.
INTANGIBLE NON-CURRENT ASSETS
An intangible asset is an identifiable non-monetary asset, without physical substance, that is used for marketing, producing or supplying goods or services, or for rental and administration. To be recognised as an asset, it must be probable that the future economic benefits attributable to the asset will benefit the Company and that the (acquisition) cost can be calculated reliably.
Additional expenditure for an intangible asset is only added to the cost if it increases future economic benefits beyond the original assessment and if the expenditure can be calculated reliably. All other expenditure is expensed as it is incurred.
Goodwill represents the difference between the acquisition cost of a business combination and the fair value of identifiable assets acquired, liabilities assumed and contingent liabilities.
Goodwill and intangible non-current assets with indefinable useful lives (trademarks) are measured at acquisition cost, less any accumulated impairment losses. Goodwill and trademarks are allocated among cash-generating units or groups of cash-generating units and are not amortised but annually tested for impairment.
Intangible assets aside from goodwill and trademarks are recognised at their original acquisition cost, less accumulated amortisation and impairment losses.
Borrowing costs are also capitalised in the cost of qualifying assets. The Group does not normally have qualifying assets.
Amortisation is charged on a straight-line basis and is based on the useful lives of the assets, which are reviewed on an annual basis. An asset's useful life is based on historical experience of use of similar assets, areas of application and other specific features of the asset.
Amortisation is included in cost of sales, selling expenses or administrative expenses, depending on where in the business the assets are used.
Expenditure for development, in which the results of research or other knowledge are applied to achieve new or improved products or processes, is recognised as an asset in the balance sheet if the product is technically and commercially viable and the Company has sufficient resources to complete development and subsequently use or sell the intangible asset. Other development expenditure is expensed as it is incurred.
Expenditure for internally generated goodwill and trademarks is recognised in profit or loss as an expense as it is incurred.

53

Intangible non-current assets
Capitalised development projects Customer relationships Supplier relationships Software for IT operations Technology Trademarks

Useful life
3-5 years 5­10 years 5­33 years
3­5 years 5­15 years indeterminable

IMPAIRMENT LOSSES
Property, plant and equipment, intangible assets and interests in subsidiaries and associates
The carrying amounts of Group assets are tested as soon as there is an indication that the asset in question has decreased in value. If such indication exists, impairment is determined after calculating the recoverable amount of the asset, which is the higher of an asset's value in use and its fair value. Impairment loss is recognised if the recoverable amount is less than the carrying amount. The value in use is calculated as the present value of future payments that the Company is expected to receive by using the asset. The estimated residual value at the end of the useful life is included in the value in use. If the recoverable amount of an individual asset cannot be determined, the recoverable amount is set at the recoverable amount for the cash-generating unit to which the asset belongs. A cash-generating unit is the smallest group of assets that give rises to continuous payment inflows that are independent of other assets or groups of assets. Goodwill on consolidation is attributed to the business areas (which accord with the Group's operating segments) to which the goodwill is linked. Impairment losses are reversed when the impairment, wholly or partly, no longer exists. However, this does not apply to goodwill or intangible noncurrent assets with indefinable useful lives.
For goodwill, other intangible assets with an indeterminable useful life and intangible assets not yet ready for use, the recoverable amount is calculated annually, in addition to the above.
Financial assets
When accounts are prepared for reporting, the Company assesses whether there is objective evidence that any financial asset or group of assets is impaired. The recoverable amount of loan receivables and accounts receivable recognised at amortised cost is calculated as the present value of future cash flows discounted by the effective interest rate prevailing when the asset was first recognised. Assets with short maturities are not discounted. Impairment losses are charged to the income statement.
INVENTORIES
Inventories, that is, raw materials and finished goods for resale, are carried at the lower of cost and net realisable value, hence taking into account the risk of obsolescence. The cost is calculated using the first in, first out (FIFO) principle or weighted average prices.
In the case of finished and semi-finished goods manufactured in-house, the cost consists of direct manufacturing costs and a reasonable portion of indirect manufacturing costs. Normal capacity utilisation is taken into account in valuation.
CAPITAL
No expressed measure related to shareholders' equity is used internally. Externally, Addtech's objective is to have a robust equity ratio.
Shareholders' equity
Addtech's dividend policy 2016/2017 involves a pay-out ratio exceeding 50 percent of consolidated average profit after tax over a business cycle.
Repurchasing treasury shares occurs, and the Board normally proposes obtaining a mandate to repurchase treasury shares, which involves acquiring an amount of shares such that Addtech's own holding at no time exceeds 10 percent of all shares in the Company. The purpose of the repurchase is to provide the Board with increased scope for action in its work with the Company's capital structure, to enable the use of repurchased shares as payment in acquisitions, and to secure the Company's commitments in existing incentive programmes.
When treasury shares are repurchased, the entire consideration reduces retained earnings. Proceeds from the disposal of equity instruments are recognised as an increase in retained earnings, as are any transaction costs.

54

EMPLOYEE BENEFITS Employee benefits after termination of employment, pension obligations
Addtech has defined-contribution pensions and defined-benefit pension plans in Sweden and Norway. The plans cover a large number of employees. The defined-benefit pension plans are based mainly on the individual's final salary. Subsidiaries in other countries in the Group mainly have defined contribution pension plans.
In defined contribution plans, the Company pays stipulated fees to a separate legal entity and has no obligation to pay additional fees. Costs are charged to the Group's profit or loss at the rate at which the benefits are earned. In defined benefit pension plans, benefits are paid to current and former employees based on their salary upon retirement and the number of years of service. The Group bears the risk for payment of promised benefits.
The Group's net obligation to defined benefit plans is calculated individually for each plan by estimating future benefits that employees have earned through employment in current and previous periods. These benefits are discounted to a present value. Any unreported costs related to service in previous periods and the fair value of any plan assets are deducted.
Defined benefit pension plans are both funded and unfunded. When a plan is funded, its assets have been separated into plan assets. These plan assets can only be used for payments of benefits as per the pension agreements. The net value of the estimated present value of the obligations and the fair value of plan assets is recognised in the balance sheet, either as a provision or as a non-current financial receivable. When a surplus in a plan cannot be fully utilised, only the portion of the surplus that the Company can recover through reduced future fees or repayments is recognised.
A surplus in one plan is only offset by a deficit in another plan if the Company is entitled to utilise a surplus in one plan to settle a deficit in another plan, or if the obligations are intended to be settled on a net basis.
The pension cost and pension obligation for defined benefit pension plans are calculated using the Projected Unit Credit Method. This method distributes the cost of pensions at the rate at which employees perform services for the Company that increase their rights to future benefits. The aim is to expense expected future pension pay-outs in a manner that provides an even cost over the employee's period of employment. This calculation takes into account anticipated future salary increases and anticipated inflation. The Company's obligation is calculated annually by independent actuaries. The discount rate used is equivalent to the interest rate on high-quality corporate bonds or mortgage bonds with a maturity equivalent to the average maturity of the obligation and currency. For Swedish pension liabilities, the interest rate for Swedish housing bonds is used as a basis and for Norwegian pension liabilities, the interest rate for Norwegian corporate bonds is used.
Revaluations may arise when establishing the obligation's present value and fair value on plan assets. These may arise either because the actual outcome differs from previously made assumptions (known as experienced-based adjustments), or because assumptions were changed. Such revaluations are recognised in the balance sheet and in profit or loss under other comprehensive income. The net present value of the defined benefit obligation is established by means of discounting estimated future cash flows. The discount rate used is equivalent to the interest rate on high-quality corporate bonds or government bonds with a maturity equivalent to the average maturity of the obligation and currency.
A portion of the Group's defined benefit pension obligations has been financed through premiums to Alecta. The required information cannot be obtained from Alecta, so these pension obligations are reported as a defined contribution pension plan.
The special employer's contribution constitutes part of the actuarial assumptions and is therefore recognised as part of the net obligation/asset. To make it simpler, the part of the special employer's contribution that is calculated based on the Swedish Act on Safeguarding Pension Obligations in legal entities is recognised as an accrued expense instead of as part of the net obligation/asset.
Policyholder tax is recognised on an ongoing basis for the period to which the tax relates and is therefore not included in the calculation of liabilities. In the case of funded plans, the tax is on the return on plan assets and is recognised in other comprehensive income. For unfunded or partially unfunded plans, the tax is levied on profit for the year.
When the cost of a pension is determined differently in a legal entity than in the Group, a provision or claim for taxes on pension costs is recognised, such as a special employer's contribution for Swedish companies based on this difference. The present value for the provision or claim is not calculated.
55

Benefits upon termination of employment
A cost for benefits in conjunction with termination of employment is recognised only if there is a formal, detailed plan to terminate employment prior to the normal date.
Short-term benefits
Short-term benefits to employees are calculated without discounting and are recognised as an expense when the related services are performed.
A provision for the expected costs of bonus disbursements is recognised when the Group has a valid legal or informal obligation to make such payments as a result of services received from employees and where the obligation can be calculated reliably.
Share-based incentive programmes
The Group's share-based incentive programmes make it possible for Group management to purchase shares in the Company. The employees have paid a market premium for call options on Class B shares. The programme includes a subsidy so that the employee receives the same sum as the option premium paid in the form of cash payment, i.e. salary. This subsidy shall be paid two years after the issue decision, providing that the option holder is still employed in the Group and owns call options at that time. The subsidy, and related social security costs, is distributed as employee benefits expense over the vesting period. Addtech has no obligation to repurchase the options when an employee terminates employment. The holder can redeem the options irrespective of future employment at the Group. See also Note 6.
PROVISIONS AND CONTINGENT LIABILITIES
A provision is recognised in the balance sheet when the Company has a formal or informal obligation as a result of a transpired event, it is probable that an outflow of resources will be required to settle the obligation and the amount can be estimated reliably. If the effect is material, the provision is based on a present value calculation.
Provisions are made for future costs resulting from warranty undertakings. The calculation is based on expenditure during the financial year for similar undertakings or the estimated costs for each undertaking.
Provisions for restructuring costs are recognised when a detailed restructuring plan has been adopted and the restructuring has either begun or been announced.
Contingent liabilities are recognised when a possible undertaking exists stemming from past events and the existence of the undertaking is confirmed only by the occurrence or non-occurrence of one or more uncertain future events not entirely within the Company's control. Other obligations are also recognised as contingent liabilities if they result from past events but are not recognised as a liability or provision because it is unlikely that an outflow of resources will be required to settle the undertaking or because the size of the undertaking cannot be determined with sufficient accuracy.
REVENUE RECOGNITION
The fair value of what has been received, or what will be received, is recognised as sales revenue. Deductions are made for value-added tax, returns, discounts and price reductions. Revenue from sales of goods is recognised when certain requirements have been met. These requirements are that material risks and benefits associated with ownership of the goods have been transferred to the purchaser, that the selling company does not retain any involvement in ongoing administration nor does it exert any real control over the goods sold, that the revenue can be calculated reliably, that it is likely that the economic benefits that the Company will obtain from the transaction will accrue to the Company, and that the expenses that have arisen or are expected to arise as a result of the transaction can be calculated reliably.
Revenue from projects in progress is recognised in increments as projects are completed. The degree of completion is determined on the basis of accumulated project expenses at the end of the period as a proportion of estimated total project expenses. If future costs to complete a project are estimated to exceed remaining revenue, a provision is made for estimated losses.
FINANCE INCOME AND EXPENSES
Interest income on receivables and interest expense on liabilities are computed using the effective interest method. The effective interest rate is the rate that makes the present value of all future incoming and outgoing payments during the term equal to the carrying amount of the receivable or liability. Interest income includes accrued rebates, premiums and other differences between the original value of the receivable and the amount received upon maturity.
56

Interest and dividends are recognised as income when it is probable that the economic benefits associated with the transaction will accrue to the Company and that the income can be calculated reliably.
INCOME TAXES
Tax expense/income is recognised in the income statement, except when the underlying transaction is recognised in other comprehensive income or directly in equity, in which case the associated tax effect is recognised in other comprehensive income or in equity. Current tax refers to tax that is to be paid or refunded for the current year. This also includes adjustments of current tax attributable to prior periods.
Deferred tax is calculated using the liability method based on temporary differences between carrying amounts and tax bases of assets and liabilities. The amounts are calculated depending on how the temporary differences are expected to be settled and by applying the tax rates and tax rules enacted or announced at the end of the reporting period. Temporary differences are not taken into account in Group goodwill, nor in differences attributable to interests in subsidiaries or associates owned by Group companies outside Sweden that are not expected to be taxed in the foreseeable future. In the consolidated financial statements, untaxed reserves are allocated to deferred tax liability and equity. Deferred tax assets related to deductible temporary differences and tax loss carry-forwards are only recognised to the extent it is likely they will reduce tax payments in the future.
SEGMENT REPORTING
Assets and liabilities as well as income and expenses are attributed to the operating segment where they are used, earned and consumed, respectively. The operating segment's earnings are monitored by the highest executive decision-maker, i.e. the CEO of Addtech.
The division into operating segments is based on the business area organisation, by which the Group's operations are managed and monitored. These are Components, Energy, Industrial Process and Power Solutions. Operations that do not belong to these areas of operation are included under the heading Parent Company and Group items.
EARNINGS PER SHARE
Addtech discloses earnings per share (EPS) in direct connection with the income statement. Calculation of EPS is based on consolidated profit or loss for the year attributable to Parent Company shareholders and on the weighted average number of shares outstanding during the year. To calculate diluted EPS, the average number of shares is adjusted to take into account the effect of potentially dilutive ordinary shares that, during the periods reported, result from options awarded to employees.
CASH FLOW STATEMENT
In preparing the cash flow statement, the indirect method was applied as per IAS 7 Statement of Cash Flows. In addition to flows of cash and bank funds, current investments maturing within three months of the acquisition date that can be converted into bank deposits at an amount known beforehand are classified as cash and cash equivalents.
EVENTS AFTER THE REPORTING PERIOD
Events that occurred after the reporting period but whose circumstances were identifiable at the end of the reporting period are included in the reporting. If significant events occurred after the reporting period but did not affect the recognised results of operations or financial position, the event is disclosed under a separate heading in the administration report and in note 33.
RELATED PARTY DISCLOSURES
Where appropriate, information will be provided about transactions and agreements with related companies and physical persons. In the consolidated financial statements, intra-Group transactions fall outside this reporting requirement.
CHANGES IN ACCOUNTING POLICIES
When there is a change in accounting policy, the current period, previous period and accumulated amount per the opening of the comparative period are restated, unless otherwise prescribed by IAS 8 Accounting Policies, Changes in Accounting Estimates and Errors. If a change in accounting policy affects equity, the effect is recognised on a separate line in the statement of changes in equity.
57

GOVERNMENT GRANTS
Government grants refers to support from the government in the form of transfers of resources to a company in exchange for the company fulfilling (in the past or future) certain conditions regarding its operations.
The Group is active in areas where government grants are insignificant in scope.
PERSONNEL INFORMATION
The Swedish Annual Accounts Act requires more information than IFRS, including information about the gender of the Board of Directors and Group management.
Data on gender distribution refer to the situation at the end of the reporting period. 'Members of the Board of Directors' are directors, elected by a general meeting of shareholders, in the Parent Company and in Group companies. 'Members of senior management' are people in Group management, Managing Directors and vice MDs at Group companies.
ACCOUNTING POLICIES OF THE PARENT COMPANY
The Parent Company applies the same accounting policies as the Group, except where the Swedish Annual Accounts Act and the Swedish Act on Safeguarding Pension Obligations prescribe different procedures, or if the connection to taxation gives rise to other reporting.
The Parent Company prepared its annual accounts in accordance with the Swedish Annual Accounts Act (1995:1554) and recommendation RFR 2 Accounting for Legal Entities, from the Swedish Financial Reporting Board. RFR 2 prescribes that, in the annual accounts for its legal entity, the Parent Company shall apply all EU-approved IFRSs and standard interpretations to the greatest extent possible within the scope of the Annual Accounts Act and taking account of the relationship between reporting and taxation. The recommendation specifies which exceptions from and additions to IFRSs must be made.
Interests in Group companies are recognised in the Parent Company using the cost method, which means that transaction costs are included in the carrying amount for holdings in subsidiaries. Any changes in liabilities for contingent consideration are added to or reduce the (acquisition) cost. In the Group, transaction costs are expensed and changes in liabilities for contingent considerations are entered as income or expense.
Instead of IAS 19, the Swedish Act on Safeguarding Pension Obligations is applied in the Parent Company when calculating defined benefit pension plans. The most significant differences compared to IAS 19 are the method for determining the discount rate, that the defined benefit obligation is calculated based on current salaries without assuming future salary increases and that all actuarial gains and losses are recognised in profit or loss as they occur.
The Parent Company recognises untaxed reserves including deferred tax liabilities, rather than dividing them into deferred tax liabilities and equity as is done for the Group.
Group contributions are recognised in the Parent Company in accordance with the alternative rule. A Group contribution received from a subsidiary is recognised in the Parent Company as a financial income item, while a Group contribution paid from a Parent Company to a subsidiary is recognised as a financial expense. Shareholder contributions are recognised directly in the equity of the recipient and are capitalised in the contributor's shares and interests, insofar as no impairment is required.
As provided for in the Swedish Financial Reporting Board's standard RFR 2, the Company has elected not to apply IAS 39 (Financial Instruments: Recognition and Measurement) to financial instruments and financial guarantee contracts.
NOTE 2 CRITICAL ESTIMATES AND ASSUMPTIONS
NOTE 2 CRITICAL ESTIMATES AND ASSUMPTIONS
The carrying amounts of certain assets and liabilities are based in part on estimates and assumptions. This applies particularly to impairment testing of goodwill (Note 14) and to defined benefit pension obligations (Note 22). Assumptions and estimates are continually evaluated and are based on historical experience and expectations regarding future events deemed reasonable under prevailing circumstances.
Tests are performed each year to determine if goodwill is impaired. The recoverable amount for cashgenerating units has been determined by calculating values in use. For these calculations, certain estimates must be made.
58

A large part of the Group's pension obligations for salaried employees is on a defined benefit basis and is covered by collective policies with Alecta. Currently, it is impossible to obtain data from Alecta on the Group's share of obligations and plan assets, so the pension plan with Alecta must be recognised as a defined contribution plan. The consolidation ratio reported by Alecta does not indicate any deficit, but it is not possible to obtain detailed information from Alecta about the size of the pension obligation.
The present value of pension obligations recognised as defined benefit plans depends on multiple factors determined on an actuarial basis using a number of assumptions. In establishing these assumptions, Addtech consults with actuaries, and for the Norwegian pension liabilities Addtech complies with the guidelines issued by The Norwegian Accounting Standards Board. The assumptions used to determine the present value of the obligation include the discount rate and salary increases. Each change in these assumptions will affect the carrying amount of pension obligations. See also Note 22.
NOTE 3 FINANCIAL RISKS AND RISK MANAGMENT
NOTE 3 FINANCIAL RISKS AND RISK MANAGEMENT

GOALS AND POLICY FOR RISK MANAGEMENT
Addtech strives for structured and efficient management of the financial risks that arise in operations, which is manifest in the financial policy adopted by the Board of Directors. The financial operations are not conducted as a separate line of the business they are merely intended to constitute support for the business and reduce risks in the financial operations. The policy stipulates goals and risks in the financial operations, and how they are to be managed. The financial policy expresses the goal of minimising and controlling financial risks. The policy defines and identifies the financial risks that arise at Addtech and how responsibility for managing these risks is distributed in the organisation. The financial risks defined in the financial policy are transaction exposure, translation exposure, refinancing risk, interest rate risk, margin risk, liquidity risk and issuer/borrower risk. Operational risks, that is, financial risks related to operating activities, are managed by each subsidiary's management according to principles in the financial policy and subordinate process descriptions approved by the Group's Board of Directors and management. Risks such as translation exposure, refinancing risk and interest rate risk are managed by the Parent Company, Addtech AB. Financial derivatives with external counterparties may only be entered by Addtech AB. The subsidiaries hedge their risk via Addtech AB which, in turn, obtains hedges on the external market.
CURRENCY RISK
The Addtech Group conducts extensive trade abroad and a material currency exposure therefore arises in the Group, which must be managed in such a way as to minimise the impact on earnings ensuing from exchange rate fluctuations. The Group applies decentralised responsibility for currency risk management. This involves risk identification and risk hedging occurring at subsidiary level. It is important to capitalise on the size of the Group and natural conditions to match flows, and the subsidiaries must therefore hedge their risk via the Parent Company which, in turn, obtains hedges on the external market. For Addtech, currency risk arises 1) as a result of future payment flows in foreign currency, known as transaction exposure, and 2) because parts of the Group's equity comprise net assets in foreign subsidiaries, known as translation exposure. Monetary financial assets and liabilities in currencies other than each Group company's functional currency occur to a limited extent.
Transaction exposure
Transaction exposure comprises all future contracted and forecast ingoing and outgoing payments in foreign currency. The Group's currency flows usually pertain to flows in foreign currency from purchases, sales and dividends. Transaction exposure also comprises financial transactions and balances. During the year, the Group's payment flows in foreign currencies were distributed as follows:

SEKm
EUR USD NOK JPY DKK GBP CHF

Currency flows, gross 2016/2017

Inflows
1,328 584 59 54 41 27 17

Outflows
1,905 634 34 80 103 69 67

Currency flows, net

2016/2017
-577 -50 25 -26 -62 -42 -50

2015/2016
-505 -11 16 -41 -36 -46 -70

59

The effects of exchange rate fluctuations are reduced by buying and selling in the same currency, through currency clauses in customer contracts and, to a certain degree, by forward purchases or sales of foreign currency. Currency clauses are a common method in the industry for handling uncertainty associated with future cash flows. A currency clause means that compensation will be paid for any changes in the exchange rate that exceed a certain predefined level during the contract period. If these thresholds are not reached, for example when the exchange rate changes by less than two percentage points, no compensation is paid. The currency clauses adjust the exchange rate change between the time the order is placed and the invoice date. Currency clauses are symmetrically designed, which means that compensation is charged or credited when the exchange rate rises or declines beyond the predefined thresholds.
Of Group net sales, currency clauses cover about 13 percent (11) and sales in the purchasing currency make up about 33 percent (33). In certain transactions, there is a direct link between the customer's order and the associated purchase order, which is a good basis for effective currency risk management. However, in many cases the dates of the orders do not coincide, which may reduce the effectiveness of these measures. The subsidiaries have reduced their currency exposure by using forward foreign exchange contracts. At the end of the financial year, there were outstanding forward foreign exchange contracts in a gross amount of SEK 155 million (171), of which EUR equalled SEK 102 million (107), JPY SEK 16 million (15), USD SEK 15 million (27), CHF SEK 1 million (4), PLN SEK 15 million (16) and DKK SEK 8 million (0). Out of the total contracts, SEK 110 million (135) matures within six months, SEK 45 million (34) within 12 months and SEK 0 million (2) withing 18 months. Hedge accounting does not apply to forward foreign exchange contracts and they are classified as a financial asset measured at fair value held for trading. Hedge accounting applies to embedded derivatives consisting of currency clauses, and they are classified as derivatives used in hedge accounting. The cash flow effect from embedded derivatives normally occurs within six months.
The Group has a net exposure in several currencies. If each separate currency pair changes by 5 percent, the aggregate effect on profit would total about SEK 36 million (34), all else being equal. Inflows and outflows in the same currency mean that the Group's exposure is relatively limited. Currency flows in the Parent Company are mainly in Swedish kronor (SEK). To the extent that internal and external loans and investments in the Parent Company are in foreign currency, 100 percent of the capital amount is hedged.
Translation exposure
The translation exposure of the Addtech Group is currently not hedged. The Group's net assets are divided among foreign currencies as follows:

Net investments
NOK EUR DKK PLZ TTD GBP HKD 1) Impact of +/­5% in exchange rate on Group equity 2) Circumstances in the previous year

31 Mar 17

SEKm
736.0 450.0 358.0
52.0 28.0 155.0 14.0

Sensitivity analysis 1)
36.8 22.5 17.9
2.6 1.4 7.8 0.7

31 Mar 16

SEKm
679.0 357.0 357.0
53.0 25.0 21.0
9.0

Sensitivity analysis 2)
34.0 17.9 17.9
2.7 1.3 1.1 0.5

When translating the income statement of units with a functional currency other than SEK, a translation effect arises when exchange rates vary. With the present distribution of Group companies' different functional currencies, a change of 1 percentage point in the exchange rates would have an effect of SEK +/- 41 million (34) on net sales and SEK +/- 3 million (2) on operating profit.

60

The exchange rates used in the financial statements are shown in the following table:

Exchange rate
CHF 1 CNY 100 DKK 100 EUR 1 GBP 1 HKD 1 JPY 1000 NOK 100 PLZ 1 TRY 1 TTD 1 TWD 1 USD 1

Average rate

2016/2017
8.78 128.88 127.88
9.51 11.32
1.12 80.20 103.93
2.19 2.72 1.32 0.28 8.68

2015/2016
8.70 133.15 125.18
9.34 12.77
1.09 70.50 102.33
2.21 2.98 1.33 0.26 8.47

Closing day rate

2017-03-31
8.91 129.44 128.16
9.53 11.14
1.15 79.70 103.97
2.26 2.45 1.34 0.30 8.92

2016-03-31
8.44 125.50 123.80
9.23 11.66
1.05 72.00 98.00
2.17 2.87 1.25 0.25 8.10

FINANCING AND LIQUIDITY
The overall objective of Addtech's financing and debt management is to secure financing for the operations in both the long and short term, and to minimise borrowing costs. The capital requirement is to be secured through an active and professional borrowing procedure comprising overdraft and other credit facilities. Raising of external financing is centralised at Addtech AB. Adequate payment capacity is to be achieved through contractual credit facilities. Surplus liquidity is primarily used to pay down outstanding credits. The Parent Company is responsible for the Group's long-term financing as well as its supply of liquidity. The Parent Company provides an internal bank which lends to and borrows from the subsidiaries. The Group's and Parent Company's non-current and current interest-bearing liabilities are shown in Notes 24 and 25.
To manage surpluses and deficits in different currencies, Addtech uses currency swaps from time to time. This allows the Group to reduce its financing costs and the Company's liquid funds to be used in an efficient manner.
Refinancing risk
The refinancing risk is the risk of Addtech not having access to sufficient financing on each occasion. The refinancing risk increases if Addtech's credit rating deteriorates or if Addtech becomes too dependent on one source of financing. If all or a large part of the debt portfolio matures on a single or a few occasions, this could involve the turnover or refinancing of a large proportion of the loan volume having to occur on disadvantageous interest and borrowing terms.
In order to limit the refinancing risk, the procurement of long-term credit facilities is commenced no later than nine months before the credit facility matures. On 31 March 2017, the Group's credit facilities amounted to SEK 1,502 million (1,315), represented by bank overdraft facilities of SEK 1,102 million (1,002) and other agreed credit facilities of SEK 400 million (315). During the year the overdraft facility increased by SEK 100 million (202) and other agreed credit facilities increased by SEK 100 million (1). At 31 March 2017, the Group had utilised SEK 861 million (387) of the bank overdraft facilities and SEK 0 million (313) of the other credit facilities. Unutilised bank overdraft facilities and credit facilities amounted to SEK 641 million (617). The Group's credit facilities are contingent upon loan covenants, the conditions of which are fulfilled with a wide margin. For covenants, Addtech uses two ratios: EBITDA/net financial items and equity/assets.
INTEREST RATE RISK
The interest rate risk is regulated by ensuring that the average fixed interest term of the debt portfolio varies between 0-3 years. The debt portfolio consists of bank overdraft facilities and outstanding external loans. The interest rate at 31 March 2017 was variable, that is, 0-3 months. Addtech's main exposure to interest rate risk is in its debt portfolio. Aside from the pension liability, interest-bearing external debt totals SEK 979 million (762). With the current net financial debt, the impact on the Group's net financial items is SEK +/- 5 million if interest rates change by 1 percentage point.

61

ISSUER/BORROWER RISK AND CREDIT RISK
Issuer/borrower risk and credit risk are defined as the risk of Addtech's counterparties failing to fulfil their contractual obligations. Addtech is exposed to credit risk in its financial transactions, that is, in investing its surplus liquidity and executing forward foreign exchange transactions, and in its commercial operations in connection with accounts receivable and advance payments to suppliers. Maximum credit risk exposure from financial assets is consistent with the carrying amount of those assets.
Addtech's financial function at the Parent Company is responsible for assessing and managing issuer/borrower risk. The financial policy prescribes that surplus liquidity only be invested with counterparties that have a very high credit rating. As in prior years, in 2016/2017 surplus funds were not invested with any counterparties other than Swedish banks, aside from the Group's normal bank contacts.
To utilise its subsidiaries' detailed knowledge of Addtech's customers and suppliers, Addtech has each company assess the credit risk in its commercial transactions. New customers are assessed before credit is granted, and credit limits set are strictly enforced. Short credit periods are the goal, and avoiding excessive concentration of business with individual customers and with specific sectors helps minimise risks. No individual customer accounts for more than 2 percent (2) of total credit exposure during a oneyear period. The equivalent figure for the ten largest customers is about 13 percent (12). Exposure per customer segment and geographic market is presented in Note 5. Bad debt losses totalled SEK 1 million (1) during the year, equal to 0 percent (0) of net sales.

Accounts receivable, SEKm
Carrying amount Impairment losses Cost

2017-03-31
1,170 -9
1,161

2016-03-31
972 5
977

Change in impaired accounts receivable
Amount at start of year Corporate acquisitions Year's impairment losses/reversals Settled impairment losses Translation effects Total

2016/2017
-5 -1 -4 1 0 -9

2015/2016
-4 -1 -1 1 0 -5

Time analysis of accounts receivable that are overdue but not impaired < = 30 days 31­60 days > 60 days Total
NOTE 4 NET SALES BY REVENUE TYPE
NOTE 4 NET SALES BY REVENUE TYPE

2017-03-31
96 16 23 135

2016-03-31
97 26 13 136

Group

2016/2017

2015/2016

OEM

Components Products for end users Components Machinery/Instruments Materials Services Total

4,086
2,502 345 170 75
7,178

3,608
2,000 312 162 73
6,155

OEM components are built into the products that Addtech's customers produce. OEM stands for `original equipment manufacturer'. Products for end users comprise all other uses. Regarding other revenue types, dividends and interest income are recognised in financial items, see Note 11.

62

Components
OEM Components Products for end users Components Machinery/Instruments Materials Services Total
Energy
OEM Components Products for end users Components Machinery/Instruments Materials Services Total
Industrial Process
OEM Components Products for end users Components Machinery/Instruments Materials Services Total
Power Solutions
OEM Components Products for end users Components Machinery/Instruments Materials Services Total

2016/2017
1,731
480 74 52 18
2,355 2016/2017
665
1,058 62 17 5
1,807 2016/2017
621
623 206
88 47 1,585 2016/2017
1,084
335 2
13 5
1,439

2015/2016
1,492
403 63 56 15
2,029 2015/2016
637
768 60 16 6
1,487 2015/2016
566
551 186
75 45 1,423 2015/2016
924
280 1
14 7
1,226

63

NOTE 5 SEGMENT REPORTING
NOTE 5 SEGMENT REPORTING
The division into business areas reflects Addtech's internal organisation and reporting system. Addtech reports its business areas as operating segments. Addtech is organised into four business areas: Components, Energy, Industrial Process and Power Solutions.
Components
Components markets and sells components and sub-systems in mechanics, electromechanics, hydraulics and electronics as well as automation solutions. Its customers are mainly in the manufacturing industry.
Energy
Energy markets and sells products for the transmission and distribution of electricity and products in electrical safety, electrical installation and connection technology (circuitry). Its customers mainly operate in the energy and electrical installation market via specifiers and electricity wholesalers.
Industrial Process
Industrial Process markets and sells solutions, sub-systems and components (often under own brand) which help to optimise industrial processes and flows. Its customers mainly operate in the North European manufacturing industry.
Power Solutions
Power Solutions develops, markets and sells components and system solutions that ensure power supply, as well as operation and control of movements or energy flows, such as battery solutions and products used in the interaction between humans and machines. The business area's customers mainly work with special vehicles, telecoms, environmental technology and medical technology.

Data by operating segment
Net sales
Components Energy Industrial Process Power Solutions Parent Company and Group items Total

2016/2017

External
2,354 1,806 1,580 1,438
­ 7,178

Internal
1 1 5 1 -8 0

Total
2,355 1,807 1,585 1,439
-8 7,178

2015/2016

External
2,027 1,486 1,418 1,224
0 6,155

Internal
2 1 5 2 -10 0

Total
2,029 1,487 1,423 1,226
-10 6,155

2016/2017

2015/2016

Operating profit/loss, assets and liabilities

Operating profit /loss

Assets 1) Liabilities 1)

Operating profit /loss

Components Energy Industrial Process Power Solutions Parent Company and Group items Operating profit/loss, assets and liabilities

153

1,429

407

122

183

1,129

292

115

110

858

264

101

170

759

239

122

-12

340

1,572

-17

604

4,515

2,774

443

Finance income and expenses

-24

-20

Profit after financial items

580

423

1) Does not include balances in Group accounts or financial transactions with Group companies.

Assets 1) 1,086 997 706 680 336
3,805

Liabilities 1) 339 246 236 209
1,261
2,291

64

2016/2017

Investments in non-current assets

Property, plant and
Intangible 1) equipment 1)

Components Energy Industrial Solutions Power Solutions Discontinued operations Parent Company and Group Items Total

1

18

0

12

1

20

7

7

­

­

0

1

9

58

1) The amounts do not include the effects from acquisitions.

2016/2017

Depreciation/amortisation of noncurrent assets Components Energy Industrial Solutions Power Solutions Discontinued operations Parent Company and Group Items Total

Property, plant and
Intangible equipment

-35

-10

-43

-10

-16

-11

-17

-6

­

­

-1

-2

-112

-39

Total 19 12 21 14 ­ 1 67

2015/2016

Property, plant and
Intangible 1) equipment 1)

3

6

0

10

1

13

1

6

1

33

13

2

19

70

Total -45 -53 -27 -23 0 -3
-151

2015/2016

Property, plant and
Intangible equipment

-28

-8

-35

-9

-13

-11

-14

-5

-26

-13

-3

-2

-119

-48

Significant profit or loss items, other than depreciation or amortisation, not matched by payments in 2015/2016 Components Energy Industrial Solutions Power Solutions Parent Company and Group Items Total

Capital gains 0 0 0 -9 0 -9

Change in pension liability
3 -5 0 1 -2
-3

Other items -6 5 -3 8 -8 -4

Total 9
10 14
7 34 15 89
Total -36 -44 -24 -19 -39 -5
-167
Total -3 0 -3 0
-10 -16

Data by country

2016/2017

2015/2016

Sweden Denmark Finland Norway Other countries Parent Company, Group items and unallocated assets
Total

Net sales, external 2,581 1,048 903 1,098 1,548
­ 7,178

Of which nonAssets 1) current assets

2,035

972

573

213

539

230

831

511

400

157

137 4,515

-1 2,082

Net sales, external 2,324 978 750 837 1,266
­ 6,155

Of which nonAssets 1) current assets

1,717

764

543

210

422

169

756

456

201

59

166 3,853

8 1,741

1) Does not include Group account balances and financial assets. External net sales are based on the customers' location, and the carrying amounts of assets are based on where the assets are located.

2016/2017

2015/2016

Investments in non-current assets Sweden Denmark Finland Norway Other countries Discontinued operations Total

Property, plant Intangible and equipent

3

19

1

9

0

14

0

4

5

12

­

­

9

58

Total 22 10 14 4 17 0 67

Property, plant Intangible and equipent

17

12

1

4

0

5

­

3

0

13

1

33

19

70

Total 29 5 5 3 13 34 89

65

The Group has no single customer whose revenues account for 10 percent of total revenue, for which reason there is no related reporting.
NOTE 6 EMPLOYEES AND EMPLOYEE BENEFITS EXPENSE
NOTE 6 EMPLOYEES AND EMPLOYEE BENEFITS EXPENSE

Average number of employees
Sweden Parent Company Other companies
Denmark Finland Norway Other countries Total
Of which discontinued operations

2016/2017

Men

Women

6

5

633

190

200

95

184

61

225

73

344

117

1,592

541

­

­

Total
11 823 295 245 298 461 2,133
­

2015/2016

Men

Women

7

6

688

255

238

161

220

118

325

27

273

68

1,751

635

208

224

Total
13 943 399 338 352 341 2,386 432

2016/2017

2015/2016

Salaries and remuneration

Senior management

of which profitrelated
remuneration

Other

Senior

employees management

of which profitrelated
remuneration

Sweden Parent Company Other companies
Denmark Finland Norway Other countries Total

21

4

4

22

4

47

5

362

60

6

23

3

184

26

3

16

2

121

23

3

23

1

176

22

2

15

2

85

13

2

145

17

932

166

20

Of which discontinued operations

­

­

­

24

3

Senior management is defined as Group management, Managing Directors and vice MD's in Group subsidiaries.

Other employees
7 404 227 135 184
69 1,026
196

Group

Parent Company

Salaries, remuneration and social security costs

2016/2017

2015/2016

2016/2017

2015/2016

Salaries and other remuneration

1,077

1,193

25

30

Contractually agreed pensions for senior management

19

24

4

4

Contractual pensions to others

81

128

1

2

Other social security costs

200

197

10

10

Total

1,377

1,542

40

46

Of which discontinued operations

-

336

-

-

At year-end, outstanding pension commitments to senior management totalled SEK 9 million (9) for the Group and SEK 2 million (2) for the Parent Company. Different accounting policies are applied to pension costs in the Parent Company and the Group (see Note 1 Accounting Policies).

Proportion of women Board of Directors (not including alternates) Other members of senior management

Group

2017-03-31 4%
14%

2016-03-31 4%
16%

Parent Company

2017-03-31 29% 17%

2016-03-31 29% 17%

66

PREPARATION AND DECISION-MAKING PROCESS FOR REMUNERATION TO THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS, CEO AND GROUP MANAGEMENT
The guidelines applied in the 2016/2017 financial year for remuneration to senior management correspond to those in the proposal for the coming year included in the administration report. The principle for remuneration to the Board of Directors, Chief Executive Officer (CEO) and Group management is that remuneration should be competitive. The nomination committee proposes Board fees to the Annual General Meeting (AGM). Board fees are paid based on a resolution of the AGM. No separate fees are paid for committee work.
For remuneration to the CEO, members of Group management and other members of senior management in the Group, the Board of Directors has appointed a remuneration committee consisting of the Chairman and Vice Chairman of the Board, with the CEO as the reporting member. A fixed salary, variable remuneration and conventional employment benefits are paid to the CEO, Group management and other members of senior management. In addition, pension benefits and incentive programmes apply, as described below. The remuneration committee adheres to the guidelines for remuneration to senior management approved by Addtech AB's AGM.
PERSONNEL OPTIONS FOR MEMBERS OF SENIOR MANAGEMENT
Scheme 2016/2020
The 2016 AGM resolved to approve an incentive scheme for senior management and a selected number of senior executives of the Addtech Group who are directly able to have an impact on the Group's financial performance. The scheme consists of call options for shares repurchased by Addtech, where each call option carries the right to acquire a repurchased Class B share. Members of the Board of Directors have not had the right to purchase call options, with the exception of the CEO. Similar call option schemes for senior management and a selected number of senior executives in the Addtech Group were resolved by the AGMs from 2009 to 2015.
The call options are freely transferable as financial instruments. In order to encourage participation in the scheme, a subsidy will be paid corresponding to the premium paid for each call option. This subsidy will be paid two years following the AGM, providing that the option holder's employment with the Group has not been terminated and that the call options have not been disposed of prior to this point. Scheme expenses consist of the subsidy plus social security costs. The subsidy corresponds to the option premium that the Company receives on transferring the call options, for which reason the scheme will not involve any net charge to the Company's equity.
The allotment as resolved by the 2016 Annual General Meeting included 20 senior executives and a total of 300,000 call options, corresponding to 0.4 percent of the total number of shares and approximately 0.3 percent of the total number of votes in the Company. The allotment varied between 7,500 ­ 37,500 options per person. The Chief Executive Officer acquired 31,500 and the others in Group Management 135,000.
The options carry the right to the purchase of repurchased Class B shares between 16 September 2019 and 5 June 2020. The purchase price for shares on exercising options will correspond to 120 percent of the volume-weighted average of the price paid for the Company's B shares on NASDAQ Stockholm between 1 September 2016 and 14 September 2016. The premium for the call options will correspond to the market value of the call options as per an external independent valuation, in accordance with the Black & Scholes model. The measuring period for calculating the option premium will be based on the volume-weighted average of the price paid for the Company's Class B shares on NASDAQ Stockholm between 8 September 2016 and 14 September 2016.
The strike price for the call options was set at SEK 159.00. The market value of the call options was set at SEK 11.80.
The costs of the scheme consist of the subsidy paid during September 2018 as detailed above and the social security fees payable on this subsidy. The total cost of the subsidy, including social security fees, has been estimated at approximately SEK 3.6 million after corporation tax. The subsidy corresponds to the option premium that the Company will receive on transfer of the call options. The employee benefits cost is reported on an accruals basis over the vesting period.
The Company is entitled to buy back call options from the holder if the holder does not wish to exercise all call options acquired. Options are to be acquired at a price that at any one time corresponds to the highest market value. Shares may not, however, be bought back during any such period when trading in the Company's shares is forbidden.
67

Scheme 2015/2019
The 2015 AGM resolved to approve an incentive scheme for senior management and a selected number of senior executives of the Addtech Group who are directly able to have an impact on the Group's financial performance. The scheme consists of call options for shares repurchased by Addtech, where each call option carries the right to acquire a repurchased Class B share. Members of the Board of Directors have not had the right to purchase call options, with the exception of the CEO.
The call options are freely transferable as financial instruments. In order to encourage participation in the scheme, a subsidy will be paid corresponding to the premium paid for each call option. This subsidy will be paid two years following the AGM, providing that the option holder's employment with the Group has not been terminated and that the call options have not been disposed of prior to this point. Scheme expenses consist of the subsidy plus social security costs. The subsidy corresponds to the option premium that the Company receives on transferring the call options, for which reason the scheme will not involve any net charge to the Company's equity.
The allotment as resolved by the 2015 Annual General Meeting included 24 senior executives and a total of 350,000 call options, corresponding to 0.5 percent of the total number of shares and approximately 0.4 percent of the total number of votes in the Company. The allotment varied between 4,000 ­ 30,000 options per person. The Chief Executive Officer acquired 30,000 and the others in Group Management 150,000.
The options carry the right to the purchase of repurchased Class B shares between 17 September 2018 and 3 June 2019. The purchase price for shares on exercising options will correspond to 120 percent of the volume-weighted average of the price paid for the Company's B shares on NASDAQ Stockholm between 31 August 2015 and 11 September 2015. The premium for the call options will correspond to the market value of the call options as per an external independent valuation, in accordance with the Black & Scholes model. The measuring period for calculating the option premium will be based on the volumeweighted average of the price paid for the Company's Class B shares on NASDAQ Stockholm between 7 September 2015 and 11 September 2015.
The strike price for the call options was set at SEK 154.50. The market value of the call options was set at SEK 10.20. According to terms resolved by the Annual General Meeting, the scheme will be recalculated following the Group's distribution of AddLife. The exercise price for the call options was established, after recalculation, at SEK 125.10, entitling the holder to 1.23 shares per option.
The costs of the scheme consist of the subsidy paid in 2017 including social security charges, which amount to approximately SEK 3.5 million after corporation tax. The subsidy corresponds to the option premium that the Company receives on transferring the call options. The personnel cost accrues the vesting period.
Scheme 2014/2018
The allotment as resolved by the 2014 Annual General Meeting for 2014 included 25 people and a total of 350,000 call options, corresponding to approximately 0.5 percent of the total number of shares and approximately 0.4 percent of the total number of votes in the Company. The allotment varied between 3,900 ­ 30,000 options per person. The Chief Executive Officer acquired 30,000 and the others in Group Management 140,000.
The options carry the right to the purchase of repurchased Class B shares between 17 September 2017 and 1 June 2018. The purchase price for shares on exercising options will correspond to 120 percent of the volume-weighted average of the price paid for the Company's B shares on NASDAQ Stockholm between 29 August 2014 and 11 September 2014. The premium for the call options will correspond to the market value of the call options as per an external independent valuation, in accordance with the Black & Scholes model. The measuring period for calculating the option premium will be based on the volumeweighted average of the price paid for the Company's Class B shares on NASDAQ Stockholm between 5 September 2014 and 11 September 2014.
The strike price for the call options was set at SEK 116.70. The market value of the call options was set at SEK 6.40. According to terms resolved by the Annual General Meeting, the scheme will be recalculated following the Group's distribution of AddLife. The exercise price for the call options was established, after recalculation, at SEK 125.10, entitling the holder to 1.23 shares per option.
The costs of the scheme consist of the subsidy paid in 2016 including social security charges, which amount to approximately SEK 3 million after corporation tax. The subsidy corresponds to the option premium that the Company receives on transferring the call options. The personnel cost accrues the vesting period.
68

Scheme 2013/2017
The allotment as resolved by the 2013 Annual General Meeting for 2013 included 25 senior executives for a total of 180,000 call options, corresponding to approximately 0.8 percent of the total number of shares and approximately 0.6 percent of the total number of votes in the Company. The allotment varied between 4,000 ­ 26,550 options per person. The Chief Executive Officer acquired 26,550 and the others in Group Management 89,000.
The options carry the right to the purchase of repurchased Class B shares between 19 September 2016 and 2 June 2017. The purchase price for shares on exercising options will correspond to 120 percent of the volume-weighted average of the price paid for the Company's B shares on NASDAQ Stockholm between 30 August and 12 September 2013. The premium for the call options will correspond to the market value of the call options as per an external independent valuation, in accordance with the Black & Scholes model. The measuring period for calculating the option premium will be based on the volumeweighted average of the price paid for the Company's Class B shares on NASDAQ Stockholm between 6 September 2013 and 12 September 2013.
The exercise price for the call options was established at SEK 106.13. The market value of the call options was set at SEK 5.73. According to terms resolved by the Annual General Meeting, the scheme was recalculated after the Group's distribution of AddLife. After recalculation, the exercise price for the call options amounts to SEK 85.90, entitling the holder to 3.7 shares per option.
The costs of the scheme consist of the subsidy paid in 2015 including social security charges, which totalled approximately SEK 3 million after corporation tax. The subsidy corresponds to the option premium that the Company receives on transferring the call options. The personnel cost accrues the vesting period.
In June 2016, 77,568 options were repurchased under current market conditions as of 13 June 2016, based on an independent external valuation using the Black & Scholes model. Between 1 September 2016 and 31 March 2017, 44,670 options were exercised, corresponding to 165,279 shares. Since the financial year-end, the remaining 57,762 options have been exercised, corresponding to 213,721 shares.
BOARD OF DIRECTORS
The Board fees of SEK 1,880 thousand (1,880) set by the AGM are distributed, as per the AGM's decision, among those Board Directors who are not employed by the Parent Company.
PARENT COMPANY'S CEO
Johan Sjö, Parent Company CEO, received a fixed salary of SEK 5,013 thousand (4,196) and SEK 1,734 thousand (2,097) in variable pay. Variable remuneration includes SEK 294 thousand regarding the year's cost for a subsidy for participation in the Group's incentive programme. Taxable benefits totalling SEK 94 thousand (92) are additional. From age 65, the CEO is covered by a defined contribution pension, the size of which depends on the outcome of pension insurance agreements. During 2016/2017, a total of SEK 1,600 thousand (1,350) in pension premiums, determined annually by the remuneration committee, were paid for the CEO. Variable salary is not pensionable income.
Variable remuneration based on Group earnings may be payable in an amount up to 30 percent of fixed salary. In addition, a further premium of 20 percent may be payable of the variable remuneration received used in acquisition of shares in Addtech AB.
The period of notice is of 12 months when the Company terminates the employment contract and six months when the CEO does so. In the case of termination on the initiative of the Company, the CEO is entitled to a severance payment equivalent to one year's salary in addition to salary during the period of notice. No severance package is payable if the employee terminates the employment contract.
OTHER MEMBERS OF GROUP MANAGEMENT
Other members of Group management were paid a total of SEK 8,843 thousand (10,769) in fixed salaries and SEK 3,561 thousand (3,205) in variable remuneration. Variable remuneration includes SEK 930 thousand (572) regarding the year's cost for a subsidy for participation in the Group's incentive programme. This variable remuneration was expensed during the 2016/2017 financial year and was paid during 2017/2018. Taxable benefits totalling SEK 402 thousand (570) are additional. Persons in Group management are covered from age 65 by pension entitlements based on individual agreements. Existing pension schemes consist of defined contribution schemes, in which the pension amount depends on the outcome of pension insurance agreements, as well as defined benefit schemes.
69

The cost of the defined benefit pensions and the defined contribution schemes is basically equivalent to the ITP plan (supplementary pension scheme for salaried employees).During 2016/2017, a total of SEK 2,553 thousand (2,934) in pension premiums was paid for the group 'Other members of Group management'.
Variable remuneration based on Group earnings may be payable in an amount up to 30 percent of fixed salary. In addition, a further premium of 20 percent may be payable of the variable remuneration received used in acquisition of shares in Addtech AB.
The period of notice is 12 months when the Company terminates the employment contract and six months when the employee does so. Severance pay is payable upon termination of employment equivalent to no more than one year's salary. No severance package is payable if the employee terminates the employment contract.

Remuneration and other benefits 2016/2017

Basic salary/

Variable

Board fees remuneration 1) Other benefits Pension costs

Chairman of the Board Other members of the Board Chief Executive Officer Other members of Group management 2) Total

0.5 1.4 5.0 8.8 15.7

­

­

­

­

­

­

1.7

0.2

1.6

3.6

0.5

2.6

5.3

0.7

4.2

1) Including remuneration to group management participating in incentive programmes. 2) During the year, other members of Group Management consisted of five people, including one woman and four men.

Total
0.5 1.4 8.5 15.5 25.9

Remuneration and other benefits 2015/2016

Basic salary/

Variable

Board fees remuneration 1) Other benefits Pension costs

Total

Chairman of the Board Other members of the Board Chief Executive Officer Other members of Group management 2) Total

0.5 1.4 4.2 10.8 16.9

­

­

­

0.5

­

­

­

1.4

2.1

0.1

1.4

7.8

3.2

0.6

2.9

17.5

5.3

0.7

4.3

27.2

1) Including remuneration to group management participating in incentive programmes.
2) At the beginning of the year, other members of Group Management consisted of six people, including one woman and five men. At the end of the year, other members of Group Management consisted of five people, including one woman and four men.

Board fees, SEK '000s
Name
Anders Börjesson Tom Hedelius Eva Elmstedt Ulf Mattsson Johan Sjö Lars Spongberg Malin Nordesjö Kenth Eriksson Total

Position
Chairman of the Board Vice Chairman of the Board Director Director Director Director Director Director

2016/2017
Fee
500 380 250 250
­ ­ 250 250 1,880

2015/2016
Fee
500 380 250 250
­ 250 250
­ 1,880

70

NOTE 7 REMUNERATION TO AUDITORS
NOTE 7 REMUNERATION TO AUDITORS

KPMG Audit assignment Tax consultation Other assignments TOTAL REMUNERATION TO KPMG Other auditors Audit assignment Tax consultation Other assignments TOTAL REMUNERATION TO OTHER AUDITORS
Total remuneration to auditors

Group 2016/2017

2015/2016

5

5

1

0

2

2

8

7

1

1

0

0

0

0

1

1

9

8

Parent Company

2016/2017

2015/2016

0

0

0

0

1

0

1

0

­

­

­

­

­

­

­

­

1

0

NOTE 8 DEPRECIATION AND AMORTISATION
NOTE 8 DEPRECIATION AND AMORTISATION

Depreciation and amortisation, by function Cost of sales Selling expenses Administrative expenses Discontinued operations Total
Depreciation and amortisation, by type of asset Intangible assets Buildings and land Leasehold improvements Machinery Equipment Total
Of which discontinued operations

Group
2016/2017
-20 -121
-10 ­
-151

Parent Company

2015/2016 2016/2017

-20

­

-98

­

-10

-1

-39

­

-167

-1

2015/2016
­ ­ -1 ­ -1

Group
2016/2017
-112 -3 -2
-14 -20 -151
­

Parent Company

2015/2016 2016/2017

-119

0

-4

­

-2

-1

-15

­

-27

0

-167

-1

-39

2015/2016
0 ­ -1 ­ 0 -1

71

NOTE 9 OTHER OPERATING INCOME AND EXPENSES
NOTE 9 OTHER OPERATING INCOME AND EXPENSES
Group Other operating income Rental revenue Gain on sale of operations and non-current assets Change in value of derivatives Exchange gains, net Revaluation of contingent considerations Other Total Other operating expenses Property costs Loss on sale of operations and non-current assets Change in value of derivatives Exchange losses, net Revaluation of contingent considerations Other Total
NOTE 10 OPERATING EXPENSES
NOTE 10 OPERATING EXPENSES
Group Inventories, raw materials and consumables Employee benefits expense Depreciation/amortisation Impairment of inventories Impairment of doubtful accounts receivable Other operating expenses Total

2016/2017
2 2 1 7 21 15 48
1 -1
-8 -5 -12

2015/2016
1 2 14 11 28
-1 -2 -1 -2 -4 -3 -13

2016/2017
4,379 1,424
151 13 4
653 6,624

2015/2016
3,772 1,296
128 14 1
519 5,730

72

NOTE 11 FINANCE INCOME AND COSTS
NOTE 11 FINANCE INCOME AND COSTS
Group Interest income on bank balances Dividends Exchange rate changes, net Other finance income FINANCE INCOME
Interest expense on financial liabilities measured at amortised cost Interest expense on financial liabilities measured at fair value Interest expense on pension liability Changes in value from revaluation of financial assets/liabilities, net Other finance costs FINANCE COSTS Net financial items

2016/2017 2 0 0 0 2
-6 -4 -5 -1 -10 -26 -24

2015/2016 2 0 0 0 2
-7 -2 -5 -1 -7 -22 -20

Parent Company Group contribution PROFIT FROM INTERESTS IN GROUP COMPANIES Interest income:
Group companies PROFIT FROM NON­CURRENT FINANCIAL ASSETS Interest income, etc:
Group companies Other interest income, change in value of derivatives and exchange rate differences INTEREST INCOME AND SIMILAR ITEMS Interest expense, etc: Group companies Other interest expense, change in value of derivatives and banking fees INTEREST EXPENSE AND SIMILAR ITEMS Finance income and costs
NOTE 12 YEAR-END APPROPRIATIONS - PARENT COMPANY
NOTE 12 YEAR-END APPROPRIATIONS - PARENT COMPANY
Reversal of tax allocation reserve Provision made to tax allocation reserve Excess amortisation/depreciation Total

2016/2017 318 318
15 15
0 7 7
-1 -18 -19 321

2015/2016 190 190
27 27
2 8 10
-1 -15 -16 211

2016/2017
49 -91
0 -42

2015/2016
35 -55
0 -20

Had the Parent Company reported deferred tax on year-end appropriations as per the policies applied in the consolidated financial statements, the deferred tax expense would have totalled SEK 9 million (4).

73

NOTE 13 TAXES
NOTE 13 TAXES
Current tax for the period Adjustment from previous years Total current tax expense Deferred tax Total recognised tax expense
Group Profit before tax Weighted average tax based on national tax rates Tax effects of
Non-deductible costs Non-taxable income Transaction costs, revaluation contingent considerations acquisitions Other Recognised tax expense
Parent Company Profit before tax Tax based on current tax rate for parent company Tax effects of
Standard interest on tax allocation reserves Non-deductible costs Other Recognised tax expense
Deferred taxes, net, at year-end Group Non-current assets Untaxed reserves Pension provisions Other Net recognised Deferred taxes, net, at year­end

Group
2016/2017 -147.6 0.3 -147.3 17.2 -130.1

2015/2016
-109.3 0.6
-108.7 18.9 -89.8

2016/2017 579.6 -125.9

% 21.7

-5.4 1.9
1.1 -1.8 -130.1
2016/2017 270.1 -59.4

0.9 -0.3 -0.2 0.3 22.4
%
22.0

-0.2 -1.0 0.1 -60.5

0.0 0.4 0.0 22.4

2017-03-31

Assets
1 ­ 15 13 -21 8

Liabilities
-186 -113
0 0 21 -278

Net
-185 -113
15 13
0 -270

Parent Company

2016/2017
-60.5 ­
-60.5 0.0
-60.5

2015/2016
-37.0 ­
-37.0 -1.0
-38.0

2015/2016 422.5 -89.7

% 21.2

-6.2 1.3
2.0 2.8 -89.8
2015/2016 180.0 -39.6

1.5 -0.3 -0.5 -0.7 21.3
%
22.0

-0.3 -0.4 2.7 -37.6

0.2 0.2 -1.5 20.9

2016-03-31

Assets
1 ­ 14 8 -17 6

Liabilities
-156 -102
0 -1 17 -242

Net
-155 -102
14 7 0
-236

74

Group
Non-current assets Untaxed reserves Pension provisions Other Deferred taxes, net

2017-03-31

Amount at start of year

Recognised in profit or
loss

Discontinued operations

Acquisitions and
disposals

Recognised in other
comprehensive income

Translation effects

-154.9 -102.8
13.9 8.1
-235.7

23.5 -7.1 -1.1 1.9 17.2

-

-49.5

-

-4.2

-

-

-

2.3

-

-51.4

0.3

-4.2

0.7

0.0

2.6

0.0

-0.2

0.4

3.4

-3.8

Amount at year-end
-184.8 -113.4
15.4 12.5 -270.3

Group
Non-current assets Untaxed reserves Pension provisions Other Deferred taxes, net

2016-03-31

Amount at start of year
including discontinued
operations

Recognised in profit or
loss

Discontinued operations

Acquisitions and
disposals

Recognised in other
comprehensive income

Translation effects

-152.1 -95.6 32.2 2.3
-213.2

20.1 -6.2 -0.5 5.5 18.9

20.3 -3.0 -7.7 5.5 15.1

-47.1 0.0 0.0 -3.2
-50.3

0.7

3.2

­

2.0

-9.8

-0.3

0.0

-2.0

-9.1

2.9

Amount at year-end
-154.9 -102.8
13.9 8.1
-235.7

Parent Company Financial instruments Deferred taxes, net

2017-03-31

2016-03-31

Amount at Recognised

start of in profit or

year

loss

-0.1

0.0

-0.1

0.0

Amount at year-end
-0.1 -0.1

Amount at Recognised

start of in profit or

year

loss

0.5

-0.6

0.5

-0.6

Amount at year-end
-0.1 -0.1

The Group has tax loss carryforwards of SEK 51 (42) that have not been capitalised.

75

NOTE 14 INTANGIBLE NON-CURRENCT ASSETS
NOTE 14 INTANGIBLE NON-CURRENT ASSETS

Group
Accumulated cost
Opening balance Acquisition of companies Investments Reclassifications Translation effect for the year
Closing balance
Accumulated amortisation
Opening balance Amortisation Reclassifications Translation effect for the year
Closing balance
Carrying amount at year-end
Carrying amount at start of year

2017-03-31

Intangible assets acquired

Goodwill

Supplier relationships,
customer relationships and technology

Trademarks

Capitalised R&D
expenses

Leases (rental)
and similar rights

856
226 ­ ­
19 1,101

1,001
242 1 ­
24 1,268

22

17

2

­

­

­

­

1

­

­

­

-1

­

0

-1

22

18

0

­ ­ ­
­ ­
1,101
856

-390 -108
­
-9 -507
761
611

0

-14

-1

­

-1

0

­

­

1

­

0

0

0

-15

0

22

3

0

22

3

1

Intangible assets
developed in the Group

Software Software

61

4

­

­

2

­

­

­

2

­

65

4

-56

-4

-3

­

­

­

-1

­

-60

-4

5

0

5

0

Total
1,963 468 4 -1 44
2,478
-465 -112
1 -10 -586
1,892
1,498

76

Group
Accumulated cost
Opening balance
Acquisition of companies
Investments
Discontinued operations
Disposals and retirement of assets
Translation effect for the year
Closing balance
Accumulated amortisation
Opening balance
Acquisition of companies
Amortisation
Discontinued operations
Disposals and retirement of assets
Translation effect for the year
Closing balance
Carrying amount at yearend
Carrying amount at start of year

2016-03-31

Intangible assets acquired

Goodwill

Supplier relationships,
customer relationships and technology

Trademarks

Capitalised R&D
expenses

Leases (rental) and similar
rights

903 515
­ -543
­
-19 856

983 394
2 -354
0
-24 1,001

23

16

1

­

1

­

­

1

1

-1

­

­

­

0

­

­

-1

0

22

17

2

­

-379

­

-8

­

-111

­

101

­

0

­

7

­

-390

856

611

903

604

0

-13

-1

­

­

­

0

-2

0

­

­

­

­

0

­

­

1

0

0

-14

-1

22

3

1

23

3

0

Intangible assets
developed in the Group

Software Software

67

4

10

­

15

­

-14

­

-17

­

0

­

61

4

-57

-4

-3

­

-6

­

7

­

3

­

0

­

-56

-4

5

0

10

0

Total
1,997 920 19 -912 -17 -44
1,963
-454 -11
-119 108
3 8 -465
1,498
1,543

77

Parent Company Accumulated cost Opening balance Closing balance Accumulated amortisation Opening balance Amortisation Closing balance Carrying amount at year-end Carrying amount at start of year

2017-03-31 Software
2.8 2.8
-2.8 0.0 -2.8 0.0 0.0

Total
2.8 2.8
-2.8 0.0 -2.8 0.0 0.0

2016-03-31 Software
2.8 2.8
-2.7 -0.1 -2.8 0.0 0.1

Total
2.8 2.8
-2.7 -0.1 -2.8 0.0 0.1

Goodwill distributed by business area
Components Energy Industrial Process Power Solutions Total

Group

2017-03-31
429 358 165 149 1,101

2016-03-31
288 307 114 147 856

Impairment testing of goodwill
The Group's recognised goodwill amounts to SEK 1,101 million (856), allocated as above to the units where impairment testing is performed. Goodwill is not monitored internally at a level lower than the business areas, and impairment testing is therefore performed at that level. The business areas accord with the Group's operating segments. Impairment testing took place most recently in March 2017.
The recoverable amount was based on value in use, calculated from a current estimate of cash flows in the year ahead. Forecast earnings and investments in working capital and non-current assets for the next financial year, 2017/2018, are based on previous outcomes and experiences. The forecast is produced on the basis of a relatively detailed budgeting process for the various parts of Group. The major components of the cash flow are sales, the various operating costs and investments in working capital and non-current assets.
The sales forecast is based on judgements taking into account factors such as order bookings, the general economy and the market situation. The forecast for operating costs is based on current pay agreements and previous years' levels of gross margins and overheads, adapted to expectations for the year ahead taking into account factors as referred to for the sales forecast. Anticipated investments in working capital and non-current assets are linked to the growth in sales.
Since the businesses are deemed to be in a phase that is representative of the long-term perspective, the cash flow from the first forecast year is extrapolated by a long-term growth rate of 2 per cent (2) per year for all business areas. Cash flows were discounted using a weighted cost of capital corresponding to roughly 10 percent (10) before tax. These calculations show that value in use significantly exceeds the carrying amount. Consequently, impairment testing indicated no impairment. The margin for impairment is considerable for all business areas and it is not judged that any possible changes in important assumptions that may reasonably expected to lead to impairment.
Other impairment testing
Each year, trademarks are tested for impairment, applying the same policies as for goodwill. No events or changes in circumstances were identified that would motivate impairment testing for other intangible noncurrent assets that are amortised.

78

NOTE 15 PROPERTY, PLANT AND EQUIPMENT
NOTE 15 PROPERTY, PLANT AND EQUIPMENT

Group
Accumulated cost Opening balance Acquisition of companies Investments Disposals and retirement of assets Reclassifications Translation effect for the year Closing balance Accumulated depreciation and impairment losses Opening balance Acquisition of companies Depreciation Disposals and retirement of assets Reclassifications Translation effect for the year Closing balance
Carrying amount at year-end
Carrying amount at start of year

2017-03-31

Buildings Leasehold

Construction

and land improvements Machinery Equipment in progress

121

25

232

244

3

0

0

­

8

­

5

5

17

29

1

-1

-2

-4

-8

­

­

1

1

0

-1

3

1

4

5

0

128

30

250

278

3

-58

-19

-180

-199

-1

0

0

­

-5

­

-3

-2

-14

-20

­

1

1

4

6

­

­

-1

­

­

­

-1

0

-4

-4

0

-61

-21

-194

-222

-1

67

9

56

56

2

63

6

52

45

2

Total
625 8
57 -15
1 13 689
-457 -5
-39 12 -1 -9 -499 190 168

Group
Accumulated cost Opening balance Acquisition of companies Investments Disposals and retirement of assets Discontinued operations Reclassifications Translation effect for the year Closing balance Accumulated depreciation and impairment losses Opening balance Acquisition of companies Depreciation Disposals and retirement of assets Discontinued operations Reclassifications Translation effect for the year Closing balance
Carrying amount at year-end
Carrying amount at start of year

2016-03-31

Buildings Leasehold

Construction

and land improvements Machinery Equipment in progress

132

32

231

354

5

11

­

31

27

­

2

4

11

48

5

-17

-2

-8

-24

­

-11

-9

-31

-157

0

5

­

2

0

-7

-1

0

-4

-4

0

121

25

232

244

3

Total
754 69 70 -51
-208 0 -9
625

-63

-23

-179

-290

-1

-556

-4

­

-20

-12

­

-36

-4

-2

-15

-27

­

-48

8

1

8

22

­

39

5

5

23

105

­

138

­

­

0

0

­

0

0

0

3

3

0

6

-58

-19

-180

-199

-1

-457

63

6

52

45

2

168

69

9

52

64

4

198

79

Parent Company Accumulated cost Opening balance Investments Disposals and retirement of assets Closing balance Accumulated depreciation according to plan Opening balance Depreciation Disposals and retirement of assets Closing balance Carrying amount at year-end Carrying amount at start of year
NOTE 16 LEASING
NOTE 16 LEASING

2017-03-31

Leasehold improvements

Equipment

4

3

­

0

­

0

4

3

-2

-1

0

-1

­

0

-2

-2

2

1

2

2

2016-03-31

Leasehold Total improvments

Equipment

7

3

2

0

1

1

0

­

0

7

4

3

-3

-1

-1

-1

-1

0

0

­

0

-4

-2

-1

3

2

2

4

2

1

Total
5 2 0 7
-2 -1 0 -3 4 3

Operating leases
Addtech as leasee
Lease payments Lease payments made during the financial year of which variable payments Future minimum lease payments under noncancellable contracts fall due as follows: Within one year Later than one year and within five years Five years or later Total

Group 2016/2017

2015/2016

196

104

1

0

93

93

188

151

19

21

300

265

Parent Company

2016/2017

2015/2016

5

4

­

­

5

2

8

5

­

­

13

7

Significant operating leases primarily constitute rental contracts for premises in which the Group conducts business.
Addtech as lessor
At present there are no significant operating lease revenue in the Group.
Finance leases
At present there are no significant finance leases in the Group.

80

NOTE 17 FINANCIAL ASSETS AND LIABLITIES
NOTE 17 FINANCIAL ASSETS AND LIABILITIES
Receivables from Group companies Opening balance Increase during the year Decrease during the year Carrying amount at year-end

Parent Company

2017-03-31 2016-03-31

1,442 138 -102
1,478

1,489 99
-146 1,442

Parent Company

Carrying amount

Carrying amount

Specification of interests in Group companies

Number Quotient

Country of shares

value Holding % 2017-03-31 2016-03-31

Addtech Nordic AB, 556236-3076, Stockholm Total

Sweden

1,750

100

100

1,004 1,004

1,004 1,004

A complete statutory specification is included as an annex to the annual accounts submitted to the Swedish Companies Registration Office. The specification can be obtained from Addtech AB.

Interests in Group companies Accumulated cost Opening balance Intra-Group restructuring (disposal of subsidiaries) Closing balance Accumulated impairment losses Opening balance Closing balance Carrying amount at year-end Carrying amount at start of year

Parent Company 2017-03-31 2016-03-31

1,119 ­
1,119

1,119 0
1,119

-115 -115 1,004 1,004

-115 -115 1,004 1,004

81

Carrying amounts and financial instruments are recognised in the balance sheet according to the following tables.

2017-03-31

Group
Other financial assets
Non-current receivables
Accounts receivable
Other receivables
Cash and cash equivalents
Non-current interest-bearing liabilities
Current interestbearing liabilities
Accounts payable
Other liabilities
Total

Unlisted equity

Measured at fair Derivatives used in instruments reported at

value through profit hedge accounting

cost

­

­

7

­

­

­

­

­

­

2

1

­

­

­

­

67

­

­

38

­

­

­

­

­

1

0

­

108

1

7

Accounts receivable Other and loan receivables liabilities

Total carrying
amount

­ 3 1,170 35 178

­

7

­

3

­

1,170

­

38

­

178

­
­ ­ ­ 1,386

2
872 622
­ 1,496

69
910 622
1 2,998

Group
Other financial assets
Non-current receivables
Accounts receivable
Other receivables
Cash and cash equivalents
Non-current interest-bearing liabilities
Current interestbearing liabilities
Accounts payable
Other liabilities
Total

2016-03-31

Unlisted equity

Measured at fair Derivatives used in instruments reported at

value through profit hedge accounting

cost

­

­

7

­

­

­

­

­

­

2

1

­

­

­

­

35

­

­

20

­

­

­

­

­

2

3

­

59

4

7

Accounts receivable Other and loan receivables liabilities

Total carrying
amount

­

­

7

4

­

4

972

­

972

25

­

28

140

­

140

­
­ ­ ­ 1,141

6
701 570
­ 1,277

41
721 570
5 2,488

Current and non-current loans are carried at amortised cost. The difference between carrying amount and fair value is marginal for these items. The same applies to other financial instrument for larger amounts, since maturity is short.

82

Financial instruments, SEKm
Derivatives used in hedge accounting Derivatives held for trading purposes Total financial assets at fair value per level

31 Mar 17

Carrying amount
1 2 3

Level 2
1 2 3

Level 3
­ ­ ­

31 Mar 16

Carrying amount
1 2 3

Level 2
1 2 3

Level 3
­ ­ ­

Derivatives used in hedge accounting Derivatives held for trading purposes Contingent considerations Total financial liabilities at fair value per level

0

0

­

1

1

­

105

­

105

106

1

105

3

3

­

2

2

­

55

­

55

60

5

55

Fair value and carrying amount are recognised in the balance sheet according to the table above. Level 1 refers to when fair value is determined based on quoted prices in an active market. At the end of the reporting period, the Group had no items in this category. Level 2 refers to when fair value is determined based on either directly or indirectly observable market data not included in level 1. This is done for foreign currency accounts and embedded derivatives. Level 3 is not observable in the market. A cash flow-based valuation is carried out for the Group's contingent considerations. For the Group's other financial assets and liabilities, fair value is estimated to be equal to the carrying amount.

Contingent considerations
Carrying amount, opening balance Acquisitions during the year Reversed through profit or loss Consideration paid Interest expenses Exchange differences Carrying amount, closing balance

2016/2017
55 86 -12 -27
3 0 105

2015/2016
31 54 -10 -21
2 -1 55

Impact of financial instruments on net earnings Assets and liabilities measured at fair value through profit or loss Derivatives used in hedge accounting Accounts receivable and loan receivables Available-for-sale financial assets Other liabilities Total
NOTE 18 INVENTORIES
NOTE 18 INVENTORIES
Group Raw materials and consumables Work in progress Finished goods Total

2016/2017
-4 0 -5 0 -7 -16

2015/2016
-3 -3 -3 ­ -8 -17

2017-03-31
86 50 806 942

2016-03-31
84 42 748 874

The cost of sales for the Group includes impairment losses of SEK 13 million (14) on inventories. No significant reversals of prior impairment losses were made in 2016/2017 or 2015/2016.

83

NOTE 19 PREPAID EXPENSES AND ACCRUED INCOME
NOTE 19 PREPAID EXPENSES AND ACCRUED INCOME

Group

Rent Insurance premiums Pension costs Lease payments Other prepaid expenses Other accrued income Total

2017-03-31
15 7 4 4
28 10 68

2016-03-31
15 7 9 3
26 14 74

NOTE 20 SHAREHOLDERS' EQUITY
NOTE 20 SHAREHOLDERS' EQUITY

GROUP Other contributed capital
Refers to equity contributed by shareholders.

Parent company

2017-03-31
1 2 1 0 4 0 8

2016-03-31
1 2 0 0 4 0 7

Reserves 1)
Foreign currency translation reserve Opening translation reserve Translation effect for the year Closing translation reserve Hedging reserve 2) Opening hedging reserve Revaluations recognised via other comprehensive income Recognised in profit or loss upon disposal (other operating income/expenses) Taxes attributable to the year's revaluations Taxes attributable to disposals Closing hedging reserve
Total reserves 1) Refers to reserves attributable to equity holders of the Parent Company. 2) Relates to cash flow hedges, consisting of currency clauses in customer contacts.

Group 2016/2017

2015/2016

-76

-19

51

-57

-25

-76

-1

1

1

-1

0

-2

0

0

0

1

0

-1

-25

-77

Foreign currency translation reserve
The translation reserve includes all exchange differences that arise in translating financial reports of foreign operations prepared in a currency other than the Group's presentation currency for financial reports. The Parent Company and Group present their financial reports in Swedish kronor (SEK).
Hedging reserve
The hedging reserve includes the effective portion of the accumulated net change in fair value for a cashflow hedging instrument attributable to hedge transactions that have not yet occurred.
Retained earnings, including profit for the year
Retained earnings including profit for the year include earnings in the Parent Company and its subsidiaries. Prior provisions to the legal reserve are included in this equity item.
Repurchased shares
Repurchased shares includes the acquisition cost of own shares held in treasury by the Parent Company (known as treasury shares). At the end of the reporting period, the Group's holding of treasury shares was 1,374,721 (1,240,000).

84

Dividend
After the reporting period, the Board of Directors proposed a dividend of SEK 3.50 per share. The dividend is subject to approval by the Annual General Meeting on 31 August 2017.
PARENT COMPANY Restricted reserves
Restricted reserves are funds that cannot be paid out as dividends.
Statutory reserve
The purpose of the statutory reserve is to save a portion of net profit that will not be used to cover a loss carried forward.
Retained earnings
Retained earnings comprises the previous year's unrestricted equity, less any provision to the statutory reserve and less any dividend paid. Together with profit for the year and any fair value reserve, retained earnings constitute the sum of unrestricted equity, that is, the amount available to be paid as dividends to shareholders.
Number of shares
The number of shares at 31 March 2017 consisted of 3,237,564 Class A shares, entitling the holders to 10 votes per share, and 64,960,932 Class B shares, entitling the holders to one vote per share. The quotient value of the share is SEK 0.75. The Company has repurchased 1,374,721 Class B shares, in the framework of the Company's ongoing repurchase programme. After subtracting repurchased shares, the number of Class B shares is 63,586,211.

Number of shares outstanding 2017-03-31
At start of year Exercised call options Repurchase of treasury shares Conversion of Class A shares to Class B shares At year-end

Class A shares
3,237,672 ­ ­
-108 3,237,564

Class B shares All share classes

63,720,824 165,279 -300,000 108
63,586,211

66,958,496 165,279 -300,000 ­
66,823,775

Number of shares outstanding 2016-03-31 At start of year Exercised call options Repurchase of treasury shares Conversion of Class A shares to Class B shares At year-end
NOTE 21 UNTAXED RESERVES
NOTE 21 UNTAXED RESERVES

Class A shares
3,241,704 ­ ­
-4,032 3,237,672

Class B shares All share classes

63,214,492 852,300 -350,000 4,032
63,720,824

66,456,196 852,300 -350,000 ­
66,958,496

Parent Company

2017-03-31

2016-03-31

Tax allocation reserve, allocation for tax assessment 2012 Tax allocation reserve, allocation for tax assessment 2013 Tax allocation reserve, allocation for tax assessment 2014 Tax allocation reserve, allocation for tax assessment 2015 Tax allocation reserve, allocation for tax assessment 2016 Tax allocation reserve, allocation for tax assessment 2017 Tax allocation reserve, allocation for tax assessment 2018 Accumulated excess depreciation/amortisation Closing balance

-

49

61

61

67

67

67

67

75

75

55

55

91

-

1

1

417

375

SEK 92 million of the Parent Company's total untaxed reserves of SEK 417 million represent deferred tax included in the deferred tax line item in the consolidated balance sheet.

NOTE 22 PROVISIONS FOR PENSIONS AND SIMILAR OBLIGATIONS

85

NOTE 22 PROVISIONS FOR PENSIONS AND SIMILAR OBLIGATIONS
Addtech has defined contribution and defined benefit pension plans in Sweden and Norway. The plans cover a large number of employees. Subsidiaries in other countries mainly have defined contribution pension plans. The Parent Company's data on pensions are reported in accordance with the Swedish Act on Safeguarding Pension Obligations.
DEFINED CONTRIBUTIONS
These plans are mainly retirement pension plans, disability pensions and family pensions. Premiums are paid on an ongoing basis during the year by each Group company and the size of the premium is based on the salary. The pension cost for the period is included in profit or loss.
Obligations for retirement pensions and family pensions for salaried employees in Sweden are secured by insurance in Alecta. According to statement UFR 3 of the Swedish Financial Reporting Board, this is a defined benefit plan covering multiple employers. For the 2016/2017 financial year, the Company did not have access to information enabling it to report this plan as a defined benefit plan. Thus the pension plan according to ITP2 and secured by insurance in Alecta is recognised as a defined contribution plan. The year's fees for pension insurance with Alecta totalled SEK 24 million (22). Fees for the next financial year are considered to be in line with those for the latest year. The collective consolidation level for Alecta was 152 percent (144) in March 2017. The pension plan according to ITP1 is recognised as a definedcontribution plan.
DEFINED BENEFIT PLANS
These pension plans primarily comprise retirement pensions. Each employer generally has an obligation to pay a lifelong pension and vesting is based on the number of years of employment. The employee must subscribe to the plan for a certain number of years to be fully entitled to retirement benefits. Each year increases the employee's entitlement to retirement benefits, which is recognised as pension earned during the period and as an increase in pension obligations. Both funded and unfunded pension plans apply in Norway and Sweden. The funded pension obligations are secured by plan assets that are managed by insurance companies. The Group estimates that SEK 0 million (2) will be paid in 2017/2018 to the funded defined-benefit plans. The total number of commitments of 677 (874) included in the obligation consists of 77 active (104), 355 paid-up policy holders (493) and 245 pensioners (277).

Obligations for employee benefits, defined benefit pension plans
Pension liability as per balance sheet Pension liability PRI Other pension obligations Total cost of defined benefit plans

Group

Parent Company

2017-03-31 2016-03-31 2017-03-31 2016-03-31

206

189

15

16

4

10

­

­

210

199

15

16

86

Obligations for defined benefits and the value of plan assets Funded obligations:
Present value of funded defined benefit obligations Fair value of plan assets Net debt, funded obligations Present value of unfunded defined benefit obligations Net amount in the balance sheet (obligation +, asset ­) Pension obligations and plan assets per country: Sweden Pension obligations Plan assets Net amount in Sweden Norway Pension obligations Plan assets Net amount in Norway Net amount in the balance sheet (obligation +, asset ­)
Reconciliation of net amount for pensions in the balance sheet Opening balance Cost defined benefit plans Payment of pension benefits Funds contributed by employer Discontinued operations Translation effects Revaluations Net amount in balance sheet (obligation +, asset -)
Changes in the obligation for defined benefit plans recognised in the balance sheet Opening balance Pensions earned during the period Pensions earned prior periods, vested Interest on plan assets Benefits paid Revaluations:
Gain (-)/loss (+) resulting from demographic assumptions Gain (-)/loss (+) resulting from financial assumptions Experienced-based gains (-)/losses (+) Discontinued operations Translation effects Gains and losses from settlements Present value of pension obligations

Group

Parent Company

2017-03-31 2016-03-31 2017-03-31 2016-03-31

27

48

­

­

-23

-38

­

­

4

10

­

­

206

189

15

16

210

199

15

16

232

213

15

16

-23

-22

­

­

209

191

15

16

2

24

­

­

-1

-16

­

­

1

8

­

­

210

199

15

16

Group

Parent Company

2016/2017 2015/2016 2016/2017 2015/2016

199

318

16

16

4

14

0

1

-6

-7

-1

-1

-1

-7

­

­

­

-74

­

­

1

-1

­

­

13

-44

­

­

210

199

15

16

Group

2016/2017 2015/2016

237

375

5

10

-6

-2

6

7

-6

-8

11

­

4

-43

-2

0

­

-92

2

-3

-17

-7

234

237

87

Changes in plan assets Opening balance Funds contributed by employer Benefits paid Interest income recognised in profit or loss Return on plan assets, excluding interest income Discontinued operations Translation effects Gains and losses from settlements Fair value of plan assets
Pension costs Defined-benefit pension plans Cost for pensions earned during the year Revenue for pensions earned in prior periods Interest on obligations Interest income recognised in profit or loss Total cost of defined benefit plans Total cost of defined contribution plans Social security costs on pension costs Total cost of benefits after termination of employment
Allocation of pension costs in the income statement Cost of sales Selling and administrative expenses Net financial items Discontinued operations Total pension costs
Actuarial assumptions The following material actuarial assumptions were applied in calculating obligations: Discount rate, 1 April 2016, % Discount rate, 31 March 2017, % Future salary increases, % Future increases in pensions (change in income base amount), % Employee turnover, % Expected `G regulation', %
Mortality table
Sensitivity of pension obligations to changes in assumptions Defined benefit pension obligations at 31 March 2017 The discount rate increases by 0.5% The discount rate decreases by 0.5% Expected life expectancy increases by 1 year Expected life expectancy decreases by 1 year

Group

2016/2017 2015/2016

38

57

1

7

0

-1

1

1

0

1

­

-18

1

-2

-17

-7

24

38

Group

Parent Company

2016/2017 2015/2016 2016/2017 2015/2016

5

10

­

­

-6

-2

­

­

6

7

0

1

-1

-1

­

­

4

14

0

1

99

115

5

6

15

16

2

1

118

145

7

8

Group

2016/2017 2015/2016

20

19

93

90

5

5

­

31

118

145

2016/2017

Sweden

Norway

2015/2016

Sweden

Norway

2.70 2.75 2.75 2.75 10.00
­

2.40 2.40 2.50
­ 2.00-5.00
2.25

DUS14 K2013 B.E

Sweden
232 -23 27 10 -10

Norway
2 -1 0 0 0

2.30 2.70 3.00 2.50 10.00
­ FFFS 2007:24

2.30 2.40 2.50
­ 2.00-5.00
2.25
K2013 B.E

Total
234 -24 27 10 -10

88

The discount rate used is equivalent to the interest rate on high-quality corporate bonds or mortgage bonds with a maturity equivalent to the average maturity of the obligation and currency.
Swedish pension liabilities are based on the interest rate for Swedish housing bonds while Norwegian pension liabilities are based on the interest rate for Norwegian corporate bonds. The weighted average maturity for the commitment is around 18 years (18), which is used as a basis on which to determine the discount rate. Future increases in pensions are based on inflation assumptions. Remaining period of employment (life expectancy) is based on statistical tables prepared by Insurance Sweden and Försäkringssällskapet (the Insurance Society), in Sweden DUS14 and in Norway K2013 B.E. The anticipated basic pension adjustment, corresponding to Sweden's income base amount, is used for the calculations in Norway.
The sensitivity analyses are based on a change in an assumption, while all other assumptions are held constant. The same method, the projected unit credit method, is used to calculate the sensitivity in the defined benefit obligation as to calculate the pension obligation recognised in the balance sheet.
NOTE 23 PROVISIONS
NOTE 23 PROVISIONS

Group 2016/2017
Carrying amount at start of period Acquisitions Provisions made during the period Amounts utilised during the period Unutilised amounts reversed Translation effects Carrying amount at end of period
Group 2015/2016
Carrying amount at start of period Provisions made during the period Amounts utilised during the period Unutilised amounts reversed Translation effects Carrying amount at end of period

Premises
0 ­ 4 ­ ­ 0 4

Personnel Warranties

1

2

­

3

2

11

-1

0

­

-1

­

0

2

15

Premises
3 1 -4 0 0 0

Personnel Warranties

2

1

4

1

-2

0

-3

0

0

0

1

2

Other
10 ­ 0 -5 ­ ­ 5
Other
5 10 -3 -1 -1 10

Total
13 3
17 -6 -1 0 26
Total
11 16 -9 -4 -1 13

PREMISES
The provision for premises refers to premises that the Group has vacated and cannot sublet or use during the remainder of the lease.
PERSONNEL
The provision refers to costs of personnel, including estimated remuneration upon termination of employment in connection with changes in operations. A provision is made when there is an approved restructuring plan and the restructuring has been announced.
WARRANTIES
Recognised provisions for warranties associated with products and services are based on calculations performed based on historical data or, in specific cases, on an individual assessment.
OTHER
Other includes provisions not classified under premises, personnel or warranties, such as equipment that cannot be used due to changes in operations. All provisions are classified as short-term and are expected to lead to an outflow of resources within 12 months of the end of the reporting period.

89

NOTE 24 NON-CURRENT INTEREST-BEARING LIABILITIES
NOTE 24 NON-CURRENT INTEREST-BEARING LIABILITIES
Liabilities to credit institutions: Maturing within 2 years Maturing within 3-5 years Maturing in five years or later
TOTAL NON-CURRENT LIABILITIES TO CREDIT INSTITUTIONS Other interest-bearing liabilities:
Maturing within 2 years Maturing within 3 years Maturing within 4-5 years Maturing in five years or later TOTAL OTHER NON-CURRENT INTEREST-BEARING LIABILITIES Total

Group

2017-03-31

2016-03-31

­

1

0

­

­

­

0

1

44

22

18

18

7

­

­

­

69

40

69

41

There were no non-current interest-bearing liabilities in the Parent Company at 31 March 2017(-). Other interest-bearing liabilities largely consist of additional contingent considerations with estimated interest of 5.0 percent.

The Addtech Group's non-current liabilities to credit institutions are divided among currencies as follows:

2017-03-31

2016-03-31

Currency
SEK Other Total

Local currency ­ 0

SEKm
­ 0 0

Local currency 1 ­

SEKm
1 ­ 1

Liabilities to Group companies Total

Parent Company

2017-03-31 278 278

2016-03-31 390 390

The Parent Company's liabilities to Group companies have no fixed maturity dates.

90

NOTE 25 CURRENT INTEREST-BEARING LIABILITIES
NOTE 25 CURRENT INTEREST-BEARING LIABILITIES

Credit facilities Approved overdraft facility Approved other liabilities to credit institutions Unutilised portion Credit amount utilised Other interest-bearing liabilities Total

Group

2017-03-31

2016-03-31

1,102 400 -641 861 49 910

1,002 300 -615 687 34 721

Parent Company

2017-03-31

2016-03-31

1,100 400 -639 861 ­ 861

1,000 300 -613 687 ­ 687

Other interest-bearing liabilities largely consist of additional contingent considerations with estimated interest of 5.0 percent.

The Addtech Group's current liabilities to credit institutions are divided among currencies as follows:

2017-03-31

2016-03-31

Currency
SEK CNY NOK Total

Local currency
­ 8 ­

SEKm
­ 10 ­ 10

Local currency
301 8 2

SEKm
301 10 2
313

The Group's financing is primarily managed by the Parent Company Addtech AB.
NOTE 26 ACCRUED EXPENSES AND DEFERRED INCOME
NOTE 26 ACCRUED EXPENSES AND DEFERRED INCOME

Other deferred income Salaries and holiday pay Social security costs and pensions Other accrued expenses 1) Total

Group

2017-03-31
1 209
74 39 323

2016-03-31
1 180
65 46 292

Parent Company

2017-03-31
­ 8 6 2 16

2016-03-31
­ 7 7 3 17

1) Other accrued expenses mainly consist of overhead accruals.

91

NOTE 27 PLEDGED ASSETS AND CONTINGENT LIABILITIES
NOTE 27 PLEDGED ASSETS AND CONTINGENT LIABILITIES

Pledged assets for liabilities to credit institutions Real estate and site leasehold mortgages Floating charges Other pledged assets Total Contingent liabilities Guarantees and other contingent liabilities Guarantees for subsidiaries 1) Total 1) Relates to PRI liabilities.
NOTE 28 CASH FLOW STATEMENT
NOTE 28 CASH FLOW STATEMENT

Group

2017-03-31

2016-03-31

Parent Company

2017-03-31

2016-03-31

25

23

­

­

19

42

­

­

5

4

­

­

49

69

­

­

20

18

0

0

­

­

122

119

20

18

122

119

Adjustment for items not included in cash flow
Depreciation/amortisation Gain/loss on sale of operations and non-current assets Change in pension liability Group contributions/dividends not paid Change in other provisions and accrued items Net profit from distribution of AddLife Other Total

Group 2016/2017
151

2015/2016 167

-1

-7

-3

0

­

­

5

0

­

-1,562

-18

-11

134

-1,413

Parent Company

2016/2017 1

2015/2016 1

­ 0 -318 ­ ­ 0 -317

­ 0 -190 ­ ­ -3 -192

For the Group, interest received during the year totalled SEK 2 million (2), and interest paid was SEK 7 million (9). For the Parent Company, interest received during the year was SEK 16 million (29), and interest paid was SEK 6 million (6).
The following adjustments were made as a result of the value of assets and liabilities in companies acquired during the year, together with adjustments such as contingent considerations paid for acquisitions made in previous years:

Non-current assets Inventories Receivables Cash and cash equivalents Total

2016/2017
468 38 87
141 734

2015/2016
953 185 191
82 1,411

Interest-bearing liabilities and provisions Non-interest-bearing liabilities and provisions Total

-152 -123 -275

-234 -282 -516

Consideration paid incl. contingent consideration 1) Cash and cash equivalents in acquired companies Effect on the Group's cash and cash equivalents

-477 141 -336

1) The consideration paid includes a contingent consideration charged to the income statement in the amount of SEK 12 million.

-711 82
-629

92

All businesses acquired during the year were consolidated in the accounts using the acquisition method.
Cash and cash equivalents in the cash flow statement consist of cash and bank balances. The same definition applied to determine cash and cash equivalents in the balance sheet was applied in the cash flow statement.
NOTE 29 ACQUISITIONS OF COMPANIES
NOTE 29 ACQUISITIONS OF COMPANIES
Acquisitions completed as of the 2015/2016 financial year are distributed among the Group's business areas as follows:

Acquisitions
Dafine Engineering Oy EB Elektro RE AS CTM Lyng AS Partco Oy RECAB Embedded Computers AB Kretsteknik Nordic AB (assets and liabilities) Enöque Svenska AB Powermec AB Goodtech Products AS INL System AB Sammet Dampers Oy Poryan China Company Ltd E.T.S. Portsmouth Limited Elektro-Tukku Oy Penlink AB Itek AS Carmac Inc (assets and liabilities) Sensor Companies Vallentin Elektronik A/S EX-Tekniikka Oy Dovitech A/S Craig & Derricott Holdings Ltd

Country
Finland Norway Norway Finland Sweden
Sweden
Sweden Sweden Norway Sweden Finland China Great Britain Finland Sweden Norway USA Sweden Denmark Finland Denmark Great Britain

Date of acquisition
April, 2015 July, 2015 September, 2015 September, 2015 October, 2015
October, 2015
October, 2015 November, 2015 February, 2016 March, 2016 April, 2016 April, 2016 April, 2016 May, 2016 October, 2016 November, 2016 December. 2016 January, 2017 January, 2017 March, 2017 April, 2017 April, 2017

Number of Net sales, SEKm* employees* Business area

25

4

Energy

85

20

Energy

135

55

Energy

20

10

Components

100

18

Components

25

1

Components

6

2

Energy

150

26

Power Solutions

85

23

Components

12

2

Components

45

12

Industrial Process

50

22

Power Solutions

100

35

Energy

8

3

Components

25

5

Components

65

13

Industrial Process

10

2

Power Solutions

160

30

Components

20

4

Components

20

3

Components

100

5

Components

110

90

Power Solutions

* Refers to assessed condition at the time of acquisition on a full-year basis.

93

Assets and liabilities included in the acquisitions were as follows:

2016/2017

Carrying amount at acquisition
date

Adjustment to fair value

Intangible non-current assets Other non-current assets Inventories Other current assets Deferred tax liability/tax asset Other liabilities

0

242

6

­

37

­

229

­

2

-50

-119

­

Acquired net assets

155

192

Goodwill Non-controlling interests

Consideration 1)

Less: cash and cash equivalents in acquired businesses Issue in kind Less: consideration not yet paid
Effect on the Group's cash and cash equivalents

1) The consideration is stated excluding acquisition expenses.

2015/2016

Fair value 242 6 37 229 -48 -119 347

Carrying amount at acquisition
date

Adjustment to fair value

10

386

37

5

185

­

273

­

-7

-88

-366

­

132

303

220 -2
565

-141 ­
-108 316

Fair value 396 42 185 273 -95 -366 435 515 ­ 950
-82 -234
-55 579

The combined consideration for the year's acquisition was SEK 565 million, of which SEK 462 million, according to preliminary acquisition analyses, was allocated to goodwill and other intangible assets. Had the acquisitions been completed on 1 April 2016, their impact would have been an estimated SEK 528 million on Group net sales, about SEK 55 million on operating profit and about SEK 39 million on profit after tax.
The outcome of contingent consideration depends on future results achieved in the companies, and the estimated outcome from the year's acquisitions amounts to SEK 94 million. The contingent consideration is payable within 1­4 years and is estimated to total a maximum of SEK 105 million.
Of the consideration not yet paid for acquisitions during the year, estimated fair value of contingent consideration amounts to SEK 84 million. The outcome depends on the results achieved in the companies.
For acquisitions that resulted in ownership transfer during the financial year, transaction costs totalled SEK 7 million (3) and are recognised in selling expenses.
During the financial year contingent consideration was net revalued to SEK 12 million (10). The impact on profits is recognised in other operating income and other operating expenses, respectively. No material changes in acquisition analyses were made in the financial year with regard to acquisitions carried out in the year or in previous years.
The Group's goodwill at the time of the acquisition, regarding the expected future sales trend and profitability, is the amount by which the acquisition value exceeds the fair value of net assets acquired. As of 31 March 2017 goodwill, non-taxable, amounted to SEK 1,101 million, to be compared with SEK 856 million as of 31 March 2016. The change is attributable to acquisitions, the distribution of AddLife and exchange differences. The change is attributable to acquisitions and exchange rate differences. The Group's goodwill is assessed annually for impairment, and no needs for impairment have been identified.
The values allocated to intangible non-current assets, such as supplier relationships, customer relationships, technology and trademarks, were assessed at the discounted value of future cash flows. The amortisation period is determined by estimating the annual decrease in sales attributable to each asset. Supplier relationships are generally amortised over a period of 5-33 years customer relationships and technology are amortised over 5-15 years. Trademarks are not amortised but are tested annually (for impairment) as per IAS 36. Annual calculated amortisation regarding intangible non-current assets for the year's acquisitions amounts to about SEK 21 million.

94

NOTE 30 EARNINGS PER SHARE (EPS) BEFORE AND AFTER DILUTION
NOTE 30 EARNINGS PER SHARE (EPS) BEFORE AND AFTER DILUTION

Earnings per share before and after dilution (EPS), SEK* Continuing operations before dilution Continuing operations after dilution Discontinued operations Total earnings per share before dilution Total earnings per share after dilution See Note 1 for the method of calculation. The numerators and denominators used to calculate the above EPS are derived as stated below.

2016/2017
6.60 6.55
6.60 6.55

2015/2016
4.85 4.85 24.35 29.20 29.20

EARNINGS PER SHARE BEFORE DILUTION
The calculation of earnings per share for 2016/2017 is based on profit for the year attributable to Parent Company shareholders, totalling SEK 440 million (1,950), and a weighted average number of shares outstanding during 2016/2017 of 66,824 thousand (66,703). The two components were calculated in the following manner:

Profit for the year attributable to the equity holders of the Parent Company, before dilution (SEKm)

2016/2017 440

2015/2016 1,950

Weighted average number of shares outstanding, before dilution
In thousands of shares Total number of shares 1 April Effect of treasury shares held Weighted average number of shares during the year, before dilution

2016/2017
66,958 -134
66,824

2015/2016
66,456 247
66,703

EARNINGS PER SHARE AFTER DILUTION
The calculation of diluted EPS for 2016/2017 is based on profit attributable to Parent Company shareholders, totalling SEK 440 million (1,950), and a weighted average number of shares outstanding during 2016/2017 of 67,008 thousand (66,809). The two components were calculated in the following manner:

Profit for the year attributable to the equity holders of the Parent Company, after dilution (SEKm)

2016/2017 440

2015/2016 1,950

Weighted average number of shares outstanding, after dilution
In thousands of shares Weighted average number of shares during the year, before dilution Effect of share options issued Weighted average number of shares during the year, after dilution

2016/2017
66,824 184
67,008

2015/2016
66,703 106
66,809

95

NOTE 31 DISCLOSURES ABOUT PARENT COMPANY
NOTE 31 DISCLOSURES ABOUT PARENT COMPANY
Addtech AB, corporate ID number 556302-9726, is the Parent Company of the Group. The Company's registered office is in Stockholm, Stockholm County, and according to Swedish law Addtech AB is a limited liability company. Head office address: Addtech AB (publ.) Box 5112 102 43 Stockholm, Sweden Tel +46 8 470 49 00 Fax +46 8 470 49 01 www.addtech.com
NOTE 32 RELATED PARTY DISCLOSURES
NOTE 32 RELATED PARTY DISCLOSURES
For the Addtech Group, related parties mainly comprise members of senior management. Information about personnel costs is provided in Note 6 Employees and employee benefits expense.
NOTE 33 EVENTS AFTER THE REPORTING PERIOD
NOTE 33 EVENTS AFTER THE REPORTING PERIOD
On 3 April 2017, Dovitech A/S, Denmark, was acquired to become part of the Components business area. Dovitech delivers inductive special solutions as well as electromechanical- and automation products. The company has sales of around DKK 80 million and five employees. On 6 April 2017, Craig & Derricott Holdings Ltd, Great Britain, was acquired to become part of the Power Solutions business area. Craig & Derricott is engaged in design, manufacturing and marketing of low electrical control equipment and switchgear for the UK market and export markets. The company has sales of about GBP 10 million and 90 employees. On 11 May 2017, Addtech announced that the Board of Directors has decided on a new dividend policy. The new policy has the objective of proposing a dividend that exceeds 30 percent of average Group profit after tax over a business cycle. On 12 June 2017, Addtech sold Batteriunion i Järfälla AB to Midac S.P.A. Batteriunion AB with a sales of about SEK 140 million and 16 employees, has belonged to the business area Power Solutions.
96

NOTE 34 DISCONTINUED OPERATIONS
NOTE 34 DISCONTINUED OPERATIONS
On 9 March 2016, the Extraordinary General Meeting resolved on the distribution of all Addtech shares in AddLife AB to the shareholders of Addtech. The first day of trading of AddLife's Class B shares on Nasdaq Stockholm was 16 March 2016.
The divestment has been reported separately as discontinued operations in the income statement in accordance with IFRS 5. A discontinued operation is recognised separately from continuing operations in the income statement with retroactive effect for earlier periods. AddLife is recognised as a discontinued operation below. (For further information, see note 34 Discontinued operations in Annual report 2015/2016).

Profit for discontinued operations for the period, SEKm
Operting income Operating expenses OPERATING PROFIT Profit from disposal operations Financial items PROFIT BEFORE TAX Income tax expense Profit after tax

2016/2017
­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­

2015/2016
1,402 -1,303
99 1,562
-3 1,658
-22 1,636

Cash flow attributable to discontinued operations, SEKm
Cash flow from operating activities Cash flow from investing activities Cash flow from financing activities Cash flow for the period

2016/2017
­ ­ ­ ­

2015/2016
109 -266
76 -81

Assets of discontinued operations, SEKm
Goodwill Intangible non-current assets Property, plant and equipment Non-current financial assets Inventories Other current assets Total assets

2016/2017
­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­

2015/2016
543 261
70 10 224 325 1,433

Liabilities of discontinued operations, SEKm
Deferred tax liabilities Non-current liabilities Current liabilities Total liabilities

2016/2017
­ ­ ­ ­

2015/2016
58 611 348 1,017

Assurance of the Board of Directors

97

Assurance of the Board of Directors
Assurance of the Board of Directors
The Board of Directors and the Chief Executive Officer deem the consolidated financial statements and annual accounts to be prepared in accordance with IFRS, as adopted by the EU, and with generally accepted accounting principles, and that they provide a true and fair overview of the financial position and results of operations of the Group and the Parent Company. The administration report for the Group and the Parent Company gives a true and fair overview of the Group's and the Parent Company's operating activities, financial position and results of operations and describes significant risks and uncertainties to which the Parent Company and the companies that comprise the Group are exposed. The other aspects of the results of operations and financial position of the Group and the Parent Company are shown in the income statements, balance sheets, cash flow statements and notes to the financial statements.
Stockholm, 22 June 2017

Anders Börjesson Chairman of the Board

Tom Hedelius Vice Chairman of the Board

Eva Elmstedt Director

Kent Eriksson Director

Ulf Mattsson Director

Malin Nordesjö Director

Johan Sjö Director and CEO
We submitted our auditor's report on 22 June 2017

KPMG AB

KPMG AB

Joakim Thilstedt Authorised Public Accountant
Auditor in charge

Jonas Eriksson Authorised Public Accountant

Audit report

98

Audit report
AUDITOR'S REPORT
To the annual meeting of the shareholders of Addtech AB (publ.), corp. id. 556302-9726
REPORT ON THE ANNUAL ACCOUNTS AND CONSOLIDATED ACCOUNTS Opinions
We have audited the annual accounts and consolidated accounts of Addtech AB (publ.) for the financial year 2016-04-01--2017-03-31. The annual accounts and consolidated accounts of the company are included on pages 18-98 in this document.
In our opinion, the annual accounts have been prepared in accordance with the Annual Accounts Act, and present fairly, in all material respects, the financial position of the parent company as of 31 March 2017 and its financial performance and cash flow for the year then ended in accordance with the Annual Accounts Act. The consolidated accounts have been prepared in accordance with the Annual Accounts Act and present fairly, in all material respects, the financial position of the group as of 31 March 2017 and their financial performance and cash flow for the year then ended in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS), as adopted by the EU, and the Annual Accounts Act.
A corporate governance statement has been prepared. The statutory administration report and the corporate governance statement are consistent with the other parts of the annual accounts and consolidated accounts, and the corporate governance statement is in accordance with the Annual Accounts Act.
We therefore recommend that the general meeting of shareholders adopts the income statement and balance sheet for the parent company and the group.
Basis for Opinions
We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards on Auditing (ISA) and generally accepted auditing standards in Sweden. Our responsibilities under those standards are further described in the Auditor's Responsibilities section. We are independent of the parent company and the group in accordance with professional ethics for accountants in Sweden and have otherwise fulfilled our ethical responsibilities in accordance with these requirements.
We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our opinions.
Key Audit Matters
Key audit matters of the audit are those matters that, in our professional judgment, were of most significance in our audit of the annual accounts and consolidated accounts of the current period. These matters were addressed in the context of our audit of, and in forming our opinion thereon, the annual accounts and consolidated accounts as a whole, but we do not provide a separate opinion on these matters.
Valuation of acquired intangible assets and the parent company's interests in group companies. See notes 14 and 17 in addition to the accounting principles on pages 51 and 53-54 of the annual accounts and consolidated accounts for detailed information and description of the matter.
Description of key audit matter The book value of acquired intangible assets, consisting of goodwill, supplier relationships, technology etc., amount to 1 892 MSEK as at 31 March 2017, representing 42 % of total assets.
Goodwill and intangible assets with an indefinite useful life should be subject to an annual impairment test. Other intangible assets are tested when impairment indicators are identified.
Impairment tests are complex and include significant levels of judgments. The calculation of the assets' recoverable amount is based on forecasts and discounted future cash flow projections, which are established with reference to factors such as estimated discount rates, revenue- and profit forecasts and predicted long-term growth that may be influenced by management's assessments.
The parent company's interests in group companies amount to 1 004 MSEK as at 31 March 2017. If the book value of the interests exceeds the equity in the respective group company, an impairment test is performed following the same methodology and using the same assumptions as for goodwill valuations.
99

Response in the audit We have obtained and assessed the group's impairment tests to ensure they have been carried out in accordance with the technique stipulated in IFRS.
Furthermore, we have evaluated management's future cash flow forecasts and the underlying assumptions, which includes the long-term growth rate and the assumed discount rate, by obtaining and evaluating the group's written documentation and plans. We have also considered previous years' forecasts in relation to the actual outcome.
An important part of our work has also been to evaluate how changes to the assumptions may impact the valuation. The evaluation has been carried out by obtaining and assessing the group's sensitivity analysis.
We have also analysed the disclosures in the Annual Report and considered whether they accurately reflect the assumptions that group management apply in their valuation and whether they, in all material respects, are in line with the disclosures required by IFRS.
Other information than the annual accounts and consolidated accounts
This document also contains other information than the annual accounts and consolidated accounts and is found on pages 1-17 and 103-105. The Board of Directors and the Managing Director are responsible for this other information.
Our opinion on the annual accounts and consolidated accounts does not cover this other information and we do not express any form of assurance conclusion regarding this other information.
In connection with our audit of the annual accounts and consolidated accounts, our responsibility is to read the information identified above and consider whether the information is materially inconsistent with the annual accounts and consolidated accounts. In this procedure we also take into account our knowledge otherwise obtained in the audit and assess whether the information otherwise appears to be materially misstated.
If we, based on the work performed concerning this information, conclude that there is a material misstatement of this other information, we are required to report that fact. We have nothing to report in this regard.
Responsibilities of the board of Directors and the Managing Director
The Board of Directors and the Managing Director are responsible for the preparation of the annual accounts and consolidated accounts and that they give a fair presentation in accordance with the Annual Accounts Act and, concerning the consolidated accounts, in accordance with IFRS as adopted by the EU. The Board of Directors and the Managing Director are also responsible for such internal control as they determine is necessary to enable the preparation of annual accounts and consolidated accounts that are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error.
In preparing the annual accounts and consolidated accounts The Board of Directors and the Managing Director are responsible for the assessment of the company's and the group's ability to continue as a going concern. They disclose, as applicable, matters related to going concern and using the going concern basis of accounting. The going concern basis of accounting is however not applied if the Board of Directors and the Managing Director intend to liquidate the company, to cease operations, or has no realistic alternative but to do so.
Auditor's responsibility
Our objectives are to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the annual accounts and consolidated accounts as a whole are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error, and to issue an auditor's report that includes our opinions. Reasonable assurance is a high level of assurance, but is not a guarantee that an audit conducted in accordance with ISAs and generally accepted auditing standards in Sweden will always detect a material misstatement when it exists. Misstatements can arise from fraud or error and are considered material if, individually or in the aggregate, they could reasonably be expected to influence the economic decisions of users taken on the basis of these annual accounts and consolidated accounts.
As part of an audit in accordance with ISAs, we exercise professional judgment and maintain professional scepticism throughout the audit. We also:
Identify and assess the risks of material misstatement of the annual accounts and consolidated accounts, whether due to fraud or error, design and perform audit procedures responsive to those risks, and obtain audit evidence that is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our opinions.
100

The risk of not detecting a material misstatement resulting from fraud is higher than for one resulting from error, as fraud may involve collusion, forgery, intentional omissions, misrepresentations, or the override of internal control.
Obtain an understanding of the company's internal control relevant to our audit in order to design audit procedures that are appropriate in the circumstances, but not for the purpose of expressing an opinion on the effectiveness of the company's internal control.
Evaluate the appropriateness of accounting policies used and the reasonableness of accounting estimates and related disclosures made by the Board of Directors and the Managing Director.
Conclude on the appropriateness of the Board of Directors' and the Managing Director's, use of the going concern basis of accounting in preparing the annual accounts and consolidated accounts. We also draw a conclusion, based on the audit evidence obtained, as to whether any material uncertainty exists related to events or conditions that may cast significant doubt on the company's and the group's ability to continue as a going concern. If we conclude that a material uncertainty exists, we are required to draw attention in our auditor's report to the related disclosures in the annual accounts and consolidated accounts or, if such disclosures are inadequate, to modify our opinion about the annual accounts and consolidated accounts. Our conclusions are based on the audit evidence obtained up to the date of our auditor's report. However, future events or conditions may cause a company and a group to cease to continue as a going concern.
Evaluate the overall presentation, structure and content of the annual accounts and consolidated accounts, including the disclosures, and whether the annual accounts and consolidated accounts represent the underlying transactions and events in a manner that achieves fair presentation.
Obtain sufficient and appropriate audit evidence regarding the financial information of the entities or business activities within the group to express an opinion on the consolidated accounts. We are responsible for the direction, supervision and performance of the group audit. We remain solely responsible for our opinions.
We must inform the Board of Directors of, among other matters, the planned scope and timing of the audit. We must also inform of significant audit findings during our audit, including any significant deficiencies in internal control that we identified.
We must also provide the Board of Directors with a statement that we have complied with relevant ethical requirements regarding independence, and to communicate with them all relationships and other matters that may reasonably be thought to bear on our independence, and where applicable, related safeguards.
From the matters communicated with the Board of Directors, we determine those matters that were of most significance in the audit of the annual accounts and consolidated accounts, including the most important assessed risks for material misstatement, and are therefore the key audit matters. We describe these matters in the auditor's report unless law or regulation precludes disclosure about the matter or when, in extremely rare circumstances, we determine that a matter should not be communicated in the auditor's report because the adverse consequences of doing so would reasonably be expected to outweigh the public interest benefits of such communication.
REPORT ON OTHER LEGAL AND REGULATORY REQUIREMENTS Opinions
In addition to our audit of the annual accounts and consolidated accounts, we have also audited the administration of the Board of Directors and the Managing Director of Addtech AB (publ.) for the financial year 2016-04-01--2017-03-31 and the proposed appropriations of the company's profit or loss.
We recommend to the general meeting of shareholders that the profit be appropriated in accordance with the proposal in the statutory administration report and that the members of the Board of Directors and the Managing Director be discharged from liability for the financial year.
Basis for opinions
We conducted the audit in accordance with generally accepted auditing standards in Sweden. Our responsibilities under those standards are further described in the Auditor's Responsibilities section. We are independent of the parent company and the group in accordance with professional ethics for accountants in Sweden and have otherwise fulfilled our ethical responsibilities in accordance with these requirements.
We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our opinions.
101

Responsibilities of the Board of Directors and the Managing Director
The Board of Directors is responsible for the proposal for appropriations of the company's profit or loss. At the proposal of a dividend, this includes an assessment of whether the dividend is justifiable considering the requirements which the company's and the group's type of operations, size and risks place on the size of the parent company's and the group's equity, consolidation requirements, liquidity and position in general.
The Board of Directors is responsible for the company's organization and the administration of the company's affairs. This includes among other things continuous assessment of the company's and the group's financial situation and ensuring that the company's organization is designed so that the accounting, management of assets and the company's financial affairs otherwise are controlled in a reassuring manner.
The Managing Director shall manage the ongoing administration according to the Board of Directors' guidelines and instructions and among other matters take measures that are necessary to fulfill the company's accounting in accordance with law and handle the management of assets in a reassuring manner.
Auditor's responsibility
Our objective concerning the audit of the administration, and thereby our opinion about discharge from liability, is to obtain audit evidence to assess with a reasonable degree of assurance whether any member of the Board of Directors or the Managing Director in any material respect:
has undertaken any action or been guilty of any omission which can give rise to liability to the company, or
in any other way has acted in contravention of the Companies Act, the Annual Accounts Act or the Articles of Association.
Our objective concerning the audit of the proposed appropriations of the company's profit or loss, and thereby our opinion about this, is to assess with reasonable degree of assurance whether the proposal is in accordance with the Companies Act.
Reasonable assurance is a high level of assurance, but is not a guarantee that an audit conducted in accordance with generally accepted auditing standards in Sweden will always detect actions or omissions that can give rise to liability to the company, or that the proposed appropriations of the company's profit or loss are not in accordance with the Companies Act.
As part of an audit in accordance with generally accepted auditing standards in Sweden, we exercise professional judgment and maintain professional scepticism throughout the audit. The examination of the administration and the proposed appropriations of the company's profit or loss is based primarily on the audit of the accounts. Additional audit procedures performed are based on our professional judgment with starting point in risk and materiality. This means that we focus the examination on such actions, areas and relationships that are material for the operations and where deviations and violations would have particular importance for the company's situation. We examine and test decisions undertaken, support for decisions, actions taken and other circumstances that are relevant to our opinion concerning discharge from liability. As a basis for our opinion on the Board of Directors' proposed appropriations of the company's profit or loss we examined the Board of Directors' reasoned statement and a selection of supporting evidence in order to be able to assess whether the proposal is in accordance with the Companies Act.
Stockholm, 22 june 2017

KPMG AB
Joakim Thilstedt Authorised Public Accountant Auditor in Charge
Multi-year summary

KPMG AB Jonas Eriksson Authorised Public Accountant
102

Multi-year summary SHAREHOLDERS
MULTI-YEAR SUMMARY

SEKm, unless stated otherwise

2016/2017 2015/2016 2014/2015

Net sales EBITDA EBITA Operating profit Profit after financial items Profit for the year Intangible non-current assets Tangible and financial non-current assets Inventories Current receivables Cash and cash equivalents Total assets

7,178 755 715 604 580 450
1,892 217 942
1,286 178
4,515

6,155 570 536 443 423 333
1,498 195 874
1,098 140
3,805

5,719 542 510 431 408 321
1,543 222 849
1,156 83
3,853

Shareholders' equity Non-controlling interests Interest-bearing liabilities and provisions Non-interest-bearing liabilities and provisions Total shareholders' equity and liabilities

1,701 40
1,189 1,585 4,515

1,479 35
962 1,329 3,805

1,504 35
911 1,403 3,853

Capital employed Working capital Financial net liabilities Net liabilities, excl. pensions

2,930 1,362 1,011
801

2,476 1,208
822 623

2,450 1,084
828 510

EBITA margin, % Operating margin, % Profit margin, % Return on equity, % Return on capital employes, % Return on working capital (P/WC), % Equity ratio, % Debt/equity ratio, multiple Net debt/equity ratio, multiple Interest coverage ratio, multiple Financial net liabilities/EBITDA, multiple

10.0 8.4 8.1 28 23 53 39 0.6 0.5
23.9 1.3

8.7 7.2 6.9 20 16 44 40 0.6 0.4 20.3 1.4

8.9 7.5 7.6 28 23 47 40 0.6 0.3 21.9 1.2

Earnings per share (EPS), SEK EPS, after dilution, SEK Cash flow per share, SEK Shareholders' equity per share, SEK Dividend per share, SEK Average number of shares after repurchases, '000s Average number of shares adjusted for dilution, '000s Market price of share at 31 March, SEK Cash flow from operating activities Cash flow from investing activities Cash flow from financing activities Cash flow for the year

6.60 6.55 8.25 25.45 3,50 1) 66,824 67,008 148.50 551 -395 -126
30

4.85 4.85 7.10 22.10 3.25 66,703 66,809 112.00 474 -352
-52 70

4.70 4.70 8.40 22.60 3.25 66,288 66,615 115.75 557 -323 -231
3

Average number of employees

2,133

2,386

2,224

Number of employees at year-end

2,176

2,076

2,286

1) As proposed by the Board of Directors.

*All figures regarding the income statement refer to continuing operations, excluding the distriubtion of AddLife, retroactively from 1 April 2014. All figures regarding the balance sheet refer to continuing operations from 31 March 2016 without retroactivity for earlier periods.

Welcome to the Annual General Meeting

103

Welcome to the Annual General Meeting
WELCOME TO THE ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING
The Annual General Meeting (AGM) of Addtech AB (publ.) will be held at 4.00 p.m. on 31 August 2017 at IVA, Grev Turegatan 16, Stockholm.
NOTICE OF PARTICIPATION
Shareholders who wish to participate in the Annual General Meeting must
be entered in the shareholders' register held by Euroclear Sweden AB on Friday, 25 August 2017, and provide the Company with notification of their attendance by 3.00 p.m. Friday, 25 August 2017 at the latest: by contacting Addtech AB (publ), Box 5112, 102 43 Stockholm, Sweden by calling +46 (0)8-470 49 00 by faxing +46 (0)8-470 49 01 through the Company's website www.addtech.com/investors or by e-mailing info@addtech.com. Such notice must contain the shareholder's name, personal identification number (or corporate ID number), address, telephone number and the number of shares represented as well as advisors/assistance (a maximum of two). The data submitted in such notification will be processed and used for the 2017 AGM.
Shareholders whose shares are held in trust must temporarily register their shares in their own name in order to exercise their voting rights at the AGM. Such changes in registration must be completed no later than Friday, 25 August 2017. If a shareholder intends to participate by representation through a proxy, the original of the proxy notice as well as any documents for authorisation must be sent to the Company well before the AGM. Representatives of a legal entity must also submit a certified copy of the registration certificate or equivalent documents for authorisation that demonstrate that they are entitled to represent the legal entity. The Company provides a proxy form for shareholders which is available from the head office or from the Company's website www.addtech.com/arsstamma no later than 21 July 2017.
PAYMENT OF DIVIDEND
The dividend resolution adopted by the AGM will specify the date on which shareholders must be recorded in the share register maintained by Euroclear Sweden AB to be entitled to receive the dividend. The record date proposed by the Board is Monday, 4 September 2017 for dividend payment. Provided the AGM adopts the proposal, the dividend is expected to be paid through Euroclear Sweden AB on Thursday, 7 September 2017, to shareholders entered in the share register at the record date.
CHANGE OF ADDRESS OR BANK ACCOUNT
Shareholders who have changed their name, address or account number should inform their trustee or account operator (bank) of any such change as soon as possible. A special form is available from banks.
PROPOSALS TO THE ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING
Dividend. The Board of Directors proposes a dividend of SEK 3.50 (3.25) per share. The dividend amounts to SEK 234 million (218). Extension of repurchase mandate. The Board of Directors has decided to propose to the AGM that the mandate to repurchase treasury shares be renewed. The proposed mandate would entitle the Board of Directors, during the period until the next AGM, to purchase shares such that the Company's holding at no time exceeds ten percent of the total number of shares in the Company. Repurchases shall be made in the stock market. The proposed mandate would also allow use of repurchased shares as payment for acquisitions or disposal of the repurchased shares outside the stock market to finance acquisitions.
104

DEFINITIONS
DEFINITIONS
Return on equity²
Earnings after tax divided by equity. The components are calculated as the average of the last 12 months.
Return on working capital (P/WC)¹
EBITA divided by working capital.
Return on capital employed
Profit before tax plus financial expenses as a percentage of capital employed. The components are calculated as the average of the last 12 months.
EBITA¹
Operating profit before amortisation of intangible assets.
EBITA-margin
EBITA as a percentage of net sales.
EBITDA¹
Operating profit before depreciation and amortisation.
Equity per share
Equity divided by number of shares outstanding at the reporting period's end.
Financial net debt
The net of interest-bearing debt and provisions minus cash and cash equivalents.
Net debt/EBITDA
Financial net liabilities divided by EBITDA.
Cash flow from operating activities per share
Cash flow from operating activities, divided by the average number of outstanding shares after repurchase.
Net debt excluding pensions/Equity ratio²
Net debt excluding pensions divided by shareholders' equity.
Employee turnover
Number of employees who left during the year, in relation to the average number of employees.
Interest coverage ratio
Profit after net financial items plus financial expenses divided by financial expenses.
Working capital (WC)¹
Working capital is measured through an annual average defined as inventories plus accounts receivable less accounts payable.
Operating margin
Operating profit as a percentage of net sales.
Equity ratio²
Equity as a percentage of total assets.
Debt/equity ratio²
Financial net liabilities divided by equity.
Capital employed
Total assets minus non-interest-bearing liabilities and provisions.
Outstanding shares
Total number of shares less treasury shares repurchased by the Company.
Earnings per share (EPS)
Shareholders' proportion of profit for the year in relation to the average number of shares outstanding.
Earnings per share (EPS), diluted
Shareholders' proportion of profit for the year in relation to the average number of shares outstanding, adjusted for additional shares from the exercise of outstanding personnel options or similar programmes.
¹The performance measure is an alternative performance measure according to ESMA's guidelines. ²Minority interest is included in equity when the performance measures are calculated.
105

