ANNUAL
FINANCIAL
REPORT
2017

ANNUAL FINANCIAL REPORT

1

CONTENTS

1. Company's Presentation

10

1.1 Board Of Directors

12

1.2 Presentation Of The Board Of Directors 

13

1.3 Company's Executives Profile 

16

1.4 Background ­ Objects Incorporation

18

1.5 Corporate Goal

18

1.6 Operations

19

1.7 Area Of Service

20

1.8 Eastern Attica Wastewater Works

22

1.9 Pricing Policy

23

1.10 Eydap Nison Development S.a

25

2. Key Financial

26

2.1 Key Financials (Group)

28

2.2 Consumption Evolution & Breakdown

31

2.3 Share Information 

34

3. Annual Financial Report

36

3.1 Statements Of Members Of The Board Of Directors 

39

3.2 Annual Board Of Directors Management Report

40

3.3 Annual Financial Statements

109

General Information For The Company

109

Statement Of Income For The Financial Years Ended On 31St December 2017 & 2016

110

Statement Of Total Comprehensive Income For Financial Years Ended On 31St December 2017 & 2016

110

Statement Of Financial Position Of 31St December 2017 & 2016

111

Statement Of Changes In Shareholders' Equity 1St January ­ 31St December 2017 & 2016

112

Cash Flow Statements Of 1St January - 31St December 2017 & 2016

113

Notes On The Annual Financial Statements Of 31St December 2017

114

1. Establishment, Business Activity And Legal Framework Of The Company

114

2. New Standards, Interpretations And Amendment Of Existing Standards

115

3. Significant Accounting Policies

118

4. Critical Accounting Treatments And Important Sources Of Estimation Of Uncertaintities

124

5. Revenues



126

6. Allocation Of Expenses Into The Operations And Other Expenses

127

7. Depreciation Expenses

129

8. Personnel Fees & Expenses (Group & Company)

129

2

ANNUAL FINANCIAL REPORT

9. Financial Income (Group & Company)

129

10. Financial Expenses (Group & Company)

130

11. Income Tax

130

12. Earnings Per Share

130

13. Goodwill

131

14. Other Intangibles Assets (Group & Company)

131

15. Tangible Assets

131

16. Investments In Subsidiaries

133

17. Investments Available For Sale

133

18. Long-Term Receivables (Group & Company)

133

19. Deferred Tax Receivable (Group & Company)

134

20. Materials, Spare Parts & Concumables (Group & Company)

134

21. Receivables From Customers, Consumers (Group & Company)

135

22. Other Receivables (Group & Company)

135

23. Cash And Cash Equivalents

136

24. Share Capital

136

25. Reserves

137

26. Retained Earnings



137

27. Liabilities For Employee Benefits (Group & Company)

137

28. Provisions For Pending Litigations (Group & Company)

143

29. Investment Subsidies And Customer Contributions (Group And Company)

144

30. Consumers' Guarantees

144

31. Operating And Other Current Liabilitiesv

144

32. Events After The Balance Sheet Date

145

33. Commitments And Contingent Liabilities ­ Assets

145

34. Related Party Transactions (Group & Company) 

146

35. Auditors' Remuneration

146

36. Eydap Fixed Assets «Eydap L.e.p.l.»

146

37. Management Of Capital

146

38. Financial Risk Management

147

39. Fair Value Assesement

149

40. Reclassification Of Accounts

149

Independent Auditor's Report`

151

Corporate Announcements ­ Releases 2017

155

Data & Information

156

ANNUAL FINANCIAL REPORT

3

MESSAGE FROM THE CHAIRMAN OF THE BOD

Dear Shareholders,
EYDAP, as a public utility is a particular business entity. We have the most important and basic responsibility, to provide our customers with safe and reliable services. In addition, like any other corporation, we make sure to create value for our stockholders. Our strategy is based on the achievement of a balanced, sustainable development to the benefit of society as a whole, our customers, our employees, our stockholders and to any party involved, which has legal interest. Within this context, throughout 2017, the Company continued the implementation of actions undertaken during the previous years, regarding the modernization of its operation, with the aim of enhancing efficiency and of upgrading services to the customer. With a view to improving efficiency and transparency beneficial for both consumers, shareholders and workers, EYDAP has put into practice: · of plans to upgrade the management, the organization and the operation of the Company with the system of
management through targets · of an integrated Company modernization program ·of e-Government
Regarding Company's basic financial results for 2017, EYDAP continued its steady profitable performance and its reliable operating profitability, as Company's turnover amounted to 327.3 million, while revenues from our main activities (water supply ­ sewerage) amounted to 233.1 million euro. Company's gross earnings amounted to 142.8 million, while after taxes earnings amounted to 43.4 million, increased by 80,6%. There was a sharp decrease in customers' debt due to the fact that the company has implemented a favorable settlement program and due to the outsourcing part of the Forced Recovery plan. In the context of the implementation of the business plan 2017-21, that as you are aware, it was developed in 2017 and reflects the investment strategy of the Company's strategic goals-it was decided: · t he gradual expansion of activities, such as the acquisition and management of neighboring water supply and sewerage
networks in our area of competence. It is signed a concession agreement for the water supply network of Salamina and the repayment of the significant debt of the municipality to the Company · the reduce of the water supply network losses, by replacing important parts of the water supply network · the modernization of the measurement system · the regulatory compliance In the latter, particular emphasis was placed on the planned approach to the implementation of the Eastern Attica wastewater treatment plants centers, leading primarily to resolving a particular time-consuming problem, which has even led to a conviction of our country in European courts. EYDAP continued on the road to the study and construction of all the required projects, which will solve the chronicle of Eastern Attica sewerage, using best practices and with particular care for the protection of the environment. The projects will provide a definite solution to the problem of urban waste water disposal in Eastern Attica with the collection and treatment of sewerage, as well as with the disposal/re-use of the effluent treatment of Eastern Attica sewerage treatment, which will operate with cutting- edge technology. Combining this last effort and by recognizing the Company as an irrigation water supplier, we are opening a new field of investment to cover the irrigation needs in the areas of wastewater treatments plants, while at the same time contributing to the further protection of their seas. In general, we could say that EYDAP contributes to the upgrading of the environment and the transfer of its know-how by taking initiatives to protect the health of the citizens and the environment, beyond harmonization with environmental legislation and national and European environmental policies and objectives with visible results such as the significant improvement of the marine environment of the Saronic gulf. It is particularly worthwhile in the Company's effort not only to recycle materials in its facilities, but also to treat waste, in order to be used for energy production. Moreover, the issues of implementing its energy program, its sustainable development, its research and development programs and its innovation in optimizing processes and methods are priorities in all corporate actions. The production and saving of energy through the development of small hydropower projects and co-generation of biogas thermal and electrical energy is, in fact, a sector of sustainable development, which EYDAP considers to be very important. With our subsidiary, EYDAP NISSON S.A, we continued to provide consulting services in water supply, sewerage and rain water collection as well as a number of activities related to the aforementioned, in the island Greek territory. Following the decision of the Extraordinary General Assembly of the shareholders on 21/09/2017, the brand name of EYDAP NISSON changed to EYDAP NISSON DEVELOPMENT S.A. EYDAP NISSON DEVELOPMENT S.A aims to develop activities in the water supply, drainage, irrigation and rain water collection sectors of, as well as providing advisory services to municipalities outside of the area of competence of EYDAP. The subsidiary has so far limited activity. Recognizing the fact that Renewable Energy Systems with an emphasis on jointly catering for water supply and

4

ANNUAL FINANCIAL REPORT

energy production are a key tool in designing projects in noninterconnected islands, EYDAP NISSON DEVELOPMENT S.A and PPC RENEWABLES S.A are from 2017 at the stage of joint action. From 2017 EYDAP NISSON DEVELOPMENT S.A also cooperates with the Deposits and Loans Fund as part of the Fund's action to finance public works. This cooperation concerns the assessment and technical assistance process for studies of Water supply, Sewerage, Biological cleaning, where our company has proven experience and leadership position, while participating in the campaign to notify action to benefiting municipalities. In this context, there is a constant cooperation with O.T.A in the design of actions and projects. The workers of EYDAP with the experience and expertise they have, are a major factor in the company's offer to the social community, defining its successful and efficient technical and financial function. The Company, in fact, develops expertise and training programs for employees, enhancing this way the service capabilities and the value of EYDAP. At the same time, the dedication of our workers 24 hours a day, 365 days a year, is a driving force in the work of EYDAP, while it functions catalytically for its development. In this point, it should be mentioned their great offer during the flood that hit the western Attica. The economic crisis that prevails in our country is undoubtedly affecting our consumers. The Company maintains a very affordable invoice, which increases over the last twenty years, was staggered by the corresponding increase in the general consumer price index. Due to the difficult financial situation of many of our fellow citizens, we have created the Favorable Debt Repayment Arrangements program. EYDAP with particular responsibility, dedicated to her social role, with a series of decisions of our Board of Directors, applies the charity but also the special tariff and does not deprive the water of the vulnerable social groups. EYDAP has incorporated social actions into its entrepreneurial activity, motivated from social solidarity, development and prosperity. Recognizing the value of fulfilling its social role and aiming at promoting the social and cultural life of the wider social area, the Company supports education, health, the vulnerable social groups, arts and sports through donations and in continuous co-operation with social and educational institutions. The improvement of our services to the citizen, the implementation of social actions that support the economically vulnerable groups and, in general, the fulfillment of the social role regarding the aforementioned, was recognized by the Greek public with the award of the best company of Public sector. The year of 2018 will be a milestone for the history of the Company because its membership to the Hellenic Corporation of Assets and Participations has been formalized. Issues that will affect the business operation of the Company are the implementation of JMD for the costing and pricing of the water as well as the signing of the new contract with the Greek public. For 2018, EYDAP has scheduled all the necessary investments to meet today's challenges, aiming at improved operational efficiency and environmental protection, increased operational and technical efficiency, effectiveness and last but not least improved customer service. During 2018, the Company is expected to implement part of the investment program approved under the business plan 2017-2021 and has recently been subject to partial updating. In the development of the business plan it is provided the construction and management of fixed assets intended for long-term use in a rapidly changing environment. Consider the fact that water and sewerage organizations are planning and building their assets with a view to their long-term use (infrastructure projects have a useful life span of over 50 years). The challenge lies in the fact that organizations in the water and sewerage sector must develop a level of flexibility in the management and planning of their assets so that they adapt in the rapidly changing environment. It is known that 43% of the budget for business concerns eastern Attica's sewerage projects, which will solve the decadelong problem of the region and the avoidance of fines for the country. We should also mention that among many others, very important to the strategic goals of the Company are: · the gradual expansion of activities in the island Greek territory through EYDAP NISSON DEVELOPMENT S.A, as well as
in non-EYDAP area municipalities, with a counselor's role · the implementation of an energy program in to axes:
- reduction of electricity consumption in EYDAP's facilities - power generation Responsibly planning tomorrow's opportunities, on behalf of all EYDAP employees we thank you for your trust and support.

The Chairman of the BoD Konstantinos Papadopoulos

ANNUAL FINANCIAL REPORT

5

MESSAGE FROM THE CEO
Ladies and Gentlemen,
The results of 2017 confirmed yet another year, the steady and profitable growth of the Company, while it was characterized by the essential support on economically sensitive groups affected by the economic crisis, the constant improvement of the provided services, the application of new technologies, but also the planning of the Company's investment and business moves through the business plan approved by the Board of Directors. Based on our solid financial environment, our high level of know-how and our well-trained Human Resources, we have managed to offer high quality services once again, along with the increase of our profitability. As a Company that manages the most valuable natural resource, EYDAP sensitively and consistently ensures that its operations meet the needs and requirements of contemporary consumers while protecting in every possible way the natural environment. EYDAP bases its philosophy on water as a public good. In this direction and among other social initiatives, the Company's administration applied in 2017 the new special tariff, which extends to the recipients of social solidarity income and offers double the amount of free water up to 3 m3 per month for every member, while at the same time it cleared debts of 565.000 euro. Yet another initiative of the Company is the effort to ensure equal access for poor-sighted consumers to some specially designed fully accessible services, which, among others, include the implementation of special bills (in the form of braille, big fonts), sms and e-mails. Moreover, EYDAP decided to provide of a charitable low-priced bill to 144 watersupply connections, serving 124 church's charity foundations, aiming to facilitate the Church's major social project, ensuring more resources. Alongside its social profile, EYDAP's primary objective is to safeguard the interests of all Shareholders and Customers through further rationalization of costs, reduction of operating expenses, continuous improvement and simplification of corporate processes, and targeted investments. In 2017, the Company's turnover, which remained substantially stable, was formed at 327.3 million from 328.8 million in 2016, showing borderline reduction by 1.5 million (-0,5%). The Company's profits before taxes were increased by 25.2 million (+60,9%) and formed at 66.5 million from 41.3 million in 2016, while the profits after taxes showed also significant increase to 19.4 million (+80,7%) from 24.1 million to 43.5 million euro.

6

ANNUAL FINANCIAL REPORT

Net Operating Cash inflows for the group increased from 52.4 million in 2016, to 68.3 million in 2017.
The Company's performance measurement indicators for the year 2017 were negatively affected by the fact that operating expenses before depreciation increased by 3.7 million euro (1.6%), due to the recognition in this year's financial statements, of an expense of 11.8 million euro as additional service cost for the future one-off compensation of employees in accordance with IAS 19. Without this one-off recognition, operating expenses before depreciation would have been decreased by 8 million euro (-3.3%). Therefore, EBITDA* of the Company decreased by 2.6 million euro (-3%) to 84.7 million euro compared to 87.3 million euro in 2016 while, based on the Company's operation, EBITDA would have been increased by 9.2 million euro (+10.5%).
The special and non-elastic nature of the product, the natural monopoly market, where EYDAP is operating, the high cash liquidity and zero debt, in combination with the Company's strategic choices for effective and efficient operation, the use of new technologies, know-how and human recourses, as well as the modernization through the implementation of innovative and new activities, secures for the Company the perspective of sustainable development and sets the grounds for further growth and profitability. The driving force of EYDAP, the human capital, via its know-how and love for the Company, acts as a catalyst for its growth. During the difficult economic conditions that our country is experiencing, we face challenges that only with the help of our People can manage, in order to fulfill our vision, which is nothing more than our maximum contribution to society.
Ladies and Gentlemen,
As the largest water supply and sewerage company in Greece, EYDAP, always consistent to its Shareholders, will propose to the General Meeting following the decision of the Board of Directors, a dividend of  0.20 per share increased by 81.8%, amounting to 21.3 million euro gross. Thank you very much for your full support and your trust towards the Management and the People of EYDAP.
Ioannis Benisis, CEO

ANNUAL FINANCIAL REPORT

7

VISION ­ MISSION ­ STRATEGY

Our vision is to remain the largest and most reliable company in the management of the water cycle,
always oriented towards Man, Society and the Environment.

Our mission is to provide quality and affordable water to an increasing number of citizens and to return it pure back to the environment through the effective management of all available resources with social sensitivity and with our contribution to social welfare taken
as basis.

Our strategy is based on achieving a balanced and sustainable development
for the benefit of the society, our customers, employees, shareholders and
for parties involved.

8

ANNUAL FINANCIAL REPORT

The main keystones of our strategy are:
· Increase of the operating efficiency of our
Company
· Upgrade of the services provided · E xpansion of customer base ­ Increase of
geographical coverage
· Development of new activities · Take full advantage of human resources · Utilization of technology and innovation · Arrangement of the regulatory and
contractual framework with the Greek State
· Strict implementation

To achieve these objectives, EYDAP has developed an integrated program of modernization, which main actions are focused on:
· A doption of modern techniques of financial
planning
· R estructuring and simplification of internal
and external processes
· A pplication of modern techniques for remote
monitoring and remote management for
efficient network management
· Implementation of crucial interventions in the
network to avoid repeated costly failures
· Implementation of modern techniques and
tools of risk management
· E xpansion of e-Government for customer
service
· A doption of modern systems for the
development and management of human
resources
· Implementation of a new cooperation model
with the municipalities
· E mpowerment of regulatory compliance and
obtaining relevant certifications
· E laboration of business plans for new
activities and expansion in areas outside
Attica region

ANNUAL FINANCIAL REPORT

9

1
COMPANY'S 
PRESENTATION
2017

10

ANNUAL FINANCIAL REPORT

www.eydap.gr

ANNUAL FINANCIAL REPORT

11

1.1 BOARD OF DIRECTORS

NamePosition

Konstantinos Papadopoulos Ioannis Benisis Konstantinos Vafeiadis  Ioannis Kardaras Georgios Makrinos Alexandros Pouliasis Nikolaos Sarantis Michail Stavroulakis Georgios Chalambalakis Christos Mistriotis Panayotis Skoularikis Emmanouel Aggelakis Georgios Alexandrakis

Chairman Chief Executive Officer, Executive Member Executive Member Member Member Independent Member, non-Executive Member Independent Member, non-Executive Member Member Member Member Member

12

ANNUAL FINANCIAL REPORT

1.2 PRESENTATION OF THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS

Konstantinos Papadopoulos | Chairman
Konstantinos Papadopoulos is Dr. Hydrogeologist, who was born in Thessaloniki in 1952 with the following studies: 1978: Degree in Geology (Laurea in Scienze Geologiche) from the Physics & Mathematics School of the University of Parma (Universita degli Studi di Parma - Italia) 1982: Diploma in Advanced studies [Diplôme d `Études Approfondies (DEA)] in Water Science [(Sciences de L'Eau) with specialization in Hydrology - Hydrogeology Hydrochemistry and in Management of Water Resources] from Pierre et Marie Curie University in Paris (Paris VI) 2004: PhD in Hydrogeology from the University of Patra. In 1983, he worked as a Research Consultant at the Agricultural University of Athens for the project «Effects of air pollution on the environment - Attica» of the Ministry of Regional Planning and Environment. From 1984 to 1997, he worked at the Institute of Geology and Mineral Exploration (I.G.M.E.), in the department of basic research and study of small and wider areas in an integrated hydrogeological systems and the quantitative and qualitative investigation of the Cycle water as a unit (Meteorology, Hydrology, Hydrochemistry and Hydrodynamics). From 1997 to 2004, he worked as an Expert in Water Resources Management in the Ministry of Development, in order to support all regional units of Water Resources Management by writing the specifications, the competition invitation, the evaluation, the assigning (1997-2003), and supervising and collection (20042008) of the Water Resources Management Plans for all water districts of Greece. During the period 1998-2003, he was also acting as a representative of the country in the European Commission on issues of groundwater in the compilation of Directive 2000/60 and of documentation supporting the implementation of the Directive to determine the qualitative and quantitative degradation trends in groundwater as an affiliate program (Project partner). From 2004 to 2011, he worked in project management of the Management Organization Unit of Development Programs from the integration process in a Financial Instrument until the completion of operations. At the same time, he worked as a Consultant to the President of the Management Organization Unit of Development Programs in matters of Management Development Programs (3rd CSF - NSRF). From 2011 to 2014, he worked at the National Center for the Environment & Sustainable Development - Institute of Geology and Mineral Exploration in basic research and study of small and wider areas with specific task in hydrogeological research projects. He has 19 Publications - Presentations in Conferences and Seminars, 27 Studies - Research papers and 34 Official Reports in hydrology, hydrogeology and environment.
Ioannis Benisis | CEO
Ioannis Benisis was born and raised in Athens. He was admitted with a scholarship to the Department of Mathematics of National and Kapodistrian University of Athens, during which he maintained the scholarship.

After the end of his military service, from 1978 to 2000, he worked as a professors and partner in several educational institutions and for several years he was CEO of one of them. Since 2000, he was managerially involved with several small business enterprises focusing on food and beverage and he also owned an energy consulting company. He is one of the first operators who worked on photovoltaic systems (PV Systems) and he was owner of a small solar park. During his professional career he was CEO of an S.A. company, administrator in four Ltd companies and partner in about fifteen General Partnership companies of educational institutions, catering services, constructions and energy systems. He took part in a competition launched by the Ministry of Tourism and together with other successful candidates recruited as contract staff under fixed-term contracts. He left after the expiration of his contract, even though many of the recruited demanded and were granted a permanent position. Due to his retirement he hasn't been employed over the past two years. Since 1972, he actively participated in the ranks of the left and anti-dictatorial movement. He is the one of the founding members of Synaspismos and he had several executive positions of responsibility even in the Central Committee of SYRIZA. Since July 2015, he is CEO of EYDAP.
Konstantinos Vafeiadis | Executive Member, Responsible for International Affairs
Konstantinos Vafeiadis was born in Athens in 1975. He is married with two children. He graduated from the School of Chemical Engineering of the National Technical University of Athens (NTUA) in 1997. He holds a M.Sc. in Advanced Chemical Engineering from Imperial College (1998) and a Ph.D. in Control Engineering from City University London (2003). During his studies he gained extensive research and teaching experience. He specializes in the design & implementation of complex software, IT & consulting projects with an emphasis in the financial sector as well as in the design and implementation of large investment, research and development projects. Furthermore, he has significant experience in business development activities in Greece and abroad. During his studies he was active in the student movement being a Member of the Board of Students and acting as representative in various bodies. He has been elected for four consecutive terms (2005 - present) as Member of the Board of the Hellenic Association of Chemical Engineers (PSXM) serving as Vice President (2007-2010) and President (2010 - present). He was elected in the General Assembly of the Technical Chamber of Greece (TEE -TCG) in 2013. He has served as a Member in the Permanent Committee for Research, Technology and Innovation and the Permanent Committee for Issues regarding the Ministry of Development and Competitiveness of the Technical Chamber of Greece. He was a Member of the Board of Directors of the Hellenic Horse Racing Organization (ODIE) (2010 - 2014). In 2014 he was elected as a Counselor for the Municipality of Vrilissia where he is currently Vice President of the Organization of Social Protection and Solidarity. Since July 2015, he is Deputy Mayor responsible for Human and Financial Resources.

ANNUAL FINANCIAL REPORT

13

Ioannis Kardaras | Non-Executive Member
Ioannis Kardaras was born in Piraeus in 1948. He is a graduate of Athens Law School (1974), with postgraduate studies at the University of London, specializing in European Union Law and "Comparative European Law" (1976). He works as a lawyer in Piraeus since 1977 and is a lawyer in the Supreme Court. He served for 2 mandates as a Board Member at the "Piraeus Bar Association" and publisher of "Bar Association News." In 2014 he was candidate for chairman of Piraeus Bar Association and he was elected Member of the Board, a position that he still retains. He is actively involved in defending social and political rights. From 2002 to 2014 he has been elected as a Counselor in the Municipality of Piraeus, being involved in many aspects of local government as well as in EYDAP's Psitallia (Wastewater Treatment Plant) and its public character. From 2013 to 2014 he participated in the legal team who voluntarily engaged in the Asset Development Fund of the Annual Financial Report 2015 13 State (HRADF), in order to dispute cases in the Supreme Administrative and Civil Courts.
Georgios Makrinos | Non-Executive Member
George Makrinos, hygienist - public health supervisor was born in 1959 in Piraeus. He is graduate of the Department of Public Health (1982) of the School of Health and Welfare of the Athens, with further training in "Management and Environmental Technology" and a Master of Science in Public Health (2007-09) of the National School of Public Health (National School). He has a professional - educational - scientific experience as a lab assistant-professor of applications section at Public Health Institution of Athens (1985-2002), in the following fields: a) Environmental Hygiene and Sanitary Engineering (Healthy Water & Sewerage Water Supply Hygiene, treatment and management of solid and liquid waste), b) Health and Safety in work. He has also training experience in technical education in health & welfare and professional training in public health and environmental issues. He is particularly involved in the field of Health and Safety at Work as a member of Health & Safety at Work Council of Ministry of Labor (2001-05, 2007-09) and he was Head of the secretariat of Health and Safety of the Municipalities Association (2007-10). He is an external collaborator of the National School of Public Health sector in the Professional & Industrial Hygiene. He has rich social and political activity from student days to nowdays on the fields of: technological education, public health and the environment, sports, cultural and social rights. He is Councilor of Korydallos Municipality since 2010 and Chairman of the Organization for Sports & Culture of the same Municipality. He is also Chairman of National Union of Public Health Supervisors, Vice Chairman of National Inter-Municipality Health Cities Network and Health Promotion. He is an elected member of the Regional Association of Municipalities of Attica and member of the Social Protection Committee for Health and Solidarity. He served as Vice Chairman of General Hospital at West. Attica "Agia Varvara" (2010) and Deputy Vice Chairman of the BoD of Athens Eye Clinic (2010). He is a Member of Greek Association of Business and Commerce, Secretary of the federation of temporary teaching staff of Technological Institutions and Chairman of Greek Boxing Federation.
lexandros Pouliasis | Non-Executive Member
lexandros Pouliasis was born in Athens on 1977. He grew up in Peristeri and finished the 2nd High School. He entered the Department of Business Administration of the Economic University of Athens. He accomplished his studies following the direction of Accounting and Financial Management. By finishing high school

Alexandros Pouliasis run the family business, operating in the clothing area until 2005, when the business stopped operating. From 2006 to 2015 he worked as a salesman in door production companies. At the present time he works as a consultant in the Ministry of Finance. He has served as a City Counselor, as a member of the Committee for the Quality of Life and as a member of the Centre for Family Care of the Municipality of Peristeri. He is an elected member of the Council of the Delegation of the Economic Chamber of Greece and a member of the Center for Persons with Special Needs `Xara'.
Nikolaos Sarantis | Non-Executive Member
Nikolaos Sarantis, Mayor of Municipality Agioi Anargyroi - Kamatero, was born from Euboian parents in 1957 to the town of Agioi Anargyroi where he resides. He is married with two children. He is a graphic designer, professor at the Graphic Design Department of Technological Educational Institute of Athens. He holds a Master entitled «European Union and Developing Countries» by the Department of International Relations at Panteion University of Social and Political Sciences. He was first elected Mayor of Agioi Anargyroi in the municipal elections of 2006. He was elected Mayor during the 2010 municipal elections of the common «Kallikrates» Municipality Agioi Anargyroi - Kamatero and was re-elected during the 2014 municipal elections. From October 2011 until October 2014, he serves President of the Regional Association of Municipalities of Attica (PEDA). Since October 2014 he has been General Secretary Regional Association of Municipalities of Attica (PEDA). During his social participation has been President of the Development Association of West Athens (2009 - 2011), Member of the Board of the Local Union of Municipalities and Town Councils of Attica (TEDKNA) (2006 - 2010), Member of the Municipal Council of Agioi Anargyroi (1986-2002), Deputy Mayor of the Municipality of Agioi Anargyroi (1988-1990), City Council President of the Municipality of Agioi Anargyroi (1991-2000), Founder and President of the Sports Organization of the Municipality Agioi Anargyroi (1986-1988) and the Cultural Center (1986 - 1988), Member of the Board of the Association of Municipalities Communities of Attica (ESDKNA) (1998-2002), Chairman of the Board of the Gymnastics Association of Agioi Anargyroi (1990-1997), Member of the Board of the Association of Attica Basketball Clubs - The Hellenic Basketball Federation (ESKA - EOK) (19931997), Board Member of the Committee of Democratic Residents and Cultural Club in Agioi Anargyroi (1974).
Michail Stavroulakis | Independent Non-Executive Member
Michail Stavroulakis is an economist, accountant ­ tax consultant and studied at the Technological Educational Institute (TEI) of Crete Heraklion, in Business ANNUAL REPORT 15 Administration faculty, in Accounting department (1981) and the Higher Industrial School of Piraeus (AVSP) (1986). Accountant holds professional license - tax consultant first grade. He has worked as an accountant and financial advisor to various companies and has experience in international and financial transactions. From 1992 to 2010 he was CFO in company TRANSDON INC. He has been working as a freelance accountant - tax consultant adviser. He speaks English fluently.
Georgios Halambalakis | Non-Executive Member
Georgios Halambalakis was born in Heraklion - Crete in 1977. He received his BSc (Hons) degree in Physics of Laser Science from Heriot-Watt University of Edinburgh in Scotland in 2000 and his Ph.D. degree in Condensed Matter Physics & Nanotechnology from University of

14

ANNUAL FINANCIAL REPORT

Montpellier in France, in 2005. He has been honoured with the «Best Paper for Young Researcher» Award from the E-MRS Conference in Strasburg in France, in 2004. He is author and co-author of 12 papers in international and national journals and conferences. He was working as Laser Physicist at IESL-FORTH University of Crete and as a research assistant in Bio-Metical Nanotechnology at Biozentrum of University of Basel in Switzerland, in 2001. After his Ph.D., he continued his research as research scientist at Research Centre of Royal Philips Ltd in Eindhoven in The Netherlands in 2005 and in 2007 he returned in Athens Greece, where he worked as research scientist at National Centre for Research «DEMOKRITOS». Since 2009, he is working as senior researcher Scientist in Photovoltaic Systems and Distributed Generation department at Centre of Renewable Energy Sources (C.R.E.S.) in Athens. Since 2013, he is co-founder of «ETEO» G.P. Company, which is specialized in production and exportation of Organic Extra Virgin Olive Oil Premium Category.
Christos Mistriotis | Non-Executive Member
He was born in Athens in 1976. He received a BA in Economics specializing in Econometrics from the University of Kent, Canterbury and Master's degree in Finance from Imperial College in London. He has been employed in brokerage - investment companies and since 2004 he is the Director of Treasury and Financial Risk Management (Treasurer) of a large group.
Panayotis Skoularikis | Non-Executive Member
Panos Skoularikis was born in Athens in January 1972. He graduated from Athens College in 1989 and in 1992 he received a degree in economics from the University of Athens, followed by graduate studies at the London School of Economics from where he received a M.Sc. Economics / Operations Research and M.Phil. Economics / European Studies. He worked at Citibank N.A. in London, in the areas of securities and cash management, while when he returned to Greece in 2001, he was appointed as economic adviser to the Manager of the Agricultural Bank.
From 2003 to 2005 he served as Deputy Director of Administration and dealt with the issues of economic profitability of the Bank and the Group ATEbank. In June 2005, under the partial privatization of ATEbank, he undertook the establishment and management of the Bank's investor relations by strengthening contacts and relationships with the domestic and international investment community and institutional investors. On May 2010 he was appointed Director of Strategic Planning, Analysis and Investor Relations of the Bank, while he coordinated the negotiations between the Bank and Troika on the implementation of a comprehensive program of restructuring the Group, under the supervision of the European Competition Commission. Since August 2012, he is a member of Piraeus Bank Group and by February 2013 he was appointed Assistant General Manager with the main responsibilities the monitoring of the commitments and the progress of the restructuring of the Piraeus Bank Group, the MIS and the relationship with Credit Rating Agencies. He is a member of the Board EYDAP SA since July 2010 and has served as Board Member of ATE Mutual Funds. He is married with one daughter and speaks English and French.
Emmanouel Aggelakis | Non-Executive Member
Manolis Angelakis was born in Athens in 1964, is a graduate of the Kapodistrian University of Athens, and works for EYDAP, as Scientific Personnel since May 1993.

Since February 2014 he is a Deputy Director. Mr. Angelakis was President of the «Enosis of Workers' Enosis EYDAP Employees», Board Member of EYDAP's Workers Union, is President of DAKE EYDAP, and on April 2009 has been elected as Employee Representative on the Board of the Directors of EYDAP.
Georgios Alexandrakis | Non-Executive Member Giorgos Alexandrakis was born in 11.6.1976 in the town of Agrinio, where he graduated from high school. He is a Mechanical Engineer who took his degree from the Technological Educational Institute of Patras. He worked during 2002-2003 in DEPA and consequently he started working for EYDAP where he is still employed. His position is Head Engineer in the Engineering Department of the Electric-Mechanical Facilities of the Sewerage Network Administration. He is a fourth year student in the Department of Business Administration in Hellenic Open University's School of Social Sciences. He speaks English and he is a certified trainer from EOPPEP. He is a graduate of General Confederation of Greek Workers' Labor Institute. He has been elected a member of the Sewage Disposal Workers Union Board of Governors, since 2004, and its president for ten years; he has also served as a member of EYDAP's Workers Union Board of Governors, and Executive Committee.
Ioannis Moutzouridis | Legal Advisor to the BoD Director of Legal Services
John Moutzourides was born in Athens in 1975. He works as a Lawyer in Athens since 1999 and is qualified to practice before all Courts of all degrees (including the Supreme Court). Member of the Athens Bar Association. He graduated from Athens College in 1992, was admitted in the National and Kapodistrian University of Athens (Faculty of Law) and graduated therefrom in 1998. He attended the Graduate Labor Law Program of the National and Kapodistrian University of Athens in 1998 and in 2000 he obtained his masters diploma (LL.M.) on Labor Law. In the past he served as a Legal Advisor to many greek and foreign companies, in Corporate, Commercial, Labor and Administrative Law, as a Legal Advisor to the Ministry of Interior, Public Administration and Decentralization, head of the Public Revenue Section of EYDAP. He handled major litigations and arbitrations (both under the Code of the Civil Procedure and the International Chamber of Commerce - ICC), was involved in major public tenders and procurements and handled complex cases. He speaks fluently English and has a good basic level of French tongue knowledge.
Christina Kontaratou | BoD Secretary

ANNUAL FINANCIAL REPORT

15

1.3 COMPANY'S EXECUTIVES PROFILE

Constantinos Vougiouklakis / Executive Director of Sewerage Network

of Education and Human Resources Development and Facility Security Division and Logistics Policy Planning.

He was born in Athens in September 1966 and graduated from the 5th High School of Kallithea. He studied at the National Technical University of Athens, section of Civil Engineering, with specialization in Transportation. He has been working in EYDAP since 1993, where he has held positions, including, Head of the Second Regional Maintenance Department (1996-1997), Head of the Preventive Maintenance Sewerage Network (1997- 2007), Director of the Sewerage Network (20092013) and Assistant Executive Director of Operation and Network Installations (2013-2014). Until October 2016, he held the position of Executive Director Development and Infrastructure, having the responsibility of the Department of Planning and Development, the Department of Infrastructure, the Quality Management Research and Development (R&D), the Department of Building Property and Energy and the Department for Relations with Local Authorities. Today, he holds the post of Executive Director of Wastewater services.
Christos Iliopoulos / Executive Director of Human Resources
He was born in the Paradisia of Arcadia in July 1956 and he is married and father of a child. He studied Political Sciences at the Panteion University of Social and Political Sciences, Law at the Law School of University of Athens and he has postgraduate education in special Administrative Law issues. He has also participated in several educational programs concerning management, human resources management, communications, crisis management, financial issues etc. From 1976 to 1984 he was working as a business executive in commercial delegations and since 1984 he has been working at EYDAP.
As EYDAP executive has worked to the Revenue Service Sewer, to the Consumer Control Service, to the Central Accounting Office, as Head of Customer Centers, Director of Education and Apprenticeship School of EYDAP and Deputy Director of Human Resources. In addition, he has been President and member of several Companies' committees.

George Karagiannis / Executive Director of Water Supply
Georgios Karagiannis has Bachelor of Civil Engineering from the Polytechnic School of Democritus University of Thrace. He is married and father of two children.
He joined EYDAP S.A in 1990. As a civil engineer he has designed and constructed a significant number of technical works. For many years he has worked in organizing, planning and implementation of works and processes in Water Supplies. While being Section Manager, Sub Director and Assistant General Director, he has been in charge of Departments in various technical activities of EYDAP. Until October 2016, he held the position of General Director of Networks and Facilities Operation, where he coordinated the Departments that deal with water sources, external reservoirs, water treatment plants, water supplies and sewerage and wastewater treatments, throughout the area of responsibility of EYDAP S.A. Today, he holds the post of Executive Director of Water Supply. He has been elected as a member of The Technical Chamber of Greece, from 2006 to 2009.
Spyros Kyriakis / Executive Director of Financial Services
He was born in Amfissa in April 1962 and graduated from the local High School. He has a degree of the Supreme School of Economics and Business (Athens University of Economics and Business-AUEB), Business Administration Department. He is married and father of three children.
He's a licensed Economics Professional and Tax Consultant Accountant, grade A. He has had working experience as an accountant in private sector companies. He has been working in EYDAP since 1990, where he has held various posts, including Head of the Office of Economic Research and Implementation of Accounting Systems, Deputy Director in the Department of Financial Planning and Control, Assistant Customer Service Manager, Deputy Director of Education and Human Resource Development and Director of Internal Audit.

He is an authorized teacher of LAEK-OAED educational programs and he has written a book entitled «Legislation - Regulatory Framework for Customer Service of EYDAP». He has been a regular member of the Board of Directors of Supplementary Insurance Fund for Teachers of Private General Education and deputy member of the Board of Directors of Engineers' and Public Contractors' Pension Fund His social activity includes, among others, the term of two years as Secretary-General and for ten years as President of EYDAP's Employees Cultural Center and for 32 years a member of EYDAP's Scientific Association.

Until October 2016, he held the post of Executive Director of Human Resources and Organizational Functions, having the responsibility of the Department of Human Resources, the Department of Operations and Administration Support, the Department of Education and Human Resource Development, the Department of Customer Service and the Department of Information and Technology. Today, he holds the post of CFO.
Effie Nestorides / Executive Director of Coordination & Supportive Operations

Since October 2016, he holds the position of Executive Director Human Resources, having the competence of the Human Resources Department, the Department

Eftichia-Myrta Nestorides, was born in 1961 in New York, USA. She graduated with honors from a high school in Athens, attending a US education program. She studied

16

ANNUAL FINANCIAL REPORT

at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology in Boston, where she graduated in 1983 with BSCE and specialization in structural engineering. During her studies, she worked as an Assistant Professor in a research project on upgrading the Spanish railway network, in the context of Spain's EU integration. In 1985, she acquired a master's degree (MSCE) in Construction Management from NORTHEASTERN Boston University while working as an Assistant Professor in the Building Management course. From 1985 to 1987, she worked as a Civil Engineer of the U.S. Department of Studies CORPS OF ENGINEERS in the United States, responsible for structural studies of hydraulic and other projects (such as large dams and other flood protection projects and coastal and port protection projects). She joined EYDAP's human resources in 1988 at the Waterworks Department, where she later served as Head Officer. From 2003 to 2007, she was appointed Director of the newly established Business Analysis and Planning Division where she was involved in strategic planning and development of the company, investor information, corporate governance, and successfully implemented the Company's first benchmarking program with operational performance indicators. She then served as Director of the Energy and Design & Development Divisions, as Deputy Director of Infrastructure, and from October 2016 she was appointed as Executive Director of Coordination and Support Operations.

1983, taking over different positions, including Head of External Aqueduct Department at the Water Supply Division, Head of Water Services and then Deputy Director of the Water Supply Division, Deputy Director of the Sewerage Network Division, Deputy Director and afterwards Director in the Customer Services Division. Thence, she joined the Internal Audit Division as Auditor and in July 2015 she was appointed the duties of the Director of Internal Audit Division until September 2016, whereby the BoD of EYDAP appointed her as Executive Director of Customer Services. She is married and mother of two children.

She is an active member of the community, having been active in various Municipal Committees of the Municipality of Filothei - Psychiko since 1995. She was elected for three consecutive terms Municipal Councilor of the Municipality of Psychiko (2002-2014), and from 2013 until today is Secretary General of Athletic Association of Psychiko. She is a Founding Member of the MIT Club of Greece, member of the American Water Works Association (AWWA) and the Technical Chamber of Greece (TEE). During her studies she was President of the Students American Society of Civil Engineers (ASCE) and a representative of the students (with the right to vote) at the Academic Committee of MIT, for educational policy issues.

In 1983, she was awarded the Howe-Walker Award from the American Society of Civil Engineers (ASCE) and in 2013 the World Bank awarded her for her contribution to improving the Bank's annual report «Doing Business in Greece». She speaks fluent English, French and very good Italian. She is married with two children.

Stella Politaki / Executive Director of Customer Service

Stylliani Politaki was born in July 1959 in Vyronas, Attica and graduated from the 4th Lyceum of Athens in Pagrati. She began her studies at the Department of Electrical Engineering of the Polytechnic School of the University of Patras and continued in the Department of Organization and Business Administration of the University of Piraeus. She holds a postgraduate degree from the National Technical University of Athens in Water Resources Science and Technology in Hydrology. She has been working in EYDAP in various sectors since

ANNUAL FINANCIAL REPORT

17

1.4. B ACKGROUND ­ OBJECTS 1.5. CORPORATE GOAL INCORPORATION

The Athens Water Supply and Sewerage Company (EYDAP S.A.) is the largest company in Greece activating in water management and distribution as well as in sewerage services. EYDAP supplies water to approximately 4,300,000 customers (2,100,000 water meters) through a network of approximately 10,000 km. The sewerage sector serves 3,500,000 residents with sewers spreading at almost 8,300 km serves approximately. EYDAP was founded in 1980 under the "Incorporation of a Single Water Supply and Sewerage Company for Greater Athens" Act 1068/1980, pursuant to a merger of the incumbent water supplier in Athens and Piraeus `Hellenic Water Company S.A.' (EEY S.A.), and the `Greater Athens Sewerage Organization' (OAP S.A.). In 1999, under the "Issues Related to the Athens Water Supply and Sewerage Company and other Provisions" Act 2744/1999, EYDAP S.A. took its present legal form, as all of its major assets were transferred to the company «EYDAP Fixed Assets» (Legal Entity under Public Law), thus remaining the property of the State. «EYDAP Fixed Assets» is the owner of dams, reservoirs, water towers, pumping stations and all other facilities that allow water to be transferred safely to treatment plants. Pursuant to an agreement signed between EYDAP S.A. and the Greek State in December 1999, EYDAP S.A. continues to operate the said facilities on behalf of «EYDAP Fixed Assets».
In January 2000, EYDAP S.A. was listed on the Main Market of the Athens Stock Exchange. It should be noted that in 2005 the "State Companies and Organizations (DEKO)" Act 3429/2005 was passed, stipulating specific provisions for such entities. More precisely, publicly held companies (listed on a stock exchange) in which the State holds majority or minority stakes, are not considered as `State-Owned'. Those companies are managed, organized and operate under Companies Act 2190/1920 and "Corporate Governance" Act 3016/2002.
In 2012, the enactment of Law 4053/2012, whereby EYDAP may provide the full range of services specified in the law 2744/1999 also outside its area of responsibility, via subsidiaries and via the signing of framework agreements with local authorities, establishes a new growth framework for the Company, expanding the market in which it can operate and develop. The activity of EYDAP, as amended by the article 68 of Law 4313 / 2014, extends to the municipalities of the Region of Attica, as defined in paragraph 3 of article 3, paragraph 3 of Law 3852 / 2010, excluding the Municipalities of Aegina, Troizinia, Kythira, Agkistri, Spetses, Hydra and Poros of the Regional Unit of the islands in the Municipality of Attica.

EYDAP's object is stipulated in l.2744/1999 and its amendments, as described in the Joint Decision of the Ministers of Economy, Finance, Environment, Physical Planning and Public Works.
The company's object is: (a) To provide water supply and sewerage services, as
well as to design, construct, install, operate, manage, maintain, expand and upgrade water-supply and sewerage systems. These activities and projects include the pumping, desalination, processing, storage, transfer, distribution and management of all kinds of water, as a means of serving EYDAP's object. Other activities and projects include the collection, transfer, process, storage, management and disposal of wastewater treatment products. (b)  To provide telecommunications-related, energyrelated, and sundry other services, and to exploit the water supply and sewerage system for other parallel objects, such as the deployment of telecommunications-related and energy-related operations, as an exception to the prohibitions of article 11, par. 8 of l.2744/1999 and upon condition that the safe and reliable operation of the system is not jeopardized. (c) To explore and exploit natural springs and water resources, produce bottled water and sundry other refreshments or beverages that contain water. (d) To utilize know-how and offer technical support. (e) To undertake investments related to the scope and object of the company. Under article 2 of l.2744/1999, EYDAP has been granted the exclusive right to provide water-supply and sewerage services in the geographical area of its jurisdiction for a period of 20 years, commencing on October 25, 1999. It is noted that due to the nature of the product and existing infrastructure, the provision of water-supply and sewerage services is a natural monopoly.
Under l.2939/2001 (Government Gazette 179/2001), EYDAP continues to be the exclusive client of projects related to the entire water supply system of the Greater Attica region, even after the adoption of l.2744/1999. The said projects include those which are co-financed by EU's Cohesion Fund. EYDAP may retrospectively collect the subsidy provided by the Cohesion Fund, for costs incurred after the adoption of l.2744/1999.

EYDAP's company owned headquarters are located in the Municipality of Galatsi, at 156, Oropou str., 111 46, tel.: +30.210-214.4444.

18

ANNUAL FINANCIAL REPORT

1.6 O PERATIONS

Water Supply
EYDAP supplies Attica with one of the highest quality water in the world. The main raw water sources and reservoirs are located in pure regions, free from agricultural and industrial activities, thus leading the Greek capital to be served with drinking water of excellent quality. The artificial lakes of Mornos, Evinos, Marathonas and the natural lake of Yliki, with a total capacity of 1,500 m3, are the 4 reservoirs of raw water supply. Into water sources used by EYDAP are also included the underground water resources, which are exploited by 100 boreholes. Based on EYDAP's current operating conditions, Evinos River & Mornos Lake are the main water sources. The transfer of raw water sources (reservoirs and boreholes) to Water Treatment Plants (WTP) of Attica is accomplished via an extensive external aqueduct system with total length 495km. Despite the long distance of the main water sources from Attica, the largest amount of water is being carried via gravity without the financial and environmental burden that the energy-intensive pumps cause, which are activated only in case of emergency.
The four WTPs situated in Galatsi, Acharnes, Polydendri and Aspropyrgos with total daily water treatment capacity of 1,900,000 m3 are of decisive importance due to the fact that in the WTPs the water is being purified in order to become a drinking water of excellent quality. Subsequently, it reaches every home through a complex water supply network, with an average water consumption of 1,066,150 m3 per day.
Apart from the areas that EYDAP operates door to door, the Company also supplies Municipalities via bulk water services. In that case the water supply network is managed by the Municipalities.
The daily quality control tests of raw and drinking water that are conducted in the chemical and microbiological laboratories of EYDAP are designed to ensure and certify the excellent quality of water that EYDAP provides to the citizens of Athens. For this reason, the water quality of the four reservoirs (Marathon, Yliki, Mornos and Evinos) and the quality of the drinking water in the water supply network are closely monitored, so as to ensure that any potential problem that may arise will be immediately understood and promptly handled.
Sewerage and Wastewater Treatment
EYDAP has designed and implemented an integrated sewerage management system, focusing on the proper, efficient and uninterrupted operation with the ultimate goal of protecting and ensuring public health.

help of trained personnel and the use of the required equipment constantly updated according to the new technologies. The treatment of waste water in Attica region and Thriassio is occurred: · T he Psyttalia Wastewater Treatment Plant The Psyttalia WWTP is one of the biggest WWTPs in Europe and worldwide with a total capacity of about 3,500,000 residents. The sewerage network of Attica region ends up in the Psyttalia WWTP. The processed outflow is diffused through pipelines in the Saronic Gulf with reduced organic load of wastewater at a rate of 90% - 95% and it is entirely safe for the marine ecosystem. · The Metamorfosis Wastewater Treatment Plant The Metamorfosis WWTP is a facility for receiving and coprocessing urban waste water (N. Suburbs) and domestic sewage (from areas lacking sewerage network).
· The Thriassio Pedio Wastewater Treatment Plant The project of Thriassio Pedio serves the residential areas of Eleusina, Aspropyrgos, Magoula and Mandra of the Municipality of Mandra- Eidyllia, as well as industrial and commercial areas and is a complete solution to a chronic problem of the residents and professionals who are active in the region. Moreover, it contributes to the restoration of the ecosystem balance at the Eleusina Gulf.
It should be also noted that under L. 2744/1999 and its recent amendment of Article 8, gives EYDAP the possibility to expand its operations to other areas other than those specified in paragraph 1 of the amended Article 8 of L. 2744/1999. Precondition for the attempted each time extension of activities, is for EYDAP to examine and ensure both fair return on investment, and also the means of corporate financing by own or private funds for the proper performance of its obligations. The enactment of L. 4053/2012, whereby EYDAP may provide the full range of services specified in the L. 2744/1999 also outside its area of responsibility, through subsidiaries and through the signing of framework agreements with local authorities, establishes a new growth framework for the Company, expanding the market in which it can operate and develop. To meet its obligation and provide water-supply services in the greater metropolitan area of Athens, EYDAP obtains, under certain agreements, raw water from adequate resources that belong to the Greek State. According to L. 2744/1999 and the Agreement that EYDAP signed with the Greek State in December 1999, the cost for this raw water will be set off against the cost incurred by EYDAP for the maintenance and operation of the assets that belong to «EYDAP Assets» (Legal Entity under Public Law).

The collection and transport of waste water to the Wastewater Treatment Plant (WWTP) is done with the wastewater network, a total length of about 8,300 km, where a separate system with separate storm water and wastewater networks applied on the length of the sewerage network apart from the center of Athens where the network is combined. The maintenance of the sewerage network is intended to ensure its continuous and uninterrupted function, as it is maintained and checked 24/7 to avert problems and minimise any malfunctions that may arise, through the required actions in each case, such as obstruction and cleaning of pipelines, their camera inspection, the implementation of an annual replacement program, proper maintenance of the electromechanical equipment, achieved with the

ANNUAL FINANCIAL REPORT

19

1.7 AREA OF SERVICE

EYDAP's area of service is the greater metropolitan area of Athens, as determined by l.1068/1980, under which the company has been incorporated. Moreover, under l.2744/1999, EYDAP has the exclusive right to provide water-supply and sewerage services in the geographical area of its jurisdiction. This right is nontransferable and non-delegable, and applies for a period of 20 years. The said duration and its renewal are specified in the Agreement signed between EYDAP and the Greek State. This Agreement was signed in December 1999. Recently the article 68 of Law 4313/17- 12-2014 amended the article 8 of Law 2744/1999 resulting to the expansion of the company's area of service through all the municipalities of the Attica region, as they are defined in section h, paragraph 3 of article 3 of Law 3852/2010, except from the municipalities of Egina, Troizinia, Kithira, Agistri, Spetses, Idra and Poros of the regional island unity of the Municipality of Attica. More specifically, EYDAP's area of service covers the following Municipalities and Municipal Groups, either directly (retail) or through bulk water supply:

Municipalities and Municipal Groups within EYDAP's Area of Service

Direct Water Supply from EYDAP S.A

· Ag. Anargiri - Kamatero · Ag. Dimitrios · Ag. Paraskevi · Ag. Varvara · Alimos · Aspropyrgos · Athens · Dafni - Ymittos · Egaleo · Elefsina (Elefsina) · Elliniko Argiroupoli · Filothei - Psychiko · Galatsi · Haidari · Halandri · Ilion · Ilioupoli · Iraklio · Kallithea · Keratsini - Drapetsona · Kessariani · Korydallos · Lykovrisi - Pefki · Melissia (Penteli) N. Penteli (Penteli) · Metamorphosis · Moschato - Tavros · N. Ionia ·N. Smyrni · Nikea - Ag. Ioannis Rentis · P. Faliro · Papagou - Holargos · Perama · Peristeri · Petroupoli · Philadelphia - Halkidona · Piraeus · Thrakomakedones (Acharnes) · Voula (Vari ­ Voula ­ Vouliagmeni) · Vouliagmeni (Vari ­ Voula ­ Vouliagmeni) · Vyronas · Zefiri (Fyli) · Zografou ·Amaroussion
Bulk Water Supply to Municipal Networks (*)
· Anixi, Dionysos, Ag. Stefanos, Kryoneri, Stamata, Drosia, Rodopoli (Dionysos) · Ano Liosia (Fyli) · Vrilissia · Ekali, N. Erythrea (Kifisia) · Keratea, Lavreaotiki, Ag. Konstantinos (Lavreotiki) · Kouvaras, Anavisos, P. Fokea, Saronida (Saronikos) · Mandra, Villia, Erythres, Inoi, (MandraEidyllia) · Marathon, N. Makri, Varnavas, Grammatiko (Marathonas) · Markopoulo Mesogaias · Peania (Peania) · Spata - Artemida · Magoula (Elefsina) · Rafina (Pikermi) Oropos ­ Malakasa ­ Kalamos ­ Afidnes ­ Kapandriti ­ Markopoulos Oropos ­ Polidendri ­ Sikaminos (Oropos
Joint Water Supply System (**)
· Acharnes (Acharnes) · Vari (Vari ­ Voula ­ Vouliagmeni) · Glyfada · Kalyvia Thorikou (Saronikos) · Anthousa, Gerakas, Pallini (Pallini) · Kifisia (Kifisia) )· Kropia · Megara - N. Peramos (Megareon) · Penteli (Penteli) · Glyka Nera (Paiania) · Salamina, Ambelakia (Salamina).
*Areas serviced by EYDAP via municipal networks. EYDAP is not involved nor is responsible for the operation of these local networks.

** Areas serviced by means of a joint system, i.e. partly covered by EYDAP's network and partly by local private or municipal networks.
Municipalities and Municipal Groups outside EYDAP's Area of Service
Moreover, there is a number of Municipalities, Municipal Groups and Regions along the Mornos and Yliki reservoirs, outside EYDAP's geographical jurisdiction, yet serviced by EYDAP with treated water through installed small water treatment plants or by EYDAP ASSETS with raw water. The water supply in both cases occurs through special water supply connections provided to each Local Municipality, without the participation of the Company in the operation of the local network. Furthermore, EYDAP SA supplies treated water (which is transferred with ships) through special water supply connections to the islands of the Municipality of South Aegean and to the regional island unit of the Municipality of Attica. Lastly, EYDAP S.A. supplies raw water, via special water supply connections, to some important productive private infrastructures that operate in areas along the main external aqueducts.
Drinking water supply from EYDAP S.A., through small water treatment plants and special connections to the Municipalities and Communities along the Mornos aqueduct.
· Distomo and Steiri which belong to the Municipalities of Distomo-Arachova-Antikira are served with drinking water from the small water treatment plant situated next to Distomo
· Kiriaki and the settlements of Tarsos, Kariotis and Panagia kalamiotissa (Zaltsa) which belong to the Municipality of Leivadia are served with drinking water from the small water treatment plants situated next to

*EYDAP S.A. supplies drinking water to the Municipalities of Aegina and Agkistri (which is transferred with ships) through special water supply connections, where EYDAP does not contribute in the operations of the local water supply networks. **Furthermore, EYDAP S.A. supplies drinking water to islands of the Municipality of South Aegean (Cyclades, etc.), which is transferred with ships through special water supply connections situated at the Port of Lavrio.

20

ANNUAL FINANCIAL REPORT

Kiriaki and the settlements of Tarsos-Kariotis and Panagia Kalamiotissa · Plataies, Kapareli, Melissochori, Ag. Vasilios, Loutoufi, Leyktra, Ellopia, Ksironomi, Domvraina, Thisvi, Prodromos and Saranti Beach which belong to the Municipality of Thiva are served with drinking water from the small water treatment plants situated next to the Thiva Regional Control Centre and the Municipalities of Kapareli, Leyktra, Ellopia, Domvraina and Prodromos.
Raw water supply from EYDAP Fixed Assets with raw water, technically and operationally supported by EYDAP S.A., via special water supply connections:
· Desfina and Amfissa from the Municipality of Delfi · Thiva and Thisvi from the Municipality of Thiva · Tanagra, Oinofyta, Schimatari and Ag. Thomas from the
Municipality of Tanagra · Avlida from the Municipality of Chalkida Drinking Water Supply from EYDAP S.A. (transfer with ships), through special water supply connections, to the regional island units of the Municipalities of Attica and South Aegean.
  
·   ·· 

ANNUAL FINANCIAL REPORT

21

1.8. E ASTERN ATTICA WASTEWATER WORKS

The absence of a proper sewage system in the area of Eastern Attica is a serious problem for many years. The existing practice of wastewater management, through sewage in cesspits, consists of an important parameter of ongoing environmental deterioration. The Court of Justice of the European Union (CJEU) in its October 15, 2015 decision imposed a fine against the Greek State for not complying with Directive 91/271 / EEC. The settlements for which the fine was imposed included the Eastern Attica settlements of Rafina, Artemida and Nea Makri, due to a total lack of appropriate wastewater collection and treatment system. Following chronic delays and the inability of the involved Municipalities to agree on a common solution for the sewerage projects of Eastern Attica, EYDAP S.A., with the aim to protect the environment, to ensure the sustainable development and to protect the public health makes every effort to contribute to the implementation of sewerage projects, which are intended to provide a complete solution to the disposal problem of urban waste water in the area. In this context, EYDAP S.A. has included the implementation of sewerage projects in the Eastern Attica region to its primary objectives. More specifically, the portfolio of sewerage projects in Eastern Attica includes the following: ·  Collection, Urban Wastewater Treatment of
Municipalities of Rafina - Pikermi and Spata - Artemida and Reuse - Disposal of treated outflows · Collection, Urban Wastewater Treatment of the Municipality of Marathon and Disposal - Reuse of Processed Outputs · C ollection, Urban Wastewater Treatment of Municipalities of Saronikos and Agia Marina of the Municipality of Kropia Reuse - Disposal of treated outflows · C onstruction of the Sewerage Network in the area of Glyka Nera, Municipality of Paiania · Reuse of treated outflows of the Wastewater Treatment Plants (WWTPs) of the Eastern Attica · Master Plan for the management, final treatment and reuse/disposal of the produced biosolids from the WWTPs of Eastern Attica The WWTP of the Municipalities of Rafina - Pikermi and Spata - Artemida as well as the WWTP of the Municipality of Marathon are designed to operate with latest technology to ensure compliance with European Legislation as well as the environmentally optimal wastewater management method, which will make it possible to re-use the treated outputs for the irrigation needs of the area during the summer period as well as for urban - suburban use during the winter period (Municipalities of Rafina - Pikermi and Spata - Artemida), in accordance with the existing legislation framework for

reuse (Joint Ministerial Decision 142116/2011 & Ministerial Decision 191002/2013). This will ensure complete protection against contamination of the wider area and shores. In the facilities of the WWTP in the Municipalities of Rafina-Pikermi and Spata-Artemida, an Environmental Awareness Center is also planned to be included, where pilot applications for the optimum exploitation of the recovered water and further environmental awareness actions aiming to inform and educate the public will take place. These actions will be a pole of attraction for the public, thus enhancing the growth outlook in the wider region. EYDAP S.A. is in constant cooperation with the Municipal Authorities, in order to ensure their active contribution to the projects' implementation and successful completion which will benefit the residents as well as the visitors in the area. Throughout 2017, a significant progress has been made in the maturation of sewerage projects in Eastern Attica and in particular in the procedures regarding their licensing, funding (NSRF 2014-2020), maturation and construction planning. In order to ensure the optimal coordination of the stakeholders and the prompt implementation of the sewerage project in the Municipalities of Rafina Pikermi and Spata Artemida, a Programmatic Agreement was signed between EYDAP and the relevant Municipalities. The above Agreement provided EYDAP S.A. with the accountability of the construction of the secondary sewerage treatment network, for the part of the network which is planned to be funded by the Cohesion Fund. Furthermore, through the Programmatic Agreement between EYDAP S.A. and the Municipality of Paiania, the construction of the sewerage network of Municipal Unity of Glyka Nera of the Municipality of Paiania has been included in the Company's forthcoming projects. The sewage will be led for treatment in the WWTP of Paiania Koropi. In September 2017, the funding approval process was completed with its integration in the Operational Programme `Attica 2014-2020'. This ensures the adoption of the optimal management model for the recycled water as well as for its efficient and sustainable use.

22

ANNUAL FINANCIAL REPORT

1.9 PRICING POLICY

For the period 2000-2014 the water supply tariff and sewerage services were defined after joint decision of the Ministries of Economy, Finance and Environment, Planning and Public Works, having taken into account the recommendations of the Board of Directors. Article 33 of L.4258 / 2014 amended the Article 3 of L. 2744/1999 concerning the tariff and states: (1) B y the end of June 2015, the tariffs for water supply
and sewerage services are approved by the Finance Minister's decisions based on the proposal of the Special Secretary for Water. Decisions of the Ministry of Finance as well as the recommendation of the Special Secretary for Water are published in the Official Government Gazette. (2) From July 1st, 2015 the tariffs of water supply and sewerage services are approved by decisions of the Special Secretary for Water after consultation with the Minister of Finance and other parties involved, which are published in the Government Gazette. If the decision of the Special Secretary for Water has deviations from the Minister of Finance proposals such as those made during the consultation, they should be justified and published together with the publication of the decision in the Official Gazette. (3) D ecisions concerning the tariffs of water supply and sewerage services, have five years duration and are issued at the end of each period for each subsequent five years. (4) By decision of EYDAP's Board of Directors, approved by the Minister of Finance on the proposal of the Special Water Secretary, a special water supply or sewer bill for residents, businesses and general users who are served on the same network or irrigation or drainage regardless of the single Company network, may be fixed. Following the Framework Directive on water (2000/60 / EC, Article 9) and national legislation (Law. 3199/2003 as amended by Law no. 4117/2013 and the N.4315 / 2014 and

in force, P. D. 51/2007 and 322/2013 JMD), the Special Secretariat for Water (EGY) of the Ministry of Productive Reconstruction, Environment and Energy, is responsible for the strategic planning, development and evaluation of policy for the rational and sustainable management of services water, the rational management of water resources and the sustainability of water services. The Government Gazette 1751B/22.05.2017, published the Joint Ministerial Decision (JMC) 135275 on the subject of `Adoption of general pricing rules and pricing of water services. Method and procedures for cost recovery of water services of all uses' which has as its main objective (Chapter A - Article 1 - Purpose) to ensure: a) that the water pricing policy provides adequate
incentives to the users so as to persuade them to use the water resources efficiently b) Adequate contribution of the different water uses in the cost recovery of the water supply services at a percentage set out in the approved river basins management plans by taking into account all the social, environmental and economic impact of the rehabilitation as well as the geographic and climate conditions. EYDAP, within the context of its obligations derived from the above Joint Ministerial Decision, considered different pricing scenarios for both the General Invoice as well as the Basic Special Invoices (Network Enhancement, Professional, Public), in order to be able to submit its proposal as defined (rules and procedures) in the JMC, when the basic and most critical parameter ­ the cost of unfiltered water ­ will be defined. Below the current invoice is displayed, as it has been formed since December 2013 (Government Gazette 3188B/16.12.2013) following a decision of five years duration ending at the end of 2018 with an expected beginning of the validity of the new, in application of the JMC invoice from 1/1/2019.

ANNUAL FINANCIAL REPORT

23

EYDAP S.A. WATER RATES

TARIFF CATEGORIES

MONTHLY CONSUMPTION (m3)

/m3

WATER SUPPLY SERVICES (effective since 16.12.2013 - Gove.gaz.3188B/16.12.2013

DOMESTIC

Category 1.

0-5 5 - 20 20 - 27 27 - 35 over 35

0.3500 0.6400 1.8300 2.5600 3.200

*Impleementation of minimum consumption 2 m3/ month, suspended in case of water meter removal

INDUSTRIAL

Category I.

up to 1.000 over 1.000

0.8300 0.9800

* Mandatory minimum consumption 100m3/month

GOVERMENT BUILDINGS CHARITY LOCAL AUTHORITY - ISLANDS SHIPS

Category II.
Regardless of consumption
Category IV.
Regardless of consumption
Category V.
Regardless of consumption for the areas outside the city plan until the complection of the Urban Restructicturing Program (U.R.P.) and for islands water supply after agreement with the competent Ministry
Category VI.
Regardless of consumption

0.9800 0.2300 0.4880 2.400

FIRE PROTECTION RAW WATER

Category VII. Regardless of building volume (m3) and traffic category
Category VIII.
For the total consumption by all customers of this category

11.0100 0.1804

STANDING CHARGE
water meter up to 5/8" and 3/4"
water meter up to 1" water meter up to 1 1/2" water meter up to 2" water meter up to 3" water meter up to 4" water meter up to 6"
SEWERAGE CHARGE Domestic Goverment Charity
Industrial

up to 30 m3/ Q 30 to 60 m3/Q over 60 m3/Q
monthly - mainly for industrial
and local authority

/
1.00 1.00 1.00 4.50 4.50 13.00 13.00 35.00 35.00

75% x water price (52.5% for gardens exceeding 200m2) 75% x water price 75% x water price 75% x water price
37.5% over the water price for distillery, ice industry, paper making industry, artificial sil industry, construction sites

VAT VAT 13% VAT 24%

Since 17.12.2010 13% over the water (L.E.3899/2010 Gov.gaz 212/17.12.2010) Since 01.06.2016 24% over standing charge + Sewerage charge (L.E.4389/2016 Gov.gaz. 94/27.05.2016)

24

ANNUAL FINANCIAL REPORT

1.10 E YDAP NISON DEVELOPMENT S.A.

In July 2011, "EYDAP NISON S.A." was established, in the

share capital of which EYDAP S.A. participates at 100%.

The aim of the Company is to provide water supply,

wastewater and drainage consulting services as well as

a variety of activities related to the above, in the Greek

islands territory. The aim of this initiative is to exploit and

diffuse the know-how of EYDAP S.A. in order to ensure

affordable and affluent water supply for residents and

visitors of the Greek islands. In January 2013, following

an amendment agreed in the Hellenic Parliament, the

legal framework was created with which EYDAP and

its affiliates may be entrusted with the implementation

or assignment of studies for the construction of

projects related to the Company's activity as well as

the assignment and implementation of those projects in

island regions.

In March 2013, EYDAP NISON S.A. increased its capital

share by 30,000 euros whereas in 7 February 2014, a new

increase by 150,000,000 euros was confirmed during the

Extraordinary General Meeting of EYDAP NISON S.A.

In 22 October 2014, EYDAP S.A. following a decision of

the Board of Directors (18460/22.10.14) approved the

increase in the capital share of EYDAP NISON S.A. by

1,000,000 euros with the payment of the amount to

occur in two equal instalments of 500,000 euros, on 1st

November 2014 and on 1st July 2015.

In the Extraordinary General Meeting of 21st September

2017, the amendment of the article 1 change of name to

EYDAP NISON DEVELOPMENT S.A. was decided as well

as the amendment of the article 2 (purpose) the activities

will be undertaken within the Greek territory and outside

the area defined in article 8 of the Law 2744/1999 as a

responsibility of EYDAP S.A.

The Board of Directors consists of the following members:

Ioannis Benisis, 

Chairman of the Board and



Managing Director of the 

Company

Constantinos Vafeiadis,Member

Constantinos Vougiouklakis,

Member

Georgios Karagiannis,Member

Petros Matsoukis,Member

Glenis Georgios,Member

Makrinos Georgios,Member

The aim of EYDAP NISON DEVELOPMENT is to exploit

the know-how, the specialised staff and the contemporary tools of EYDAP S.A. in order to provide high-quality services to the areas of water supply, sewerage and wastewater treatment to the Greek islands as well as to any Greek region that needs them. The strategy of the company is to transfer the decadeslong experience of EYDAP S.A. in areas such as the rational management of water resources, the application of contemporary technology and the exploitation of national and European funds to the local water supply and sewerage companies in order to ensure the rational operation of their facilities and the protection of the environment with the disposal of adequately processed wastewater in order to make their reuse for irrigation needs feasible and at a minimal cost for the citizen and the society. Furthermore, the collaboration with broader bodies and organisations is being promoted in order to form of a complete funding framework for water supply and sewerage projects, mainly in islands. Main objective is the energy upgrade of the electromechanical building installations of water supply and sewerage in the island territory. The energy objectives are expected to finalise with the planning of a mutual action plan for the exploitation of the relevant funds for the Environment and the Climate Change. EYDAP NISON DEVELOPMENT S.A. and DEI Renewable S.A. are in the preparation of joint actions since 2017, as it is recognised that the renewable energy hybrid systems with an emphasis in the joint service of water supply and sewerage needs and the energy production, consist of important tools in the design of projects in the islands that are not connected. Since 2017, EYDAP NISON DEVELOPMENT S.A. collaborates with the Deposits and Loans Fund for the funding of projects in Municipalities, within the framework of the Fund's action. The collaboration is about the evaluation process and the technical support in studies related to Water Supply, Sewerage, Biological Treatment works, in which our Company has proven experience and leadership position whereas it also participates in the notification campaign of the action to the benefiting municipalities. In this context there is ongoing cooperation with OTAs in the actions and projects planning.

ANNUAL FINANCIAL REPORT

25

2
KEY
FINANCIAL
K

2017

26

ANNUAL FINANCIAL REPORT

www.eydap.gr

ANNUAL FINANCIAL REPORT

27

2.1 KEY FINANCIALS (GROUP)

. Key Financial Figures
Total Assets Tangible Assets Cash and cash equivalents Equity Total Inputs / (Outflows) from Operating Activities Total Inputs / (Outflows) from Investment Activities Free cash Flows * Turnover Gross Profit EBITDA* EBIT* EBT Earnings after Taxes Earnings per Share in 

amounts in thousants 

2014 1.541.945 957.138 233.314 921.310 -46.353 -13.320 -59.673 326.387 141.365
87.597 49.383 63.497 41.923
0,39

2015 1.577.096 916.555 260.419 966.940 64.408
-16.725 47.683 324.268 138.410 83.731 43.708 56.315 43.657
0,41

2016 1.551.840 881.337 280.544 904.766
48.522 3.457 51.979 328.851 146.214 87.279 49.908 41.324 24.049 0,23

2017 1.532.621 852.522 294.921 942.028
68.314 -3.805 64.509 327.343 142.865 84.599 47.820 66.473 43.427
0,41

. Key Ratios

Gross Profit Margin (%) * EBITDA Margin * EBIT Margin * Tax Burden * Interest Burden * Asset Turnover * Leverage * R *

43,3% 26,8% 15,1% 0,66
1,29 0,20 1,71 4,48%

42,7% 25,8% 13,5% 0,78
1,29 0,21 1,65 4,62%

44,5% 26,5% 15,2% 0,58 0,83
0,21 1,67 2,57%

43,6% 25,8% 14,6% 0,65
1,39 0,21 1,67 4,70%

Note: * Alternative Performance Measures (APM): for information and calculations of the measures please go to: «Alternative Performance Measures (APM)» Annual Financial Report of Fiscal year 2017

28

ANNUAL FINANCIAL REPORT

Income from water supply and relative services (Group-in thousands euro) 300.000

262.500 225.000

231.225

222.688

220.274

224.125

223.259

187.500

150.000

2013

2014

2015

Income from sewerage services (Group-in thousands euro) 150.000

125.000

114.965

100.000

108.328

101.200

75.000

50.000

2013

2014

2015

2016

2017

100.887

102.577

2016

2017

ANNUAL FINANCIAL REPORT

29

Operating profit (Group- in thousands euro)

100.000

75.000 50.000

58.272

25.000

0 2013

51.960 2014

Profit Before Taxes (Group in thousands euro)

49.187 2015

100.00

75.000 50.000

61.740

25.000 0

2013

63.497 2014

56.315 2015

54.256 2016
41.324 2016

49.573 2017
66.473 2017

30

ANNUAL FINANCIAL REPORT

2.2 CONSUMPTION EVOLUTION & BREAKDOWN

BREAKDOWN OF BILLED CONSUMPTION PER CUSTOMER CLASS

3,2

3,1

2

63,5

62,5

3,0
62,6

2015

2016

2017

7,3 5,7 20, 7,4 5,8 21,2 7,0 5,9 21,4

BREAKDOWN OF WATER SALES INCOME PER CUSTOMER CLASS

1,7

1,7

1,6

13,7

68,6

14,4

67,5

14,6

67,6

2015

2016

2017

8,1 7,9 8,2 8,1 8,0 8,2

BREAKDOWN OF SEWERAGE SERVICES INCOME PER CUSTOMER CLASS

7,0

85,8

2015

7,2 6,7 86,0
2016

7,3 6,9

85,7

2017

8,0 7,2 8,0 8,0

ANNUAL FINANCIAL REPORT

31

BREAKDOWN OF WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE SERVICES PER CUSTOMER CLASS

1,2

1,2

1,2

9,5

73,8

10,0

73,2

10,1

73,2

7,8 7,6 7,9 7,7 7,8 7,8

2015

2016

2017

COMMON CONSUMERS INDUSTRIAL-CORPORATE STATE-LOCAL AUTHORITIES BULK WATER SUPPLY TO LOCAL NETWORKS OTHER

300.982.552 306.056.307 306.704.442 310.596.116 312.189.163 318.122.352 313.752.017 346.932.894 342.518.775 339.850.097 331.206.409 327.738.534 325.477.095 312.556.804 314.982.304 306.446.238 308.365.308 307.298.907

BILLED WATER CONSUMPTION PROGRESS (in m3)

360.000.000

350.000.000

340.000.000

330.000.000

320.000.000

310.000.000

300.000.000

290.000.000

280.000.000

270.000.000

2000

2001

2002

2003

2004

2005

2006

2007

2008

2009

2010

2011

2012

2013

2014

2015

2016

2017

NON-BILLED WATER CONSUMPTION PROGRESS (in m3)
140.000.000

120.000.000

100.000.000

80.000.000

60.000.000

89.086.929 100.135.136 115.044.660 93.975.510 97.524.735 82.186.235 104.395.506 84.674.656 97.468.688 85.794.764 97.717.263 92.308.088 97.003.991 100.436.901 98.947.051 107.853.404 110.374.597 92.303.343

40.000.000

20.000.000

0

2000

2001

2002

2003

2004

2005

2006

2007

2008

2009

2010

2011

2012

2013

2014

2015

2016

2017

32

ANNUAL FINANCIAL REPORT

PERCENTAGE OF NON-BILLED CONSYMPTION PROGRESS (%)

30,000 25,00 30,00

27,3

24,7 22,8

23,2 23,8

25,0

22,2

25,2 25,6

22,8 22,0 23,0 24,3 23,8

22,4

20,5

19,6

20,2

15,00

10,00

5,00

0.00

2000

2001

2002

2003

2004

2005

2006

2007

2008

2009

2010

2011

2012

2013

2014

2015

2016

2017

WATER SUPPLY REVENUE PROGRESS (in )
300.000.000
250.000.000

200.000.000

150.000.000

180.216.825 184.985.006 193.779.928 212.277.179 218.915.306 228.149.988 225.433.408 252.150.843 255.256.244 250.416.486 243.674.355 236.501.015 237.364.352 225.829.789 219.961.580 221.650.092 222.215.902 221.114.108

100.000.000

50.000.000

0

2000

2001

2002

2003

2004

2005

2006

2007

2008

2009

2010

2011

2012

2013

2014

2015

2016

2017

SEWERAGE REVENUE PROGRESS (in )
140.000.000 120.000.000 100.000.000

80.000.000 60.000.000

54.787.250 60.163.753 67.363.116 75.626.180 78.867.822 92.851.418 89.760.603 104.381.751 104.759.180 115.918.025 115.138.787 112.145.079 110.127.882 102.976.512 95.732.565 97.855.272 97.703.208 97.466.331

40.000.000

20.000.000

0

2000

2001

2002

2003

2004

2005

2006

2007

2008

2009

2010

2011

2012

2013

2014

2015

2016

2017

WATER SALES AND SEWERAGE SERVICES REVENUE PROGRESS (in )
400.000.000

350.000.000 300.000.000

250.000.000 200.000.000 150.000.000

235.004.075 245.148.759 261.143.044 287.903.359 297.783.128 321.001.406 315.194.011 356.532.594 360.015.424 366.334.511 358.813.142 348.646.094 347.492.234 328.806.301 315.694.145 319.505.364 319.919.110 33118.9.598109.114039

100.000.000

50.000.000

0

2000

2001

2002

2003

2004

2005

2006

2007

2008

2009

2010

2011

2012

2013

2014

2015

2016

2017

ANNUAL FINANCIAL REPORT

33

2.3 SHARE INFORMATION

EYDAP'S SHARES TRADE IN THE ATHENS STOCK EXCHANGE.

Ticker Bloomberg Reuters
Shares Outstanding Market capitalization Closing price Annual High Annual Low

EYDAP EYDAP:GA EYDR.AT
106.500.000 666.690.000  (December 29, 2017) 6.26  (December 29, 2017) 6.43 (10/7/2017) 5.01  (17/3/2017)

EYDAP STOCK PERFORMANCE VS ATHEX COMPOSITE SHARE PRICE INDEX & HELMSI INDEX IN 2017

2.000

6

1.550

5

1.100

3

650 200

2

0



HELMSI



34

ANNUAL FINANCIAL REPORT

SHAREHOLDERS' STRUCTURE, AS OF DECEMBER 31, 2017

Shareholder Greek State Hellenic Republic Asset Development Fund Legal Entities Individuals Total

% Shares 34,03% 27,30% 32,03% 6,64% 100,00%

Number of Shares 36.245.240 29.074.500 34.112.289 7.068.011
106.500.000

Entities 1 1
252 23.811 24.065

3

Greek State
·Hellenic Republic Asset Development Fund ·Legal Entities ··Individuals

32,0

6,64

34,0

3

%

27,30

HISTORICAL DIVIDENDS AND EARNINGS PER SHARE

Fiscal Year 2001 2002 2003 2004 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017

Earnings per share (in ) 0,65 0,27 0,36 0,05 0,19 0,31 0,40 0,29 0,05 0,11 0,26 0,48 0,73 0,39 0,41 0,23 0,41

Dividend (in ) 0,22 0,10 0,13 0,06 0,07 0,11 0,14 0,13 0,02 0,04 0,17 0,20* 0,38** 0,20
0,31 ­ 0,38*** 0,11
0,20****

*Ordinary dividend 0.15  for fiscal year 2012 & 0.05  extra dividend prior years' earnings. ** Ordinary dividend 0.36  for fiscal year 2013 & 0.02  distribution of tax free reserve *** 0.38 dividend for past years earnings (2012 & 2013) **** Ordinary dividend 0,20 for 2017 FY (as proposed at Annual General Meeting)

ANNUAL FINANCIAL REPORT

35

3
ANNUAL
FRINEAPNOCRIATL
2017

36

ANNUAL FINANCIAL REPORT

www.eydap.gr
Athens Water Supply & Sewerage Company S.A. G.E.MI. (GREECE'S GENERAL ELECTRONIC COMMERCIAL REGISTRY) NUMBER 121578960000 156 OROPOU STR GALATSI ATHENS, GREECE

ANNUAL FINANCIAL REPORT

37

ANNUAL FINANCIAL REPORT
For the Period from January 1, 2017 to December 31, 2017
The attached Annual Financial Report has been compiled according to Law 2190/1920 and Law 3556/2007 as amended and currently in force and its relevant decisions of the Board of Directors of Hellenic Capital Market Commission, and includes:
a) S tatements of members of the Board of Directors according to article 4 paragraph 2, L. 3556/2007
b) A nnual Board of Directors Management Report, including the Corporate Governance Statement
c) Non-Financial Statement Based on Law 4403 / 07.07.2016 d) A nnual Financial Statements for the period from January 1,
2017 to December 31, 2017 e) Independent Auditors' Report f) Information according to article 10 of Law 3401/2005 g) Financial Data and Information for the period from January
1, 2017 to December 31, 2017
It is declared that the attached Annual Financial Report is the one that has been approved by the Board of Directors of "Athens Water Supply & Sewerage Company S.A." on March 28th, 2018 and is available at company's official website www.eydap.gr .

38

ANNUAL FINANCIAL REPORT

3.1 S TATEMENTS OF MEMBERS OF THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS
(According to the article 4 par.2 of the Law 3556/2007)
The Following Members: 1. Konstantinos Ant. Papadopoulos, Chairman of Board of Directors and 2. Ioannis Emm. Benisis, Chief Executive Officer. 3 Michael Ad. Stavroulakis, Independent Board Member,
specially designated for this. According to what is specified in the paragraph 2 of the article 4 of the Law 3556/2007 we hereby declare that from what we know: a. T he Annual Financial Statements of fiscal year 2017 which
were conducted according to the valid International Financial Reporting Standards truly illustrate Assets and Liabilities figures, Net Worth and Income Statement of EYDAP S.A. and all the companies included in the consolidation regarded as total. b. The Annual Report of the Board of Directors, truly presents the development, position and performance of EYDAP S.A. and all the companies included in the consolidation regarded as total, together with all risks and uncertainties.
Athens, 28 March 2018
The Chairman of the Board Konstantinos Ant. Papadopoulos ID No.  720446 The Chief Executive Officer Ioannis Emm. Benisis ID No.  521661 The Board Member Michael Ad. Stavroulakis ID No.  231180

ANNUAL FINANCIAL REPORT

39

3.2 A NNUAL BOARD OF DIRECTORS MANAGEMENT
REPORT
Dear Shareholders,
In accordance with article 4 of Law 3556/2007, as amended and currently in force, the paragraph 3 of the article 107 of the c.l. 2190/1920, and the delegated resolutions of the Hellenic Capital Committee of the same Law, we hereby submit the Annual Report of Board of Directors for the financial year from 01/01/2017 to 31/12/2017.
The report presents the performance, the development, and the position of the Water Supply and Sewerage Company S.A., under the title EYDAP S.A. (hereinafter referred to as the «Company « or « EYDAP «) and the Group, it provides an overview of the significant events that took place during the fiscal year 2017 and their effect on the financial statements of the same period, it describes the potential risks and uncertainties, the significant transactions between the Company, the Group and related parties, according to IAS 24 as well as significant events after the end of fiscal year 2017. Moreover, the Report of the Board of Directors includes the explanatory report of paragraph 7, of article 4 of the Law 3556/2007, as amended and currently in force and the Corporate Governance Statement. In addition, the Report of the BoD includes the Non ­ Financial Statement based on Law 4403/07.07.2016.
The fiscal year of 2017 was completed with positive results for the Company, as it confirmed for yet another year, the steady and profitable course of EYDAP. It was characterized by its practical support to the sensitive social groups affected by the financial crisis and the planning of investments and business of the Company through the Business Plan approved by the Board of Directors. The projects planned are expected to provide definitive solutions to major infrastructure problems such as the lack of sewerage in Eastern Attica, but also to support the Greek economy. The driving force of EYDAP, is its human resources· With their experience, knowledge and the love that they have embraced the Company, they contribute to EYDAP's to growth.

40

ANNUAL FINANCIAL REPORT

BACKGROUND, INCORPORATIONS AND STRATEGY
The Athens Water Supply and Sewerage Company (EYDAP S.A.) is the largest company in Greece activating in water management and distribution as well as in sewerage services. EYDAP was founded in 1980 under the "Incorporation of a Single Water Supply and Sewerage Company for Greater Athens" Act 1068/1980, pursuant to a merger of the incumbent water supplier in Athens and Piraeus `Hellenic Water Company S.A.' (EEY S.A.), and the `Greater Athens Sewerage Organization' (OAP S.A.). In 1999, under the "Issues Related to the Athens Water Supply and Sewerage Company and other Provisions" Act 2744/1999, EYDAP S.A. took its present legal form, as all of its major assets were transferred to the company «EYDAP Fixed Assets» (Legal Entity under Public Law), thus remaining the property of the State. «EYDAP Fixed Assets» is the owner of dams, reservoirs, water towers, pumping stations and all other facilities that allow water to be transferred safely to treatment plants. Pursuant to an agreement signed between EYDAP S.A. and the Greek State in December 1999, EYDAP S.A. continues to operate the said facilities on behalf of «EYDAP Fixed Assets». In January 2000, EYDAP S.A. was listed in the Market of the Athens Stock Exchange. EYDAP has the exclusive right to provide supply and distribution of water and sewerage services in the Attica region for 20 years commencing as of the date on which the L 2744/1999 was published in the Government Gazette. This exclusive right is not transferable and it can be renewed following a written agreement between the Greek State and the Company. The business activity of EYDAP (according to the amendment of article 68 of Law 4313/2010) is extended into the municipalities of the Attica Periphery, as these are defined in the field h' of paragraph 3 of article 3 of Law 3852/2010, apart from the municipalities of Aigina, Troizinia, Kythira, Spetses, Hydra and Poros of the Peripheral Unity of Islands of the Attica Periphery. EYDAP supplies water to approximately 4,300,000 customers (2,100,000 water meters) through a network of approximately 10.000 km. The sewerage sector serves with sewers spreading at almost 8.300 km serves approximately. It should be noted that under Law 2744/1999, the responsibility for drainage of rainwater and flood protection in the areas of competence of EYDAP was passes to the Ministry of Infrastructure, Transport and Networks, and today according to the legislation in force, responsible for the study, construction, maintenance of drainage works and flood protection works in general, as well as for the cleaning of water catchment wells, is the Region of Attica and Local Authorities. The new organizational structure of the Company is in force since October 1st 2016. The aim of the new organization chart is the even and efficient operation of the company always aiming towards optimum efficiency for consumers, shareholders and employees. Therefore, six more specialized Executive Divisions were formed against four that existed in the previous organizational structure: - Water Supply Executive Division - Waste Water Services Executive Division - Human Resources Executive Division - Coordination and Supportive Operations Executive
Division - Financial Executive Division - Customer Executive Division EYDAP supplies Attica with one of the highest quality waters in the world. The main raw water sources and reservoirs used, are pure regions, free from agricultural

and industrial activities, resulting to the supply of Attica with high quality water, while the transfer is done naturally by gravity, with minimum energy consumption. Our vision is to remain the largest and most reliable company in the management of the water cycle, always oriented towards Man, Society and the Environment. Our mission is to provide quality and affordable water to an increasing number of citizens and to return it pure back to the environment through the effective management of all available resources with social sensitivity and with our contribution to social welfare taken as basis. Our strategy is based on achieving a balanced and sustainable development for the benefit of the society, our customers, employees, shareholders and for parties involved.
PERFORMANCE & FINANCIAL HIGHLIGHTS FOR THE PERIOD OF 2017
. Review of Operations ­ Progress of water consumption and billed income of water and sewerage usage
In 2017, the total water consumption (billed and nonbilled) decreased by 18.629.470 m3 (-4,3%) compared to 2016, in relation to the 3.552.494 m3 (0,8%) increase, in the period from 2015 to 2016. In 2015, 2016 and 2017 the total water consumption was 427.602.694 m3, 431.155.188 m3 and 412.525.718 m3 respectively.
In 2017, billed consumption decreased by 1.066.401 m3 (-0,3%) compared to 2016 in contrast with the decrease by 1.919.070 m3 (0,6%) displayed in 2016 in relation to 2015. Billed water consumption for the years 2015, 2016 and 2017 was 306.446.238 m3, 308.365.308 m3 and 307.298.907 m3, respectively.
Alongside the reduction in the invoiced consumption and total consumption in 2017, there was a decrease in the non-billed consumption i.e. the difference between the total and billed consumption.
In 2017, the non-billed consumption decreased by 18.071.254 m3 (-16,4%) compared to 2016. The increase of the non-billed consumption in 2016, in comparison to 2015, was 2.521.193 m3 (2,3%).
During the years 2015, 2016 and 2017 the non-billed consumption was 107.853.404 m3, 110.374.597 m3 and 92.303.343 m3, respectively. Furthermore, the non-billed consumption showed a substantial decrease by 3.22% compared to the total consumption, in 2017. More specifically, in 2015, 2016 and 2017 the non-billed to total consumption ratio was formed at 25,2%, 25,6% and 22,4%, respectively.
Regarding the main consumer classes, the billed consumption of the class of common consumers - which represents the majority of customers ­ the household customers ­ decreased by 303.801 m3 (- 0,2%) compared to 2016 in contrast with the decrease by 1.828.761 m3 (-0,9%) in 2016 compared to 2015. Water consumption of common consumers in the years 2015, 2016 and 2017 was 194.629.715 m3, 192.800.954 m3 and 192.497.153 m3, respectively.
Bulk Water Supply to municipal networks, which represents the second biggest customer class, increased by 357.317 m3 (0,5%) in 2017 compared to 2016 versus an increase by 3.514.205 m3 (5,7%) in 2016 compared to 2015. Billed bulk water supply to municipal networks in the years 2015, 2016 and 2017 was 62.000.704 m3, 65.514.909

ANNUAL FINANCIAL REPORT

41

m3  65.872.226 m3, respectively.
The industrial consumers' class billed consumption, decreased by 1.116.063 m3 (-4,9%) compared to 2016, versus an increase by 273.864 m3 (1,2%) in 2016 compared to 2015. The industrial consumers' class billed consumption in the years 2015, 2016 and 2017 was 22.405.052 m3, 22.678.916 m3 and 21.562.853 m3, respectively.

in the years 2015, 2016 and 2017 was 17.491.777 m3, 17.960.506 m3  18.055.332 m3, respectively.
Lastly, the billed consumption of the other consumer classes, decreased by 98.680 m3 (-1,0%) compared to 2016, versus a decrease by 508.967 m3 (5,1%) in 2016 compared to 2015. The billed consumption of other consumer classes in the years 2015, 2016 and 2017 was 9.918.990 m3, 9.410.023 m3  9.311.343 m3, respectively.

The billed consumption of the State-Local Authorities class increased by 94.826 m3 (0,5%) compared to 2016 versus an increase by 468.729 m3 (2,7%) in 2016 compared to 2015. The State-Local Authorities billed consumption

The impact of billed consumption change in each consumer class to the total decreased billed consumption, which amounts to 1.066.401 m3, is summarized in the following table (Table 1):

1. Change in billed consumption in 2017 compared to 2016

Consumer Class Common Consumers Industries ­ Corporate Customers State ­ Local Authorities Bulk water supply to local networks Other Total change in billed consumption

Change (in m3) -303.801 -1.116.063 94.826 357.317 -98.680 -1.066.401

Change (in %) -0.2 -4.9 0.5 0.5 -1.0 -0.3

The following table (Table 2) shows the change in billed consumption (in cubic meters) and the ratio to the total billed consumption for the main consumer classes in the years 2015, 2016 and 2017:

2. Billed consumption volume breakdown (in m3) Consumer Class Common Consumers Industries ­ Corporate Customers State ­ Local Authorities Bulk water supply to local networks Other Total

2015 194.629.715 22.405.052 17.491.777 62.000.704 9.918.990 306.446.238

2016 192.800.954 22.678.916 17.960.506 65.514.909 9.410.023 308.365.308

2017 192.497.153 21.562.853 18.055.332 65.872.226 9.311.343 307.298.907

The breakdown of the percentages of billed consumption in relation to the main consumer classes during 2015, 2016 and 2017 is shown below (Table 3):

3. Billed consumption volume percentages
Consumer Class Common Consumers Industries ­ Corporate Customers State ­ Local Authorities Bulk water supply to local networks Other Total

2015 64% 7% 6% 20% 3% 100,00%

2016 63% 7% 6% 21% 3% 100,00%

2017 63% 7% 6% 21% 3% 100,00%

The following table (Table 4) shows the evolution of the annual billed water sales revenue for each consumer class for the years 2015, 2016 and 2017:

4. Billed water sales revenue breakdown ()
Consumer Class Common Consumers Industries ­ Corporate Customers State ­ Local Authorities Bulk water supply to local networks Other Total

2015 151.968.242 17.944.439 17.566.014 30.372.004 3.799.393 221.650.092

2016 150.064.348 18.207.752 18.009.818 32.068.997 3.864.987 222.215.902

2017 149.468.226 17.667.222 18.114.432 32.241.664 3.622.564 221.114.108

42

ANNUAL FINANCIAL REPORT

The following table (Table 5) presents the nominal annual billed sewerage usage revenue in each consumer class and the proportion in the total revenue from sewerage usage in the years 2015, 2016 and 2017:

5. Billed sewerage usage revenue ()

Consumer Class Common Consumers Industries ­ Corporate Customers State ­ Local Authorities Bulk water supply to local networks Other Total

2015 83.931.076 7.046.297 6.836.712 0 41.187 97.855.272

2016 84.062.212 7.050.546 6.551.551 0 38.899 97.703.208

2017 83.576.041 7.112.298 6.735.978 0 42.014 97.466.331

The following table (Table 6) presents the nominal annual billed water supply and sewerage usage revenue for each consumer class, in the years 2015, 2016 and 2017:

6. Billed water supply and sewerage services revenue breakdown ()

Consumer Class Common Consumers Industries ­ Corporate Customers State ­ Local Authorities Bulk water supply to local networks Other Total

2015 235.899.318 24.990.736 24.402.726 30.372.004 3.840.580 319.505.364

2016 234.126.560 25.258.298 24.561.369 32.068.997 3.903.886 319.919.110

2017 233.044.267 24.779.520 24.850.410 32.241.664 3.664.578 318.580.439

The following table (Table 7) presents the tariff breakdown for the common consumers class, in the years 2015, 2016 and 2017:

7. Tariff breakdown for the Common Consumers class (%)
Billing Scale (Common Consumers class) 1st Billing scale (1-15 m3 / quarter) 2nd Billing scale (16-60 m3 / quarter) 3rd Billing scale (61-81 m3 / quarter) 4th Billing scale (82-105 m3 / quarter) 5th Billing scale (>105 m3 / quarter)

2015 49,75% 43,70% 2,53% 1,11% 2,92%

2016 49,28% 43,89% 2,74% 1,16% 2,93%

2017 49,69% 43,56% 2,62% 1,11% 3,02%

Table 7 represents the percentage of the billed consumption for the common consumers' tariff category through each billing scale. able 8 presents the average revenue for water supply services per billed cubic meter for the main consumer classes in the years 2015,2016 and 2017:

8. Average billed revenue per cubic meter

Tariff Category

2015

2016

2017

Common Consumers

0,78

0,78

0,78

Industries ­ Corporate Customers

0,80

0,80

0,82

State ­ Local Authorities

1,00

1,00

1,00

Bulk water supply to local networks

0,49

0,49

0,49

Other

0,38

0,41

0,39

Total

0,72

0,72

0,72

The following table (Table 9) presents the average revenue from the billed sewerage usage per cubic meter for the main consumer classes in the years 2015, 2016 and 2017:

9. Average billed sewerage usage revenue per cubic meter

Tariff Category Common Consumers Industries ­ Corporate Customers State ­ Local Authorities Bulk water supply to local networks Other Total

2015 0,43 0,31 0,39 0,00 0,00 0,32

2016 0,44 0,31 0.36 0,00 0,00 0,32

2017 0,43 0,33 0.37 0,00 0,00 0,32

ANNUAL FINANCIAL REPORT

43

Lastly, the following table (Table 10) presents average revenue from the billed water supply and sewerage usage per cubic meter for the main consumer classes in the years 2015, 2016 and 2017:

10. Average Revenue from the billed water supply and sewerage usage per cubic meter

Tariff Category Common Consumers Industries ­ Corporate Customers State ­ Local Authorities Bulk water supply to local networks Other Total

2015 1,21 1,12 1,40 0,49 0,39 1,04

2016 1,21 1,11 1,37 0,49 0,41 1,04

2017 1,21 1,15 1,38 0,49 0,39 1,04

In particular, for the bulk water supply to municipal networks in 2017 it is mentioned that while the 21% of the billed water is billed as Bulk Water Supply to Local Networks, the water sales revenue from this particular consumer class comes up to 15% of the total water sales revenue. This is due to the fact that the average revenue per cubic meter of the bulk water supply tariff ( 0.49) is 32% lower than the average revenue per cubic meter of water sales ( 0.72).

. Presentation of the Company's Major Financial Results

The Company's turnover settled at 327.3 million  from 328.8 million  in 2016 posting a decrease of 0.5% (-1.5 million ). In total, with regard to its main businesses (water supply and sewerage services), the Company posted a decrease of 2.3 million  (-0.7%) in revenues. Specifically, revenues from water supply and related services posted a decrease of 0.9 million  (-0.4%), whereas revenues from sewerage services dropped by 1.5 million  (-1.4%). Revenues from the sale of electric energy also posted a decrease of 74 thousand  (-3.6%). On the contrary, revenues from construction works for third parties and from sale of inventory increased by 463 thousand  and 452 thousand  respectively. Total operating expenses of the Company (meaning the sum of Cost of Goods Sold, Administrative Expenses and Distribution Expenses) posted an increase by 1.1% or 3.2 million  and settled at 281.5 million  from 278.3 million  in 2016. Specifically, cost of goods sold posted an increase by 1.8 million  (+1.0%) settling at 184.5 million  from 182.6 million  in 2016 and distribution expenses increased by 2.5 million  (+9.3%). The administrative expenses moved in opposite direction and posted a decrease by 1.2 million  (-1.8%). The above developments resulted into the decrease of the Gross Profit of the Company by 3.3 million  (-2.3%) which settled at 142.8 million  from 146.2 million  in 2016. The gross profit margin decreased to 43.6% in 2017 from 44.5% in 2016. The other operating income stabilized at 3.8 million . The other operating income includes a significant number of other categories of income such as income from legal expenditures, subsidies and grants collected from the Greek Manpower Employment Organization (OAED) for the training of personnel and for internships, forfeitures of guarantees and penalties, grants related to research programs, other extraordinary and nonoperating income, previous years' income, profit from the liquidation of materials, income for the provision of services to third parties, etc. With regard to the course of the total operating expenses of the Company (meaning the sum of Cost of Goods Sold, Administrative Expenses and Distribution Expenses) depending on each category, there were increases in the personnel fees and expenses (+7%), the sundry expenses (+40%), the third party fees and expenses (+4%) and in the materials consumable (+21%), whereas there were declines in all other categories of expenses such as in the various expenses (-30%), the third party provisions (-11%), and in the depreciation/ amortization (-2%). Finally the self-construction cost (comprising an item that reduces the total cost) posted an increase of 104%. Specifically with regard to the personnel fees and

expenses, the total increase amounted to 8.5 million  as they settled at 128.2 million  versus 119.7 million  in 2016. The above increase is due to the significant change in the provisions for employee benefits (apart from the healthcare provision) by 11.5 million  (+83%). The increase is related to the recognition within the year 2017 of an amount 11.8 million  as additional service cost with regard to a one-off personnel indemnity. This recognition concerns previous legal decisions for cases in which pensioners of the Company filed claims for their proportional compensation with regard to past bonuses and were vindicated. As result, there was a revision of the preexisting actuarial estimate concerning the respective provision. As regards to the sub-categories of the personnel fees and expenses, salaries and wages increased by 265 thousand  (+0.3%) settling at 81.6 million  from 81.3 million  in 2016. Employer contributions posted a decrease by 78 thous.  (-0.4%) and other personnel expenses decreased by 2.7 million (-31.8%). Provisions for health care declined by 438 thousand  (-7.4%). With regard to the expense with the second largest change, the sundry expenses, it should be noted that they consist of taxes and duties (apart from income tax), materials for immediate consumption, promotion and advertising expenses, transport expenses, sponsoring expenses, grants and other various expenses. The latter are mainly related to interest charges validated by courts (with regard to litigation cases), costs for deposition of materials from the Waste Management & Treatment Plants toward ESDNA (which is a Special Institutional Body for Waste Management in the County of Attica, Greece) as well as purchases of tangible assets for own projects. The latter increased to 5,216 thous.  from 227 thous.  in 2016 resulting into an increase for the sundry expenses by 5.5 million  (+40%). The other categories of sundry expenses experienced increases in the taxes ­ duties by 1.2  (+18%) and reductions in the promotion and advertising expenses by 759 thous.  (-43%) and in the materials for immediate consumption by 540 thous.  (-21%). Third party fees and expenses moved upward by 1.8 million  (+4%) and amounted to 47.3 million  from 45.5 million  in 2016 despite the fact of the decrease in expenses of Psyttaleia WTP (-666 thous.  or -2%), of Mornos WTP (-414 thous.  or -20%) and of the Water Supply Network (-954 thous.  or -29%). In the remaining organizational units, there was an increase by 3.9 million  (+33%) with the most important ones concerning the Water Collection Division by 1.3 million , the Sewage Division by 0.9 million , the Procurement Division by 0.6 million , the Legal Services Division by

44

ANNUAL FINANCIAL REPORT

0.5 million , as well as the Facility Safety & Security Division by 0.3 million . Third party contributions moved downward as they declined to 35.3 million  from 39.8 million  in 2016. All categories of expenses with regard to third party contributions, with the exception of natural gas, posted a decline. Specifically, expenses for electricity dropped by 2 million  (-12%), expenses for repairs and maintenance declined by 1.9 million  (-29%), postal and telecommunication expenses dropped by 410 thous.  (-7%) and other third party provisions declined by 294

thous.  (-14%). Rental expenses remained unchanged whereas the expenses for natural gas in production posted an increase by 60 thous.  (+13%). Sundry provisions followed the same downward course and settled at 13.1 million in 2017 from 18.9 million  in 2016. Sundry provisions include the provisions for doubtful receivables (5.9 million  in 2017 from 5.4 million  in 2016), the provisions for litigation cases (7 million  in 2017 from 13.5 million  in 2016) and the provisions for obsolete inventories (206 thous.  in 2017 from 1,137 thous.  in 2016).

In thousand  2013 2014 2015 2016 2017

Provisions for Doubtful Receivables for the Year
-59,953 13,866 7,708 6,313 5,915

Provisions for Litigations for the Year 31,025 3,008 11,117 13,515 6,993

As far as the provisions for doubtful receivables are concerned, the provisions for doubtful customers (expense) accounted for 5.9 million  from 6.3 million  in 2016, whereas provisions for other debtors (expense) amounted to 27,600 thous.  versus -1 million  in 2016. The share of the balance of doubtful customers over the balance of customers prior to the provision for doubtful receivables increased to 21% versus 20% in 2016. Historically, during the past decade, the above share ranged between 11% and 22%.

In thousand 
2013 2014 2015 2016 2017

Balance of Doubtful Customers
(1) 25,710 37,585 45,293 51,606 57,521

Balance of Customers prior to Provision for Doubtful Receivables
(2) 228,891 240,699 269,794 259,045 273,476

Share
(3)=(1)/(2) 11% 16% 17% 20% 21%

With regard to the provisions for litigation cases (expense), these settled at 7 million  and as result in the statement of financial position they reached the level of 35.2 million  in 2017 versus 41.7 million  in 2016. During the year 2017, the Company proceeded with the implementation of a conciliation resolution of collective labor disputes concerning the 19105 / 21.12.2016 decision of the Board of Directors to resolve collective labor disputes and disburse approximately 17 million  (in this context the particular amount had been transferred into the other short-term liabilities by the end of 2016) and the 19224 / 24.05.2017 decision of the Board of Directors to disburse approximately 13 million . At the end of 2017, there was a remaining amount of 1.8 million  with regard to the above mentioned decisions in the other shortterm liabilities in order to be paid. In total, the Company formed a new provision for labor cases of 6,951 thousand  and for civil cases of 42 thousand . Finally, in the remaining categories of expenses, the consumption of materials increased by 1,326 thousand  (+21%) whereas self-construction cost (item that reduces the expenses) posted an increase of 3,209 thousand  (+104%). With regard to the other expenses (meaning all expenses which are not allocated into the operations, in other words expenses apart from Cost of Goods Sold, Administrative

Expenses and Distribution Expenses), there was a reduction by 2.6 million  (-60%) as they settled at 1.8 million  from 4.3 million  in 2016. These expenses usually include indemnities due to accidents and network damages, various tax charges, other surcharges and penalties, etc. They also include expenses with regard to studies and / or projects of previous periods. During the current fiscal year, the expensing items settled at 0.7 million  versus 2.4 million  in 2016. The aggregate effect of the above changes was the decrease of the earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization (EBITDA) of the Company by 2.6 million  (-3.0%) as they settled at 84.7 million  from 87.3 million  in 2016. The EBITDA margin decreased to 25.9% from 26.6% in 2016. Depreciation charges for the year posted a decrease by -1.6% or -0.6 million  and settled 36.8 million  from 37.4 million  in 2016. The above small decrease was exclusively attributed to the lower depreciation and amortization of assets as the amortization of grants and customer contributions remained essentially unchanged. The decrease of EBITDA affected the Company's earnings before interest and taxes (EBIT) which posted a drop by 2.1 million  (-4.1%) and settled at 47.9 million  from 49.9 million  in 2016. EBIT margin settled at 14.6% from 15.2% in 2016.

ANNUAL FINANCIAL REPORT

45

The financial expenses posted a decrease of 89% and settled at 0.5 million  from 4.4 million  in 2016 mostly due to the significantly increased settlements concerning overdue payments of the local authorities (OTA) which materialized in 2016. These settlements when initially occur they result into a financial expense which equals with the difference between the discounted value of the installments agreed with the OTA and their nominal value, according to IAS 39. The difference between the present value and the nominal value is transferred to the financial expenses at the time of the settlement, whereas with the gradual repayment of the installments a financial income is gradually recorded which is equal with the above difference. The financial income posted an increase by 38% settling at 19.1 million  from 13.9 million  in 2016. The financial income mainly consists of the surcharges of overdue payments from customers and of the interest / financial income generated by the placement of the cash and cash equivalents (cash management account of Bank of Greece and time deposits in credit institutions). Despite the decrease observed in both the earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization (EBITDA) and the earnings before interest and taxes (EBIT), the Company's profit before taxes significantly increased to 66.5 million  from 41.3 million  in 2016 thus posting a growth rate of 61%. However, it should be noted that

the results of 2016 were affected by the recognition of an impairment loss of 18.1 million  due to the significant depreciation of the Company's investment in the shares of Attica Bank. The income tax settled at 23 million  from 17.3 million  in 2016 higher by 5.7 million  or 33%. The Company's profit after taxes posted a significant increase of 81% and settled at 43.5 million  from 24.1 million  in 2016. The net profit margin increased notably to 13.3% from 7.3% in 2016. The Net Operating Cash inflows for the Group increased from the level of 52.4 million  in 2016 to 68.3 million  in 2017. It should be noted however the significant decline of the liabilities by 31 million , a large part of which relates to the settlement resolution agreement of the above mentioned group-based labor differences. The Net Investment Cash flows for the Group settled at outflows of 3.8 million  in 2017 from outflows of 410 thousand  in 2016. The acquisition of tangible assets posted an increase from 8.4 million  in 2016 to 15 million  in 2017, accompanied with an increase in the collection of grants and third party contributions from 1.3 million  in 2016 to 4.6 million  in 2017. With regard to the interest received, it posted a small decrease from 7.6 million  in 2016 to 7.3 million  in 2017. Finally, Free Cash Flows to the Firm settled for the Group at 64.5 million  from 52 million  in 2016.

Analysis of the Return on Equity in 5 factors (for the Group)
ROE Tax Burden Interest Burden EBIT Margin Asset Turnover Leverage

2017 4.70% 0.65 1.39 14.61% 0.21 1.67

2016 2.57% 0.58 0.83 15.18% 0.21 1.67

2015 4.62% 0.78 1.29 13.48% 0.21 1.65

Where     

ROE=Profit after taxes / Average Shareholders' Equity Tax Burden = Profit after Taxes / Profit before Taxes Interest Burden = Profit before Taxes /  EBIT Margin = EBIT / Turnover Asset Turnover = Turnover / Average Assets Leverage = Average Assets / Average Shareholders' Fund

The effect of the subsidiary and associate company in the consolidated items is negligible and no further analysis is required.

* Alternative Performance Measures: For explanations and for the calculation of the indicators see Section, "Alternative Performance Measures".

46

ANNUAL FINANCIAL REPORT

ALTERNATIVE PERFORMANCE MEASURES ("APM")

The Group in the Management Report as well as in the disclosures towards the investors' community utilizes Alternative Performance Measures (APM) apart from the financial figures depicted in its financial statements which are prepared according to the framework of financial information currently in effect. The purpose of the presentation of these measures is that both the Management of the Company and the investors obtain a more complete view of the efficiency, capital structure, business activity and liquidity of the Group and in no case should be taken into consideration independently of the measurement ratios deriving directly from the financial statements. The Alternative Performance Measures utilized by the Group are the following:

· E arnings before Interest, Taxes, Depreciation and Amortization (EBITDA)
The particular indicator is widely known within the investors' community and is classified under the general section of profitability ratios, possessing the advantage that it isolates the effect from the financial and investment results, the income tax and the main category of non-cash expenses which concern the depreciation and amortization.
The Indicator is calculated by subtracting the cost of goods sold, the distribution expenses, the administrative expenses and the other expenses from the turnover and also by adding back the other operating income and the total depreciation and amortization. These figures are used without any adjustment made from the financial statements and their notes.

Table of EBITDA Reconciliation
Amounts in EUR thousand Turnover Cost of goods sold Administrative expenses Distribution expenses Other expenses Other operating income Depreciation and amortization Earnings before Interest, Taxes, Depreciation and Amortization (EBITDA)

GROUP

31.12.2017 327.343 (184.478) (67.564) (29.510) (1.753) 3.782 36.779 84.599

31.12.2016 328.851 (182.637) (68.750) (26.991) (4.348) 3.783 37.371 87.279

COMPANY

31.12.2017 327.324 (184.478) (67.487) (29.510) (1.753) 3.782 36.779 84.656

31.12.2016 328.821 (182.637) (68.697) (26.991) (4.348) 3.783 37.371 87.302

· EBITDA Margin
The EBITDA Margin derives from the above presented table if the EBITDA is divided by the Turnover. It expresses the percentage of Turnover that is possessed by the EBITDA or alternatively it demonstrates "how much" EBITDA earnings correspond to one unit of sales. The Management of the Company utilizes the particular Indicator in the context of the broader evaluation of the enterprise's operating profitability.

Table of EBITDA Margin Reconciliation
Amounts in EUR thousand Turnover EBITDA EBITDA margin

GROUP

31.12.2017 327.343 84.599 25,8%

31.12.2016 328.851 87.279 26,5%

COMPANY

31.12.2017 327.324 84.656 25,9%

31.12.2016 328.821 87.302 26,6%

· Earnings before Taxes, Financial and Investment Results or Earnings before Interest and Taxes (EBIT)
This indicator, as in the case of the previous one (EBITDA) is widely known within the investors' community and is classified under the general section of profitability ratios, possessing the advantage that it isolates the effect from the financial and investment results as well as the income tax. The indicator is calculated by subtracting the cost of goods sold, the distribution expenses, the administrative expenses and the other expenses from the turnover and also by adding back the other operating income. These figures are used without any adjustment made from the financial statements.

ANNUAL FINANCIAL REPORT

47

Table of EBIT Reconciliation
Amounts in EUR thousand Turnover Cost of goods sold Administrative expenses Distribution expenses Other expenses Other operating income Earnings before Taxes, Financial and Investment Results or Earnings before Interest and Taxes (EBIT)

GROUP

31.12.2017 327.343 (184.478) (67.564) (29.510) (1.753) 3.782

31.12.2016 328.851 (182.637) (68.750) (26.991) (4.348) 3.783

COMPANY

31.12.2017 327.324 (184.478) (67.487) (29.510) (1.753) 3.782

31.12.2016 328.821 (182.637) (68.697) (26.991) (4.348) 3.783

47.820

49.908

47.877

49.931

· EBIT Margin

The EBIT Margin derives from the above presented table if the EBIT is divided by the Turnover. It expresses the percentage of Turnover possessed by the EBIT. The Management of the Company utilizes the particular Indicator in the context of the broader evaluation of the enterprise's operating profitability.

Table of EBIT Margin Reconciliation
Amounts in EUR thousand Turnover EBIT EBIT margin

GROUP

31.12.2017 327.343 47.820 14,6%

31.12.2016 328.851 49.908 15,2%

COMPANY

31.12.2017 327.324 47.877 14,6%

31.12.2016 328.821 49.931 15,2%

· Free Cash Flows to the Firm

This Indicator is classified under the general section of profitability ratios as it demonstrates the amount of cash that is available for distribution to the shareholders and the debtors of the enterprise. It is also one of the major indicators of financial strength.

The Indicator is calculated by adding the total inflows / (outflows) from Operating Activities to the total inflows / (outflows) from Investment Activities.

Table of Reconciliation of the Free Cash Flows to the Firm - FCFF

GROUP

COMPANY

Amounts in EUR thousand Total inflows / (outflows) from operating activities Total inflows / (outflows) from investment activities Free Cash Flows to the Firm (FCFF)

31.12.2017 68.314 -3.805 64.509

31.12.2016 52.379 -400 51.979

31.12.2017 68.395 -3.814 64.581

31.12.2016 52.393 -410 51.983

· Return on Equity / ROE
In general, the return on equity indicates the part of profit which corresponds to the investment made by the shareholders of a company. It belongs to the group of profitability ratios and is also widely known and used for comparison of similar companies and for the evaluation of a company's management. The indicator is calculated if the net income (Earnings after taxes) is divided by the average shareholders' funds at the beginning and the end of the period. It can be also expressed as the product of five factors, with each one corresponding to one separate financial ratio. The separate financial ratios are the following:

1. Tax Burden: equals with the Net Income (Earnings after Taxes) over the Earnings before taxes
2. Interest Burden: equals with the Earnings before taxes over the Earnings before Taxes, Financial and Investment Results (EBIT)
3. BIT Margin: equals with EBIT over Turnover 4. A ssets Turnover: equals with Turnover over Total Assets
(average of total assets at the beginning and the end of period) 5. Leverage: equals with Total Assets (average of total assets at the beginning and the end of period) over Shareholders' Funds (average of shareholders' funds at the beginning and the end of period)

48

ANNUAL FINANCIAL REPORT

Table of ROE Reconciliation on GROUP Level

Amounts in EUR thousand Turnover (a) Earnings after Taxes (b) Earnings before Taxes (c) EBIT (d) Total Assets (e) Average of Assets at beginning and end of period (f) Total Shareholders' Funds (g) Average of Shareholders' Funds at beginning and end of period (h) Tax Burden=(b)/(c) Interest Burden=(c)/(d) EBIT Margin=(d)/(a) Asset Turnover=(a)/(f) Leverage=(f)/(h) R=(b)/(h)

31.12.2017 327.343 43.427 66.473 47.820 1.532.621 1.542.231 942.028 923.397 0,65 1,39 14,61% 0,21 1,67 4,70%

31.12.2016 328.851 24.049 41.324 49.908 1.551.840 1.564.468 904.766 935.853 0,58 0,83 15,18% 0,21 1,67 2,57%

31.12.2015 324.268 43.657 56.315 43.708 1.577.096 1.559.521 966.940 944.125 0,78 1,29 13,48% 0,21 1,65 4,62%

31.12.2014 326.387 41.923 63.497 49.383 1.541.945 1.596.525 921.310 935.963 0,66 1,29 15,13% 0,20 1,71 4,48%

With the analysis of the Indicator "Return on Equity" into five separate factors, the Management of the Company as well as any other interested party may possess the knowledge of what part of the net income is affected by taxation (Tax Burden), what part is affected positively or negatively by the financial or investment activity (Interest Burden), which is the contribution of the profit margin of the operating earnings (on EBIT level ­ the EBIT margin), which is the utilization of the assets (Asset Turnover), and finally which is the contribution of the Leverage.

· Operating Cost before Depreciation (OPEX)

The Indicator is used by the Management of the Company in the decision making as well as in the communication with investors as it includes all categories of expenses which are allocated into different operations, meaning the cost of goods sold, the administrative expenses and the distribution expenses after the deduction of the depreciation. Other operating expenses which cannot be allocated into different operations are excluded from this indicator.

Table of Reconciliation of Operating Cost before Depreciation

GROUP

COMPANY

Amounts in EUR thousand Cost of goods sold Administrative expenses Distribution expenses Depreciation Operating Cost before Depreciation

31.12.2017 184.478 67.564 29.510 -36.779 244.773

31.12.2016 182.637 68.750 26.991 (37.371) 241.007

31.12.2017 184.478 67.487 29.510 -36.779 244.696

31.12.2016 182.637 68.697 26.991 (37.371) 240.954

· Gross Profit Margin (%)
This Indicator derives from division of the Gross Profit by the Turnover as exactly these two figures are depicted in the financial statements. It is utilized by the Management of the company on complementary basis with the Gross Profit in terms of value.

Table of Gross Profit Margin Reconciliation
Amounts in EUR thousand Turnover Gross Profit Gross Profit Margin %

GROUP

31.12.2017 327.343 142.865 43,6%

31.12.2016 328.851 146.214 44,5%

COMPANY

31.12.2017 327.324 142.846 43,6%

31.12.2016 328.821 146.184 44,5%

ANNUAL FINANCIAL REPORT

49

BUSINESS HIGHLIGHTS DURING FISCAL YEAR 2017

Aqua Publica Europea
On 20 January 2017, through the efforts and cooperation of EYDAP's International Relations Department, the Board of Directors of Aqua Publica Europea (APE) welcomed EYDAP to its "family", whose members are the largest European public and municipal water and sewerage companies such as the Eau de Paris, Belgium's Vivaqua and others. APE is an international non-profit association whose members are exclusively public providers whose sole purpose is to address water governance issues and related policy issues from the point of view of public management
Change of Audit Committee
On February 8, 2017, the BoD Member Mr. Alexanter Pouliasis is appointed as a Member in the Audit Committee, in replacement of the resigned Member of the Audit Committee Mr. Nikolaos Sarantis.
Following the same Decision, the BoD approved the composition of the Audit Committee of EYDAP S.A. by Messrs. Michael Stauroulakis as Chairman, Alexanter Pouliasis as Member and Ioannis Kardaras as Member, acting Secretary of the Committee.
Honorary Award for EYDAP
On February 17, 2017, EYDAP was awarded with the 1st Business Award in the category of "Best Public Company Award" at the "Business Money Awards" organized by ETHOS MEDIA SA for the 14th consecutive year and the investment and financial magazine MONEY. For decades, EYDAP has consistently, responsibly and sensitively assured that it provides excellent water quality along with modern and seamless sewerage and biological cleaning services to the Attica population, while at the same time ensuring the natural environment. The excellent know-how of the human resources, combined with its continuous training, the integration of new technologies and the effort for continuous improvement, provide the Company with the prospect of its sustainable development and lay the ground for further upward course.
Sustainability Report
In 2017 EYDAP developed, for the first time, company's Sustainable Report, disclosing non-financial data to better understand the development and impact of the company's activities in relation to social, environmental and labor issues - respect for human rights - the fight against corruption and bribery. The Report was prepared on the basis of the basic choices of the GRI standards and provides information with measurable data on the company's actions and their impact on the above issues. The drafting has taken into account the requirements of the law and the most relevant issues of EYDAP interested parties, as they emerged from a survey in early 2017 that reflects their needs and expectations. The Company's effects have been assessed nationwide in terms of the UN's Sustainable Development Goals. The Report describes the relevant policies and procedures of due diligence applied by the Company, the measurable results of these policies, the main risks related to these issues and are related to the Company's activities and which might have a negative impact on the above sectors as well as the way in which EYDAP

manages these risks, always on the basis of our social prosperity and Sustainable Development.
General costing and pricing rules for water services
On May 22, 2017, Joint Ministerial Decision was published in Gov. Gaz. B 1751, on topic: "Adoption of general pricing rules and pricing water services. Methods and processes for the cost recovery of water services to the various uses." Purpose of the aforementioned Joint Ministerial Decision, is the adoption of general pricing rules and pricing water services for various uses and rules and measures to improve these services, as well as the setting processes and the cost of recovery process of these services, including environmental and water resource cost, in order to achieve sustainable use and improvement of the water status and to ensure the constitutionally guaranteed public nature of water as a social necessity for the human living. In particular, this Common Ministerial Decision has as its main objective to ensure that: (a) the pricing policy for water provides adequate incen-
tives for users for the efficient use of water resources and, (b) the adequate contribution of water uses differences in cost recovery of water services at a rate determined in the approved river basins management plans taking into account, where appropriate, social, environmental and economic effects of recovery as well as the geographic and climatic conditions. EYDAP examines the application of general rules and costing and water service billing according the above Joint Ministerial Decision.
Annual General Shareholders' Meeting The Annual General Shareholders' Meeting took place on June 16th 2017 at Company's Headquarters at Galatsi. Among others, the Meeting approved the election of Mr. Alexandros Pouliasis as a Member of the Audit Committee of EYDAP SA and its appointment as an independent non-executive Member, as well as the Individual and Consolidated Annual Financial Statements of EYDAP SA, according to the I.F.R.S. for the fiscal year 1.1.2016 31.12.2016, the Board of Directors' (BoD) Report and the Independent Auditors' Report of the Company, the distribution of a dividend to the shareholders for year 2016, amounting to Euro 0.11 per share and finally selected the Audit Company "SOL S.A., Audit Accountants".
Formation of the BoD into a body On June 23rd , 2017, the Board of Directors of EYDAP SA after the ratification from the Ordinary General Meeting of June 16th 2017 of Mr. Alexandros Pouliasis appointment as an independent non-executive Member, held its inaugural meeting, consisting of the following members:
Konstantinos Papadopoulos, Chairman of the BoD ­ Non-Executive Member Ioannis Benisis, Chief Executive Officer ­ Executive Member Konstantinos Vafeiadis - Executive Member Ioannis Kardaras -Non-Executive Member Georgios Makrynos -Non-Executive Member Alexandros Pouliasis - Independent ­ Non Executive Member Nikolaos Sarantis- Non-Executive Member Michail Stavroulakis - Independent ­ Non Executive Member Georgios Chalambalakis- Non-Executive Member

50

ANNUAL FINANCIAL REPORT

Christos Mistriotis - Non-Executive Member Panayotis Skoularikis - Non-Executive Member Emmanouel Aggelakis - Non-Executive Member Evaggelos Moutafis - Non-Executive Member
Award for Modernization of Operations ­ Establishment of Targeting
EYDAP: The First Public Company to Be Awarded for the Modernization of its Operations. The first prize for original implementation of application management system through objectives was awarded to EYDAP by Award for Business IT Excellence Award (BITE) in June 2017. It is a project to monitor the performance of all organizational units of the company's objectives and thus modernizing and simplifying the company's organizational processes. With a view to improving efficiency and effectiveness, EYDAP SA proceeded dynamically to the implementation of the application management system through objectives. The main pillars of this application are both the definition and implementation of objectives and also the system development efficiency and effectiveness measurement indicators and the preparation of assessment report of actions in each company's organizational unit. Specifically, following the adoption and preparation of the Targeting at all hierarchical levels, on the ongoing actions and the general planning of each area of r esponsibility, EYDAP designed and implemented a project to monitor the implementation of the objectives of all organizational units either within the framework of the company's investment plan or as fixed assets. Apart from the actual implementation of the original objective, namely the effective tracking of actions implemented, the purpose of the project is the use of this mechanism as a means of obtaining information which will contribute to the evaluation of hierarchical structures to more effective management exercise, to identify any malfunctions and general decision making.

from the date of submission of the application by the beneficiary. In addition, beneficiaries who already receive a reduced special tariff from EYDAP (families with many children, elderly) have the right to choose the invoice on the most favorable terms. Beneficiaries of the SI will be checked for compliance with the eligibility criteria at regular intervals. The ST will be in force in the above form, until the implementation of Joint Ministerial Decision 132275 / 19.05.2017 (Government Gazette 1751 `/ 22.05.2017), which deals with pricing and costing rules for water supply services.
Formation of the BoD into a body
On June 2017, after the election results of employees of the Company to appoint two representatives to the Board of Directors elected Messrs.' Emmanuel Agelakis and George Alexandrakis. Following the election results, the BoD held its inaugural meeting, on July 6th 2017 consisting of the following members: Konstantinos Papadopoulos, Chairman of the BoD - Non-Executive Member Ioannis Benissis, Chief Executive Officer - Executive Member Konstantinos Vafiadis - Executive Member Ioannis Kardaras - Non-Executive Member Georgios Makrinos - Non-Executive Member Alexandros Pouliasis - Independent, Non-Executive Member Nikolaos Sarantis - Non-Executive Member Michael Stavroulakis - Independent, Non-Executive Member Georgios Hallabakakis - Non-Executive Member Christos Mistriotis - Non-Executive Member Panagiotis Skoularikis - Non-Executive Member Emmanouil Angelakis - Non-Executive Member Georgios Alexandrakis - Non-Executive Member

Implementation of new Social Tariff

New Division

EYDAP offers twice the amount of free water with the New Special Tariff (ST), which extends to the beneficiaries of Social Solidarity Income (SSI). More specifically, from July 1st 2017, EYDAP offers to those entitled under Law 4389/2016 (beneficiaries of SSI):
1. F ree water quantity of 2m3 per month per household's member.
2. Free water quantity of 3m3 per month, for each member with a disability of more than 67%, resulting from a valid disability certification.
3. T he implementation of the ST in the water supply of the main (owned or leased) residence in which the beneficiary resides.
4. T he implementation of the ST to the beneficiaries who are living permanently in a rent-free or are hosted.
5. The implementation of ST to the customers that are entitled only to sewerage services.
6. T he implementation of the ST to the customers that were granted the previous social tariff, given the fact that they meet the criteria for their inclusion in Law 4389/16 and submit a new application to EYDAP SA from 1/7/2017 to 31/7/2017.
7. T he implementation of the ST to accounts that will be issued from 1/7/2017 onwards and will concern consumption that will take place from 1/5/2017 and then and in each case from the issue of the next account

On July 20, 2017, following a decision of the Board of Directors of EYDAP, a new " Digital Information Management" Division was set up, aiming at the modernization of specific operations of the Company. Specifically:
· C ollecting the data of all the Company's information systems on a single platform, in the context of data coordination,
· R eporting to management with appropriate visualization techniques,
· Contributing to decision making and problem solving, by analyzing a large amount of data,
· Contribute to the alignment and compliance of the Company with the new General Data Protection Regulation (EU 679/2016).
· Also the new Directorate will deal with: · the implementation of the Management Objectives
System through the Company, · the monitoring the progress of the implementation of
the objectives and providing the relevant information to the Management, · the processing and presentation of the results of the implementation of the objectives and related reports.
Business Plan
On the 26th July 2017, EYDAP's Board of Directors approved the Company's Business Plan for the period 2017-

ANNUAL FINANCIAL REPORT

51

2021. The adopted methodology is based on recording all current data and on planning the forecasts per Directorate-General, over a period of five years. The capital 5-year investment plan was drafted establishing the pameters that will characterize the EYDAP's environment in the reference period, based on the data and with the synergy of the Directorate-Generals. All actions required for the formation of the business plan are realized with the cooperation of the top management of the Company that determined our vision, mission and strategy. Our strategy include the: · Gradual extension of our activities in the Greek Islands
territory via EYDAP NISON and in the Municipalities beyond our Area of Service, with the role of external consultant. · implementation of an energy plan on two axis: - energy reduction in our installations - energy production A study of the Macroeconomic environment and analysis of the water industry was conducted.
Characteristics of water industry at European level: · Water is a renewable but limited resource. The sweet
water stocks are renewed through the hydrological cycle, but the available water quantity is limited and its rational management is required. · T he increasing pressure on water environment due to irrational use and pollution, because of human activity, require the implementation of sustainable policies for the protection, development and management of water resources. · B usinesses, that are active in the sector of water supply and sewerage services, operate in a quite rigorous regulatory environment, greatly influenced by environmental and financial factors. · The regulatory framework for water supply is usually established by more than one ministries. The state members of the European Union are obliged to comply with the European Union's Water Policy (as the urban Wastewater Directive). · T he regulatory framework for water supply mainly includes: - determination of invoicing rules - approval of invoice increase - d efinition, supervision and imposing of necessary regulations for the quality and protection of the environment.
The challenges in the water sector, at European level, that are taken under consideration in the formation of the 5-year business plan are the following issues: · Vulnerable recourses assurance · Job creation · Management of solid waste (circular economy) · W  ater resources monitoring for the detection of minor
pollutants · Adequate water pricing · Monitoring of the climate change increasing impacts
In the development of the business plan, special forecast is made for the construction and management of the fixed assets, intended for long-term use in a rapid change environment. Due account is taken of the fact that organizations active in the water supply and sewerage sector plan their fixed assets targeting at their long-term use; for example certain infrastructure works have a useful life spam of more than 50 years. The development of flexibility in the management and design of fixed assets, easily adaptable to a rapidly changing environment, is a big challenge for the water supply and sewerage companies.
Special emphasis is given to investment forecast and action plans for the rise of environmental awareness and sensitivity. The awareness in regard with the value of wa-

ter, the mutual priorities and the needs is a big challenge that can be fulfilled with the constant information of the consumers and our stakeholders.
The financing of capital expenditures is expected to be covered through positive operational cash flow, subsidies and existing cash. · It is noted that the provisions do not incorporate the
impacts of the new tariff policy. The Combined Ministerial Decision, regarding the cost accounting and pricing policy, determines that any cost may arise due to Environmental Cost or Recourse Cost will be incorporated to the tariff. · T he revenue produced from works for the Greek State corresponds to works that EYDAP will realize estimating the contractual benefit and will be required by the Greek State, in compliance with the relevant contractual framework. · T he increased revenue produced, due to the sale of electric energy, will result from the further use of the energy production potential via the company's energy renewable sources. · As an indication, revenue is predicted to rise by 1.3 million per annum from the operation of the hydroelectric power station at Evinos, the construction of which will be completed in 2019 · T he financial benefits of the business plan will positively affect the Company's assets mainly after 2021, due to long-term (5 years) completion of several works (i.e. East Attica works) · The 43% of CAPEX of the forecasted period regards East Attica works, 34.3% water supply works, 14.8 sewerage works and finally 8.3% coordination and supportive operation works.
Cash and cash equivalents are estimated to decrease during the forecasted period as they will be used to fund the investment plan. The strategic key stones of EYDAP's business plan for the period 2017-2021 are the following: EYDAP's vision is to remain the largest and most reliable company in the water cycle management, always oriented towards People, Society and the Environment.
EYDAP's mission is to provide water of high quality at an affordable price, to an increasing number of citizens and to return it to nature clean, through the sustainable management of all available resources, acting with a sense of social responsibility always oriented to society's welfare. EYDAP's strategy is based on achieving a balanced and sustainable development for the benefit of:
· the society · the customers · the employees · the shareholders and · the parties involved
Pillar of the Company's strategy is the constant improvement of the quality of the supplied services to its customers in combination with affordable pricing. In the context of best service, EYDAP has applied a modern method customer oriented system aiming to achieve the optimum customer satisfaction rate and the assurance of the financial strength of the company. The Completed Modernization Plan includes:
· Increase EYDAP's operational efficiency · Upgrade of services supplied · C ustomer extension ­ Geographical Expansion of area
of service · New ventures · Use of our Human Capital · Use of technology and Innovation · Settlement of the regulatory and contractual frame-
work with the Greek State

52

ANNUAL FINANCIAL REPORT

· Strict application & compliance with all the qualitative and operational standards
Main Actions for an Integrated Modernization Program · A doption of modern financial planning techniques · R estructuring & simplification of internal & external
procedures · A pplication of modern techniques for remote monitor-
ing and remote operation for efficient network operation · Crucial intervention in the network for the prevention of repeated costly damages · Implementation of modern techniques & tools of risk management · Expansion of e-Government in customer service · A doption of modern systems for the development and management of human resources · Implementation of a new cooperation model with the Municipalities · E nhancement of regulatory compliance and obtaining relevant certificates · Production of business plans for new ventures and geographical expansion within and out of the Attica region
The SWOT analysis study, on which the strategic planning is based, aims to the full use of all the operational characteristics of the company. It is planned to take advantage of the company's strengths with investments that will add value, while actions are planned to address the weaknesses and to manage the corporate environment risks. The emergence and exploitation of new venture opportunities and expansion of geographical and international appropriate cooperations is a key concern for EYDAP.
The 2017-2021 business plan targets the use of the company's available cash and will examine the alternative versions, based on the assumptions for its development.
Local Authorities (OTA)
During 2017, EYDAP intensively continued its efforts to adjust the overdue debts of the Local Authorities. On December 31 2017, the overdue debts from OTA to EYDAP, amounted to 39,728,859.14 euros. From this amount, 12,191,874.7 euros have been settled via payment of installments. Respectively, on December 31 2016 the overdue debts of Local Authorities amounted to 35,715,978.56 euros. From the above overdue payments, 3 municipalities (Megara, Marathon and Salamina) owe 20,177,860.11 euro, a 50.79% percentage of the overall dept. Total receipts from Local Authorities in 2017 amounted to 47,760,518.78  compared to 46,101,122.98  in 2016. Within 2017, four (4) Municipalities (Egaleo, N. Philadelphia-N. Chalkidona, Alimos and Kessariani) fully settled the overdue debts with EYDAP. Some of them have made use of funds from the Ministry of Finance. Internal Revenue Service to repay their outstanding debt to Third Parties. As part of the expansion of activities, on 29/12/2017, the Water Supply Network of the Municipality of Salamina signed a contract of "Transfer and Concession of water supply network to EYDAP" along with a "Recognition of Debt to EYDAP SA" according to the relevant Decision of the BoD no. 19487 / 27-12-2017. During 2017, EYDAP carried out a relevant financial study for the ownership of the water supply network of Magoula region of the Municipality of Elefsina. As far as the Municipality of Megara is concerned, efforts have been made to claim debts at Administration level.

E ­Government
EYDAP reaffirms its commitment to achieve the objectives set out in the e-Government Framework. These objectives concern the use of Information and Communication Technologies, for the upgrade of services and internal operations in order to obtain:
· Customer satisfaction and community satisfaction in general
· E qual opportunities for everyone that transacts with EYDAP
· Transparency in corporate procedures · Effective management · Employee satisfaction via active participation
EYDAP endorses the view that e-Government is primarily in an institutionalization processes. For this reason, the Company proceeds to the establishment of a task-approach regarding e-Government by instituting study practices of the relevant procedures. The beginning is made by recording and documenting them, while the ultimate goal is the complete measurement analysis and improvement of business processes especially those related to the objectives of e-Government. Within this framework, we continue the development and improvement of applications related to:
· Company's website Within the framework of the modernization of the corporate website for the creation of an electronic customer service center, a Committee for Redesign and Organization of Corporate Website Management was formed. Some of the new settings are: - Ability to register customer requests that previously
required a visit to Customer Service Centers (Arrangements, Service Invoice, Laboratory Audit, Charity and Business Invoice) - Ability of credit or debit card payment via partner banks (e-pos) - Click to call: the ability of the customer to record his contact information, to select the subject and the desired contact time, and the employee of the call center will contact him / her · Invoice in pdf form. Since November 2017, the creation and display of pdfs of pilot accounts for employees of EYDAP has begun and since February 17, 2018 for all users of the site. The identification process through the taxisnet, which will be applied soon, will simplify the registration of the site user. · C ustomer service information systems. The Company continuously provides 24/7 and efficiently its services through information systems · ERP Projects · Internal production and distribution of corporate documents
The internal communication of organizational units is reorganized, aiming at their effective cooperation as well as at an efficient administration. On this purpose the internal website (portal) which operates within the EYDAP corporate data network, will be implemented and developed. The organizational structure is based on logic of "internal services" and the corresponding procedures so that there is communication immediacy, transparency and minimization of duplication in corporate processes. EYDAP, with particular emphasis on the utilization of Information and Communications Technologies for providing high quality services to customers and citizens in general, is committed to the continuous improvement of services provided online and in ongoing research to develop new innovative services by monitoring and using modern technology trends.

ANNUAL FINANCIAL REPORT

53

EYDAP NISSON DEVELOPMENT SA
In July 2011 the company "EYDAP NISON SA" was established. EYDAP participates in the share capital of EYDAP NISON SA with 100% percentage. The purpose of the Company is to provide water, sewerage services as well as a number of activities related to the above, to the greek island territory. In January 2013, an amendment voted by the Parliament created the legal framework, according to which, EYDAP or its subsidiaries can undertake the preparation or assignment of studies for the construction of projects related to the Company's activities, as well as the assignment and the administration of these projects in island regions. In March 2013 EYDAP NISON SA, proceeded to an increase in its share capital of 30.000 euros, while as in the 7th of February 2014, in the extraordinary general meeting of EYDAP NISON SA, a new share capital increase of 150,000.00 euros was validated. On the 22th of October 2014, EYDAP SA (18460 / 22.10.14), approved the increase of the share capital of EYDAP NISON SA by 1.000.000 euros, with payment of two equal installments of 500 euros, on the 1st of November and the 1st of July 2015. At the Extraordinary General Meeting of 21st of September 2017, the modification of the article 1 was decided, which changed the name to «EYDAP NISSON DEVELOPMENT SA» and of the article 2 (purpose), according to which, the activities will be undertaken within the Greek territory and outside the area defined in the article 8 of the Law 2744/1999, as the responsibity of EYDAP SA.
The board of directors consists of the following people: Ioannis Emmanouil Benisis, Chairman of the Board and the company's CEO, Konstantinos Vafeiadis, Member, Konstantinos Vougiouklakis, Member, Georgios Karagiannis, Member, Petros Matsoukis, Member, Glenis Georgios, Member, Makrynos Georgios, Member.
The purpose of EYDAP NISSON DEVELOPMENT SA is to utilize the know-how, the experienced personnel and the modern tools of EYDAP SA for the provision of high quality services in the sectors of water supply and sewerage and waste water treatment in the Greek islands, as well as in all the areas of Greece that might need them. Our strategy is to transfer to the local water and sewerage organisations the experience of decades of EYDAP SA in the rational management of water resources, in the application of new technologies, in the utilisation of national and european funds in order to ensure with them the proper operation of their facilities and the protection of the environment, with the disposal of well-treated wastewater so that they can be re-used to meet irrigation needs with minimal cost to the citizen and the local community. In addition, cooperation with broader institutions and organizations is promoted, in the development of an integrated framework for the financing of water supply and sewerage projects, mainly in the greek islands. The main purpose is the energy upgrade of the electromechanical facilities of water and wastewater in the island territory. The objectives of the energy upgrade are to be finalized by designing a joint action program for the use of the corresponding funds for Environment and Climate Change. Recognizing the fact that hybrid RES systems with an emphasis on jointly serving the sewerage and power generation needs are a key tool in designing projects in non-interconnected islands, EYDAP NISSON DEVELOPMENT SA and PPC Renewables SA from 2017 are in the process of planning joint actions.

From 2017 EYDAP NISSON DEVELOPMENT SA cooperates with the Deposits & Loans Fund as part of the Fund's action to finance projects in municipalities. The cooperation concerns the evaluation and technical assistance process for studies of water, sewerage and waste water treatment projects, where our Company has proven experience and leadership, and participates in the campaign of notification of the action to the beneficiary Municipalities. In this context there is ongoing cooperation with municipalities in the planning of actions and projects.
Board of Directors of `EYDAP NISON" SA
1. Ioannis Emmanouil Benisis, Chairman of the Board and the company's CEO,
2. Konstantinos Vafeiadis, Member, 3. Konstantinos Vougiouklakis, Member, 4. Georgios Karagiannis, Member, 5. P etros Matsoukis, Member. Mr. Petros Matsoukis acts also as Director General of "EYDAP NISON" SA while Mr. Konstantinos Papadakis, acts as Deputy General Director of "EYDAP NISON" SA.
FUTURE OUTLOOK
EYDAP's strategy is based on the achievement of a balanced and continuous growth in favor of the community, the customers, the employees, the shareholders and all those that have legitimate interest in the Company. EYDAP, the largest water services and sewerage provider in Greece and one of the largest in Europe, ensures consistently with responsibility and sensitivity the delivery of the highest quality water alongside with a contemporary and seamless sewerage and biological treatment services to the population served in Attica, while respecting the natural environment. A primary objective remains the further rationalization of expenditure and the reduction in operating costs through continuous improvement and simplification of corporate processes that enhance the operational efficiency of the Company. During 2018, the company is expected to implement part of the investment plan that was approved in the context of the Business Plan 20174-2021. The development of the business plan provides for the construction and management of fixed assets intended for long-term use in a rapidly changing environment. It is taken into account that water and sewerage companies, plan and build their fixed assets for long-term use, for example, some infrastructure projects have a useful life span of over 50 years. The challenge lies in the fact that organizations in the water and sewerage sector have to develop a level of flexibility in the management and design of their fixed assets so that they adapt to the rapidly changing environment. Eastern Attica sewerage projects, which will solve the decade-long problem of the region, will absorb approximately 43% of the budget. Funding for capital investment is projected to be covered through positive operating cash flows, grants and existing cash holdings. EYDAP will take all necessary actions for total access to safe and affordable drinking water in its area of responsibility, while continuing to support our fellow citizens in need by applying social tariffs. At the same time, pressure will be put on Municipalities, in order to increase further the collectability rate of receivables from local authorities. The utilization of the know-how of the employees and the constant modernization through the new technologies, constantly improve the productivity and thus the competitiveness of the Company. Along with the monopoly nature of the offered product, EYDAP will continue to have high cash flows, without borrowing, and will achieve sustainable growth, safeguarding the interests of the community as well as the shareholders.

54

ANNUAL FINANCIAL REPORT

RISKS AND UNCERTAINTIES
The Company manages its capital in such way in order to meet its objectives as these are mentioned in paragraph 4a of article 1 of Law 2744/99. In addition, according to paragraph 8 of the same article the placement of its fixed real estate assets used for water supply and sewerage purposes as collateral is prohibited. It is noted that according to article 5 of the same law there is no provision for compulsory administration of the assets of EYDAP used for water supply and sewerage purposes.

In the current period, the Company did not proceed with the signing of any bank liability either long-term or short-term. Following its listing on the Athens Exchange in 2000 and until 2013, the Company held mainly shortterm debt, in order to meet its operating needs due to the fact that it had not collected payments for water supply bills from certain municipalities and other public entities. The Company maintains sufficient capital in order to serve its business objectives and to apply the appropriate dividend policy.

Leverage ratio
Amounts in  thousand Borrowings Cash and cash equivalents Total Equity Net Debt to Equity Ratio

GROUP

COMPANY

31.12.2017 -
(294.921) 942.028
0

31.12.2016 -
280.544) 904.766
0

31.12.2017 -
(293.920) 942.191 0

31.12.2016 -
(279.471) 904.879
0

Financial Risk Management Risk management is processed by the Company's pertinent Departments which operate under certain rules which have been approved by the Board of Directors. The Board of Directors sets the objectives, defines the policy, and selects the risk management framework, the implementation of which is assigned to the Company's executives. The existence of a risk management framework is of central importance and the monitoring process is structured, continuous and consistent.

ANNUAL FINANCIAL REPORT

55

(a) Credit Risk
The Company's exposure with respect to the credit risk it is eliminated to the financial assets which at the reporting date of the Financial Statements are analyzed as follows:

Financial Assets categories Available for sale financial assets Cash and cash equivalents Trade and other receivables Long-term receivables Investments in subsidiaries Total

GROUP

31.12.2017 31.12.2016

3.659

2.855

294.921

280.544

237.299

224.766

19.034

22.598

-

-

554.913

530.763

COMPANY

31.12.2017 31.12.2016

3.659

2.855

293.920

279.471

237.252

224.742

19.034

22.598

1.210

1.210

555.075

530.876

Cash and cash equivalents bear credit risk. The management of credit risk is conducted with the aggregation of the largest part of the Company's cash reserves in the Bank of Greece and via the containment of the Company's exposure to domestic banking institutions. Trade and other receivables include receivables from private customers which carry a relatively low level of loss risk mainly because of the extensive dispersion of claims, while for the receivables from Local Governments (OTA), the Company examines the possibility of collecting the respective due amounts through contract agreements (management of networks and settlements) or based on legislative arrangements.
Trade and other receivables are included in receivables from private clients for which there is a relative risk, which is limited by measures and actions taken by the competent directorates. The actions concern the assumption of measures in order to deal with the arrears of due liabilities and the provision of facilities for their repayment. For the category of local government liabilities, the Company examines the possibility of collecting arrears through the signing of contracts (network management or settlements) or through regulatory arrangements.
The provision regarding the trade receivables refers to overdue liabilities of individual customers the collection of which is delayed for more than two years and they have not been settled. Also, the provision includes a portion of arrears of individual clients of less than two years that meet certain criteria and have not been settled.
Below the analysis of the Company's receivables based on their maturity is displayed:

TIME ANALYSIS OF OVERDUE CLAIMS

2017 PRIVATE CUSTOMERS STATE LOCAL GOVERNMENT Total

Non due 30.029 3.483
6.411 39.923

2016 PRIVATE CUSTOMERS STATE LOCAL GOVERNMENT Total

Non due 29.133 2.615 7.215 38.963

0-1 month 9.548 736 2.450 12.734

1-6 months 30.352 1.806
8.139 40.297

0-1 month 10.680 970 2.093 13.742

1-6 months 30.976
2.110 5.479 38.564

6 months-2 years
45.046 3.671 10.901 59.617
6 months-2 years
45.590 1.754 17.256
64.599

Amounts in  thousand

2-5 years 33.458 5.369 16.743 55.569

> 5 years 33.422 3.367 860 37.649

Total 181.855 18.432 45.503 245.789

2-5 years 30.947 4.884 10.067 45.899

> 5 years Total 27.615 174.940 3.177 15.509 928 43.038 31.270 233.487

It is noted that the paid amount of the installments, of the individuals' settlements on 31.12.2017 amounts to Euro 13,069 thousand against the amount of Euro 10,035 thousand of the previous year and it is not included in the balance of the private customers in the table of time analysis.
The Department of Revenue & Trade Receivables Management, as well as the Department of Special Customers Management, continuously monitor the claims of the Company, either separately or based on groups (invoice codes, customer categories) and incorporate this information into the credit risk control procedure. With regard to credit risk management, the Department of Collection Enforcement of the Legal Services Division reviews on constant basis and settles via judicial procedures (LD 356/1974 «Code for the Collection of Public Revenues») overdue receivables concerning water supply, utilization rights and property connection rights from retail customers and local government authorities (OTA). None of the financial assets has been placed as collateral or in any other form of credit insurance.
Correspondingly, the Company has not ceded any financial instruments of the Assets in the form of guarantee to any third parties.

56

ANNUAL FINANCIAL REPORT

(b) Liquidity Risk

The liquidity risk is being managed by the preservation of sufficient cash available and by the assurance of bank credits for use. There is no liquidity risk due to the existence of sufficient cash reserves which can cover the current operating and investment needs.

The following table analyses the Company's financial liabilities which are classified in groups according to their expiration date which are calculated according to the time balance from the balance sheet date until the contractual arrangement expiration date in non-discounted figures.

TIME ANALYSIS OF LIABILITIES

Amounts in  thousand

2017 Debt liabilities Suppliers and other liabilities Total

0-1 month -
15.908 15.908

2-3 months -
27.819 27.819

3-6 months -
4.594 4.594

6-12 months -
4.464 4.464

1-5 years -
39.042 39.042

> 5 years -
315.576 315.576

Total -
407.403 407.403

2016 Debt liabilities Suppliers and other liabilities Total

0-1 month -
65.529 65.529

2-3 months -
27.527 27.527

3-6 months -
13.220 13.220

6-12 months -
4.734 4.734

1-5 years -
41.136 41.136

> 5 years -
308.191 308.191

Total -
460.337 460.337

c) Market Risk

Market risk is related to the Company's equity portfolio, which is a long-term, strategic investment and as a result is limited to pre-defined Position Limits.

(d) Risks due to capital controls in Greece

With the Act of Legislative Content on 28th June 2015, Greek banks were placed in a holiday status and capital controls were imposed. The bank holiday ended on 20th July 2015. The capital controls have been gradually relaxed, but on the other hand a significant part of these controls remains in effect. Due to the special nature and inelasticity of the product, its demand is not affected by the imposed capital controls, therefore the relevant financial developments in Greece have not affected the cash collections, payments and turnover of the Company.

(e) Regulatory risk

On May 22, 2017, the Joint Ministerial Decision published in GG B 1751, had as its subject: "Approval of general rules for the costing and pricing of water services. Method and procedures for recovering the cost of water services in its various uses". EYDAP SA examines the application of the general rules for the costing and pricing of water services in accordance with the aforementioned Joint Ministerial Decision. From the preliminary examination of the Joint Ministerial Decision by the Company, issues have emerged for clarification concerning:

· The price of raw water, as a basic cost element, · The environmental costs and the resource costs per cubic meter of water as this will be communicated to the Company
by 31 October 2018 by the Directorate of Waters of Decentralized Management, · The opportunity cost of the invested capital and, in particular, the reasonable annual return on the private venture
capital used,

By a Joint Ministerial Decision, issued on 03.12.2013, it was decided that the Greek State's obligations to the Company from subsidized investment project expenditures for the period 2000-2010, resulting from the Greek Government's agreement with the Company of 09.12.1999, approximately of 294 million, are amortized with the Company's non-tax liabilities of equal value towards the Greek State, which relate to the cost of the non-refined water supplied to the Company for the period 25.10.2004-30.06.2013.

However, it is still pending from 2004 the conclusion of a written agreement as defined in article 15 of the contract of 09.12.1999 between the Greek State and the Company, which will determine the price of the collected crude water. In the absence of a written agreement, the Company continues to offset, even after 30.06.2013, the price of the collected crude water with the maintenance and operation services that it provides for the fixed assets that belong to the company " EYDAP L.E.P.L.", burdening its results.

Until the date 31.12.2018, when the invoice approved by GG 3188B / 16.12.2013 will be effective, no issue arises regarding the Company's burden with any price for the collected crude water. Such a fact would lead to an increase of the price of water and create an additional charge for citizens.

(f) Relations with the Greek State

With a joint ministerial decision of 03.12.2013 which was issued according to the above law provisions, it was defined that the overdue amounts payable to the Company from the Greek State concerning investment plan's subsidized expenditures of  294 million for the decade 2000 ­ 2010 as stipulated from the agreement of 09.12.1999 between the Greek State and the Company, were offset with equivalent in value non tax related amounts payable to the Greek State from

ANNUAL FINANCIAL REPORT

57

the Company, until 30.6.2013, concerning the cost of the collected crude water for the period 25.10.2004 ­ 30.6.2013. With the same joint ministerial decision, the other claims until 30.06.2013 between the Greek State and EYDAP SA were also amortized. With the decision of the Extraordinary General Shareholders' Meeting on 27th December 2013, the above ministerial decision was accepted.
On the other hand, the signing of a written agreement - as it is defined in the article 15 of the agreement on 9.12.1999 between the Greek State and the Company - which will determine the price paid to "L.E.P.L. EYDAP Fixed Assets" for the crude water collected from 1.7.2013 is pending from the year 2004 (Note 36). In absence of a written agreement, the Company continues, after 30/06/2013, to offset the cost of the collected crude water with the maintenance and operation services it provides for the fixed assets owned by "L.E.P.L. EYDAP Fixed Assets", affecting accordingly its financial results.
Changes in the pricing of water and sewerage services will stem from the application of JMD 135275 (No. 3, par. 9), GG 1751 / 22.05.2017 "Approval of general Costing and Pricing Rules of water services. Method and procedures for recovering the cost of water services in its various uses". At the current phase it is not possible to estimate any potential impact stemming from this process on the up to now applied policy by the Company.

RELATED PARTY TRANSACTIONS (GROUP & COMPANY)

) Transactions with Members of the Board

Amounts in  thousand Fees (Chairman & CEO, and Executive Directors) Fees & attendance expenses of BoD members Total
) Transactions and amounts outstanding with the Greek State and the Municipalities
1) Transactions - Income - Cost of Goods Sold (cost of construction works) - Income from non utilized provisions / (Various provisions) 2) Outstanding amounts - Long-term receivables
(Projects for the Greek State) - Long-term trade receivables (settlements with Municipalities) - Trade receivables (Local authorities, Greek State) - Trade receivable ISLANDS' EYDAP DEVELOPMENT - O ther receivables (from the Greek State for coverage of
deficit concerning staff indemnities)

GROUP 31.12.2017 31.12.2016

61.512 529

58.459 66

4.297
12.961
53.286 -
258

3.769
21.038
38.964 -
258

31.12.2017 114 138 252

31.12.2016 114 81 195

COMPANY

31.12.2017 31.12.2016

61.512 529

58.459 66

4.297
12.961
53.286 24 258

3.769
21.038
38.964 24 258

The transactions with the Greek State and Local Government Authorities concern revenues of water supply, invoiced and accrued, as well as accrued income from the construction cost for the account of Ministry of Economy, Infrastructure and Transport, and of "EYDAP Fixed Assets".
DIVIDEND POLICY The Ordinary General Shareholders Meeting in its convection on June 16th 2017 approved a dividend of 0.11 euro per share gross, from the profits of 2016 fiscal year (total distributed amount 11,715 million euro). The Board of Directors of the Company in its convection on March 28th 2018 approved the submitting of the proposal to the Annual Ordinary General Shareholders Meeting, of a dividend, of the amount of twenty cents ( 0.20 gross) per share (a total gross amount of Euro 21.3 million) for the fiscal year 2017. The dividend is subject to approval by the Annual General Meeting of Shareholders and is included in the account "Retained earnings".

POST BALANCE SHEET EVENTS
Passing of L. 4512/2018
On January 17, 2018, Law 4512/2018 was passed, by which the majority of EYDAP shares, between others, were transferred to the Hellenic Corporation of Assets and Participations S.A." (HCAP S.A.). The objective of the HCAP is to reform the management framework in the interest of the public interest so that the country can capitalize on its national wealth.
Proposal for a revision of the EU Water Directive
On 1 February 2018, the European Commission proposed a revision of the European legislation about water, that will improve the quality of drinking water and access to it and will provide better information to citizens. The right of access to basic services of good quality, including water, is one of the principles of the European Social Rights Pillar, adopted unanimously by the Heads of State and Government at the Gothenburg

58

ANNUAL FINANCIAL REPORT

Summit. This legislative proposal aims to guarantee this right and therefore to respond to the first successful European Citizens' Initiative "Right2Water", which has collected 1.6 million signatures to support improved access to safe drinking water for all Europeans. In addition, the proposal seeks to enable consumers to ensure that water suppliers provide consumers with clearer information on water consumption, cost structure and price per liter, allowing for comparison with the value of bottled water. This will contribute to the environmental objectives of reducing the unnecessary use of plastics and limiting the EU carbon footprint, as well as achieving the goals of sustainable development. The rules the Commission intends to update will improve the quality and safety of water by adding new and emerging substances to the list of criteria for determining the safety of water.
Change of shareholder's percentage of voting rights
EYDAP received a notification from the Ministry of Finance on March 2nd, 2018 that the total number of voting rights (indirectly and directly) controlled by the Greek State amounts to 65.319.740 (61.33%), of which the direct voting rights refer to 53.250.001 (50%+1 share) common registered shares and the indirect voting rights refer to 12.069.739 (11.33 %) common registered shares. This change in the direct and indirect shareholding of the Greek State in EYDAP S.A. is due to the transfer of 17,004,761 shares (15.97%) from HRADF directly to the Greek State, following the execution of an over-thecounter transaction, free of charge, according to decision 262 of the Interministerial Committee for Restructuring and Privatizations (GG t / 614/22.02.2018), and the correction of the error (GG B 697/1.3.2018) which partially revoked the decision 195/27.10.2011 (GG B 759) of the Interministerial Committee for Restructuring and Privatization, following the decision 1906/2014 of the Council of State. The total participation percentage (direct and indirect) of the Greek State has not changed. On March 21st 2018, EYDAP received a notification from the Ministry of Finance, that the total number of indirect voting rights controlled by the Greek State amounts to 65.319.740 (61.33%). This change in the voting rights is due to the transfer of 53,250,001 shares of EYDAP S.A., from the Greek State to the "Hellenic Corporation of Assets and Participations S.A." (HCAP S.A.) following the execution of an over-the-counter transaction on March 20th 2018, free of charge, according to paragraph 20, article 380 of L. 4512/2018, which replaced paragraph 1, article 197 of L. 4389/2016, as in force from 1/1/2018. The total (100%) of the shares of HRADF is held by the "Hellenic Corporation of Assets and Participations S.A." (HCAP S.A.), which now controls directly the voting rights of 53.250.001 shares (50%+1 share) and indirectly the voting rights of 12.069.739 shares (11.33%) via HRADF. Consequently, to total percentage of voting rights (indirect and direct) of HCAP S.A. amounts to 61.33%. The Greek State controls HCAP S.A. by 100%.
STATEMENT OF CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
This Statement covers all of the principles and practices adopted by the Company in order to ensure its efficiency, the interests of shareholders and all other interested parties.
The structure of this Statement of Corporate Governance focuses on the following topics:
Code of Corporate Governance i. Internal Rules of Corporate Governance and Operation

ii. Board of Directors and Audit Committee iii. Shareholders' Meeting and Rights iv. Internal Audit and Risk Management v. Other managerial, supervisory bodies or Committees
of the Company
A. Code of Corporate Governance
EYDAP has compiled a Corporate Governance Code, which has been embedded in the Internal Rules of Operation, forming from 23/10/2013 a unified text named as Internal Rules of Corporate Governance and Operation of EYDAP S.A. This text, is available to the public at the Company's Headquarters, at Shareholder's Department and at the Corporate Announcements Department at 156 Oropou str Galatsi. The Company does not apply any practices beyond the provision of the Law.
B. Board of Directors & Audit Committee
The Company is managed by the Board of Directors, having an odd number of members which may not exceed thirteen (13) members or be less than seven (7) members. The Board of Directors comprises executive, non-executive and independent non-executive members as per the provisions of articles 3 and 4 of Law 3016/2002 as applicable from time to time.
The General Meeting of Shareholders has authority to determine the number of members of the Board of Directors as well as to increase or decrease such number, always within the limits specified in the Company's Articles of Association. The Board of Directors is composed of: a. Two (2) representatives of Company employees
elected (along with an equal number of alternate representatives) by direct and universal vote; b. Two (2) members representing minority shareholders, elected as provided for in article 36 of the Company's Articles of Association; c. S hareholder representatives, elected by the General Meeting.
The term of office of the Board of Directors' members is five years and is extended until the nomination or election of new directors. Such term extension may not be longer than one year. The members of the Board of Directors can be freely recalled. Such recall and substitution is done by those having the right to elect or nominate. The General Meeting may substitute any of the members of the Board of Directors elected before the end of their term of office. The members of the Board of Directors may be appointed anew or reelected without limitation and may be recalled without limitation. The members of the Board of Directors may not be related by blood or marriage, up to the third degree of relation, and may not be contractors or suppliers of the Company or members of the Board of Directors or employees of an undertaking doing business with the Company. The members of the Board of Directors may, however, be members of the Board of Directors or employees of an undertaking associated with the Company, as per the provisions of article 42e of C.L. 2190/1920.
Convocation of the Board of Directors
The Board of Directors is called by its Chairman or the Chairman's legal deputy, pursuant to the provisions of the Company's Articles of Association, and holds its meetings at the registered office of the Company. The agenda is presented to the Board of Directors by the Managing Director.
The Board of Directors holds ordinary meetings twice

ANNUAL FINANCIAL REPORT

59

each calendar month, and also holds extraordinary meetings if so deemed necessary by the Chairman. The agenda of the Board of Directors' meetings is established by the Chairman and the agenda items are included in the notice to the meeting sent to the directors.
The notice to the meeting is advised to the members of the Board of Directors at least two (2) business days prior to the day of the meeting and shall clearly indicate the agenda items; otherwise, decisions may be adopted only if all members are present or represented at the meeting and no one objects to the passing of decisions. As to the rest, the provisions of article 20 of C.L. 2190/1920, as applicable, shall apply.
Quorum - Majority ­ Representation of Members
The Board of Directors is in quorum and may validly transact its business when one half plus one director are present, subject to the provisions of paragraphs 4, 4a and 5 of article 11 of the Company's Articles of Association. To find the number constituting a quorum, any resulting fraction is omitted. At no time can the number of directors attending in person be less than three. The decisions of the Board of Directors are passed by absolute majority of the members present. In case of a tie, the Chairman of the Board of Directors does not have a casting vote. In case the Chairman is absent or prevented from acting, the meeting is presided over by the Chairman's deputy. The meetings of the Board of Directors may be attended by scientific advisors, legal or otherwise, and experts, without the right to vote, as well as by the Director of the Legal Department of the Company, if invited to attend by the Chairman or the Board of Directors, and if the Director of the Legal Department is absent or prevented from acting by another lawyer as instructed by the Chairman of the Board of Directors. All the directors have the right to be advised in writing, by the Chairman and the Managing Director, on the management of the Company and the course of the corporate affairs in general. A director who is absent may be represented by another director, by means of written authorization to this effect. Each director

may represent only one absent director.
Minutes are kept for each meeting of the Board of Directors; such minutes are ratified at the same or the next meeting. Copies or extracts of the Minutes are attested by the Chairman or his deputy or by another member of the Board of Directors authorized to this effect under a decision of the Board of Directors. The Minutes of the Board of Directors are entered in a dedicated book kept in a manual or computerized system and are signed by the Chairman and the directors who attended the meeting. Any refusal by a director to sign the Minutes is entered in the minutes. All directors have the right to have their opinion entered in the Minutes.
Authority and powers of the Board of Directors
The Board of Directors is the supreme administrative body of the Company that primarily formulates the corporate growth policy and strategy while supervising and overseeing the management of the corporate property.
The Board of Directors has authority to decide on all matters with respect to the management of the corporate property, the administration and representation of the Company and the corporate business in general, and proceeds with all action and decisions aimed at the fulfillment of the Corporate object; the Board of Directors also monitors the course of the Company and the implementation of its activities. Excepted are those issues and matters which, under the provisions of the Law or the present Articles of Association, fall within the exclusive authority of the General Meeting.
Delegation of power by the Board of Directors
The Board of Directors, under the restrictions stipulated by Law and the Articles of Association, may decide to delegate the exercise of its powers or authorities in part to the Chairman or the Managing Director or a member or members of the Board of Directors or Company Managers or employees or third parties.

Information concerning the members of the Board of Directors

The members of the Board of Directors for the period from 01/01/2017 to 31/12/2017 were as follows:

Members of the BoD from 01/01/2017  22/06/2017

Konstantinos Papadopoulos Ioannis Benisis Konstantinos Vafeiadis Ioannis Kardaras Georgios Makrinos Nikolaos Sarantis Michail Stavroulakis Georgios Chalabalakis Panagiotis Skoularikis Christos Mistriotis Emmanuel Aggelakis Evangelos Moutafis

Chairman of the BoD , Executive Member Chief Executive Officer, Executive Member Executive Member Non-Executive Member Non-Executive Member Non-Executive Member Independent, Non-Executive Member Non-Executive Member Non-Executive Member Non-Executive Member Non-Executive Member Non-Executive Member

60

ANNUAL FINANCIAL REPORT

Members of the BoD from 23/06/2017  06/07/2017
Konstantinos Papadopoulos Ioannis Benisis Konstantinos Vafeiadis Ioannis Kardaras Georgios Makrinos Nikolaos Sarantis Michail Stavroulakis Georgios Chalabalakis Panagiotis Skoularikis Christos Mistriotis Emmanuel Aggelakis Evangelos Moutafis

Chairman of the BoD , Executive Member Chief Executive Officer, Executive Member Executive Member Non-Executive Member Non-Executive Member Non-Executive Member Independent, Non-Executive Member Non-Executive Member Non-Executive Member Non-Executive Member Non-Executive Member Non-Executive Member

Members of the BoD from 06/07/2017  31/12/2017
Konstantinos Papadopoulos Ioannis Benisis Konstantinos Vafeiadis Ioannis Kardaras Georgios Makrinos Alexandros Pouliasis Nikolaos Sarantis Michail Stavroulakis Georgios Chalabalakis Panagiotis Skoularikis Christos Mistriotis Emmanuel Aggelakis Georgios Alexandrakis

Chairman of the BoD , Non-Executive Member Chief Executive Officer, Executive Member Executive Member Non-Executive Member Non-Executive Member Non-Executive Member Non-Executive Member Independent, Non-Executive Member Non-Executive Member Non-Executive Member Non-Executive Member Non-Executive Member Non-Executive Member

CVs of Bod

Konstantinos Papadopoulos, Chairman, Non-Executive Member
Konstantinos Papadopoulos is Dr. Hydrogeologist, who was born in Thessaloniki in 1952 with the following studies:1978: Degree in Geology (Laurea in Scienze Geologiche) from the Physics & Mathematics School of the University of Parma (Universita degli Studi di Parma - Italia)1982: Diploma in Advanced studies [Diplôme d `Études Approfondies (DEA)] in Water Science [(Sciences de L'Eau) with specialization in Hydrology - Hydrogeology - Hydrochemistry and in Management of Water Resources] from Pierre et Marie Curie University in Paris (Paris VI), 2004: PhD in Hydrogeology from the University of Patra. In 1983, he worked as a Research Consultant at the Agricultural University of Athens. From 1984 to 1997, he worked at the Institute of Geology and Mineral Exploration (I.G.M.E.). From 1997 to 2004, he worked as an Expert in Water Resources Management in the Ministry of Development. From 2004 to 2011, he worked in project management of the Management Organization Unit of Development Programs and from 2011 to 2014, he worked at the National Center for the Environment & Sustainable Development - Institute of Geology and Mineral Exploration.
Ioannis Benisis, CEO, Executive Member
Ioannis Benisis was admitted with a scholarship to the Department of Mathematics of National and Kapodistrian University of Athens, during which he maintained the scholarship. From 1978 to 2000, he worked as a professors and partner in several educational institutions and for several years he was CEO of one of them. Since 2000,

he was managerially involved with several small business enterprises focusing on food and beverage and he also owned an energy consulting company. During his professional career he was CEO of an S.A. company, administrator in four Ltd companies and partner in about fifteen General Partnership companies of educational institutions, catering services, constructions and energy systems. Since July 2015, he is CEO of EYDAP.
Konstantinos Vafeiadis, Executive Member
Konstantinos Vafeiadis graduated from the School of Chemical Engineering of the National Technical University of Athens (NTUA) in 1997. He holds a M.Sc. in Advanced Chemical Engineering from Imperial College (1998) and a Ph.D. in Control Engineering from City University London (2003). He specializes in the design & implementation of complex software, IT & consulting projects with an emphasis in the financial sector as well as in the design and implementation of large investment, research and development projects. Since July 2015, he is Deputy Mayor responsible for Human and Financial Resources.
Ioannis Kardaras, Non-Executive Member
Ioannis Kardaras graduated from the law school of Athens (1974), and have postgraduate studies in the University of London with specialization in European Union Law and in «Comparative European Law» (1976). He works as a lawyer in Piraeus since 1977 and he is a lawyer in the Supreme Court.
G

ANNUAL FINANCIAL REPORT

61

eorgios Makrinos, Non-Executive Member

Emmanouel Aggelakis, Non-Executive Member

Georgios Makrinos graduated from the department of Public Hygiene from the School of Health Care Professionals of Technological Educational Institute of Athens , with retraining in «Management and Enviromental Technology» and Master's thesis in Public Health (2007-09) from the National School of Public Health. He is alderman in Koridalos since 2010 and president of sports and cultural organization of the municipality of Koridalos.
Alexandros Pouliasis, Non-Executive Member
Alexandros Pouliasis accomplished his studies following the direction of Accounting and Financial Management. At the present time he works as a consultant in the Ministry of Finance.
Nikolaos Sarantis, Non-Executive Member
Nikolaos Sarantis is the Mayor of Municipality Agioi Anargyroi ­ Kamatero. He is a graphic designer, professor at the Graphic Design Department of Technological Educational Institute of Athens. . He holds a Master entitled "European Union and Developing Countries" by the Department of International Relations at Panteion University of Social and Political Sciences. Since October 2014 he has been General Secretary Regional Association of Municipalities of Attica (PEDA).
Michail Stavroulakis, Independent Non-Executive Member
Michail Stavroulakis is an economist, accountant-tax consultant and graduated from the Accounting department from the Business School of Technological Educational Institute of Heraklion Crete and from the Higher Industrial School of Piraeus. He has worked as accountant and economic advisor to various companies and he is experienced in international financial transactions.
Georgios Halambalakis, Non-Executive Member
Georgios Halambalakis received his BSc (Hons) degree in Physics of Laser Science from Heriot-Watt University of Edinburgh in Scotland in 2000 and his Ph.D. degree in Condensed Matter Physics & Nanotechnology from University of Montpellier in France, in 2005. Since 2013, he is co-founder of "ETEO" G.P. Company, which is specialized in production and exportation of Organic Extra Virgin Olive Oil Premium Category.
Christos Mistriotis, Non-Executive Member
Christos Mistriotis received a BA in Economics specializing in Econometrics from the University of Kent, Canterbury and Master's degree in Finance from Imperial College in London. He has been employed in brokerage - investment companies and since 2004 he is the Director of Treasury and Financial Risk Management (Treasurer) of a large group.

Emmanouel Aggelakis is a graduate of the Kapodistrian University of Athens, and works for EYDAP, as Scientific Personnel since May 1993.
Georgios Alexandrakis
Georgios Alexandrakis is a Mechanical Engineer who took his degree from the Technological Educational Institute of Patras. He has been working in EYDAP since 2003. His position is head Engineer in the Engineering Department of the Electric-Mechanical Facilities of the Sewerage Network Administration.
Resignation dates of BoD Members and Decisions of General Assembly and BoD for the election of new Members.
Resignation dates of BoD Members
17/10/2015 resignation of Eleftherios Magiakis
Resolutions of General Meetings
1. Repeat after Postponement 33rd Ordinary General Meeting June 2nd 2015: election of Konstantinos Vafeiadis, Michail Stavroulakis (Independend Member), Nikolaos Sarantis, Ioannis Kardaras, Georgios Makrynos, Georgios Chalambalakis and Eleftherios Magiakis.
2. E xtraordinary General Meeting January 15th 2016: ratification election of Messrs Konstantinos Papadopoulos and Ioannis Mpenisis and election of Mr. Alexander Pouliassis following the resignation of Board Member Mr. Eleftheriou Magiaki.
* Election of EYDAP employees June 2012: election of Evagelos Moutafis and Emmanouil Aggelakis
3. Special General Meeting 28th/06/16, election of Panagiotis Skoularikis and Christos Mistriotis
4. O rdinary General Meeting 16th of June 2017: ratification of Mr. Alexandros Pouliasis as independent, non-executive Member
* Election of EYDAP employees June 2017: election of Georgios Alexandrakis and Emmanouil Aggelakis
Resolutions of BoD
1. 18646/08.07.2015: election of Konstantinos Papadopoulos and Ioannis Benisis as Chairman and CEO respectively and their designation as the only executive Members. of the Board
2. 18648/22.07.2015: designation of Konstantinos Vafeiadis as executive Member of the Board.
3. 18790/19.01.2016: designation of Ioannis Benisis and Konstantinos Vafeiadis as the only executive Members of the Board
Number of BoD meetings from 01/01/2017 to 31/12/2017
During the above mentioned time period the BoD held thirty eight (38) meetings (1207th /17.01.2017 to 1244th /27.12.2017).

Panayiotis Skoularikis, Non-Executive Member

C. Shareholders' General Meeting & Rights

Panayiotis Skoularikis graduated from Athens College in 1989 and in 1992 he received a degree in economics from the University of Athens, followed by graduate studies at the London School of Economics from where he received a M.Sc. Economics / Operations Research and M.Phil. Economics / European Studies. By February 2013 he was appointed Assistant General Manager of Piraeus Bank Group.

Operation and Powers of the General Meeting The General Meeting of the Company's shareholders is the supreme body of the Company, being entitled to decide on any matter concerning the Company; its resolutions, passed as prescribed by law, are binding on all shareholders, even the absent or dissenting ones. Only the General Meeting has the authority to decide on the following: a. On any amendment of the Articles of Association; the
increase of decrease of the corporate fund is consid-

62

ANNUAL FINANCIAL REPORT

ered to be an amendment subject to para. 4 of article 8 and para. 5 of article 9 of the Articles of Association; b. On the election of the members of the Board of Directors and the auditors subject to articles 11 and 13 of the Articles of Association; c. O n the approval of the annual financial statements of the Company; d. On the allocation of the annual profits and the approval of the emoluments to members of the Board of Directors; e. O n the discharge of the members of the Board of Directors and Auditors from any personal liability; f. On the issue of bond loans of any type, subject to para. 4 of article 9 of the Articles of Association; g. On the merger, division, conversion, revival, extension of the term and dissolution of the Company; h. O n the appointment of liquidators. As to the rest, the provisions of article 34, para. 2, of C.L. 2190/20, as applicable, shall apply.
Convocation of the General Meeting
The General Meeting of shareholders, convened by the Board of Directors, holds its ordinary sessions at the place where the registered office of the Company is located, at least once a year. However, according to the article 25 of Law 2190/1920 in effect, the General Meeting convenes at the Company's headquarters or another municipality's region within the headquarters' district or another municipality bordering to the headquarters, at least once every corporate period, until the tenth (10th) calendar day of the ninth month after the end of the corporate period, at the latest.
Exceptionally, the General Meeting may be held at another place located in Greece, upon authorization to this effect by the supervising Authority specifying also the conditions under which such authorization is granted. Such authorization is not required when shareholders representing the entire share capital are present or represented at the Meeting and no one objects to the holding of the General Meeting session and the adoption of resolutions.
The Board of Directors may also call an extraordinary session of the General Meeting of shareholders if it so deems advisable.
The Board of Directors is required to convene the General Meeting upon the requisition of the auditors, within ten (10) days as of the day the requisition was delivered to the Chairman of the Board of Directors, its agenda being as specified in the requisition. The Board of Directors is also required to convene the General Meeting upon the requisition of the (Hellenic) State. In case of refusal by the Board of Directors, the State can convene the General Meeting via the supervising Minister, by a written statement communicated to the Company.
When no Board of Directors exists, the General Meeting a) is called by an interim Board of Directors appointed
by the competent Court pursuant to article 69 of the Civil Code, or b) is self-called provided all shareholders representing the entire share capital of the Company are present or represented at the relevant session of the General Meeting.
The Company does not provide for shareholders' participation and voting in the General Assembly via electronic or correspondence.
General Meeting Notice - Agenda
The notice to the General Meeting shall include as a minimum the date and time and the building where the

meeting is to be held, as well as the agenda items clearly defined. The General Meeting shall be convened by publication of the relevant notice to the shareholders of the Company, pursuant to the provisions of the Articles of Association and pursuant to the provisions on publication contained in articles 26, para. 2, and 26a of Codified Law 2190/1920 as currently applicable. The notice shall be posted at a conspicuous place in the Company's headquarters, and shall be published as imposed by any applicable provision:
The said notice is published twenty (20) clear days in advance in the expected daily or weekly political and financial newspapers and in General Electronic Commercial Registry (G.E.MI.) . In the case of a repeat General Meeting the above time periods set for the publication of the notice are shortened by half and the notice is to be published as above specified. It is noted that non business days are counted in the above stipulated time periods, however the day of publication of the notice to the General Meeting and the day on which the General Meeting session is held are not counted.
Within the same twenty-day (20-day) period the notice is communicated to the Ministry of Finance (General Secretariat of Public Property, Privatization Unit and management of securities) and the Ministry of Infrastructure, Transport and Networks. Ten (10) days before the date set for the Ordinary General Meeting, any shareholder may obtain from the Company the annual financial statements, as well as the relevant reports by the Board of Directors and the Auditors.
Shareholders rights and method of their exercise
Each share affords its owner the right to one vote at the General Meeting.
In the Shareholders General Meeting anyone who appears as a shareholder in the Dematerialized Securities System, which is managed by Athens Stock Exchange S.A., where the transferrable securities (shares) that appear in every account, concerning the General Meeting, has a right to participate. The proof of shareholders identity is established by the relevant written assurance of the above mentioned organization or by direct electronic connection of the Company with the organization's archives. The person must be a shareholder five (5) days before the General Assembly (record date), and the relevant release or the electronic certification concerning the shareholding capacity must come to the company the third (3) day before the General Assembly at the latest.
The shareholder participates in the General Meeting and votes either in person or via proxies. Each shareholder may appoint up to three (3) proxies. Legal entities may participate in the General Meeting appointing as proxies up to three natural entities. However, if the shareholder owns shares of the company that appear in more than one accounts, such restriction doesn't prevent the said shareholder to appoint different proxies for the shares that appear in every account, concerning the General Meeting. A proxy that acts on behalf of different shareholders may vote differently for each shareholder. The proxy holder is obliged to disclose to the Company, before the commencement of the General Meeting, any fact which might be useful to the shareholders in assessing the danger of whether the proxy holder might pursue any interest other than the interest of the represented shareholder. A conflict of interest within this context may in particular arise where the proxy holder: a. Is a controlling shareholder of the Company, or is an-
other legal person or entity controlled by such shareholder; b. Is a member of the Board of Directors or the manage-

ANNUAL FINANCIAL REPORT

63

ment of the Company, or of a controlling shareholder or a legal person or entity controlled by such shareholder; c. Is an employee or an auditor of the company, or of a Controlling shareholder or a legal person or entity controlled by such shareholder; d. Is a spouse or close relative (of 1st degree) with a natural person referred to the above points (a) to (c).
The appointment and reverse of a proxy takes place in writing and is announced to the company according to the same forms at least three (3) days before the date of the General Meeting.
The forms for the appointment of a proxy holder, which tre shareholder is obliged to use, are available on the Company's website. The appointment form of a proxy holder, completed and signed by the shareholder must be submitted to the Company at least 3 days before the date of the General Meeting. The shareholders are requested to ensure the successful dispatch of such forms and receipt thereof by the Company.
The (Hellenic) State attends the General Meeting represented by the Minister of Finance or his representative authorized in writing by the Minister of Finance. The General Meeting may also be attended, without voting right, by the Minister supervising the Company or his representative authorized in writing by the said supervising Minister. Specifically for the election of the members of the Board of Directors, the State, as a shareholder, is represented at the General Meeting by the Ministers of Economy and the supervising Minister or the official authorized by them.
The exercise of the above mentioned rights (attendance and voting) does not require the prior bound of the shareholders shares or any other procedure that limits the possibility of selling or transferring shares in the time between the record date and the date of the General Meeting.
In the General Meeting only those who are shareholders in the respective record date have a right to participate and vote in the General Meeting. In case of non-compliance to article 28a of the law 2190/1920, the said shareholder participates in the General Meeting only after its authorisation.
Regarding the other rights of shareholders and minority shareholders and how to exercise them, the respective provisions of Law 2190/1920 are applied.
Ordinary quorum and majority vote at the General Meeting
A quorum shall be present and the General Meeting may validly transact the business contained in its agenda, when at least fifty one per cent (51%) of the paid-in share capital is represented thereat.
If no such quorum is present at the first meeting, a reiterative meeting shall be held within twenty (20) days as of the day of the cancelled meeting, upon a prior notice of at least ten (10) days, whatever the part of the paid-in share capital represented thereat. All resolutions of the General Meeting are passed by absolute majority of the votes represented at the Meeting.
Qualified quorum and majority vote at the General Meeting

the paid-in share capital are represented thereat, in the case of resolutions regarding: a) Change of the nationality of the Company; b) Change of the object of the corporate business; c) Increase of the shareholders' obligations; d) Share capital increase, except for increases under ar-
ticle 8 (paragraphs 2 and 3), of the Articles of Association or those imposed under provisions of Law or effected by means of capitalization of reserves; e) Share capital reduction; f) Issuance of a bond loan, subject to the provisions of article 9, para. 4, of the Articles of Association; g) Change of the manner of allocation of profits; h) Merger, division, conversion, revival, term extension or dissolution of the Company; i) Delegation or renewal of power to the Board of Directors for Share Capital increase or issuance of a bond loan pursuant to article 8, para. 2 and 3, and article 9, para. 4, of the Articles of Association; j) In any other case for which the Law and the present Articles of Association stipulate that, for the adoption of a certain resolution by the General Meeting the special qualified quorum provided for in this paragraph is required.
If the quorum specified in the preceding paragraph is not present in the first meeting, a reiterative meeting shall be held within twenty (20) days as of the cancelled meeting, upon a notice of a minimum of ten (10) days in advance; such meeting shall form a quorum and may validly transact the business contained in the original agenda if at least one half (1/2) of the paid-in share capital is represented thereat.
If again no such quorum is present, then a second reiterative Meeting shall be held according to paragraph 2 of Article 31 of the Articles of Association; such meeting shall form a quorum and may validly transact the business of the original agenda if at least one third (1/3) of the paid-in share capital is represented thereat.
All resolutions under paragraph 1 of this article are passed by a majority of two thirds (2/3) of the share capital represented in the General Meeting.
Other Information
The information of article 27 paragraph 3 of C.L. 2190/1920 including the invitation, the forms of appointment and revocation of a proxy holder, the procedure of voting by proxy, the draft resolutions for the agenda items, as well as further information regarding the exercise of minority rights of article 39 of C.L. 2190/1920 are available in electronic form on the Company's website (ww.eydap.gr).
D. Internal Audit System & Risk Management
The internal audit system of EYDAP SA is a set of processes, policies, principles, regulations, safeguards and organizational structures that are designed to provide reasonable assurance as to the accuracy and reliability of accounting and operational data, the protection and efficient use of Company's resources, the achievement of strategic objectives and the overall efficiency and performance of all operations.
EYDAP SA, within the framework of Corporate Governance and Best Business Practices, has made a series of organizational changes that ensure corporate transparency and the defense of shareholders and employees' interests.

Exceptionally, a quorum shall be present and the General Meeting may validly transact the business contained in the following agenda when at least two thirds (2/3) of

Audit Committee In the framework of the Corporate Governance of the

64

ANNUAL FINANCIAL REPORT

Company, the evaluation of the Internal Audit System and the implementation of the Decisions of the Supervisory Authorities (Decision of the Hellenic Capital Market Commission 5/204/14.11.2000, Law 3016/17.05.2002, Law 4449/ 24.01.2017), the Company has established an Audit Committee, which consists of at least three (3) non-executive members of the Board of Directors.
Appointed by the General Meeting of Company's Shareholders and operates in accordance with the provisions of 3016/2002 Law and 4449/2017 Law and approved by the Operations Regulation of the Board of Directors, which specified the purpose, jurisdiction, the election, the composition, powers and responsibilities.
Composition of the Audit Committee from 01/01/2017 to 07/01/2017
From 01/01/2017 to 8/02/2017
Michail Stavroulakis, Chairman Ioannis Kardaras, Member Nikolaos Sarantis, Member
From 08/02/2017 to 31/12/2017
Michail Stavroulakis, Chairman Ioannis Kardaras, Member Alexander Pouliassis, Member
Resolutions of General Meeting and BoD for the election of Audit Committee Members
The composition of the above mentioned Audit Committee of the Company resulted from the following resolutions of General Meetings and Board of Directors Meetings:
Resolutions of General Meetings
1) Repeat following the postponement 33rd Ordinary Shareholders General Meeting 2nd /06/2015: appointment of the Audit Committee by Messrs. Michael Stavroulakis as President and Ioannis Kardaras and Eleftherios Magyakis as Members.
2) E xtraordinary General Meeting 15th /01.2016: ratification of the election of Mr. Nikolaos Sarantis in place of the resigning Member of the Audit Committee Mr. Eleftherios Magyakis.
3) 35thGeneral Meeting of 16th /06/2017 for the appointment of another Independent Member of the Board of Directors of EYDAP for its participation in the Audit Committee by article 44 of 4449/2017 Law, Alexandros Pouliasis in place of the resigned Member of the Audit Committee. Nicholas Sarantis
Resolution of BoD
18712/11.11.2015: appointment of Mr. Nicholas Sarantis to replace the resigned Member Mr. Eleftherios Magiadis. 19124/08.02.2017: appointment of Mr.Alexanter Poyliassis to replace the resigned Member Mr. Nikoloas Sarantis.
Number of Audit Committee meetings from 01/01/2017 to 31/12/2017
During the above mentioned time period the Audit Committee held eighteen (18) meetings.
The Audit Committee, for the implementation of its work, meets at regular intervals and extraordinarily when required. The frequency and timing of meetings of the Audit Committee is proportional to the extent of its responsibilities, taking into account, among other things, the activity, size, business environment and the Business

Model of the Company. The Commission, for each meeting, keep minutes of meetings in which its actions and results are reflected in the implementation of its work and, as appropriate, submit reports to the Governing Council, if necessary.
The main responsibilities of the Audit Committee, as defined by the relevant legislation, concern the monitoring of the financial information process, the effective operation of the internal control system and the risk management system, as well as the proper functioning of the entity's internal auditor's unit of the audited entity.
They also concern the monitoring of the course of the statutory audit of financial statements and the review and monitoring of issues related to the existence and maintenance of the objectivity and independence of the statutory auditor or audit firm, especially when it regards to the provision to the so-called entity of other services by the statutory auditor or the audit firm. He is also responsible for the process of selecting a statutory auditor or auditor.
In 2017, the Operating Committee of the Audit Committee was updated to incorporate the requirements of Law 4449/2017 and the relevant recommendations of the Capital Market Commission and the European Directives regarding the operation of the Audit Committees. The new Regulation was approved by virtue of the Decision of the 1236th BoD Meeting No 19412 / 08.11.2017.
The Audit Committee has frequent contact with the Internal Audit Department in the performance of its duties. In this context, the Head of the Internal Audit Department is invited to participate in most of the Audit Committee meetings and to provide information on the progress of the audits carried out and to monitor the implementation of the corrective actions decided upon in the context of the audits. The Audit Committee also has frequent communications and meetings with the auditors to review the financial statements and evaluate the financial information provided.
The Chairman of the Audit Committee informs the Shareholders, at their Annual General Meeting, of the Commission's activities, in accordance with its responsibilities.
The Audit Committee in 2017 handled issues, the most important of which are categorized as follows:
· Approval of the audit program of 2017 of the Internal Audit Division and monitoring of the implementation process.
· Review of the work and operation of the Internal Audit Division.
· Evaluation of the financial statements in terms of their plenitude and consistency.
· O pinion on the choice of Audit Firm. · Ensure the independence of statutory auditors. · Support to Management for the introduction of best
corporate governance practices on transparency and the fight against corruption in business operations. · Overview of business risk assessment and management processes.
Division of Internal Audit
The internal audit of the Company is conducted by the Internal Audit Division, which is an idependent organization unit referring to the BoD of the Company. The internal audit division is supervised by the audit committee of the BoD and provides security and advisory services. The Division operates according to Greek legislation, to Regulations of Operations approved by the Company's BoD, the international audit standards for the professional im-

ANNUAL FINANCIAL REPORT

65

plementation of internal of the Audit Institute of Internal Auditors, as well as the ethical rules dictated by the basic principles of the Audit. The Internal Audit Division aims to assist the Management, the Board of Directors, the Company's executives and employees in general, to perform their tasks more efficiently and to achieve the Company's objectives through an assessment of the operation of internal control systems, risk management and corporate governance, through data analysis and advisory services.
The Internal Audit Division's object is: · T o examine and evaluate the adequacy and efficiency of
the company's Internal Audit System and to ascertain whether this system provides logical assurance regarding: - Compliance with the general functions of the Company
and current legislation, - The security of the company's assets, - The economical and effective use of resources, - The reliability of the financial statements, - The reliability and integrity of the information used in
decision-making - Recognizing and properly managing risks - Achieving the objectives of the operational functions
· To inform the Management for the results of the audit, the corrective actions required
· M onitoring the implementation of the agreed actions · P erforming special and extraordinary audits given by
the Management. · T he cooperation of the Internal Audit with the External
Audit, aiming to covering areas with high risks, threatening the Company, as well as avoiding duplicate audits.
The main actions of the Internal Audit Division in 2017 can be summarized in the following categories:
· Aiming to continuously improve the operation and efficiency of the Internal Audit Division and in accordance with the international auditing standards that foresee the obligation to periodically evaluate the adequacy of the Internal Audit Operation Regulations, the Company's Operating Regulation has been updated. It was approved by 19412/08.11.2017 decision of the BoD. on the 1236th meeting.
· The number of completed audits was almost tripled comparing to the previous years, providing a large coverage of the annual audit program. Regarding their quality characteristics, the majority of the audits concern operational, risk based audits and focus on a wide range of Company activities, along with audit following Corporate Governance legislation. In addition to the planned audits, a significant number of extraordinary audits was completed.
· The Internal Audit Division administratively supported and coordinated actions undertaken by the Management to enhance sustainable business development. In the framework of good Corporate Governance and Corporate Social Responsibility and in line with the OOSA Guidelines, the European Policy and the Greek Action Plan to Combat Corruption, a policy against corruption and corruption was drafted and two-day information events were organized in which employees from the Company's Administrative Pyramid participated.
· By paying particular attention to continuous professional training and updating on developments in the Internal Auditor's profession, auditors attended training seminars and thematic nights and participated in conferences. Some of the auditors gained after passing a test, certification in DLP.
· Indicators of self-evaluation of the Division work were established, which are presented in the Annual Report of its activities to the Board of Directors of the Company.

· S upported the promotion of the concept of Corporate Risk Management by organizing a relevant informative presentation to the Company's executives and supporting the Company's Risk Management project in order to establish a single framework for the Company's principles-procedures-methods for Risk Management.
Risk management
The existence of a risk management framework is crucial to the implementation of Corporate Governance. Operational risk management is a structured, continuous and ongoing process that addresses to all levels of the organization in order to identify, record and assess risks, select appropriate responses, plan and implement safeguards, assess the adequacy and their effectiveness and the continuous monitoring and reporting of opportunities and threats that affect the organization's goals.
The Company gives particular attention to the effective monitoring and management of potential risks in order to maintain the stability and continuity of its operations, specifically:
· The formation of an overall framework and the recommendation of strategy, policies and procedures for managing and controlling the risks that the Company may undertake in accordance with the Management's directions.
· Defining, recognizing and assessing the risks incurred. · D eveloping and implementing tools adjusted to the risk
of pricing services provided and training of organizational units for their use. · Developing a Crisis Response Scheme. · Developing a corporate risk management culture at each hierarchical level of the Company.
Although each member of the Company plays his / her own role - within his / her responsibilities - to ensure sufficient risk management, the Board of Directors bears the overall responsibility. It sets goals, defines politics, and decides how to respond and whether or not to accept the remaining risk. Selects the risk management framework, the implementation of which is assigned to the Company's executives.
The Internal Audit Department, through the audits carried out, is responsible for providing objective management assurance for the effectiveness of the Risk Management System.
In 2017, a Risk Register was established for all the Company's activities and a relevant report was prepared to inform the Board of Directors.
An information event was also organized for EYDAP executives regarding types of risks, risk assessment and management as well as the concepts of controls and the three lines of defense of organizations.
E. Other managerial or supervisory bodies or committees of the Company
Within the framework of the Internal Rules of Corporate Governance and Operation and the rest of the regulatory framework, the following Committees operate: - Committee on Health and Safety of Workers - Procurement and Service Committees - Third Party Litigation Committee - Upgrade Service and Customer Request Management - S ettlement Committee of the Customer's Executive Di-
vision - Security Intelligence and Information Systems Monitor-
ing Committee - C ommittee for the Assessment of Claims for Settlement

66

ANNUAL FINANCIAL REPORT

of Debts - Medical Council - Administrative Council - Promotion Boards - Disciplinary Councils - Management Board - Technical Council
EXPLANATORY REPORT
Information pursuant to article 4, paragraph 7 of Law 3556/2007
Pursuant to article 4, par. 7 of Law 3556/2007, the company is obliged to disclose in the Board of Directors' Report information on the following matters: Share Capital Structure
The Share Capital of the Company currently amounts to sixty-three million nine-hundred thousand euros (63,900,000) and is divided into 106,500,000 shares with a nominal value of sixty eurocents each ( 0.60). The Company's shares are all common shares with voting rights and there are no special classes of shares. Each share incorporates all rights and obligations arising from the Law 2190/1920 (hereinafter Law). The Company's shares are listed for trading on the Athens Stock Exchange. The ownership of each share automatically implies rightfully the owners' acceptance of the terms of the Articles of Association and the legal resolutions of the General Meetings of shareholders, even if the shareholders did not participate in these. The liability of shareholders is limited to the nominal value of their shares. Shareholders participate in the management and profits of the company in accordance with the Law and the Articles of Association.
Restrictions on the Transfer of the Company's Shares
The transfer of the Company's shares is carried out as provided by the effective legal framework without restrictions imposed by the articles of incorporation. According to Article 4 of Law 3016/2002, as applicable, the independent non-executive Members of the BoD cannot, among other things, own shares by more than 0.5% of the paid up share capital.
Major Direct or Indirect participations, as provided in Articles 9 to 11 of Law 3556/2007
Significant direct and indirect shareholdings of persons (natural and legal) on the total voting rights of the Company as provided in articles 9 to 11 of Law 3556/2007, presented below: EYDAP received a notification from the Ministry of Finance on March 2nd, 2018 that the total number of voting rights (indirectly and directly) controlled by the Greek State amounts to 65.319.740 (61.33%), of which the direct voting rights refer to 53.250.001 (50%+1 share) common registered shares and the indirect voting rights refer to 12.069.739 (11.33 %) common registered shares. This change in the direct and indirect shareholding of the Greek State in EYDAP S.A. is due to the transfer of 17,004,761 shares (15.97%) from HRADF directly to the Greek State, following the execution of an over-thecounter transaction, free of charge, according to decision 262 of the Interministerial Committee for Restructuring and Privatizations (GG t / 614/22.02.2018), and the correction of the error (GG B 697/1.3.2018) which partially revoked the decision 195/27.10.2011 (GG B 759) of the Interministerial Committee for Restructuring and Privatization, following the decision 1906/2014 of the Council of State. The total participation percentage (direct and indirect)

of the Greek State has not changed. On March 21st 2018, EYDAP received a notification from the Ministry of Finance, that the total number of indirect voting rights controlled by the Greek State amounts to 65.319.740 (61.33%). This change in the voting rights is due to the transfer of 53,250,001 shares of EYDAP S.A., from the Greek State to the "Hellenic Corporation of Assets and Participations S.A." (HCAP S.A.) following the execution of an over-the-counter transaction on March 20th 2018, free of charge, according to paragraph 20, article 380 of L. 4512/2018, which replaced paragraph 1, article 197 of L. 4389/2016, as in force from 1/1/2018. The total (100%) of the shares of HRADF is held by the "Hellenic Corporation of Assets and Participations S.A." (HCAP S.A.), which now controls directly the voting rights of 53.250.001 shares (50%+1 share) and indirectly the voting rights of 12.069.739 shares (11.33%) via HRADF. Consequently, to total percentage of voting rights (indirect and direct) of HCAP S.A. amounts to 61.33%. The Greek State controls HCAP S.A. by 100%. Paulson & Co. Inc. holds (indirectly) 10.648.800 voting rights corresponding to 9.99% of the total voting rights of the Company. John Paulson holds (indirectly) 10.648.800 voting rights corresponding to 9.99% of the total voting rights of the Company. *J ohn Paulson controls Paulson & Co. Inc. which manages investment funds. In this role it exercises the voting rights in the Company.
Shares Conferring Special Control Rights
There are no shares that confer to their holders' special control rights, except the right of the minority shareholders to elect in accordance with Articles 11 and 36 of the Company's Articles of Association two Board members through a special meeting convened specifically for this purpose. For convocation and decision on this meeting, the articles of the Articles of Association of the Company and the Law apply according for the convening and deciding on General Meetings. Every shareholder present and voting legally, is entitled to propose and pass a single Board Member regardless of the number of shares held.
Restrictions on Voting Rights
At the special meeting of minority shareholders (Articles 11 and 36 of the Company's Articles of Association) the majority shareholder is excluded from attending (former Greek State) and in the General Assembly that elects the remaining members of the Board the participation of minority shareholders is excluded respectively (Article 11 paragraph .2 section c). The Company's Articles of Incorporation do not include any other restrictions on voting rights.
Agreements between Shareholders
The Company is not aware of any agreements between its shareholders, which entail restrictions on the transfer of its shares or on the exercise of voting rights associated with its shares.
Provisions Concerning the Appointment and Replacement of the Members of the Board of Directors and the Amendment of the Articles of Incorporation
According to Article 11 paragraph 1 & 2 of the Articles of Association, the Company is managed by the Board, with an odd number of Board Members and cannot exceed thirteen (13) or be less than seven (7) members. The Board of Directors consists of: Two (2) representatives of the Company's employees, elected (along with their alternate members) by direct

ANNUAL FINANCIAL REPORT

67

universal suffrage, in accordance with article 17, par.1, of Law 2469/ (Government Gazette A' 38), as in force whenever. Two (2) members representing minority shareholders, in accordance with the provisions of article 18, paragraphs 3 and 5 of Codified Law 2190/1920, elected as per the provisions of article 36 hereof. Representatives of the shareholders, elected by the General Meeting; shareholders who participated in the Special Meeting provided for in article 36 hereof (concerning the election of the remaining members of the Board) may not participate in the said General Meeting.

3. A share capital increase resolved as per the provisions of paragraph 2 of this article shall not constitute an amendment of the Articles of Incorporation. 4. As an exception to the provisions of paragraph 2 of this article, when the Company's reserves exceed 1/4 of the paid-up capital, in order for the Company to increase its share capital, a resolution of the General Meeting reached in accordance with the provisions of article 31 hereof ("Special Quorum and Majority Vote in General Meetings") is always required, pursuant to which the relevant article of the Company's Articles of Incorporation is amended.

According to paragraph 4 of Article 11, the elected from the employees two (2) Members, are appointed within two (2) months of their election. Until those employee representatives are appointed, the Board is lawfully constituted and operating without these members. As of their appointment, the said members are included ipso jure in the Board of Directors; if the Board of Directors has already held its inaugural meeting, it convenes again to include the said members. According to paragraph 4 section (a) of Article 11, non-election, non-appointment or non completion on behalf of minority shareholders, for any reason whatsoever, to nominate their representatives may not prevent the Board of Directors from holding its inaugural meeting, nor from validly convening and resolving; the number of the said representatives is not taken into account in the calculation of majority and quorum. According to paragraph 5 of Article 11, In any event, the Board of Directors may convene and resolve validly without the representatives of employees, if the deadline specified in article 11, par. 4 hereof expires. In such case, their number is not taken into account in the calculation of majority and quorum. Apart from the above differentiations, the other rules provided by the Articles of Association regarding the appointment and replacement of members of the Board of Directors of the Company, as well as the amendment of the Articles of Association, are no different from the provisions of Law 2190 / 1920, as in force.
Authority of the Board of Directors or Designated Members with Regard to the Issuance of New Shares or Share Repurchase (article 16 , Law 2190/1920)
The authority of the Board of Directors with regard to the issuance of new shares is laid down in article 8 of the Articles of Incorporation, which provides for the increase, reduction and amortization of share capital. Paragraphs 1 to 4 of article 8 state the following: 1. In order for the Company to increase its share capital, a resolution of the General Meeting of shareholders which provides for the amendment of the relevant article of the Company's Articles of Incorporation is required; such resolution may only be passed by qualified quorum and majority vote, as per article 31 hereof. 2. (a) Without prejudice to par. 4 of this article, it is expressly stated that by resolution of the General Meeting, subject to the publication formalities stipulated in article 7b of Law 2190/1920, as currently in force, the Board of Directors may be authorized to decide by majority of at least 2/3 of its entire membership, to increase the Company's share capital in whole or in part, through the issuance of new shares, up to the amount of the paid-up capital at the date on which such authority was granted to the Board of Directors. (b) The General Meeting may renew such authority to the Board of Directors for a period that does not exceed five years per renewal; every renewal is effected upon completion of the previous renewal. Such resolution of the General Meeting is subject to the publication formalities stipulated in article 7b of Law 2190/1920, as currently in force.

With regard to share repurchase, the provisions of Law 2190/1920 apply without modifications.
Important Agreements Effected, Amended or Terminated in Case of Change of Management
There are no important Agreements effected, amended or terminated in case of change of management, pursuant to public offering. Agreements with Members of the Board of Directors or with Employees There are no agreements between the Company and members of the Board of Directors or employees concerning severance pay in case of resignation, unjustified dismissal or termination of tenure or employment due to public offering.
NON-FINANCIAL INFORMATION
The content of the non-financial statement has been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Law 4403 - Circular Economy 62784/2017 and the GRI Standards (version 2016). In this context, the following non-financial statement is based on the materiality analysis of the Sustainable Development issues related to EYDAP's activities and aims to prioritise the issues with the most significant economic, social and environmental impact as well as the issues that significantly affect the company's stakeholders. Furthermore, the statement includes performance indicators based on the GRI Standards.
A. Business Model
Within the texts of the 2017 Annual Financial Report and the Notes in the Annual Financial Statements of December 31st 2017, EYDAP's business model is mentioned and the activities of EYDAP NISSON SA are described in-detail. Additionally, information and data are provided regarding the company's operation, the business environment, the organization and structure, the markets where it operates, its objectives and strategies as well as the trends and factors likely to affect the company's future growth.
B. Risk Policy & Risk Management
In addition to the financial risks discussed in the relevant section, EYDAP focuses on the monitoring of specific issues recognized as essential in the context of Sustainable Development. These issues concern the broader thematic subjects of the Environment, Society (labour, social and human rights issues) and the Market, the Supply Chain as well as the Fight against Corruption and Bribery. The effects related to the following areas and their management are presented in more detail in the sections following. Human Resource Management deals with employment, training and education, talent retention, health and safety, issues that EYDAP manages through the use of relevant policies and procedures. The risks associated with these issues are further discussed in the corresponding sections.

68

ANNUAL FINANCIAL REPORT

Respect in Human Rights within EYDAP's working environment as well as throughout the supply chain by using relevant policies and procedures. EYDAP SA is a company which, based on its corporate social responsibility and its obligations, pays great attention at safeguarding human rights in the workplace and to the elimination of discriminations. Environmental Compliance and avoidance of environmental impact caused by operations: an issue EYDAP manages with regard to the Protection of the Marine Environment, the Environmental Compliance, the Solid Waste and Wastewater Management, the responsible choice of appliances and products as well as through actions with regard to the reduction of energy consumption, carbon dioxide emissions and water consumption. Health and Safety of Consumers ­ Quality of Water Supplied: concerns the uninterrupted supply of healthy and clean drinking water of excellent quality and the avoidance of risks related to the health of the consumers. Health and Safety of Consumers - Sewerage Services: proper and uninterrupted operation, maintenance and upgrade of the collection, transport and wastewater treatment system within the Attica Basin. Access to Clean Water, Water Supply Resource Assurance & Water Supply Network Coverage: Continuous assurance of the necessary water resources and their sufficient treatment in order to produce drinking water of excellent quality as well as continuous assurance of the ability to distribute it through the water supply network to its customers. Reliable Water Supply and Water Efficiency: supply of drinking water in sufficient quantity, high-quality within acceptable pressure levels throughout the water supply system. Affordable pricing: access to clean water and hygiene for all the citizens by maintaining a ranking tariff. Fighting against Corruption, bribery and fraud: in order for such occurrences to be prevented and eventually avoided, relevant procedures and policies are applied.
C ENVIRONMENT
C1 Protection of the Marine Environment
Main non-financial risks
The protection of the marine environment through the responsible treatment of wastewater has always been an issue of high priority to EYDAP and its stakeholders. The issue is considered as material as it also relates to Sustainable Development. The protection of marine ecosystems is an issue of high importance and for the international community, while it is an important requirement in the area of our competence and specifically in Eastern Attica. EYDAP, being aware of the potential impacts of its activities on the citizens' health and the environment, collects and treats the effluents targeting to the minimization of these effects. The Company, always in compliance with the required specifications, invests in the upgrading of the used technology and applies Circular Economy practices. Through these practices and the responsible management of effluents, the Company is contributing to the accomplishment of Sustainable Development Goals: 6 "Clean Water and Sanitation", 12 "Responsible Consumption and Production", and 14 "Life Below Water", as defined by the United Nations Organization. The three Waste Water Treatment Plants and more specifically the WWTP at Psyttalia, the WWTP at Metamorphosi and the WWTP at Thriasio with their central collectors, the extensive sewerage network and the serving pumping stations consist the principal environmental infrastructure for the collection and treatment of urban wastewater for the protection of the health of the citizens and the water recipients.

Company policy and Dew Diligence
Through the technically advanced treatment of urban wastewater in EYDAP's Wastewater Treatment Plants, clean water returns to aquatic ecosystems, while a part of it is being reused within the facilities. The solid residue from the treatment of the wastewater is the sludge, which is dehydrated, dried and used as solid fuel in cement manufacturing. EYDAP's Wastewater Treatment Plants are playing an important role in the integrated water management and serve Athens' wider area population, Attica, among other areas. Among the key lines of action of EYDAP's Business Plan, environmental protection holds a predominant position through the improvement of water and wastewater management infrastructure, including the management and disposal of wastewater treatment products. The effective operation and treatment of effluents in the WWTPs, the compliance with the Environmental Conditions are documented by the continuous and systematic sampling of those specific outflows (according to Directives EU 91/271 etc and the approved Environmental Conditions). The basic qualitative objectives for the preservation of the ecosystem's good state is the compliance with Terms for the treated outflows from the WWTPs, as determined by the Study for Environmental Impacts and the Decision for the Approval of Installations' Environmental Terms and Conditions. The degree of achievement of our targets is validated through the continuous monitoring of the quality of the treated outflows from the WWTP's and of the water recipient in cooperation with the Hellenic Centre for Marine Research (HCMR). As in previous years, in 2017 all WWTPs operated in full compliance with the terms and conditions for the treated outflows. To the minimization of the indirect outflows into the water recipients greatly contributes the effective operation, the monitoring, the continuous maintenance by means of high technology and the development of the sewerage network. The preservation of the Saronic Gulf's good ecological state, to the degree that depends on the effective operation of the WWTP's and the achievement of the qualitative targets, safeguards the reputation and image of the Company from the risk of negative impact, while in parallel protects it from financial and operation risks, as the imposition of fines. The negative reputation may refer to the overall image of the Company but also to the trust of the stakeholders to the adopted environmental technologies, as for example the ones used at the Wastewater Treatment Plants. On the contrary, the effective operation of the Psyttalia WWTP, as proved by the improvement of the ecological state of the Saronic Gulf, strengthens the trust of the stakeholders, while it contributes positively to the acceptance of new technologies and the development of new WWTP's. It is worth mentioning that the preservation of the good ecological state of the Saronic Gulf does not depend solely on the competent operation of the Psyttalia WWTP and the sewerage network. A long series of factors that unfortunately are beyond EYDAP's responsibility, as for example the illegal waste disposal, marine casualties, rainwaters runoffs etc, influence the quality of the water recipients.
Outcome of these policies and key non-financial performance indicators
The Psyttalia WWTP, from its initial phase of operation in 1994, signaled the improvement of the Saronic marine

ANNUAL FINANCIAL REPORT

69

ecosystem that had been significantly downgraded due to the uncontrolled disposal of untreated effluents. The operation of the Psyttalia WWTP has contributed immensely to the preservation of the good environmental state of the Saronic aquatique ecosystem, the quality of which is highly important for a series of activities as fishing, tourism, sports, etc. The improvement of the quality of coastal waters for recreation is proved by the fact that almost all the Saronic Coasts have been merited with blue flags, a symbol of environmental quality awarded with strict criteria to organized beaches managed by the coastal municipalities. Psyttalia's Wastewater Treatment Plant has allowed Sa-

ronic Gulf's unique marine ecosystem to recover from its former critical condition. Following the operation of Psyttalia's WWTP for more than 22 years and the operation of the secondary biological treatment for 14 years the Saronic Gulf is in a very good ecological state (Directive 2000/60). The results of the tests on the samples taken from the WWTPs outflows are uploaded to the Ministry of Environment and Energy National Database (http://astikalimata.ypeka.gr), accessible to the public. The results, regarding the achievement of the treated outflows quality terms, per controlled parameter, for each one of EYDAP's WWTPs, are depicted in table below:

Achievement of the treated outflows quality terms

2017
Psyttalia WWTP Metamorphosis WWTP Thriasio WWTP

BOD5 Biochemically required oxygen (of the first 5 days)

COD

TSS

Chemically required Total suspended

oxygen

Solids

T-N Total Nitroge

The improvement of the Saronic Gulf's ecological state and the absence of any negative impacts from the WTPs' outflows are documented by the multiannual monitoring of the marine ecosystem by independent research and state entities.
EYDAP has assigned the Hellenic Center for Marine Research the systematic monitoring of Saronic Gulf and Elefsina Bay, both characterized as sensitive recipients (Common Ministerial Decisions 19661/1982/1999 and 48392/939/2002). Monitoring includes all the essential indicators and parameters for the evaluation of environmental and ecological state of the marine ecosystem and more specifically: natural parameters such as temperature, salinity, density, dissolved oxygen, fluorescence, clarity/opacity, nutritive salts, chlorophyll. Saronic's ecological evaluation includes the study of biocoenoses, phytoplankton, benthic biocoenoses and sediments for the identification of active carbon, total nitrogen, total carbon and heavy metals.
According to the most recent data from the ongoing monitoring programme of the Hellenic Center for Marine Research, recently completed (2017), certifies the preservation of the good state of the Saronic. The improvement of those systematically tested characteristics of the marine ecosystem of the Inner Saronic Gulf, along with the general public's acceptance and use of the beaches by the citizens of Attica, confirm the catalytic role of the effective operation of WTPs, especially that of Psyttalia since it is the largest of the 3 WTPs and with a direct effect to the Saronic Gulf. Today the beaches of Saronic Gulf around Psyttalia present qualitative features that comply with the high prerequisites for bathing waters- fact which is proved by the environmental monitoring, with frequent tests realized by the competent state entities like Special Secretariat for Water, the Ministry of Environment and Energy and the programme Blue Flags.
C2 ENVIRONMENTAL COMPLIANCE
Main non-financial risks
Environmental compliance is an essential commitment in the application of an environmental policy within the Company's activities, as they are formed by the national environmental legislation. EYDAP is in full compliance with the environmental legislation and its activities are in harmony with the Na-

tional and European Policy and Targets, in the field of water resource and effluent management. It is our aim the preservation and the responsible management of water as a precious natural resource, so the environmental compliance is essential but also the minimum requirement given the fact in many cases EYDAP takes initiatives beyond the fulfillment of the minimum legislative requirements for environmental compliance. EYDAP, as a Public Utility Company, recognizes the particular importance of the issue of environmental compliance, while in case of failure this may provoke the imposing of high fines with significant financial consequences for the Company, as a result of the particularly rigorous National and European Legislation. Non environmental compliance may in addition cause substantial harm to corporate reputation regarding EYDAP's responsible environmental operation, considering that water management is a primal environmental activity. Environmental compliance consists for EYDAP an essential factor of Sustainable Development, contributing at the same time to the achievement of Sustainable Development Goal 16 "Peace, Justice and Strong Institutions" as set by the United Nations. Environmental compliance is of high-priority to the Company's stakeholders, as shown by the Materiality Analysis, conducted in early 2017.
Company Policy and Due Diligence
EYDAP is committed to supporting and encouraging: · a preventive approach towards environmental chal-
lenges. · initiatives towards the promotion of environmental
responsibility ·  development and dissemination of environ-
ment-friendly technologies.
The implementation of the principles of prevention and protection in EYDAP's works and activities is applied through: · studies on environmental impact assessment · monitoring the effective operation of the wastewater
treatment plants · t he collection of urban wastes with continuous on the
spot samples and real time operation controls.
More specifically, environmental compliance is based on the development and consistency to the procedures of environmental authorization and refers to the following: · environmental authorization for installations and ac-

70

ANNUAL FINANCIAL REPORT

tivities · c ompliance with environmental terms and conditions · m onitoring the compliance with environmental terms Furthermore, the Company is active in research and development of environmental technologies in the fields of water and sewage treatment in collaboration with national and European research institutions. In accordance to the principles of prevention and protection, the Company systematically evaluates the possible environmental impacts of its works and activities. The approved environmental conditions (by ministerial decisions) define the necessary measures, conditions and restrictions which ensure that the Company's works/activities or installations will operate within the principles of Sustainable Development. This procedure, which aims at evaluating timely the environmental impacts when planning the Company's operations, includes the Drawing up of Environmental Impact Assessment (EIA), the consultation with the competent bodies and the stakeholders and the integration of compliance terms in the construction and operation of the works.
During the construction and operation of the works, there is constant monitoring for the implementation of the approved Environmental Terms. It is through this procedure that the environmental policies, for the protection of the environment and the Sustainable development, are integrated into the works study. These policies are expressed via the current National and European Legislation and the International Treaties and Specifications. Individual Company regulations and specifications may be integrated in the initial design phase of the works, through the environmental authorization procedure, if this is part of the preliminary design phase that prescribes the next phases of the technical studies.
Beyond the procedure followed for the drawing up of the environmental impact assessment and the environmental authorization, the principles of prevention and protection are integrated into the technical design of water supply and sewerage projects via rigid environmental specifications in the following fields: · choice of appropriate materials and machinery · appropriate study of the works, with effective back-
up systems · safeguard mechanism to deal with environmental ca-
sualties (casualties causing environmental pollution)
The operation and maintenance of infrastructure is of major importance for the achievement of environmental compliance. In EYDAP, we do have the organized units, at all times ready; to face effectively any problem may occur in our network or installations both in the water supply and in the sewerage sector.
At Institutional level, the principles of prevention and protection are incorporated into the Company's operations through a series of protective regulations that refer not only to the operation of the network and the installations but to the protection of the reservoirs and the basins areas too.
Outcome of these Policies and key non-financial performance indicators
The Company is in full compliance with the environmental legislation and adopts approved environmental specifications for all its facilities (WasteWater Treatment Plants and Water Treatment Plants). Every WasteWater Treatment Plant and every Water Treatment Plant, and their additional works, operates under the Decision of Approved Environmental Terms. The same applies to every new work or modification of an existing one.

Compliance with environmental Legislation and Regulations

During the reference period there was not one incident

of non-compliance

with

the environmental legislation and regulations

C3 Wastewater and Solid Waste Management (Circular Economy)

Main non-financial risks

EYDAP, as a public utility company operating in the field of water services, has as its main activities the production and distribution of drinking water as well as the collection, management and treatment of urban wastewater. In this context, EYDAP's operations regarding the solid waste and wastewater management are of particular importance for both the protection of the environment and the rational management of the available natural resources. The international environmental awareness is directly related to the resource economy. The reuse of materials which were formerly regarded as "waste", is gradually being incorporated into the responsible business activity of the Company. Through the responsible management of these wastewater and solid waste as well as through the implementation of the circular economy practices, the Company contributes to the achievement of the Sustainable Development Objectives as they have been defined by the United Nations and more specifically the objectives 3 `GOOD HEALTH AND WELBEING', 7 `AFFORDABLE AND CLEAN ENERGY', 12 `RESPONSIBLE CONSUMPTION AND PRODUCTION', 14: `LIFE BELOW WATER' and 15 `LIFE ON LAND'. Moreover, EYDAP, through its effort to contribute to the responsible management of recyclable materials and in order to actively contribute to the global effort for the exploitation of raw materials and their reintegration into the economic cycle, promotes the collection and recycling of paper and batteries. In the situation of non-rational management of solid byproducts and of the improper wastewater treatment in EYDAP's facilities, institutional and financial risks may arise due to the possible imposition of fines and penalties. Moreover, such case would have a negative impact on the Company's image, which as a utility company should show that its highest priority is the protection of the environment and natural resources.

Company policies and due diligence

Following the wastewater treatment in the Wastewater Treatment Plants (WWTPs), the produced water (processed outflow) is free from pollutant load by approximately 95% and ends up in the sea without adverse effects on the ecological balance of the marine ecosystem, whereas a part of it is reused in activities within the premises. The solid residue of municipal wastewater treatment is the sludge, which is being dehydrated and dried and it is utilised as fuel in the cement industry. The processed outflow from all the three wastewater treatment plants end up in the wider marine area of the Saronic Gulf through proper disposal pipelines. In particular, the outflow of the Psyttalia WWTP ends up in the southern part of the Psyttalia island, the outflow of the Thriassio WWTP ends up in the Gulf of Elefsina and the outflow of the Metamorphosis WWTP ends up in the Saronic Gulf through the Kifissos river. During the wastewater treatment process, solid wastes are generated, which mainly consist of sludge and of byproducts produced throughout the wastewater pre-treatment. These are non-hazardous waste, the re-

ANNUAL FINANCIAL REPORT

71

sponsible disposal and management of which is a priority for the EYDAP's stakeholders such as the local communities of WWTPs, taking at the same time into particular consideration their large annual quantities. The sludge created by the sedimentation and the filter washing in the Water Treatment Plants is transferred through a special pipeline to existing premises, where a part of the recovered water is led through a pumping station to the water treatment tanks. Then, having acquired an aqueous form is led to the Psittalia Wastewater Treatment Plant through the sewage system of EYDAP. In the refineries of Aspropyrgos and Polydendri, this

sludge is dehydrated and the solid product due to its composition is suitable for a range of alternative uses in areas such as: · Cement industry · Ceramics · Horticultural · Soil improvement The solid wastes derived from the wastewater pre-treatment production process at the Waste Water Treatment Plants (screenings, sand and heavy solids) and the primary sludge (fine sludge scrubbing) are led to landfill.

Average daily quantity of screenings per Wastewater Treatment Plant (WWTP) (Psyttalia, Metamorphosis and Thriassio) 2017 Screenings and sand (tn/d)
2017 Total 2017 (screenings and sands to Landfills): 10.282,1 tn

Psyttalia Metamorphosis

WWTP

WWTP

26,69

1,84

Thriassio WWTP 0.03

The drying of the dewatered sludge produced by all the three Wastewater Treatment Plants is carried out at the Psyttalia Wastewater Treatment Plant.
The total amount of the dried product produced is thermally exploited by the cement industry as an alternative fuel, applying this way a sustainable management solution as well as a technologically modern and environmentally acceptable solution.
Dried sludge from the Psyttalia WWTP drying unit for 2017: 56,710 tn
In addition to the above, during the digestion process the sludge produces biogas, both in Psyttalia WWTP and in Metamorphosis WWTP. The produced biogas is utilized for the production of energy. In particular, in the Psyttalia WWTP the total quantity of biogas produced is used for the premise's needs whereas in Metamorphosis WWTP approximately 70% of the amount of the biogas produced is used.

cess of water refining. Similarly with the Aspropyrgos and Polydendri refineries, the sludge produced from the water treatment, will be utilized as soil improver for various crops or for soil improvement in case of tree planting, for the cement industry and the pottery industry. The necessary studies for the above projects have been conducted and the projects will be auctioned promptly.
Paper and battery recycling
A material recycling system has been set up in the office buildings as well as in the other facilities of EYDAP. Since July 2017 and in collaboration with the Green Angels, recycling paper bins have been placed in all of the EYDAP's main buildings. Used office paper is not thrown in the garbage, but it is collected in the buildings "produced" and then it is distributed to recycling companies.
Results of these policies and non-financial key performance indicators

The total amount of biogas produced in the WWTPs of EYDAP: 28.321.979 Nm3
EYDAP, within the context of sustainable water resources management and the implementation of the best available techniques, invests in the upgrade of the facilities in the Water Treatment Plants of Menidi and Galatsi, by constructing the necessary additional works for the treatment and management of the sludge produced during the pro-

Re-use of Outflows of the Wastewater Treatment Plants
Part of the outflow of the Wastewater Treatment Plants (Psyttalia and Metamorphosis) is used for both the green irrigation as well as for various uses, such as washings and other water needs of the premises (industrial water). This quantity is used in the facilities of EYDAP and is not yet available to third parties.

Volume of recovered water (from the processed outflow) which was reused in 2017

Total Quantity (m3) Daily reuse (Industrial water m3/day)

5.255.630 14.598

72

ANNUAL FINANCIAL REPORT

The integrated wastewater management of Attica is a strategic objective for the EYDAP Company. (this topic is analyzed further in the chapter `Health and Safety of Consumers: Sewerage Services') All the planned projects will terminate the uncontrolled disposal of the untreated effluents and they will ensure the quality and sustainability of the groundwater resources. In this way, EYDAP further contributes to the achievement of the Sustainable Development Goal 14: LIFE BELOW WATER. Through r the use of recovering water for irrigation of crops and urban green areas, valuable natural resource is being saved. Furthermore, the conditions for the regeneration of primary activity in the area are created as well as for the regeneration of further related activities directly dependent on the availability of water, thus contributing to the achievement of the Sustainable Development Goal 15: LIFE ON EARTH.
Re-use with sewer mining

redevelopment of the Elaionas area and in collaboration with the Municipality of Athens. DESSIN and EYDAP were being awarded in the "Products and Services" and "Biodiversity" categories, during the 6th "Business Awards for the Environment".
Paper and battery recycling
Regarding paper recycling, 9,377 kg was collected in 2017. Similarly, used batteries are gathered in special bins in the company's buildings and facilities and they are collected from there by AFIS (recycling of portable batteries and accumulators). According to AFIS and EYDAP data, 227 kg of batteries had been collected from the buildings of EYDAP in 2017.
C4 Energy saving
Production of energy from renewable and alternative sources

EYDAP implements a reuse strategy in its existing WWTPs whereas at the same it further develops relevant research programmes aimed at the decentralized reuse through the exploitation of wastewater directly from the sewerage network. More specifically, under the DESSIN European Research Programme, the unit established in EYDAP's Environmental Research and Development (R & D) Service in Metamorphosis, is investigating a new technique known as sewer mining, which is being implemented for the first time in Greece and it has been implemented so far only in Australia. A sewer mining unit receives sewage directly from the sewerage network, processes it on site and consequently produces recycled water for re-use. "Sewer mining" can decrease pressure on the water and sewerage network from the increase received due to the population growth and aging of the infrastructure. It also reduces energy consumption due to the lack of wastewater transport to the central processing plant and due to the lack of the recycled water transport to the point of use, as it achieves decentralized treatment and reuse in the area where the water is required. The social and environmental benefits of the sewer mining technology are important as it achieves: · Reduction in the quantities of treated effluents led to
water recipients. · Reduction in the water demand from surface and
groundwater aquifers and conservation of their water reserves. · Possibility of enrichment of underground aquifers. · Cost reduction of effluent transfer. · Possibility to create and maintain urban green areas that are very important for the quality of city life, without utilizing drinking water for their irrigation. · Possibility to provide recovered water for irrigation uses in areas with water scarcity, such as the islands. EYDAP, continuing the utilization of the sewer-mining technology, participates in the funded European research project NEXTGEN, with a similar reuse unit, as part of the

EYDAP, in order to exploit the renewable and alternative energy sources and with a view to optimize its energy balance, has developed energy production facilities from small hydropower projects installed in its aqueducts as well as heat and electric energy cogeneration plants by using the biogas produced from the sludge treatment in the Wastewater Treatment Plants (as it has been described above). Moreover, energy saving actions are carried out at the Company's premises and buildings, aiming at reducing the energy consumed. Specifically: 1. A tender is currently in place regarding the supply and
installation of LED lamps in five (5) buildings of EYDAP in order for the existing old technology with high energy consumption to be replaced. Furthermore, the immediate next stage is for this to be expanded in the other privately-owned buildings of the Company as well as in the exterior / all around lighting at the large plots of EYDAP (e.g. in the Water Treatment Plants, in Marathon, etc.) 2. E nergy audits have been carried out in five (5) buildings of EYDAP with proposals for their energy upgrade, whereas the relevant audits for six (6) more buildings are in progress. This activity will continue until all EYDAP building are covered. Based on these proposals / suggestions, energy-saving actions will be undertaken. 3. W  ith the assistance of an external energy consultant, the possibility of installing photovoltaic power stations through the use of the net metering system at EYDAP's facilities is investigated aiming at the achievement of significant energy savings. 4. L astly, the potential of installing wind power plants is investigated with the contribution of the aforementioned energy consultant. The energy production from small hydropower plants (SHPP) along the external aqueducts reaches 22,903,948 KWh / year. In detail, the energy output from each Small Hydropower Plants (SHPP) is given in the following table:

SHPP
Kirfi Elikonas Mandra Evinos Kithaironas TOTAL
Total electrical energy produced from Biogas in the WWTPs (KWh/y) Total thermal energy produced from Biogas in the WWTPs (KWh/y)

Energy Consumption (KWh) 2017
4.443.839 3.902.862 3.445.952 5.371.420 5.739.875 22.903.948
24.173.510 113.900.833

ANNUAL FINANCIAL REPORT

73

The exploitation of the Biogas in the WWTPs and the energy production from Small Hydroelectric Plants contributes to the achievement of the National objective regarding the increase of energy production from Renewable Energy Sources whereas at the same time it contributes to the achievement of the Sustainable Development Objective 7: Affordable and Clean Energy.

Total Energy Produced from Renewable Energy Sources Total Energy Consumed

160.978.291 341.945.568,8

KWh KWh

Social and Employment Issues and Respect to the human rights
D1 Employment
Main non-financial risks, policies and due diligence
Our human resources consist of the powerful and constantly evolving intellectual capital of our business. The staffing of the Company with specialized personnel takes place through the recruitment of both permanent and under temporary contract staff. This helps us to ensure that our needs are always met and that we are able to respond in a timely manner to the vital needs of the water supply and sanitation of the inhabitants of the wider Attica region. The Company has repeatedly highlighted the importance and necessity of the recruitment of both permanent and contractual workers in multiple of its operational fields (water supply, sewerage, meter reading) in order to ensure the proper operation of its Departments and the supply of its social work. In this context, it has occasionally proclaimed 8-month job vacancies in order to avoid the risk of failing to respond to the imperative requirements for clean water supply, sewerage services, etc., especially in periods of increased demand. The employment needs of the company are met through a recruitment process which is always carried out under a relevant legal framework and through

ASEP, which ensures the objectivity and transparency of the process. The purpose of EYDAP when it comes to the employment field is the recruitment of both permanent and contractual workers in order to ensure its proper operations as well as the proper implementation of its work. The hitherto restrictions in recruitment due to the Law 3833/2010 have led to the number of employees constantly decreasing and to the aging of the staff. Meanwhile, the growing needs of the Company and the expansion its activities (new geographical areas are integrated in the water and sewerage network) have led to the imperative need of recruiting more permanent staff. The recruitment shall give life, further development and a creative flair to EYDAP. For this reason, in 2017, a tender for the recruitment of permanent staff was prepared and two competitions for fixed term (of 8 and 18 months) contractual staff were launched.
Results of policies and non-financial key performance indicators
The Human Resources Department and its Services (Personnel, Payroll Service, General Secretariat Service, Medical Healthcare Service and Administrative Health Care Service) are certified with ISO, which has been fully renewed since May 2017 and has been conformed to the requirements of the latest version of the ISO 9001: 2015 standard.

HUMAN RESOURCE FACTS [GRI 102-8]

Attica Permanent Contract Total Boeotia Permanent Contract Total Phocis Permanent Contract Total Aitoloakarnania Permanent Contract Total TOTAL Permanent Contract Total

Men

2017 1.518 164 1.682 2017 75 5 80 2017 25 4 29 2017 11 0 11 2017 1.629 173 1.802

2016 1.526 97 1.623 2016 85 3 88 2016 27 3 30 2016 11 0 11 2016 1.649 103 1.752

Women

2017 631 111 742 2017 4 0 4 2017 6 1 7 2017 0 0 0 2017 641 112 753

2016 635 60 695 2016 4 0 4 2016 6 0 6 2016 0 0 0 2016 645 60 705

Total

2017 2.149 275 2.424 2017 79 5 84 2017 31 5 36 2017 11 0 11 2017 2.270 285 2.555

2016 2.161 157 2.318 2016 89 3 92 2016 33 3 36 2016 11 0 11 2016 2.294 163 2.457

74

ANNUAL FINANCIAL REPORT

Notes:
· D ata with effective date as of 31.12.2017 · The number of contract employees concerns: 8months con-
tracts and contractual cleaners · Students and trainee lawyers are not taken into account as they are not considered employees of the Company
The 88.85% of EYDAP's employees are under Business Collective Labor Agreements. It is only the 11.15% of the fixed-term contractors which is not covered by the above Collective Agreements but instead it is covered by the General Labor Legislation. Due to the distinctiveness, undeniable difficulty and risk of the Company's business, the necessity for the recruitment of highly educated staff is apparent. EYDAP, in order to meet this need and to respond to the contemporary requirements of a modern company, employs a large number of personnel who have a

university background and hold a 2nd degree or a postgraduate diploma or a PhD. More specifically, 618 employees are graduates of higher education schools whereas 7 of them hold a second higher education qualification, 131 hold a postgraduate degree and 33 hold a PhD. The hierarchical and salary promotion of staff depends to a large extent on the evaluation of employees through the Crisis Leafs, which takes place every year and it is provided for by the Staff Regulations of EYDAP. However, as of 14/2/2012 and according to the Law 4046/2012 no salary promotions (maturations) are made due to their suspension. In 2017, EYDAP, in order to meet its emergent and periodic demands, proclaimed the demand of filling vacancies of a) duration of 8 months (GMO 1/2017) for 220 contractual workers, drivers, counters, electricians and mechanics b) 18-month duration / 2017) for 57 contractual cleaners.

RECRUITMENT OF CONTRACTORS [GRI 401-1]
Recruitment in 2017 Men Women TOTAL Recruitment in 2017 per age distribution <30 years old 30 - 50 years old >50 years old TOTAL Recruitment in 2017 Attica Region Boeotia Region Phocis Region Aitoloakarnania Region TOTAL WITHDRAWALS ** Distribution per gender Men Women Total Age Distribution <30 years old 30 - 50 years old 50 years old TOTAL

167 107 274
15 174 85 274
264 5 5 0
274

22

5

27



C

0

0

1

1

21

4

22

5

ANNUAL FINANCIAL REPORT

75

Notes: * Data with effective data as of 31.12.2017, concerning
the contractual employees * New recruitments concern only contractors with con-
tract duration of 8months as well as for contractual cleaners * Students and trainee lawyers are not taken into account as they are not considered employees of the Company ** W  ithdrawals concern only the permanent employees ** F rom the total number of withdrawals (permanent employees), 3 men were employed in the Company's facilities in the Municipality of Boeotia whereas the rest of the total number of withdrawals was employed in the Municipality of Attica
The Company offers significant supporting benefits to permanent workers. Such benefits include the Health Service, which manages the medical and pharmaceutical insurance of the employees, their insurance with a private insurance policy and the provision of lump sum compensation upon their retirement. The benefits to permanent workers in all areas of activity are : · Insurance · Private insurance for employees and their children · P rovision of compensation to employees by the in-
surance company in case of partial or total disability to work caused by workplace accident or in case of retirement with a disability · Provision of a nine-month parental leave permit to either a mother or a father · Pension Insurance Contract for doctors (upon request) · P ension Insurance Contract for engineers and lawyers (upon request) · One-off allowance for any employee on retirement · Payroll every fortnight · Ownership of shares · Funding for learning one foreign language · Funding for children summer camps · Funding to employees for undertaking undergraduate or postgraduate studies · P rovision of school and university loans for employees' children More specifically, in 2017, 16 employees of the Company (12 Men and 4 Women) were being approved and granted a 9-month child-raising permit under the Law 4342 / 23-12-2015 [GRI 401-3].
CULTURAL CENTER OF EMPLOYEES
At the same time, the Company strives to the development of meaningful relations between its employees and the enhancement of team spirit and collaboration, through the existence and operation of its Cultural Center. For this reason, activities which promote culture and good interaction of people take place throughout the year. Such activities include the participation in groups such as mountaineering, theatrical or chorus, the opportunity to watch theater performances or the arrangement of guided tours in exhibitions and archaeological sites or even the possibility of blood and platelet donation which takes place 3 times per year at the company's premises.
THE RIGHT TO SYNDICALISM
The constitutional right of syndicalism is exercised by the employees of EYDAP through the EYDAP Employees' Federation, which was founded in 1979. It is a Secondary Trade Union and represents the employees of the company. The aim of OME ­ EYDAP is to study, protect and promote the union, economic, professional, moral, insur-

ance and social interests of its members, to protect the environment, to implement the principle of gender equality and to ensure corporate responsibility. The objective is to claim the improvement of the employee working conditions through dialogue and cooperation with the Company's management, always within the framework of corporate social responsibility rules. In order to achieve its objectives, the Federation negotiates with each competent body or person so as to resolve the problems of its members whereas it ensures the establishment of the Business Collective Labor Agreements. Furthermore, the Federation actively participates in the Service Councils, the Disciplinary Councils and any other body or entity where it is represented. Lastly, the Federation is represented by two members who have the right to vote on the Company's Board of Directors.
SUPPORT TO YOUNG PEOPLE
EYDAP supports young people in their efforts to improve their education, to familiarize themselves with the working environment as well as to gain experience in a real workplace environment. In this context, 360 students of tertiary education (undergraduate or postgraduate) were employed during the summer months of July and August of 2017, following a decision of the Board of Directors of the Company. During 2017, 245 students of Technological Education (A.T.E.I.) have either begun or have completed their internship at the Company's facilities and services within the framework of the compulsory internship suggested in their curriculum and thus acquiring substantial knowledge and training in their educational fields. EYDAP materializes this for years and the students' preference for the Company continues to be great. This success is the result of the good collaboration between the Educational Institutions and the executives of the Company and of course of the trainee students themselves. Lastly, in 2017, following the decision of the EYDAP's Board of Directors and within the framework of its affiliation with the "Workplace Education Program", 28 apprentices of professional high schools (EPAL) were recruited. EYDAP, as the largest company in its field, aims to contribute to the successful implementation of apprenticeships for the benefit of both the apprentices and the local community. The apprentices are trained in the workplace for 9 months and this, in combination with the educational programme at University, can certify their knowledge and thus enable them to get easier into the job market. Apprentices are employed in the areas of their expertise i.e. in both technical and management fields. Furthermore, they are insured with full insurance coverage with EFKA and they shall receive 12 days of annual leave, as required by the law.
D2 Worker's Health and Safety
Ensuring health and safety conditions for employees is an indisputable right of employees and at the same time an obligation of the company. EYDAP acknowledging that its activity (Water Supply ­ Sewerage Services Wastewater Treatment) involves many and serious risks to its employees' Health and Safety, is taking measures to prevent and avoid any work-related accidents. Due to the large volume of its activities, EYDAP has concluded contracts with partners to get assistance in various technical activities, with the absolute condition that they will be observing security measures, as required by current legislation. Control is carried out by supervising engineers. By managing responsibly the issue of Health and Safety in the workplace, EYDAP's contributing to the achieve-

76

ANNUAL FINANCIAL REPORT

ment of Sustainable Development Objectives 3 "GOOD HEALTH AND Prosperity" and 8 "DECENT WORK AND ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT" as defined by the United Nations.
1. Worker's Health and Safety Risks
i. M isuse of Personal Protective Equipment and failure to apply security measures.
ii. Insufficient staff training. iii. L ittle experience (workers with short-term contracts) iv. Use of non-certified tools. v. N on-implementation of Occupational Risk Assess-
ment. vi. F ailure to comply with the Traffic Code when trans-
porting workers. Beyond the obvious risk to workers' health and the economic impact of accidents in the workplace (lost labor hours, damages etc), there is also a risk of a possible loss of confidence of the workforce to the employer, and also a loss of credibility of the company from the part of consumers and partners.
Company policies and due diligence
Within the framework of managing this substantive issue, EYDAP has IPPS (Internal Protection & Prevention Service) staffed by Security Technicians (ST) and Occupational Physicians (OP) conducting hundreds of inspections (per year) in the places of work. IPPS is consulting the administration and they are both working intensively towards the reduction of occupational hazards. The Security Technicians and the Occupational Physicians are responsible for preparing Health and Safety directives, upgrading standards for PPE (Personal Protective Equipment), WAOH (Written Assessments of Occupational Hazard), the pilot implementation of the OHSAS 1800001 Health & Safety System, measurement of harmful factors, publication of brochures.

Furthermore, EYDAP implementing Law 3850/2010 (Codification of the entire Labor Legislation) has established a Health and Safety Commission for Workers (HSCW) composed of elected representatives, whose objective is to identify hazards, highlighting any problems (related to Health & Safety) in places of work etc. Additionally, EYDAP by acknowledging the fact that Safety and Health in the Workplace and the prevention of occupational hazard are not only a legal and moral obligation but a business necessity for the safeguarding of the Health and the Safety of its Workers as well as its Sustainable Development, it updated its Health & Safety Policy Statement. The Company in 2017 started the development and implementation of a Health & Safety in the Workplace Management System, in accordance with GSO (Greek Standardization Organization) 1801 and OHSAS 18001, which will be completed in 2018. Safeguarding the Health and Safety of employees is a long-standing policy in all of its activities and it is linked to the observance of the following principles: · Compliance of EYDAP with all current laws and regu-
lations and application of programs to ensure it, creating additionally its own Health & Safety Guidelines. · Prevention of accidents at work by applying procedures. Furthermore present Policy Statement covers EYDAP's facilities and equipment against deterioration, failure or destruction, as well as third parties and the environment from its activities. · Communication with employees through training using in-depth seminars on health and safety at work, posting instructions and sound workflows, monthly Health & Safety messages, and endlessly monitoring, documenting and assessing the safety level to continually improve it. · Commitment to continuously recognize occupational hazards, assessment of these risks and implementation of necessary control, protection and prevention measures for a safe working environment, prevention of injuries, elimination of accidents at work and occupational diseases.

Results of these policies and non-financial key performance indicators

Types of injuries and injury rates, occupational diseases, lost working days and unauthorized absences from work, and total number of work-related deaths [GRI 403-2]

Number of work-related deaths Number of work-related deaths during the period considered Injury Rate (IR) Total number of work-related injuries during the period considered Total working hours during the period considered
Injury Rate (IR) Occupational Diseases rate (ODR) Total cases of occupational diseases during the period considered Total work hours during the period considered
Occupational Diseases Rate (ODR) Lost work days rate (LDR) Total number of lost work days during the period considered
Total work days during the period considered
Lost days rate (LDR) Absence rate (AR) Total number of days of absence during the considered period. Total number of workdays during the period considered
Unauthorized absences rate (AR)

Male 0
Male
14
3.114.504 0,89901955
Male
0
3.114.504 0
Male
665
475.329 0,00017488
Male
1.850
475.329 0,39%

Female 0
Female
4
1.287.216 0,62149631
Female
0
1.287.216 0
Female
176
198.290 0,00011095
Female
423
198.290 0,21%

Total 0
Total
18
4.401.720 0,81786211
Total
0
4.401.720 0
Total
841
673619 0,00124848
Total
2.273
673.619 0,34%

ANNUAL FINANCIAL REPORT

77

Clarifications: 1. The Company's Health and Safety Policy applies to all
employees, regardless of their type of contract. For this reason only the "Employees" field has been filled in the chart above. IPPD does not discriminate between EYDAP's employees based on the type of their contract. 2. All of the Workplace Accidents (WA) reported to IPPD through a workplace accident report, irrespective of severity and degree of injury. 3. W  A statistical data are collected from: · T he report and the investigation of a Workplace Accident. · T he «Accidents Record» kept by the IPPD in which the main elements of the WA are recorded (date, hour, worker's number, place, type of injury, victim's department, sex, days of sick leave). · The Health Services (days of recovery) and the (hours of work, leaves of absence and so on). This statistical processing of data (WA number, recovery days, victim's sex, accident site, etc.) through the use of excel software is being incorporated into the "Annual Activity Report" sent by IPPD to EYDAP's management at the beginning of the year and it concern employees of the Company (as mentioned above) not partners. 4. "Lost days" begin from the day of the accident, if this happened near the beginning of the workday, or the next day, if this happened near the end of the workday.
For workers' groups who run an occupational disease risk, such as workers in Sewage Sectors, IPPD / EYDAP has proposed and EYDAP's Management have taken, the necessary preventive and precautionary measures: · preventive vaccination against hepatitis B · distribution personal protective equipment · annual preventive medical checks. Furthermore, the whole of the personnel, depending on their position get: · e quipment necessary for the prevention of workplace ac-
cidents (Management Bulletin 22/15). · STs carry out annual seminars in the places of work, (at
least one seminar per Department depending on the needs) in which they highlight workplace risks and ways to avoid them, the necessity and proper use of MPPs, the proper application of protection means, instructions for

the use of fire extinguishers, instructions in case of an earthquake, instructions on proper manual labor etc. IPPD's aim is to cooperate with the Directorate of Training for the establishment of a Health and Safety ETC. In EYDAP, in 2017 there was no incident of occupational disease and no loss of human life (worker death) from occupational disease was recorded
D3 Training & Education
Main non-financial risks, policies and due diligence and results of these policy and non-financial key performance indicators.
Continuous training of EYDAP's employees in new technologies and innovative knowledge in general is a prerequisite for the Company itself, as the knowledge gained is utilized for its better functioning, more efficient management of its operations, its staff, its customer service, communication, etc., which strengthens the Company's strategy of creating shared value, through the way it operates and the services it offers. The Company has a Human Resources Training and Development Directorate, which in 2017 offered 82 training courses (technical, administration, finance, computer systems, etc.), which were implemented in 131 training seminars, training 887 employees, who put their knowledge into immediate use. EYDAP additionally gives an opportunity to its employees to obtain a bachelor's or postgraduate degree or a specialization from Higher Education Institutions, covering tuition fees, provided the subject matter is related to the main or supporting activities of the Company. It also encourages the participation of its employees in seminars, conferences, training in new technologies, tactics of self-defense and security (armed guards). In 2017, 10 employees applied for and received part or all of the tuition fees to study. The Human Resources Training and Development Directorate and its Services (Educational Programs Evaluation & Assessment of Educational Programs Service and Training and Educating Support Service) are ISO 9001:2015 certified.

Average Hours of training Human Resources per Level*

Employees Managers

9 17
6 27
20

0

5

10

15

20

25

30

* The average hours of training has been calculated per trainee of each level.

Total Female Male
33
35

78

ANNUAL FINANCIAL REPORT

ANNUAL FINANCIAL REPORT

79

Average of hours of training employees per Function*
 

32 27



27 32
21



34 29

0

5

10

15

20

25

30

* The average hours of training has been calculated per trainee of each function.

Total Female
41 Male
43
35

D4 Human Rights at Work
Major non-financial risks, policies and due diligence
EYDAP, in the context of social responsibility and its obligations, attaches great importance to the safeguarding of human rights at work and the elimination of discrimination. This attitude is reinforced by the fact that in EYDAP's Internal Staff Regulations it is stipulated in Article 5, regarding Personnel Behavior, that "employees of the Company must respect their colleagues, cooperate with them for the promotion of it's mission and the achievement of the

Company's goals, to behave to all with courtesy and to have the proper behavior. " Workers' rights are safeguarded through Collective Agreements and compliance with legislation, such as respect for leaves, consistent and uninterrupted pay, health insurance and hospital care coverage for workers and their insured members, good facilities, pleasing work areas with ergonomic furniture and sufficient technical equipment to ensure good employee performance. At the same time, EYDAP has incorporated into its staff 232 people, in accordance with the provisions of Law 1648/1986 (Law 2643/98) concerning the disabled, children, children of war invalids, etc.

Results of these policies and non-financial key performance indicators

MANAGEMENT BOARD COMPOSITION AND EMPLOYEES ANALYSIS

Board of Directors [2017] *

MALES

<30 years

13

0

FEMALES

<30 years

0

0

TOTAL

<30 years

13

0

Managers [2017]

MALES

<30 years

124

0

FEMALES

<30 years

138

0

TOTAL

<30 years

262

0

REMAINING EMPLOYEES [2017] **

MALES

<30 years

1.503

0

FEMALES

<30 years

502

0

TOTAL

<30 years

2.005

0

TOTAL [2017]

MALES

<30 years

1.640

0

FEMALES

<30 years

640

0

TOTAL

<30 years

2.280

0

30-50 years 6
30-50 years 0
30-50 years 6
30-50 years 46
30-50 years 74
30-50 years 124
30-50 years 566
30-50 years 252
30-50 years 818
30-50 years 618
30-50 years 326
30-50 years 944

>50 years 7
>50 years 0
>50 years 7
>50 years 78
>50 years 64
>50 years 138
>50 years 937
>50 years 250
>50 years 1.437
>50 years 1022
>50 years 314
>50 years 1336

Note: * The Board of Directors of the Company consists of 13 persons, as provided for in paragraph 1 of Article 11 of the Charter. All members of the
Board of Directors are men over 30 and up to 69 years of age. ** The percentages of the table for the remaining employees in 2017 have been calculated on the total number of permanent employees.

80

ANNUAL FINANCIAL REPORT

For all the Company's permanent staff, the minimum wages as well as the allowances are defined by the Collective Agreement which applies to all Company's permanent employees and there is no distinction in terms of gender or age. The treatment of all workers is equal, without discrimination, regardless of sex, with pay determined by the Collective Agreement above. Everyone has the right, is encouraged to participate in educational and training programs provided mainly by EYDAP's Human Resources Education and Development Directorate. There has never been an issue of unequal treatment and discrimination towards an employee due to gender, age, religion, sexual orientation, disability, etc. [GRI 406-1].
D 5 Consumers' Health & Safety : Quality of the Water Supply
Main non-financial risks
Water is a fundamental good, essential for the preservation of life and well-being of the society. The access to safe and clean drinking water has been identified by the international community as a fundamental human right and has been characterized as one of the Developmental Goals of the Millennium. EYDAP identifies the clean drinking water as an indisputable factor of well-being and sustainability, according to Goals 3 "GOOD HEALTH AND WELL-BEING" and 6 "CLEAN WATER AND SANITATION", as defined by the United Nations. EYDAP, being the largest water services provider, and being aware of its responsibility towards millions of consumers, cares for the excellent quality of drinking water. Through constant investments in infrastructure projects, in technology and training of its human capital, EYDAP ensures the quality of drinking water, which is one of the highest in Europe, always in harmony with the current legislation. According to Urban Water Atlas for Europe 2017, that is published by EU and presents the best practices in European cities, EYDAP was graded with 10 (excellent) with regard to the quality of drinking water for the city of Athens (Urban Water Atlas for Europe 2017, European Commission, Publications Office of the European Union, Luxembourg, p.5455). The excellent quality already begins from the main supply reservoirs Evinos and Mornos. The danger for the gradual degradation of the quality of supply water due to pressuring of human activities is limited because of their location ­ are situated at a large height, in rugged, under populated areas with very limited activities ­ as well as due to their protection through legislation. The danger for the sudden burden of the quality of water that is provided to the consumers can however be resulted either from a natural disaster, or an involuntary inflow of improper substances in the water network, or a malicious or terrorist act, or inexpediency in the function of the facilities. Preventive dealing of such dangers, apart from strengthening the good reputation of the Company, guarantees the consumers' and the resource's safety. Furthermore, it prevents the penalty infliction due to the non-observance of the current legislation. For all the above reasons, and in order to constantly ensure the quality of water supply for the consumers, EYDAP has proceeded in analyzing and evaluating the dangers that might face in this sector. For none of these the possibility of appearance is characterized high. For every occasion of danger there is a relevant plan of preventive acts that has been planned and implemented. In conclusion, EYDAP ensures that all the dangers that might possibly disrupt the quality of the water that enters in its facilities, but especially the quality of the water that reaches the tap of the consumer, are identified

and sufficiently inspected through: · Surveillance of the activities in the Water Basins · Maintenance, monitoring and operation of the dams/
reservoirs/ aqueduct, through which water is collected and the region is supplied. · Maintenance and operation of the distribution network of drinking water · Constant quality controls of unprocessed and drinking water that is provided to the consumers.
Company policies and due diligence
EYDAP's Administration cares for the implementation of the appropriate procedures of the quality of water controls, in order to: · Satisfy the requirements of the Legislation and its In-
terested Parts · Implement correct laboratory practices and appropri-
ate methods, in order to ensure the credibility of the measurings · P rovide suitable and sufficient resources (workforce, equipment, information) for the implementation of the quality operations, and these resources to be used in such way to ensure the credibility and the overall effectiveness of all the measures that are planned and implemented. · The quality, impartiality and integrity of measurings that are realized during quality monitoring are not to be influenced by any commercial, economic, or other forms of pressure. · A ll the involved staff is to be trained and evaluated, in order to know and exactly execute the assigned project.
Framework Control
EYDAP has formed the appropriate control framework, in order to ensure that the water distributed to consumers is safe. The quality controls refer to: · The raw materials that are used for the water pro-
cessing and · The construction materials of the drinking water dis-
tribution network The chemical substances that are destined for the human consumption water processing and the materials that are used in the drinking water distribution networks that EYDAP is supplied with, are specified in order to be in agreement with the internationally formed standards, such as i.e. ELOT EN 878 Chemical substances used in processing drinking water-sulphuric aluminium, ELOT EN 937 Chemical substances used in processing drinking water- chlorine, ELOT EN 12201 Plastic pipelines systems for the provision of water, and for the drainage and sewage under pressure- polyethylene (PE). For every substance and for every material there is a quality plan according to which the appropriateness of its use is ensured. · T he unprocessed supply water, in the reservoirs and
in the entrance of the Water Treatment Plants and · T he drinking water that is provided to the consumers The daily quality controls of unprocessed and drinking water, that are realised 7 days a week at EYDAP's chemical and microbiological laboratories, intend to ensure and certify the excellent quality of the water that the Company provides to the citizens of Athens. For this reason, the quality of water of the four reservoirs, Marathon, Iliki, Mornos and Evinos, is closely monitored, with on-the-spot visits, sampling and analyses at least eight (8) times per year, as well as the quality of drinking water in the water supply network, with daily sampling and analyses, in order to perceive immediately and confront in time whichever problem possibly appears. For the control of the quality of water, EYDAP disposes laboratories in Galatsi and Acharnes. In these laborato-

ANNUAL FINANCIAL REPORT

81

ries, samples of unprocessed water from the lakes-reservoirs, from EYDAP's boreholes, and samples of drinking water from the Company's Water Treatment Plants and water supply network are analyzed. The Water Treatment Plants (WTP) have an absolutely definitive importance for the water we drink, that make it drinkable with an excellent quality. These 4 WTPs are situated at Galatsi, Acharnes (Menidi), Polidendri (Kiourka) and Mandra of Aspropyrgos, and have a cumulative maximum refining capability of 1,900,000 m3 per day. The water arrives raw at the WTPs and is submitted in 5 processing stages, which make it drinkable. 1st stage: chlorine addition (disinfection) With pro-chlorination, an important number of microbes that exist in the water is neutralized, and its processing is facilitated. 2nd stage: sulphuric aluminium addition (flocculation) The addition of sulphuric aluminium helps the solid particles that are inside the water to be merged and to settle. The whole procedure is known as flocculation. 3rd stage: subsidence After flocculation, the incorporated solids settle in the bottom of the subsidence tank. In this way the water is cleaned in a percentage of about 80%. 4th stage: filtration The very light particles that don't settle (20%), are retained in special sand filters, from which the water is extracted clean and clear, in order to be given to consumption. 5th stage: after-clorination As long as pre-clorination is found non-satisfactory to the Sanitary Regulations, supplementary chlorine is added during the entrance of the water to the WTP's closed storage tanks, before its distribution to the city network. In EYDAP's laboratories cutting edge analysis methods are applied, in order to define the required elements in water samples so as to achieve high sensitivity, accuracy and measurement repeatability. Among the applied analysis techniques are the automatic photometric analysis, the ion chromatography, the gas chromatography with MS/MS "triple quadrupole" sensors, ECD, FID and olfactometry, HPLC liquid chromatography with fluorescence and UV sensors, the plasma spectroscopy with emission detector, toxicity control with Daphnia organisms and ELISA method. In addition, critical qualitative parametres, such as residual chlorine, are monitored on-line, in selected tanks of the drinking water distribution network. In 2017, state-of-the-art systems for the on-line monitoring of critical qualitative parametres were additionally installed in crucial positions and in external aqueducts, which send results in real time with telemetry and timely notifications in case of extreme rates.
Projects and initiatives
In the context of constant improvement of the quality control mechanisms used, EYDAP has started from 2017 and is expected to have completed within 2018, the update and the enrichment of the sampling spots. In addition, the expansion of the equipment network for the constant monitoring of the drinking water quality has been initiated, through the supply and installation of 29 new on-line tools (in addition to the existing). The new tools will be installed in chosen spots until the end of 2019. EYDAP is regularly monitoring and recording, in archives that are kept in the Water Quality Control Service and according to the Quality Assurance System, not only the current Legislation but also the international trends in regulative issues, which might possibly constitute future legislative or stakeholder's requirements. As a result, the list of the substances that are being monitored is appropriately enriched. In this context, con-

tracts with Greek Educational and Research Institutes (NKUA , Dimokritos) were made during 2017, that are located among the pioneers in their field throughout Europe, in order to cooperate for the experience acquisition in the most state-of-the-art chemical analysis techniques. Moreover, the supply of edge technology analytical equipment has already been initiated and is expected to be completed around the end of 2018.
Results of policies and non-financial key performance indicators
Certifications
The Chemical Laboratories at Galatsi and Acharnes, as well as the Microbiological Laboratory are accredited with ELOT ISO EN 17025 since 2005 by the Hellenic Accreditation System (ESYD) for carrying out tests in order to specify 60 chemical and 5 microbiological parameters in raw and drinking water (Certificate No. 192). EYDAP's laboratories systematically monitor the international progresses and trends in the field of water analyses. There is a constant development and improvement of their operation, which is reflected upon the continuous expansion of the accreditation scope of the laboratories, that is the constant increase of the number of substances detected with the use of accredited methods. More extensively, during the period 2005-2017, the accredited methods of EYDAP's water quality control laboratories were increased from 25 to 65, whereas there is a planning for a further enrichment of the accreditation scope with even more methods.
Complaint management
EYDAP gives absolute priority to ensure a high-level satisfaction for all the consumers. It has established a four-digit hotline (1022) in order to record and promptly deal with any quality issues that might possibly be reported by the consumers. All quality issues reported are immediately forwarded through the appropriate software to the Water Quality Control Department, which takes over the investigation of each case. At the 100% of the cases, phone contact with the consumer is made. If any relevant necessity arises, sampling on the spot of the complaint and analyses of the respective samples are being made. For 2017, 49% of the expressed complaints was examined in this way. If a need of applying technical measures arises from examining the complaints, the Technical Service in charge is activated and relevant re-tests are made until it is ensured that the matter has been restored. For 2017, technical measures were required for the 8% of the quality complaints that were reported to 1022. The 100% of the complaints for which a need of interference from EYDAP S.A. had been arisen was resolved.
Performance
As it is proved by the results of about 185,000 definitions in about 10,000 samples of drinking water and 2,000 samples of raw water annually, EYDAP constantly certifies that the water of Athens is of excellent quality and one of the best in Europe. The results of the analyses certify that the quality of drinking water of EYDAP meets the legislative requirements of Joint Ministerial Decision (JMD) 67322/2017, which is the amendment to the European Directive 2015/17/87 "Quality of Water for human consumption" complying with the Directive 98/83/EC of the European Council (as amended and is in force) and in accordance . The average of all the parameters specified by EYDAP's laboratories is reported on an annual basis. This is announced on the Company's website, so that

82

ANNUAL FINANCIAL REPORT

each interested part can have access to it. In addition, every year, EYDAP is obliged by recent Law to share to the Ministry of Health the drinking water quality data that was collected. Furthermore, internal self-evaluation inspections of the individual procedures of the Water Quality Control

Department are conducted on an annual basis, and all functions related to the Quality Control Department are reviewed. In this way, any deviations from established procedures are detected, and opportunities for improvement are recorded, which are then planned and implemented.

Compliance with regulations and voluntary rules
During the reference period, there were no incidents of non-compliance to the regulations and the voluntary rules that are related to the quality of the water supply and the negative effects upon the HEALTH and the CONSUMER SAFETY.

ANNUAL FINANCIAL REPORT

83

The drinking water quality control data from EYDAP's water supply network are available below: DRINKING WATER QUALITY CONTROL DATA FROM EYDAP'S WATER SUPPLY NETWORK FOR THE YEAR 2017

Parameter

Unit

Average #

Parametric Value

Hydrogen Ion Concentration

pH

7,7

(Based on current national legislation JMD 67322/2017 )

Conductivity, 25°C

S/cm

295

Alkalinity (Total)

mg CaCO3/l

114

Ammonium

mg NH4+/l

0,01

6,5-9,5 2764, 25°C (2500, 20°C)

Aluminium Calcium

g Al/l

75

mg Ca/l

46

0,50

Taste * Sulphate Turbidity Cyanide

mg SO42-/l NTU
g CN-/l

1 (acceptable) 25 0,21 M.A.

200
Acceptable to consumers and no abnormal change 250

Magnesium

mg Mg/l

5

Acceptable to consumers and no abnormal change

Nitrate

mg NO3-/l

0,59

50

Nitrite

mg NO2-/l

0

NITRITE/3 + NITRATE/50

mg/l

0,01

50

Odour *

2 ()

0,1

Hardness (Calculated)

mg CaCO3/l

136

1

Residual Chlorine Fluoride

mg Cl2/l mg F-/l

0,36 0,09

Acceptable to consumers and no abnormal change

Phosphate Chloride

mg PO43-/l mg Cl-/l

0,012 7,0

 0,20 1,5

Colour Bromate Sodium Potassium

mg Pt/l g BrO3-/l
mg Na/l mg K/l

1 .. 5,2 0,98

5 mg/l P2O5 250
Acceptable to consumers and no abnormal change 10

Silver Arsenic Barium Boron Cadmium

g Ag/l g As/l g Ba/l g B/l g Cd/l

0,33 1,1 30 10
0,074

200 10

Total Chromium Copper Iron Mercury Manganese

g Cr/l g Cu/l g Fe/l g Hg/l g Mn/l

0,30 0,62 4,1 0,028 0,51

1000 5 50
2000 200

Nickel Lead Antimony Selenium Tin

g Ni/l

0,37

1

g Pb/l

1,7

50

g Sb/l

0,021

20

g Se/l

1,1

10

g Sn/l

0,62

5

Zinc

g Zn/l

4,1

10

Dissolved Organic Carbon (DOC)

mg/l

1,0

84

ANNUAL FINANCIAL REPORT

Dibromochloromethane (CHBr2Cl) Dichlorobromomethane (CHBrCl2) Chloroform (CHCl3) Bromoform (CHBr3) Total Trihalomethanes () Trichloroethylene Tetrachloroethylene Benzene Bromobenzene Chlorobenzene Ethylbenzene n-butylbenzene sec-butylbenzene tert-butylbenzene n-propylbenzene 1,2-dichloroethane 1,1-dichloroethane 1,2-dibromoethane 1,1-dichloroethene 1,1,2-trichloroethane 1,1,2,2-tetrachloroethane Naphthalene Styrene Toluene o-xylene p- and m- xylene Dibromomethane Dichloromethane Hexachlorobutadiene Bromochloromethane 1,2,3-trichlorobenzene 1,2,4-trichlorobenzene 1,2-dibromo-3chloropropane 1,2-dichloropropane 1,3-dichloropropane 2-ethoxy-2-methylpropane 2-methoxy-2-methylbutane TRIFLURALIN -BHC -BHC LINDANE -BHC HEPTACHLOR HEPTACHLOR EPOXIDE -ENDOSULFAN

g/l
g/l
g/l g/l
g/l
g/l g/l g/l g/l g/l g/l g/l g/l g/l g/l g/l g/l g/l g/l g/l g/l g/l g/l g/l g/l g/l g/l g/l g/l g/l g/l g/l
g/l
g/l g/l
g/l
g/l
g/l g/l g/l g/l g/l g/l g/l g/l

0,9
4,5
15,5 0,5
20,8
N.D. N.D. N.D. N.D. N.D. N.D. N.D. N.D. N.D. N.D. N.D. N.D. N.D. N.D. N.D. N.D. N.D. N.D. N.D. N.D. N.D. N.D. N.D. N.D. N.D. N.D. N.D.
N.D.
N.D. N.D.
N.D.
N.D.
N.D. N.D. N.D.. N.D. N.D. N.D. N.D. N.D.

No abnormal change
100 10 (  )
1
3

0,100 0,100 0,100 0,100 0,100 0,030 0,030

ANNUAL FINANCIAL REPORT

85

-ENDOSULFAN DIELDRIN ENDRIN op'-DDD pp'-DDD op'-DDE pp'-DDE op'-DDT pp'-DDT Total biocides/pesticides 1,12 Benzoperylene Benzo(b)fluoranthene Benzo(k)fluoranthene Indeno(1,2,3-cd) pyrene Total PAH except for Benzo(a)pyrene Benzo(a) pyrene Vinyl chloride Acrylamide Epichlorohydrin Isotope of Uranium U-238 Isotope of Uranium U-234 Total Uranium Total alpha radiation Total beta radiation Radioactivity (total indicative dose) Total concentration of asbestos fibers Concentration of asbestos fibers with length >10m Total Coliforms Escherichia coli (E. coli) Enterococci Colony count in 22 C Colony count in 36 C Clostridium perfringens (including spores)

g/l g/l g/l g/l g/l g/l g/l g/l g/l g/l g/l g/l g/l g/l
g/l
g/l g/l g/l g/l mBq/l mBq/l g/l Bq/l Bq/l
mSv/year
Asbestos fibers/l
Asbestos fibers /l
cfu/100ml cfu/100ml cfu/100ml
cfu/ml cfu/ml
cfu/100ml

N.D. N.D. N.D. N.D. N.D. N.D. N.D. N.D. N.D. N.D. N.D. N.D. N.D. N.D.
N.D.
N.D. N.D. N.D. N.D. 1,3 2,7 0,1 N.D. N.D.
<0,10
N.D..
N.D.
0 0 0 0 0
0

0,100 0,100 0,030 0,100 0,100 0,100 0,100 0,100 0,100 0,100 0,500
0,100 0,010 0,50 0,10 0,10
0,10
0 0 0 No abnormal change No abnormal change 0

*For the parameters taste and odour, which were organoleptically tested, the numbers mean: 1=threshold, 2=mild # For microbiological parameters, the median is used as a measure of central tendency.
N.D.: not detected.
The data above resulted from sampling and analyses carried out in order to monitor the compliance of EYDAP's S.A. water supply quality of the water with current legislation. Based on this monitoring, EYDAP certifies that the quality of the water supply is inspected and meets the requirements and terms of the Ministerial Decision JMD 67322/2017 "Quality of Water for Human Consumption" in compliance with the European Council Directive 98/83/EC of 3 November 1998, as it was amended and currently in force.

86

ANNUAL FINANCIAL REPORT

D6 Consumer Health and Safety: Sewerage Services of EYDAP
Main non-financial risks
The existence of a sewerage system, its proper operation and the effective effluent treatment aims at the avoidance of polluting the soil, the aquifer and the surface waters. Effluent led to the environment without prior treatment; carry a series of harmful for our health substances to the natural water recipients resulting to serious threat for public health and to serious environmental degradation. Consequently the sewerage projects, where large public and social resources are invested, consist basic infrastructure at state level and are an undeniable indicator of social and cultural development, ensuring at the same time both public health and improvement of the living standards. EYDAP is always committed to both the protection of the environment and consumers' health and safety. For this reason, it constantly aims at ensuring the effective and uninterrupted operation, maintenance and upgrading of the wastewater collection, transport and treatment of effluents within the Attica Basin, thus contributing to the achievement of the Sustainable Development goals 3 `Good Health and Well-being' and 6 `Clean Water and Hygiene', as they have been defined by the United Nations. Given the above, the sewerage system management is of major importance to EYDAP due to the fact that the proper and timely response to the problems encountered in the operation of the network or in the operation of the Wastewater Treatment Plants, have a direct impact on the customers of the company and a strong influence on the social profile and the value of EYDAP. Moreover, the Hellenic Republic as a Member State of the European Union is obliged to comply with the Directive 91/271 / EEC of May, 21st 1991 regarding urban wastewater treatment. This Directive concerns the collection, the treatment and the disposal of urban wastewater as well as the treatment and the discharge of effluents from certain industrial sectors. In particular, the Directive provides that `state members care that all residential areas should provide urban wastewater sewerage systems by December the 31st, 2000 at the latest, for the residential areas of more than 15,000 population, etc. ". Failure to comply with this directive results to penalties (fines imposed by the European Commission on the Greek State). Serious threats for the health and safety of consumers also include: · the illegal connection of storm water in the sewerage
network, as in case of heavy rainstorms it is likely to provoke overflow and wastewater influx into properties, · the disposal of solids in the sewerage network (such as paper, rubble, construction materials), that are likely to cause blockages and consequently wastewater influx into properties. EYDAP addresses the above risks in accordance to the Sewerage Network Regulation (SNR), which provides the right to the Company to suspend water supply in the relevant property until the owner of it complies with the terms of the SNR. In case that overflows in the sewerage system cause damage to any property and a compensation request follows, EYDAP proceeds with the surveillance and if responsible grants compensation. · The disposal of unsuitable, according to the Specific Sewerage System Regulation, effluents that are likely to cause damage to the network or affect the operations of the Wastewater Treatment Plants (WWTPs).
EYDAP monitors the liquid waste disposals of the li-

censed industries, through random sampling. Samples are taken from a specific shaft or from the liquid discharge point of the industry or from any other point of the industry ­ at EYDAP's discretion. Samples are analyzed and specific parameters are examined, determined according to the nature of the organization's production. If the results of the analysis exceed the acceptable limits set by the Specific Sewerage System Regulation, penalties are applied as foreseen by the Specific Regulation such as: suspension of water supply, suspension of the industry's connection to the network, imposition of a fine for exceeding set quality levels, restoration of damages caused by the illegal disposal in the network or the WWTPs. The restoration cost is charged to the company via its water bill.
Corporate policies and due diligence
The sewerage of the Attica Basin is realized with storm water and wastewater pipelines. The storm water pipelines end up in the sea with natural flow. The Region of Attica and the local Municipalities are accountable for the study, construction and maintenance of the storm water sewerage projects, the flood protection projects in general and the cleaning of the catchment shafts. The wastewater pipelines operate with gravity. However, there are pipelines that operate under pressure (force mains) and for this reason there are 44 pumping stations across the Attica Basin, mainly along the coastal collector of the Saronic Gulf.
The sewage collection of served areas is carried out through the secondary sewerage network, through connection of each property to these pipelines. The secondary network ends up to the transfer network (primary network) and eventually to the main sewage collectors (Parakifisios, SKAA, KPS, CSF, collectors D and A at Thriassio, etc.) through which the effluents end up in the Wastewater Treatment Plants.
The total length of the sewerage network is approximately 8,300 kilometers. The network is separate (wastewater pipelines ­ storm water pipelines), except for the center of Athens, where the network is combined (common pipelines for wastewater and storm water).
Wastewater Treatment
EYDAP has designed and implemented an integrated wastewater treatment network with Wastewater Treatment Plants (WWTPs) located: at Metamorphosis, Attica (Metamorphosis Wastewater Treatment Plant), in the Psyttalia island (Psyttalia Wastewater Treatment Plant) and at Thriassio (Thriassio Wastewater Treatment Plant).
Psyttalia Wastewater Treatment Plant (Psyttalia WWTP)
Psyttalia WWTP is one of the largest Wastewater Treatment Plants in Europe and internationally. The average inflow of effluents is approximately 730,000 m3/day.
It is in the Psyttalia WWTP where urban and industrial effluents of the following areas end up (after having being pre-treated): · The wider area of the Attica Basin, except for partic-
ular areas whose effluents end up in the Wastewater Treatment Plant of Metamorphosis. · T he wider area of the Saronic Gulf (major city area) · The Salamina island Moreover, the Psyttalia Wastewater Treatment Plant receives the effluent from: · T he area of Pallini, Anthousa, Geraka (remaining) of

ANNUAL FINANCIAL REPORT

87

the Municipality of Pallini · The area of Kapandriti, Polydendri, Mikrochori of the
Municipality of Oropos · The area of Varnavas of the Municipality of Mara-
thonas The Wastewater Treatment in Psyttalia's WWTP includes: · P re-treatment, which begins at the Akrokeramos in-
stallations and includes the removal of heavy solids, the screening, the desanding and the deodorization. Pre-treated effluents are transported by underwater pipelines to Psyttalia · P rimary treatment, during which the primary sludge is collected · Advanced secondary biological treatment during which, with the use of the activated sludge method, the organic material is removed and the nitrogen is subtracted. · Sludge treatment i.e. thickening, anaerobic digestion, dehydration and eventually thermal drying of the sludge. In Psyttalia WWTP there are units for the co-production of electricity and thermal energy. These units operate with biogas and natural gas. The produced electricity is consumed in-house and the surplus is exported to the Hellenic Electricity Distribution Network Operator (EDNO). The Psyttalia WWTP treated outflow is dispersed into the Saronic Gulf with deep dispersion pipes free from the organic load at a rate of 93% and from nitrogen at a rate of 80% approximately.
Metamorphosis Wastewater Treatment Plant (Metamorphosis WWTP)
Metamorphosis WWTP receives and co-processes urban wastewater (from the North Suburbs) and domestic sewage (from areas lacking sewerage network). The average flow rate of incoming sewage is approximately 10,000 m3 / day and of septage approximately 10,000 m3 / day, as well. At Metamorphosis WWTP end up - through the sewerage network -the effluent from the areas of: Kryoneri, Agios Stefanos, Anixi, Drosia, Ekali, Dionisos, Kastri, Nea Erythrea and Nea Kifissia
The wastewater treatment at the Metamorphosis WWTP includes:
· P retreatment, with separate screening - desanding for urban wastewater and degreasing for septage.
· Primary treatment - in different tanks - of urban wastewater and septage.
· Secondary treatment of primary treated urban wastewater and septage in a ventilation tank and in the final settling tanks.
· D isinfection with the use of sodium hypochlorite solution
· S ludge processing i.e. anaerobic digestion, dehydration. Dehydrated sludge is transferred by trucks for final disposal either to a licensed unit or at the Psyttalia WWTP for thermal drying.
Thriassio Wastewater Treatment Plant (Thriassio WWTP)
The Thriassio WWTP operates since 2012 and offers an integrated solution to a chronic problem of the residents and businesses of the area. The Thriassio WWTP contributes to the restoration of Elefsina's Gulf ecosystem balance, which has been classified as a sensitive recipient. The TWWP serves the areas of Elefsina, Aspropyrgos, Mandras, Magoulas.

Today, the average supply of incoming sewage ranks at 4,600 m3 / day.
The wastewater treatment at Thriassio WWTP includes:
· Pre-treatment (screening, desanding) for the removal of solids and sand.
· P rimary sedimentation for the removal and collection of the primary sludge.
· Biological treatment with the use of the activated sludge method (nitrification, biological removal of nitrogen and phosphorus), with the possibility of strengthening the phosphorus removal by adding.
· Treatment of the entire produced sludge (thickening, digestion, dehydration). The dehydrated sludge is then transferred for heat drying to the Psyttalia WWTP.
· Refining with the use of sand filters for the final filtration of treated wastewater.
· Disinfection of treated sewage before being discharged into the sea via a submarine pipeline,
free from its pollutant load at a rate of 95% .
EYDAP has designed and implemented an integrated sewerage system and the Wastewater Treatment Plants. The objective is to ensure their effective and uninterrupted operation with the ultimate goal to protect public health. According to the sewerage system's central planning, EYDAP ensures the avoidance of any kind of risk for public health due to the absence of sewage network in certain areas or in the process of sewage collection or transport (either because of blocked pipes or branches or of malfunctioning of the pumping stations) or during the wastewater treatment procedure due to improper operation and maintenance of the Wastewater Treatment Plants (WWTPs). The company's objective is to serve the community and to ensure the proper operation of the sewerage network. Within this frame the Company: · p lans the design and construction of further sewerage
networks in order to serve areas deprived of sewage · h as designed and implemented an integrated sewer-
age management system in order to ensure its continuous and uninterrupted operation · o wns equipment for the control, tracking and restoration of damages in the sewerage network · c oncerns for the effective and uninterrupted operation and maintenance of the Wastewater Treatment Plants · complies with all the rules regarding the sample analysis process which take place in its certified laboratories at Akrokeramos and Metamorphosis · c ares for the continuous training of its personnel in order to ensure their efficiency.
New sewerage projects and initiatives
EYDAP, in collaboration with the municipalities, proceeds to the design and study of sewerage projects and Wastewater Treatment Plants, in order to ensure the existence of a sewerage in all the areas of its competence. In this context the following activities take place: · the final study is being drafted for the sewerage of
Kalamos and Kapandriti-Mikrochori-Polydendri. · the study for the sewerage network of the Munici-
pality of Pallini has been completed (construction of the primary, secondary and tertiary network) and the tender documents are being drafted in order to proceed with the bidding of the project, of total budget planned 60,000 Euros. The project has been included for financing in the OPERATIONAL PROGRAMME `Transport Infrastructure, Environment & Sustainable Development' 2014-2020, PRIORITY AXIS 14 `Preservation and Protection of the Environment ­ Promotion

88

ANNUAL FINANCIAL REPORT

of the Efficient Use of Resources (Cohesion Fund)'. · The project of sewerage collectors for the areas Di-
onysos, Rodopolis, Anoiksi and Stamata (municipality of Dionysos), has been auctioned of total budget planned 1,844,445 Euros, which will be financed by 92% . The project is under construction and it is estimated to be completed by the end of the first semester of 2019. The project has been included in the Operational Programme "Attica 2014-2020", in the Priority Axis "Improving Quality of Life in the Urban Environment" and is co-funded by the European Regional Development Fund. In order to optimize the management of treated effluents, an application has been designed and it is to be implemented soon, which will permit the on the spot treatment­ in a compact unit ­ part of the incoming sewage in the pump station of the Central Coastal Collector and the reuse of the treated outflow for the irrigation of adjacent areas. EYDAP plans, develops and implements methods for monitoring the disposal of liquid industrial effluents in the wastewater network. In this context, the company plans to increase the sampling points in the network for the monitoring of the quality of incoming effluents and the identification of any unsuitable for the network inflow with the use of innovative instruments. The company cares for the constant maintenance and upgrade of the equipment used for chemical analysis, in order to ensure the credibility of the procedure, through the acquisition of the necessary spare parts and the most reliable instruments.
Sewerage Network and Wastewater Treatment Plants
EYDAP, with its trained staff and appropriate equipment, maintains and upgrades the wastewater network in line with the contemporary trend in technology, aiming at: · the constant and uninterrupted operation of the sewer-
age network, on a 24 hour basis · the resolution and mitigation of any malfunction that
may occur by taking the relevant appropriate measures (drain obstruction or pipelines cleaning using high-pressure tank-vehicles, reconstruction of pipeline sections, reconstruction of the network's branches, effective maintenance of the pumping stations' electromechanical equipment). For the maintenance of the sewerage network, there are used: · H igh-pressure recycling tank-vehicles for pipe cleaning · High pressure tank-vehicles for pipe unblocking
High-tech telemonitoring mobile units are used for the accurate positioning and detection of the network's malfunctions. These units are Inspection Vehicles equipped with robotic systems that permit the repair of damages with the use of No Dig Technology.
EYDAP manages the optimal operation of the WWTPs, through a continuous maintenance and upgrading process. The Company, in compliance with the approved environmental terms, aims at succeeding outflows of quality within the determined limits, to the water recipients.
More specifically EYDAP has designed and plans : (a) to upgrade and further develop the existing instal-
lations at Metamorphosis WWTP. This project includes the creation of more discharge points at the Tanker-Trucks Discharge Area, the implementation of deodorizing procedures which will mostly merit the local inhabitants and of the liquid industrial effluents treatment. (b) to upgrade ­ improve the existing installations of Psyttalia WWTP.

EYDAP`s Design for the sewerage in areas of East Attica
The Eastern Attica Project Division manages the implementation of the sewerage system project in the Eastern Attica region. More specifically, the programming of the following projects is underway:
· Collection ­ Treatment of urban wastewater of the Municipalities of Rafina-Pikermi and Spata-Artemida , and the Reuse ­ Disposal of treated outflows.
· Collection ­ Treatment of urban wastewater of the Municipality of Marathonas, and Disposal ­ Reuse of treated outflows.
· C ollection ­ Treatment of urban wastewater of the Municipality of Saronic and Disposal ­ Reuse of treated outflows.
· Construction of the wastewater network at Glyka Nera, Municipality Paiania. The collected wastewaters will be led for treatment at the Koropi-Paiania WWTP. These projects will provide a definite solution to the management of urban wastewater in the aforementioned areas. The Wastewater Treatment Plant (WWTP) of the Municipalities of Rafina-Pikermi and Spata-Artemida and the Wastewater Treatment Plant (WWTP) of the Municipality of Marathon are designed to operate with stateof-the-art technology, thus ensuring the environmentally optimal wastewater management process. The design of the WWTPs enable the reuse of the treated outflows in order to cover the area's irrigation need of the Municipalities above in summer and urban and suburban use in winter. (Municipalities of Rafina-Pikermi and Spata-Artemida) in compliance with the current Institutional Framework for reuse (Joint Ministerial Decision 142116/2011 & Ministerial Order No. 191002/2013). Within the area of the WWTPs of the Municipalities of Rafina-Pikermi and Spata-Artemida there is provision for a Center for Environmental Awareness and Information, where pilot programmes will be presented for the optimal use of the treated outflows, along with environmental educational activities. For the full integration of the installations into the natural environment, recreational and leisure facilities will be developed, whilst extended green areas and multiple bioclimatic elements are planned, such as roof garden, solar panel shelter, bioclimatic shelters along interactive walkways and bicycle paths, geothermal exchangers etc. With the completion and operation of the sewerage projects in the eastern Attica region, compliance with National and European legislation will be achieved, and environmental and coastal protection will be ensured. Moreover, the activities for environmental awareness will constitute a pole of attraction for the public, thus enhancing the growth prospects of the wider region. EYDAP is in constant collaboration with the local Municipal Authorities for their information, but also in order to ensure their active contribution to the progress and completion of the project, for the benefit of the residents and visitors of the area. In 2017, a significant progress was made in the maturing of the projects in Eastern Attica as authorization, financing (NSRF 2014-2020), required studies and planning of the construction is concerned. With the objective of the optimal co-ordination of the parties involved and the swiftest implementation of the sewerage project in the Municipalities of Rafina-Pikermi and Spata-Artemida, a Programmatic Contract was signed between the above Municipalities and EYDAP. Under this Contract EYDAP was assigned the responsibility for the construction of the secondary wastewater network, for this part of the network that is to be financed by the Cohesion Fund. Moreover, through the Programmatic Agreement be-

ANNUAL FINANCIAL REPORT

89

tween EYDAP and the Municipality of Paiania, the construction of the wastewater network of the Glyka Nera, Municipality of Peania, was incorporated in the East Attica Projects. Furthermore, the funding approval of the project was completed through its integration with the Operational Programme "Attica 2014-2020". EYDAP, committed to the implementation of innovative sewerage projects, ensures social consensus in the areas where it invests in new infrastructure whilst at the same time it contributes to the achievement of Objective 9 `Industry, Innovation and Infrastructure' as it has been defined by the United Nations.
Outcome of those policies and key non-financial indicators
EYDAP, in compliance with the Directive 91/271/EOK, constructed the sewerage projects of Thriassio (130 km of Pipes, 3 pumping stations and the WWTP), which operate since 2012. However, due to the reluctance of the inhabitants to connect to the sewerage network for financial reasons, given the economic crisis, not all inhabitants of the areas where the relevant network exists are served. As a result, the European Commission asks for a fine imposition to the Greek State (Action brought by the European Commission against the Hellenic Republic (Case C-328/16), due to its failure to comply with the WEU Decision of June 24th, 2004 Case C-119/02 `Biological Treatment at Thriassio'). EYDAP in an attempt to mitigate the risk of fine imposition in the Thriassio case and to increase the number of properties' connections and subsequently the percentage of served residents proceeded to the following actions: · Decided the implementation of a programme regard-
ing the provision of financial incentives to the residents of the Thriassio Pedio area and more specifically to properties exclusively for residential use, with the scope to urge those residents to connect to the sewerage network. The programme involved the allocation of up to  2,500 plus VAT per property and the settlement of that amount by EYDAP (within a maximum period of six years) and with the exemption from the sewage connection fees for a period of 2 years for those who proceed with the connection. This programme has been put into action since mid-2014 and is still in force. By the end of 2017, 565 applications had been submitted by residents of theThriassio. · Enhanced its ability for more sewerage connections in the Municipalities of Elefsina, Mandra-Eidylia and Aspropyrgos through two contractors, for the construction of 850 network connections during 2017. As a result of the aforementioned actions, in 2017 there is a significant increase in the Wastewater Treatment Plant inflow, and in comparison to previous years, is constantly increasing. In 2015, the average daily inflow was 2,100 m3 / day whereas in 2016 and the last quarter of 2017 was 2,400 m3 / day and 4.000 m3/day, respectively. The sewerage system management efficiency is evaluated through the development of the following applications and practices, some of which consist of important innovations for the sewerage system operation:
1. Use of Sewerage Information Systems
EYDAP's high requirements for information systems so as to cover the Sewerage Divisions needs for: · the acquisition of reliable digital information, · the use of specific and specialised applications, · the acquisition of powerful information systems aim-
ing not only facilitates the day-to- day business but company's growth, as well
led the Company to install new Sewerage Information

Applications and to upgrade the existing ones. Information Systems used and Actions developed:
· Trucks Fleet Management Information System (e-TRACK). · Sewer Portal application- Insertion and processing of data resulting from the intervention in the
network · Pilot online Application, for the recording of maintenance data in the relevant section of Sewer Portal · Two-way Interconnection of e-TRACK and Sewer Portal for direct signaling to all vehicles of all Sectors. · Insertion, processing and analysis of spatial data in a GIS environment. · Compilation and study of statistical analysis, based on the above data and on data from our Hot Line
( 1022) in Portal application. · Monitoring the operation of the pumping stations with Remote Controlled ­ Telemetry (SCADA)
systems.
2. Monitoring of the inflow and outflow of WWTPs through sampling and microbiological analysis in the laboratories of the General Directorate of Sewage.
Wastewater sampling is realized according to the needs and existing legislation and it is carried out at the points of inflow and outflow at the WWTP. Samples are also taken at middle stages of treatment. Subsequently, the samples undergo microbiological analysis so as to ascertain the quality of incoming and treated effluents, aiming at the evaluation of the facilities' operation and the compliance with environmental conditions.
3. Monitoring of liquid industrial effluents through sampling and chemical analysis in the laboratories of the Sewage General Directorate
The Competent Department of EYDAP proceeds to constant monitoring of inflows from industries and craft businesses, to which EYDAP has granted the permission to discharge their industrial effluents in the sewerage network. The quality of the inflows is monitored through sampling and analysis.
Laboratories of the General Directorate for Drainage
The General Sewerage Directorate's laboratories are accredited by the Hellenic Accreditation System (NAS). In these laboratories specification tests are carried out on samples of wastes, sludge and effluents, as outflows from the WWTPs, the sewer pipes and the industries that undergo tests for the quality of their discharges into the network. The analysis (BOD, COD, FAT & OIL, NH3, Hexavalent CHROMIUM, COLOUR, SULFUR, METAL, TP, TN, etc.) is carried out in compliance with the chemical analysis procedures.
4. Publishing of the wastewater treatment results in the National Database of the Ministry of Infrastructure and Transport.
In the electronic Database of the Special Secretariat of Waters quantitative and qualitative characteristics of inflows and outflows of the Wastewater Treatment Plants (WWTPs) are published. The disclosed chemical characteristics are as follows:
· Inflow · Incoming load · Amount of sludge produced · BOD5, COD, SS, T-N, NH4-N, T-P (at the input) · B OD5, COD, SS, T-N, NH4-N, NO3-N, T-P (at the point
of outflow)

90

ANNUAL FINANCIAL REPORT

All citizens have free access to this database.
5. Monitoring of the marine ecosystem of the Saronic Gulf and the Gulf of Elefsina and evaluation of the results in collaboration with independent research body (HCMR).
The evolution of the ecological state of the Inner Saronic Gulf and the Gulf of Elefsina, under the effect of the Wastewater Treatment Plants of Psyttalia and Thriassio Pedio (as defined by the current environmental terms of WWTPs), is monitored by the Hellenic Center for Marine Research (HCMR) through the implementation of relevant programmes, which take place under a contractual agreement with EYDAP (seven consecutive programmes have been funded since September 2005 by EYDAP for this purpose). During this Programme, HCMR proceeds with measurements, samplings and analysis of various parameters of the water column. Based on the data collected, the ecological status of the Inner Saronic Gulf, the Gulf of Elefsina and the Keratsini Bay is depicted, potential changes in certain parameters of the ecosystem compared to the past are investigated and the effect of the discharged outflows along with the nutritional and ecological state of the area are assessed. The results show a continuous, gradual improvement in the ecological status of the Saronic Gulf, in the Gulf of Elefsina, especially at the estuary areas of the WWTPs.
Compliance with the regulations and voluntary codes
During the report period, there was no incident of non-compliance with regulations and voluntary codes, regarding the impact of EYDAP's services on the health and safety of consumers.

between the Greek State and EYDAP, as occurred in im-

plementation of this Law and is valid since 25.10.1999

while its renewal is expected in 2019, the Greek State

maintains the responsibility for research and collection

of raw water as well as for the realization of any nec-

essary works that will ensure the necessary quantity of

raw water for water supply to

EYDAP. The Com-

pany bears the exclusive responsibility ­a non-transfer-

able right- for processing and distributing this water,

as well as for the operation and maintenance of the

proprietary water supply network, so as to cover both

qualitative and quantitative water supply needs of all

consumers in its area of competence.

In the context of the above Contract, EYDAP has un-

dertaken (in return for a payment) the operation and

maintenance of all the raw water collection and trans-

fer facilities, which remain under the ownership of the

Greek State, as well as the preparation of studies that

will ensure the safety of the installations and the alter-

native water supply methods of the WTPs, in case of

malfunction. In this way the Company is in position to

control, primarily and completely, the technical works

for the transfer of raw water, from the sources to the

Water Treatment Plants (WTPs).

Moreover, EYDAP has assumed responsibility for the

preparation and drafting of the Management Plan re-

garding the availability of raw water supply systems,

as well as for the continuous update of the Greek State

authorities on the untreated water supply data, on out-

flows from water sources and inflows to the WTPs.

By managing the issue with major responsibility, the

Company also contributes to the implementation of the

6th Global Goal for Sustainable Development, as this

has been defined by the United Nations.

Company policy and due diligence

D7 Access to clean water, Sustainability of Water Resources, Supply & Water Network Coverage
Main non-financial risks
EYDAP, in order to ensure reasonable levels of water consumption by its customers and meet the obligations of water supply services, is supplied with the required raw water entirely by the Greek State at the entrance of its Water Treatment Plants (WTP). The only exception is the Mavrosouvala's boreholes, which are EYDAP's property. The Company, manages water as a valuable natural resource and a vital good for the residents of Attica (and other areas as well). The Company in 2017 delivered daily, at an average annual rate, 1,066.150 m3 of drinking water to the area of its service, to certain islands in the South Aegean Region (Cyclades) and the Argosaronic (municipality of Aegina and Agistri), from specific water meters with the use of water tankers, but also to cruise ships and boats at various ports of Attica etc. In the Water Treatment Plants raw water is rendered potable with the use of the most environmentally friendly methods with respect to the natural resources. The constant safeguarding of the necessary water resources, the reassurance of the adequate water treatment so as to produce drinking water of the highest quality and the ability to distribute it to the customers via its water network, constitute the main activity of EYDAP. Beyond doubt, any malfunction with a negative impact on the quantitative safeguarding of the water resources and the transfer and distribution capability of water (external Aqueduct System ­ header feeding System of drinking water etc) will significantly affect our customers (lack of water) and the Company itself (damage to its public image, reduction of revenues etc.) in proportion to the problem extent. According to Law 2744/1999 and the 20-year-Contract

EYDAP acquires raw waters mainly from surface water resources, from the basins of Marathonas, Yliki, Mornos and Evinos that are ranked in A2 category, according to the Directive 75/440/EEC for surface water quality standards intended for the production of drinking water. From the reservoirs in these basins, only the one in Yliki is natural (lake) whereas the others are the result of the construction of dams at adequate spots on the riverbeds of the Charadros (Marathon dam), Evinos and Mornos rivers. In the water sources used by EYDAP, underground water resources are included, which can be exploited with the operation of approximately 100 boreholes, with an annual total pumping capacity of 70 - 125 m3 of water, depending on the disposal of underground resources and proper use policy. Under the current operation conditions, the water supply sources of EYDAP can be distinguished into: · Main water sources: Mornos, Evinos. · Auxiliary water sources: Marathonas (for the supply
of Galatsi WTP) and Yliki (in case of emergency). · Backup water source: underground water resources
­ boreholes. The transfer of raw water, from the sources to the Water Treatment Plants, is done via the following aqueducts with a total length of 495 km. Despite the long distance between the main reservoirs (Mornos, Evinos) and Attica, the biggest amount of water is transferred via the aqueducts, by the force of gravity, thus avoiding the economic and environmental impact of energy-intensive pumping, which come into use only in case of emergency. EYDAP ensures the protection of the reservoirs by complying with strict legislation (Healthcare Provision 5/2280/1983 for the protection of waters, used for water supply of the capital area, from contamination and pollution), by monitoring the works and the activities in the protection zones of the reservoir basins and by random checks of the water quality in the reservoirs.

ANNUAL FINANCIAL REPORT

91

The management methods of the water supply network are arranged by order of importance into the operation of the existing water supply system, the regulation of the flow downstream of the reservoirs, the water abstraction breakdown per primary, auxiliary or backup source and water transfer via the external aqueduct system. These methods may also refer to additional works for the reinforcement and safety of the water supply system, if needed. Object of the Management Plan is the study of reasonable, efficient and sustainable ways and methods for the management of the External Water Supply System (EWSS), aiming at the quantitatively reliable, qualitatively and environmentally safe and cost-effective coverage of water demand in the area of EYDAP's compe-

tence, through the efficient use of the available water resources. The management of the water resources system refers to the determination of the extracted quantity from the reservoirs and the aquifers, its distribution (breakdown) into the network of the external aqueducts, so as to ensure the long-term efficiency of the resources in the area of EYDAP's competence, at minimum cost. It also refers to additional projects for the reinforcement of the water supply system, if required. The external aqueducts network is actually the entire pipeline system and its additional works (as pumping stations etc.), extending from the exit of the reservoirs up to the Water Treatment Plants (WTPs).

The external water supply system is depicted below:

92

ANNUAL FINANCIAL REPORT

The Decision Support System, used operationally on a daily basis by EYDAP for the monitoring and management of the water supply system, includes the following components (subsystems): a) Geographical Information System, for pictorial rep-
resentation and monitoring of the water supply system, b) Monitoring System of Water Resources , intended for the supply of Athens, c) Evaluation and Prediction System of Water resources, intended for the supply of Athens, d) S upport system for managing water resources, intended for the supply of Athens,
All water supply network facilities ensure the adequate coverage of the demand for drinking water. The water network consists of approximately 10,000 km of pipelines. Out of these, 1,300 km constitute the main supply network, with pipelines of diameter bigger than 300 mm up to 2,000 mm, while the remaining kilometers of pipelines constitute the distribution network, which transfers the drinking water to the consumers, with pipelines of diameter less than 300 mm. Across the area of our competence are spread 55 aqueducts of total capacity 885,000 m3, 81 pumping stations of total combined installed power 30,000 HP, 618 pressure reducing valves of diameter from 80 mm up to 600 mm, about 90,000 isolation valves, 100 telemonitoring points (SCADA), 783 points of data recording and teletransmission (SMS) and about 850 quality control points (600 for chlorine measurement and 250 for chlorine measurement and other parameters in compliance with legislation). All above installations ensure the uninterrupted and continuous supply of drinking water along with the successful coverage of regular and seasonal daily consumers demands. The total number of water meters in full service is close to 2,100,000. The average daily water consumption for 2017 was 1,066,150 m3 (minimum daily consumption: 895,025 m3 in December 2017 and maximum daily consumption 1,272,423 m3 in July 2017). Further technical, quantitative and qualitative data can be drawn from our website under the tab named "WATER SUPPLY".
Outcome of these policies and key non-financial performance indicators
The implemented management methods of water resources are characterized by: · Scientifically grounded rationality · Efficiency: optimal use of water resources · Sustainability: we cover today's needs avoiding deple-
tion of water resources in the future. Demand is covered with enhanced credibility, reducing to extremely low and acceptable levels the probability of failing to provide the required water quantity. The term "credibility" mainly refers to the reduction of the uncertainty factor created by the variability of water resources natural supply (drought). It also refers to other factors such as the adverse emergency situations (damages) occurring during works across the water supply network, which EYDAP cares to handle efficiently. Supply demand is covered with safe water and respect to the environment (to the ecosystems) avoiding the extraction of excessive amounts of water. Finally, the demand is covered at the most cost-effective way. EYDAP manages water demand developing projects that minimize leakage rate (pressure management ­water supply zones, immediate damage restoration ­bro-

ken pipes restoration and replacement across the Water Supply Network) focusing not only on its customers' satisfaction but on the prevention of wastage of this precious natural resource. Nowadays, EYDAP provides drinking water of excellent quality, at adequate quantity and pressure levels, to all its area of service regardless the fact that in specific areas the management of the network lies with Local Government Organizations (LGO). For those few areas, situated mainly in West Attica, that are not supplied with water from EYDAP but from boreholes, the Company has adopted a series of interventions and actions in cooperation with the Local Governments. EYDAP's intention is, in near future, these areas to be included in the area of its service. Within this prospect, the Company initiated the construction of a steel pipeline of diameter 500mm and approximately 15 km long to supply with EYDAP water the area of Kinetta. At the same time, EYDAP in collaboration with the Municipality of Megara is preparing the studies for supplying with drinking water the town of Alepoxori and the surrounding areas within the Municipality. Under construction is also the submarine pipeline that will connect the island of Salamina with the island of Aigina for the supply of water to the latter. The works are under the jurisdiction of the Attica Prefecture. The company's 5-year Business Plan foresees the incorporation of water supply networks that operate under the management of Local Governments, but also the incorporation of the management of Local Government networks located outside the company's jurisdiction area. In 2017 EYDAP's BoD decided the transfer of ownership of the remaining water supply network of Island of Salamina to the Company (the island at present is supplied with EYDAP's water by 50%), thus adding to its customers approximately 20,000 water meters and 300 km of network. At an advanced stage of incorporation is the municipal water supply network of Magoula.of the Municipality of Elefsina and that of the Municipality of Megara. The incorporation is excepted within 2018. The water resources abstraction breakdown for the coverage of the total water supply demand (EYDAP SA, Local Governments, Organizations, etc) in accordance to the 2017 data is as follows: WATER RESOURCES BREAKDOWN Annual Abstraction (mil. Cubical meters- percentage %)

179,7

179,7

%
262,1


% 7,9 6,6 1,5
262,1
EVINOS MORNOS ILIKI MARATHON BOREHOLES OF MAVROSOUVALA


The above breakdown refers to the optimal management of the water resources for the specific year. The quantities abstracted are measured at the water resources with the use of flow metersand time series are recorded in a

relational database.



 

ANNUAL FINANCIAL REPORT

7,9 6,6 1,5
93

D8 Reliable Water Network and Water Efficiency
Main non-financial risks
The safeguarding of the adequate quantity, acceptable pressure level and high quality of drinking water throughout the water supply network is EYDAP's first priority. The responsible management of the water supply network and water efficiency responds to the satisfaction of the needs and expectation of our stakeholders, and to the increase of trust to the Company. In this way EYDAP contributes positively to the Sustainable Development and in particular to the achievement of the Sustainable Development Goals 6 "Clean Water and Sanitation", 8 "Decent Work and Economic Growth" and 12 "Responsible Consumption and Production" as defined by the United Nations. These Goals contribute globally to efficient water resources management as long as consumption, production and distinction between economic development and environmental degradation are concerned. A region's water supply system, which secures its provision with drinking water, includes a system of aqueducts, main supply pipelines, distribution pipes and water meters. So, by the term "water supply network" we refer to system of pipelines that transfer refined water, from the local Water Treatment Plants to the consumers' water meters. The pipelines are considered as the basic section of our installations and the biggest part is underground. The water supply network provides all our consumer with pressurized water that is potable in compliance with the current Greek standards. EYDAP's area of competence is the greater area of the Capital, as defined is the Founding Law 1068/1980, while with the Law 2744/1999 EYDAP was given the possibility to expand its activities, under certain conditions, both inside and outside the Attica Basin. Further information on the subject is available in the relevant section where there is a detailed reference to EYDAP's Area of Service and the administrative boundaries of Municipalities and Communities that are directly supplied with water by EYDAP, where the network is also managed by the Company or via bulk supply where the network management is the Local Authorities' responsibility. Our ultimate goal is the sustainable management of water and the optimization of the quality of drinking water. EYDAP's strategic aim is the gradual incorporation of the water supply networks of all the Municipalities of Attica. EYDAP's objective is the effective functioning, the maintenance and the improvement of the drinking water distribution network (main supply pipelines, distribution pipelines, meters, tanks, aqueducts, pumping stations and their equipment) across the geographical area of its competence.
Company policy, due diligence and results of these policies and key non-financial indicators
To achieve this goal the following categories of activities are required: · Monitoring and improvement of the water supply net-
work operation (demand monitoring, pressure level monitoring, pressure zones modifications etc.)
Attica is characterized by an intense topographic arrangement. EYDAP supplies with water areas at an elevation from 0 to 600 meters from the sea level. For the best control of the pipe pressure level, pressure zones were created every 30 to 40 meters difference in altitude. Each zone operates under specific pressure. The network is remotely monitored and controlled on a 24-hour basis (SCADA system). In 2017, for the more

effective management of the network, the Company installed 20 new flow meters on the supply network and 40 telemonitoring stations, in addition to the existing, thus increasing the number of telemonitoring stations to 783, the SCADA stations to 100 and the number of flow meters to approximately 100.
· Network maintenance ­ for prevention or on emergency (pumping stations maintenance, valves - fire hydrants, tanks cleaning, pipe leakage or meter repair etc.).
The preventive maintenance of the pipes comes as a result of the statistical analysis of occurring damages. On the same grounds similar actions with modern intervention methods, are taken for the maintenance of the main pipeline supply system and the supportive infrastructure network (pumping stations, tanks, shafts for bulk water supply and big valves, hydrants for fire-fighting use etc.). Apart from the above, daily failures in the water supply system, that cause leakages or ruptures, are encountered. EYDAP's call center (1022) collects damage reports and informs our Technical Services for immediate intervention so as to minimize the discomfort caused to the consumers- customers. It is worth mentioning that in 2017, the total number of leakages ­ raptures raised to 6,000 approximately. These damages were fully and immediately repaired by the General Water Directorate. · Replacement of existing pipelines and water meters
The existing water supply network consists of pipelines of different dimension and material. These pipelines have been installed over the years for the supply of Athens with drinking water. Many of these pipelines have been subjected to heavy stresses over their long years of operation that consequently lead to frequent fractures. As main stress factors we could consider the original installation conditions, the development of the city along with a continuous reconfiguration of public roads and spaces in combination with the vehicles circulation and other external factors. The same applies to the water meters for property use, served from these pipelines. These water connections suffer the same stresses as the water pipes. EYDAP evaluates the operation conditions of the above, marks out the operation area and applies a replacement project with new pipelines and water meters of advanced technology.
In 2017, EYDAP replaced 50,000 meters of pipelines of diameter 110 mm, 160 mm, 200 mm etc., repaired approximately 1,500 water meters and proceeded to a mass replacement of approximately 90,000 water meters for domestic use.
In addition to the above, EYDAP installs new water connection for property use and for bulk supply. The relevant petitions (submitted by individual consumers, the Municipalities, industries, etc.) are examined by the Company for compliance with the Water Supply Network Regulation. If approved, the water meters are installed at the premises.
The water connections that are connected to the water supply pipelines are distinguished into: Household use, fire-fighting use, common property use, irrigation of public or municipal areas, temporary for construction or other use.
In 2017, EYDAP installed approximately 3,500 connections for domestic and fire-fighting use.
Incorporation of water networks
EYDAP, within its area of service, incorporates Water

94

ANNUAL FINANCIAL REPORT

Supply Networks managed till then by local Municipalities. EYDAP's strategic target is the incorporation of these local networks, mainly situated in the area of East and West Attica. This target is directly linked to the expansion of our activities, to the supply of water of high quality to all the Attica Basin residents and to the provision of best service to the citizens of the above mentioned areas. The incorporation of local networks to EYDAP's property is not done unilaterally. A basic prerequisite for this is the positive decision of the City Council wishing to deliver the network to EYDAP.
In 2017 there was an important process with the Municipality of Western mainly, but Eastern Attica too, towards the delivering on behalf of the Municipalities and reception on behalf of EYDAP of the local water networks. As a characteristic example, we could mention the 19487/27.12.2017 Decision of the BoD of EYDAP, for the incorporation of the remaining water network of the Island of Salamina.
On the 29.12.2017, the Municipality of Salamina and EYDAP signed the Contract for the delivery and reception of the local network and the recognition of the Municipality's debts to EYDAP. The signing of the Delivery-Reception Protocol is expected after the completion of the envisaged procedures.
With this Contract and after the signing of the relevant Delivery-Reception Protocol that is expected within the first trimester of 2018, the entire network of the island will be incorporated into the Company, adding approximately 20,000 water meters to its existing clientele.
Alongside the above, consultations at the final stage are held with: · the Municipality of Megara for the Delivery and Re-
ception of the entire local water network (Megara, the rest of the network of N.Peramo, Kineta, etc), · the Municipality of Elefsina for the Delivery and Reception by EYDAP of the municipal water network of Magoula, · the Municipality of Penteli, for the municipal water network of the area of Ag. Dimitrios
Under certain conditions, EYDAP may undertake the supply and management of networks outside its area of service. In 2009, the new Water Supply Network Regulation was approved, that actually regulates in detail the most significant operational issues of the Company. The consumer accepts the Regulation automatically upon signing the Water Supply Contract with EYDAP.
Finally, the BoD of EYDAP, with the Decision 15858/44-2007 and in compliance with the article 7 par. 3 of Law 3429/2005, which is obligatory for all Public Entities and Organizations, approved the Charter of Consumers' Responsibilities (CCR). This document includes the main responsibilities of the Company towards Consumers, the time to meet these obligations and the way these rights are claimed. The text of EYDAP's CCR is brief, comprehensive and clear and it is available on EYDAP's website in the relevant section: https://www. eydap.gr/CustomerSupport/ServicePoints/ The rapid international advances in the business sector, the responsibility of supplying with drinking water more than 40% of the Greek population, the urban expansion and certainly the obligation towards the Company's customers make EYDAP's growth imperative, in order to implement projects of major significance and high efficiency. For EYDAP's success, as essential preconditions we consider focusing on customer satisfaction, the effi-

cient management and protection of water resources, the maintenance of a constructive two-way relationship between the Company and the Customer. Our target is the improvement of the Company's services. To this reason, the Company has included in its strategic actions for the optimal management of its network, the following: · T he application of modern technology for the man-
agement of pressure in the water network, with a positive result to unnecessary stresses on the grid pipes due to excessive pressure. That consequently leads to the avoidance of ruptures in the network and to an increase of its life span with significant financial benefits. · An essential precondition for the above is the reliable and organized collection of data of malfunctions, operation etc. so as through well-structured and collaborative applications to achieve further processing and meaningful use of the collected data. · Main objective in the maintenance process is the identification of the frequency of the deficiencies, the speed and the quality of repairs, the cause of occurance etc. in order to draft an integrated and systematic maintenance program of the water supply network. · Part of the five-year Business Plan of our Company is the implementation of a targeted, well documented on priority needs plan for the annual replacement of approximately 450 km of pipelines, which corresponds to around the 1,5% of the total length of the network, in compliance with global best practices. All above measures and in combination with other, that have already been put into effect (mass replacements of water meters, interference in main supply pipelines, maintenance and renovation of existing infrastructure, such as pumping stations, meter shafts and valves, operational interference in the network with the use of modern software and modernization of existing operating structures), we estimate we will achieve an efficient operation of the water supply network, a consistent, reliable and continuous water supply thus improving the customers' service and the upgrading of the Company's image.
D9 Affordable Pricing
Main non-financial risks
The Company gives special emphasis on the efficient monitoring and managing of potential risks, in order to maintain the consistency of its projects. It specifically forms a framework and proposes policy strategies, and risk control policies and procedures. It defines, identifies and evaluates the assumed risks. It develops and implements tools, and educates the organisational units for their use. It designs a Crisis Situation Confrontation Plan. It forms a risk management corporate culture in every hierarchical level of the Company. Although every member of the Company plays its own part ­ in the context of its responsibility ­ for ensuring adequate risk management, the Board of Directors bears the overall responsibility. It establishes the goals, defines the policy, decides how to respond and whether to accept or not the remaining risk. It chooses the risk management framework, whose implementation is assigned to the Company's executives. The Internal Control Directorate is responsible for providing objective assurance to management, for achieving the goals of the Risk Management System, through their recording and classifying and through the adequacy and effectiveness control of the safety measures. · Contract with the Greek State Since 2004 is pending the conclusion of a written agreement as defined in article 15 of the contract (9.12.1999) between the Greek State and the Company, which will determine the price of the unprocessed

ANNUAL FINANCIAL REPORT

95

water received. Due to a lack of a written agreement, the Company continues after 30.06.2013 to offset the price of the unrefined water it draws, against the maintenance and operation services it offers for the fixed assets belonging to the Fixed Assets Company "EYDAP PE". Changes in the pricing of water and sewerage services will result in the implementation of CMD 135275 (Article 3 Paragraph 9), Gov. 1751/22.05.2017 "Approval of general costing and pricing Rules of water services . Method and procedures for water services cost retrieval in its various uses". · Expansion of Client debt In the framework of the general economic crisis striking the households, there's an increase of overall debt, that through the systematic and persistent effort of the Services is contained in about the same levels, but with the risk of their expansion lurking. The provision of an affordable tariff for water and sanitation services to consumers is an essential issue of

sustainable development for EYDAP, as it allows it to meet the basic needs and expectations of citizens for clean and cheap water and reliable sewerage services. At the same time, the ranking tariff prevents the waste of the resource and contributes to achieving the UN's Sixth Sustainable Development Goal "Clean Water and Hygiene", which refers to access to clean water and sanitation for all citizens. The customer base of EYDAP includes 2,122,799 connections, of which 91,983 concern water only, 36,737 relate to sewerage and 1,994,079 are water and sanitation services both. The annual total priced water consumption for 2017 amounts to 307,298,907 KM. Of these, 192,497,153 K.M. (62,64%) refer to the General Tariff, which is the main tariff of EYDAP and it mainly pertains to domestic use. Also, EYDAP charges 9,646,019 m3. mandatory consumption with a general tariff and 1,025,279 m3. mandatory consumption with Industrial - Professional tariff.

96

ANNUAL FINANCIAL REPORT

From 16/12/2013 the company's water supply and sewerage services tariff is determined based on Gov. 3188B/16.12.2013 as follows:

WATER AND SEWERAGE SERVICES RATES: TARIFF CATEGORIES

MONTHLY CONSUMPTION (m3)

/ m3

WATER SUPPLY SERVICES (effective since 16.12.2013- Gov.gaz.3188B/16.12.2013)

Category .

DOMESTIC

0-5

0.3500

5-20

0.6400

20 - 27

1.8300

27 - 35

2.5600

over 35

3.2000

* Implementation of minimum consumption 2 m3/ month, suspension in case of water meter removal

Category .

INDUSTRIAL

up to 1,000

0.8300

over 1,000

0.9800

* Mandatory minimum consumption 100 m3/ month

Category .

GOVERNMENT BUILDINGS

Regardless of consumption

0.9800

Category IV.

CHARITY

Regardless of consumption

0.2300

Category V.

SUPPORT

FOR Regardless of consumption for the areas outside the city plan until the

MUNICIPALITIES - ISLANDS completion of the Urban Restructuring Program (U.R.P.) and for islands

water supply after agreement with the competent Ministry.

0.4880

Category V.

SHIP SUPPLY

Regardless of consumption

2.4000

Category VII.

FIRE INSTALLATIONS

Regardless of building size (m3) and tariff category

11.0100

Category VIII.

UNREFINED WATER

for the entire consumption by the customers of this category

0.1804

STANDING CHARGE

/month

water meter up to 5/8" and 3/4"

up to 30 m3/ Q 30 to 60 m3/ Q

1.00 1.00

over 60 m3/ Q

1.00

water meter up to 1"

monthly - mainly for industrial and local authority

4.50

water meter up to 11/2"

4.50

water meter up to 2"

13.00

water meter up to 3"

13.00

water meter up to 4"

35.00

water meter up to 6"

35.00

SEWERAGE CHARGE

Households

75% x water price (52.5% for gardens exceeding 200m2)

Government

75% x water price

Charity

75% x water price

Industrial

75% x water price

37.5% over the water price for distillery, ice industry, paper making industry, artificial silk industry, construction sites

VAT

VAT 13%

Since 17.12.2010 13% over the water price (L.E.3899/2010 Gov. gaz. 212/17.12.2010)

VAT 24%

Since 01.06.2016 24% over standing charge + Sewerage charge (L.E. 4389/2016 Gov. gaz. 94/27.05.2016)

ANNUAL FINANCIAL REPORT

97

Up until 2014, the pricing for water supply and sewerage services was determined by a Common Ministerial Decision, after taking into consideration the BoD's recommendations. Article 33 of Law 4258/2014 amended the article 3 of Law 2744/1999 referring to EYDAP's pricing policy, and defines that from July 1st of 2015 the tariffs for water and sewerage services are approved by decisions of the Special Secretary of Water after consultation with the Minister of Finance and other stakeholders, which are published in the Government Gazette. Following the Framework Directive for Water (2000/60/ EC, Article 9) and national legislation (Law 3199/2003 as amended by Law 4117/2013 and Law 4315/2014 and applies, the Presidential Decree 51/2007 and the J.M.D 322/2013), the Special Secretariat for Water (SSW) of the Ministry of Environment, Energy and Climate Change is responsible for the strategic planning, the formulation and evaluation of the policy applied for the rational and sustainable management of water services. In 22/05/2017 Gov. 1751B/22.05.2017, Water Resources Committee, which consists of the Deputy Minister Of Environment & Energy, the Minister for the Interior, the Minister of Finance, the Minister of Health, the Minister For Infrastructure, Transport and Networks, and the Minister of Development, published the Decision 135275 for the "adoption of general Pricing Rules and Water services Pricing. Method and procedures for recovering the cost of water services in its various uses ". This decision defines the procedures, methods and levels of cost recovery of water services to boost the economy and the general rules for the costing and pricing of water services to ensure the provision of affordable water of appropriate quality and quantity to consumers. From 2018 onwards, water service providers shall specify their tariffs and relay this decision to the Directorate of Waters of the Decentralized Administration, which issues recommendations and, if necessary, informs the Special Secretariat for Water. According to the above Law, for the determination of tariffs to end-users beyond the environmental cost, the resource costs are also included, and the environmental fee is shown in a distinct, transparent and comprehensible manner.
Corporate practices and due diligence
EYDAP, acknowledging the adverse economic circumstances that the Greek society is living under, and in the context of its longstanding contribution to society, has already taken on initiative in order to relieve those groups in need. Such as: SPECIAL TARIFF EYDAP, based on the legislative provision (Gov. 552/26-3-2009, Article 3.2.3, Gov. 3188'/16-12-2013, Gov. 2221'/9-9-2013), grants a tariff for specific categories of the consumers (businesses, charities, Hellenic Petroleum, service providers of ship supplies). It is also noted that the Charity tariff is provided, not only to foundations and unions in the sense of LD. 1111 of 8 / 11.2.72 and the ML. 2039/1939, but by decision of the Board of Directors to other charitable organizations. In the year 2017 a charity tariff was granted to 154 applicants. Specifically with the 19158 / 08.03.2017 decision of the Board of Directors it was decided to grant exceptionally until 31.12.2018 a Charitable Invoice to 144 connections that supply the charitable structures of the Church of Greece, operated by the Archdiocese of Athens and the Holy Metropolises of the Region of Attica, in order to strengthen their multidimensional charity work. In addition to the above structures, a charity tariff was issued to Anemos Ananeosis and to the Silogos Merimnis Anilikon.

EMERGENCY SPECIAL TARIFF
From 01.02.2016 until 30.06.2017, the Emergency Special Tariff (EST) was granted to the beneficiaries of Law 4320/2015, with which a free (100% discount) provision was provided for a total of 6 m3 of water per quarter for each household with one or two members, and for each additional member, 3 m3 of free water will be provided. From 01.07.2017 grants Special Invoice Extraordinary Fees to Social Solidarity Income Entitlement beneficiaries of Law 4389/16, granting a 100% discount on water value of 2 m3 per month per household member, starting with the first scale of the General Invoice and a quantity of 3 m3 per month for each household member with a disability exceeding 67%.
DISCOUNTS
Discount for the connections whose bills are supplying large families and seniors, with relevant BoD decisions. Discounts, through specific procedures based on relevant BoD decisions, for bills of increased consumption and for clandestine water abstraction bills, taking into consideration social and income criteria.
DEBT PAYOFF SETTLEMENTS
EYDAP S.A. has established specific payoff/settlements of debt procedures in monthly instalments based on a BoD decision, granting payment facilities in consumers' connections that belong to financially weak groups (beneficiaries of EST, Social Residential Tariff). Specifically, according to the BoD decisions 19102/21-122016 and 19184/05.04.2017, the surcharge and interest exemption and the inhibition of mandatory execution measure taking were abolished, but the interest-free settlements for the beneficiaries of EST and SRT were maintained.
DEBT IMPAIRMENT
In the context of its social sensitivity policies, except for the actions above, EYDAP has undertaken an initiative to relieve financially weak groups by 100% of the total outstanding debt (amounting to  564,986.65) existing on 07.09.2017, beneficiaries under Law 4389/2016 "Emergency Provisions for Implementation Agreement on Budgetary Targets and Structural Reforms and Other Provisions, (Government Gazette 94 / A / 2016) ".
ANTHROPOCENTRIC ORIENTATION
During 2017, the company continued the implementation of acts taken over during previous years, regarding the improvement of the quality of client support. It specifically provides: Possibilities of settlement payments in external stations outside the counters. Electronic notification to customers by e-mail and sms about account statements, increased consumption, imminent water supply outage due to outstanding debt, informing the owner of a leased property about the existence of an overdue debt of the tenant, etc. Installation and operation of POS in all counters. 24-hour support call center through 1022 hotline that collects dynamic data from consumers, technical departments and regional centres. Phone client support, notifying of the technical service, statistics production, complaint recording, notifying of third party carriers-Services. The www.eydap.gr website through which the electronic support regarding requests, electronic payment, debt settlements, electronic billing, is carried out.

98

ANNUAL FINANCIAL REPORT

Results of the aforementioned policies and non-financial basic performance indicators 49.69% of the General Tariff is charged with the first rank, and 43.56% with the second. Finally, it is worth mentioning that the average annual price per m3 of water consumption by the General Tariff is 0.78, whereas the respective average annual price of the water consumption and sewer usage is 1.21.
REQUEST SATISFACTION INDICATOR Request satisfaction for bill reductions indicator

For the evaluation of the consumer satisfaction, the indicator "request satisfaction for bill reductions" is used, which has the quantity of requests for bill reductions that were annually submitted as a denominator , and the quantity of the respective requests that were satisfied from the Company as a numerator .

2016

2017

Quantity of satisfied requests Quantity of submitted requests for bill reductions
In 2017, 96% of the submitted requests for bill reductions was satisfied, contrary to the 97% in 2016. During 2017, an increase of the number of the examined requests by 1495 requests in relation to the previous year is noted. The bills under examination were of a total value of 12,273,500.27, on which a discount of 6,490,181 was granted.
D10 Development of Environmental Awareness & Sensitivity
Main non-financial risks
Nowadays, an effort to preserve the balance in nature and the protection of the natural resources is being made in a global level, since the human activity is disrupting and destroying the natural environment with unpredictable consequences to the future of humanity. The awakening of the worldwide community for the water protection and preservation is integrated in this context, since, according to estimations, in 2025, one out of three residents of the planet will live in a regime of drought. EYDAP, being the largest company in Greece that operates in the managing sector of the water cycle, identifying its responsibility mostly towards the forthcoming generations, focuses on the constant education and awareness of the citizens for the meaning of the rational use of the water and by extension, of the resource. Its target is also their information about the huge project that is "concealed" behind the water supply and sewerage provision of services, in a technical and scientific concept, as well as about the excellent quality of the drinking water of Athens. With the conviction that the development of critic and holistic thinking for the environment is indissolubly connected to the education ­ in any form, EYDAP has integrated in its activities educational programmes for students of all ranks and citizens associations. In this way, EYDAP contributes to the achievement of the Goal 4 "QUALITY EDUCATION" and 12 "RESPONSIBLE CONSUMPTION AND PRODUCTION", as defined by the United Nations.
Corporate politics and due diligence
A consistent goal of EYDAP is its contribution to the formulation of environmentally conscious and responsible citizens, implementing and supporting actions and initiatives which promote the cultivation of environmental consciousness and Sustainability. In this context, EYDAP attends to: · Make sure that the environmental section exists in
the corporate website, in order to inform the citizens about the importance and the protection of the natural resource. · Regularly send informative documents to the citizens, along with the water consumption bills, with directions for the rational use of water. · Make sure that audiovisual material exists in its web-

7.269 7.481

8.764 9.157

site, especially for children, based on 3D technology, in order to raise awareness to them for the rational use of water, the protection of the natural resources and the environment. · M ake sure that electronic games that explain to children, in an interactive way, the procedure that EYDAP follows for the water purification, in order to make it drinking water, as well as for the biological waste processing, in order for it to return clean to the nature, exists in its website. · Cooperate with environmental organisations and NGOs for the development of mutual acts and initiatives in order to inform the public and the student community regarding the rational use of water. · Grant, in the context of the active participation in the development of environmental consciousness, Organisational acts, which aim to the environmental awakening. · Participate in funded research programmes and in conferences which refer to the water resources' availability and sustainability. · O rganise informative seminars, meetings and events inside and outside of the Company. Indeed, on the occasion of the World Water Day in 22nd of March, EYDAP organises formal events every year, which address to a wide public, in order to inform and raise awareness. Specifically, in 22nd of March 2017, EYDAP honoured the World Water Day with festive events that were launched with the second concert of the cycle "New Greek Soloists- Sundays at Parnassus", and the presentation of the already improved environmental educational programme that is held in the Water Treatment Plants at Galatsi. · Implement educational programmes that address to interested sectors and students of all the educational ranks, in order to develop environmental culture. About 16,000 interested sectors and students attend every year for free the educational programmes and receive plentiful informative material.

Environmental Educational Programmes

EYDAP plans and implements Environmental Educational Programmes, which are provided for free and address to all the educational ranks, with the corresponding modifications, as well as to associations and unions. The programmes are implemented from specialised executives of the Company and are conducted in EYDAP's premises. Specifically: · In EYDAP's Water Treatments Plants at Galatsi, the
already renewed educational program "Stagonoulis's trip" (meaning "Droplet") is presented in a new hall, with modern audiovisual system, and specially designed to cover this need. The programme provides valuable knowledge to the children for the whole water cycle and its important role in the nature. Through a plentiful audiovisual material, children follow "Stagonoulis" at all the stages of the water's natural cycle: its processing, distribution and use, as well its biological cleaning. Children learn about the water

ANNUAL FINANCIAL REPORT

99

pollution, as well as its saving. Meanwhile, the little visitors are guided through the travel of the drop via educational activities and games, that combine fun with knowledge. Their aim is for the children to comprehend the whole cycle of the most valuable resource, which is water, and to learn to consume it without harming the environment, contributing in this way in the planet's protection. · T he Marathon Dam, a work of historical meaning, co-
lossal for its age of construction by technical means, and of huge importance for Attica's sustainability, constitutes a centrepiece for visits of school, universities, associations and other sectors. It's the only dam in the world, which is lined with pentelikon marble, the same marble with which Parthenon was built. Its shape is arched, its length is 285 m. and its height is 54 m. Its construction began in October 1926 and was completed in October 1929 by the company ULEN & CO. Near the dam, in one of the old stone buildings (constructed in 1926 for the accommodation of the workers), which is renovated and specially formed, the presentation of the main historical elements that concern the water supply of the city of Athens is hosted. Meanwhile, there happens the projection of a perfectly maintained audiovisual material of 1920, with a duration of 22 minutes, which was saved by EYDAP's executives and was maintained with the cooperation of Greek Film Archive and specialists from Bologna, Italy. The presentation refers to the construction of the Marathon Dam and the companion projects of the period 1926-1929. The visit includes a guided tour to the venue of the Water Museum, where tools and work objects from the age of the Dam's construction are exposed, a visit to the dam's crowning and on a-case-by-case basis to the temple-like monument, which is situated in the dam's lower side and is a replica of the Athenian Thesaurus at Delphi, in honour of their historical victory at the Battle of Marathon in 490 b.C. Before the projection of the audiovisual material, an introductory oral briefing is made to the children from the responsible employees for the guided tour, in order to raise environmental awareness to them, to make them conceive the importance of the dam project, which gave life and quality in the living of the Attica citizens during these difficult years. The visitors, children and adults, always leave the guided tour programme and the surrounding site excited . · The Psyttalia Wastewater Treatment Plant (WWTP) is one of the largest wastewater treatment plants in European level. EYDAP, in order to contribute to the development of environmental awareness and sensitivity, especially of young people, and to point out the beneficial function of WWTP for the Saronic Gulf, receives to the Plant visitors of almost all educational ranks, as well as other interested parts, from Greece and abroad. Visitors browse the WWTP installations, escorted by EYDAP's staff, and watch a program which is customised, in order to be equivalent to the visitors' educational level and interests. · The Water Treatment Plants at Aspropirgos are one most contemporary wastewater treatment plants in our country and one out of four that function in EYDAP. Guided tours to students and university students, as well as to various educational sectors from Greece and abroad, are realized in the Plant.

crease in the student number in relation to last year). · EYDAP's premises in the Marathon Dam were visited
by 4,956 students and 950 people from other various sectors (the same number as 2016). · The following visits were realised at WWTP of Psyttaleia: - 4 visits of national institutes of higher education (about 160 people), - 2 visits of schools of secondary education (about 40 people), - 4 visits of EYDAP's Services staff and students in internship (about 50 people), - 1 visit of a special scientific interest team (about 40 people), and - 8 visits of foreign and cooperating sectors (about 80 people). · About 180 were guided at the WTP of Aspropirgos in 2017, 150 of which were students of the Technical University. With reference to the educational programme "Stagonoulis's trip", as results from the analysis and processing of the questionnaires that are given to the teachers for the evaluation of the programme for 2017, 99% of the people questioned answered that was fully satisfied with the programme, and 99% answered that EYDAP's educational programme significantly contributed to the enrichment of the children's knowledge.
D11 Social Solidarity Acts and Cultural Heritage Preservation
EYDAP'S HISTORICAL ARCHIVE
EYDAP, having a long history in the water management and one of the biggest networks in Europe, possesses evidence which is rescued from the beginnings of the 20th century. · The issuing of the Album and the Historical Research
project "Aquatic Historiography: A chronicle of the Water Management in the Attica Region". · The enrichment of its archival material of historical meaning through its cooperation with exogenous Archival entities, such as the bestowal of Dimitrios P. Sinadinos' archive, of the Stavropoulos Foundation, mainly for the promotion of the project of the Athens Sewerage Organization (ASO) during the 70's. · T he utilization of the archival material for the Company's promotion to international exhibitions, such as the International Exhibition "2017 Seoul Biennale of Urbanism and Architecture", which was held in Seoul, South Korea. The rescue, management and dispersion of EYDAP's material of historical meaning is integrated to the wider effort to develop cultural conscience in its internal force, an effort which is defined by EYDAP's Culture Network significant enterprise. The Network expects to integrate actions which are widely developed in the cultural field, through the adoption and development of an undivided policy and identity, such as creation, planning and management of EYDAP's Historical Archive, the Editions that originate from and connect to it, EYDAP's Water Museum, as well as other projects under planning.
HISTORICAL MAP ARCHIVE

Results of the aforementioned politics and non-financial basic performance indicators
Approximately 16,000 people attended EYDAP's educational program. More analytically: · In EYDAP's Water Treatment Plants at Galatsi, the
educational programme "Stagonoulis's trip" was attended by 9,750 students from 150 schools (8% in-

The construction of the first contemporary water supply projects in the Capital region started in 1925, by signing the contract between the Greek State, the American Company ULEN and the Bank of Athens. The most known project of this era was the construction of the Marathon dam (1926-1929). EYDAP was founded in 1980, after the merger of the Public Hellenic Water Company (EEY) and the Greater Athens Sewerage Organization (OAP).

100

ANNUAL FINANCIAL REPORT

Nowadays, EYDAP maintains an archive of water supply and sewerage researches from 1925 and on, both in paper and electronic form, as well as a Historical archive of blueprints, which is about to complete a century of life. In spite of the relevantly good condition in which this historical archive is, the need for its maintenance and digitization according to the right practices was judged as crucial in 2017. At a first stage, EYDAP cooperates with special scientists, regarding the maintenance and preservation methods of the Blueprints Archive, both of the paper and the later digitized. EYDAP's Historical Archive of Maps includes: · U LEN's blueprints that refer to the construction of the
Marathon dam and all the complementary projects for the irrigation of the city of Athens. · B lueprints of pipes for transferring seawater for the pre-war cleaning and fire safety needs of the city. · A ncient Hadrian's Aqueduct's blueprints · Blueprints of the land-improvement/irrigating projects of the Serres-Drama plains, which were assigned to the Joint Venture of American Companies MonksULEN in 1929. This attempt aims to not only extend the life of the historical blueprints in paper and digitised form, but also to make them famous to the public, inside and outside of EYDAP, through a digital museum. Our target for 2018 is the assignment of the research of the archive maintenance, in order to conduct the corresponding competition for the project implementation in 2019. Recently, EYDAP, in the context of bringing out its social role and deploying its Historical archive, gave as a donation a leather bound blueprint series to the General State Archives of Serres Region, as well as a marquette of the draining projects of 1935 to the TEI of Central Macedonia.
PRESERVATION OF THE HISTORY OF THE CONSTRUCTION OF THE MARATHON DAM
Up until 1924, Athens mainly supplied water from Parnitha's water sources, through the ancient Hadrian's Aqueduct and the underground aquifer. However, the abrupt increase of the population of Athens, after the Asia Minor Catastrophe, created new needs, intensifying the Capital's water supply problem. The construction of the first contemporary water supply projects in the Capital region started in 1925. In 2017, EYDAP, in its effort to preserve and bring out the oral testimony of the people who worked in the large water supplying and sewerage projects of the Capital, and meanwhile to resurrect the work conditions of these times, founded an Oral History Group of EYDAP's Employees and started its training. This Group will operate in a voluntary basis and will be supported from the cooperation with the EYDAP's Employees Cultural Association. Their purpose is to detect the historical and cultural wealth of the capital's water supply and sewerage premises and its utilization, through a specific methodology, with the society as the ultimate receiver. EYDAP, through this procedure, lays the foundations for a contemporary guided tour experience to the Dam's visitor, which will depend on an oral archive, an innovative trend in museology, that will meanwhile contribute to the acquisition of valuable knowledge, which is in danger of extinction before having been corroborated. Our aim for 2018 is the preservation of the employees' (or their direct descendants) oral testimonies in the construction of the Marathon Dam, in order to "bring to life" the project with evidence for the atmosphere and their work conditions, completing in this way our historical knowledge for this internationally unique monument.

HADRIAN'S AQUEDUCT
EYDAP, in the context of its cultural offer, in cooperation with the National Technological University of Athens and under the authorization and supervision of the responsible Ephorates of Prehistoric and Classical Antiquities Services, realizes for the first time an extensive investigation of the Hadrian Aqueduct. With the help of special machinery and equipment, EYDAP's crew and NTUA's scientists plunge into the Aqueduct's tunnels, in order to map and detect its cultural and hydraulic value. In 2017, the group's projects brought to light an ancient settling tank in the junction of Hadrian's with the aqueduct's branch at Halandri. At the same time with the project's cultural promotion, EYDAP strives to evaluate the flow capacity of the ancient project and the quality of water that transfers, in order to deploy it for the irrigation of the public areas in Athens. The works started in July of 2016 and a water pumping test took place in October of 2017 and the first results are truly impressive. Hadrian's Aqueduct, whose function responsibility today belongs to EYDAP, is a great technical project which was created by the command of the emperor Andrianos and functioned in 140 b.C. Its tunnels start from Parnitha's and Pendeli's foothills and end up to the slope of Mount Lycabettus, in Dexameni square at Kolonaki. Hadrian's Aqueduct and Hadrian's Tank functioned, supplying with water the region of Athens until the age of Ottoman. Then, the Aqueduct was abandoned, resulting in the falling of its rotten walls. The ancient Hadrian Tank was reconstructed in the 1870's and today EYDAP has initiated projects to bring out its interior and exterior with lighting within 2018. Near Hadrian's tank is a newer tank that was constructed in the beginnings of the 20th century, which EYDAP is aiming to convert in a space of free access- open museum. EYDAP's Employees Cultural Association programmes the implementation of cultural acts with the topic "Tank's literary company", in the context of the Association's participation to the event "Athens World Book Capital 2018".
ONLINE APPLICATION "From Antiquity to Tomorrow: The People's Water Project"
EYDAP was chosen to represent Athens in the International Exhibition "2017 Seoul Biennale of Urbanism and Architecture", in Seoul, South Korea (02.09.201705.11.2017), participating in the theme exhibition "Four resources: Water, wind, energy and earth", with the project "From Antiquity to Tomorrow: The People's Water Project". For this project, EYDAP developed an interactive map that engraves the traces of historical water sites and contemporary hydrologic networks, both of Athens and of the wider Attica region. Randomly touching two spots in the satellite map of Athens, typical photos of water usage which connect among them through the city's historic networks that are still in function appear in the screen. In this way, the user connects the city's historical moments which cause them to think about the water in the modern city. This digital application (http://www.eydap.gr/gis_files/ index.htm) that deploys the Company's historical photos and blueprints archive, is accessible to everybody online and constitutes an innovative educational tool, raising awareness to the users about the problems of the modern cities.
SOCIAL SOLIDARITY ACTS
EYDAP systematically reinforces actions and initiatives aiming to create quality, reliable, sustainable and resis-

ANNUAL FINANCIAL REPORT

101

tant infrastructures for the support of the economic development and the human prosperity, focusing on the reachable and equal access to them for everybody and promoting the sustainable management. In this context, the Company supports the fragile social groups, the education, the research, the culture, the sports and the local societies through sponsorships and donations, and at the same time expanding its cooperation with entities that produce an important social work. The implementation of social solidarity acts is connected to UN's Goal 1 for the elimination of poverty and the insurance of sustainable living conditions, to Goal 3 for good Health and Prosperity, to Goal 4 for Quality Education, to Goal 6 for clean Water and Sewerage, to Goal 9 for Industry and Innovative Infrastructures, to Goal 11 for Sustainable Cities and Communities, to Goal 13 for the Action for the Climate, to Goal 14 for the Life in the Water and to Goal 15 for the Life in the Land. EYDAP constantly provides on an annual basis: · Support to the fragile social groups · Assistance to the educational structures through
sponsoring electronic material and sponsorships to schools and universities and economic support for the organising of scientific conferences. · Sponsorships to sports and cultural clubs · Assistance to the social and cultural work of municipalities, inside and outside of Attica · Economic assistance and know-how provision to entities and infrastructure projects which have social extensions. The total amount that EYDAP spent for the forementioned acts during 2017 amounted to 323,000. The allotment of the said amount is as follows: 17% concerns the economic support of schools, universities and scientific conferences, 31% concerns the economic support of sports and cultural clubs, 25% concerns the assistance to local and wider societies and 27% concerns the assistance to projects and infrastructures that promote the social prosperity and development.
Factual support of the vulnerable social groups
EYDAP, showing respect to the goals of the Sustainable Development and meanwhile identifying the adverse economic situation under which the Greek society lives, has taken on important initiatives, beyond the defined ones from the relevant Regulatory Framework, for the relief of the weaker financially groups through its applied pricing policy, in order to not be deprived of the access to clean water. In this way, the reductions of the water bills, which are issued under specific prerequisites and procedures, should be counted as an EYDAP's donation to society, absorbing the loss of income (this topic is further developed in the section Affordable Pricing).
Material assistance to the educational structures and donations to schools and universities and economic support for the organizing of scientific conferences
Aiming to familiarize the children with technology and knowledge advancements, EYDAP, responding to the requests of the schools of Attica, proceeded to the purchase of new electronic equipment in 2017, satisfying their needs. Furthermore, EYDAP proceeded to the donation of used computer equipment to nursery, elementary and high schools, and to other entities. Responding to the needs of Higher Education Institutions and scientific associations proceeded to sponsorships for the promotion of research and knowledge. Specifically, the Company sponsored: · the Faculty of Geology and Geoenvironment of Na-
tional & Kapodistrian University of Athens for the reinforcement of the research activity,

· the Faculty of Health Sciences- Laboratory of Physiology of National & Kapodistrian University of Athens for the implementation of the students' outdoor activities in the context of implementing the programme "Physiology days at Mani",
· the Faculty of Geology of National & Kapodistrian University of Athens for organising the 11th International Hydrogeological Congress of Greece,
· t he School of Civil Engineering- Field of Hydraulics of Aristotle University Of Thessaloniki,
· the Agricultural University of Athens, · the Association of Greek Geologists, · the Panhellenic Association of Engineers EYDAP also economically assisted to the organizing of scientific conferences, aiming to develop and disperse the scientific knowledge. It specifically sponsored: · the organizing of Delphi Economic Forum, · the Smart Cities Conference, · the conduct of the Conference for Red Loans, · the international conference that was conducted in
Athens "Water Conference 2017", · the conduct of the 3rd Hellenic Conference on Dams
And Reservoirs, · the "Social Security- Work Relations" conference,
which was organised by the American-Hellenic Chamber of Commerce.
Sponsorships to sports and cultural clubs
Aiming to develop the culture and the sports, EYDAP sponsored sports and cultural clubs. This specific sponsorship programme has been very carefully examined and structured, in order to provide help to entities which provide worthwhile work and contribute in the social prosperity. We have to especially mention, among others: · EYDAP's initiative in 2017 to give the chance to new
Greek Soloists to acquire a step of creation and recognition. Thus, in 22nd of March, the World Water Day, EYDAP presented the series: "New Greek Soloists- Sundays at Parnassus ",cooperating with the internationally famous soprano Sonia Theodoridou, the conductor Theodoros Orfanidis, and the prominent orchestra Mobile, · The sponsorship for the mission of the Hellenic Federation of the Deaf to the Paralympic Games.
Assistance to the social and cultural work of municipalities, inside and outside of Attica
Aiming to implement acts of social, cultural and environmental nature, which concern the local societies, EYDAP: · Economically assisted to the Swimming meeting for
people with special needs, that was organized by the Municipality of Nikaia-Rentis, · Sponsored the required amount for the purchase of sports material, which was distributed in 27 schools of the Municipality of Marathon, · Sponsored an amount for the purchase of material equipment of the Municipality of Thermos, · P roceeded to a donation to the Sports and Culture Organization of the Municipality of Koridallos, · Sponsored an amount for organizing the sports and cultural event "Kallithea Run" of the Municipality of Kallithea, · S ponsored the required amount for the construction of 2 sheds in the Municipality of Rafina-Pikermi, · E conomically assisted to the organizing of cultural events in the Municipality of Marathon, · S ponsored in full the amount for the purchase of necessary equipment for the nursery school of the Municipal Community of Grammatiko.

102

ANNUAL FINANCIAL REPORT

Economic assistance and know-how provision to entities and infrastructure projects with social work, aiming to develop acts to fight poverty and inequality, to develop health, security and work structures, as well as to raise awareness for environmental issues to the local and wider society.
For these purposes, EYDAP proceeded to donations to the following entities: "The Smile of the Child", Non-Governmental Organisation "Be Strong", "Multi-Child Parents Union", "Best Buddies Greece", "Floga", "Blood Donor Volunteer Association of Arcadia", "National Nursery School", "Panhellenic Paraplegic Association", "SOS Villages", "Ark of the World", "Solidarity Network of Vironas", Center for Individuals with Special Needs "Hara", Therapy Centre for Depended Individuals "KETHEA", "Hellenic Children's Museum" and "Panhellenic Centre for Ecological Research". EYDAP granted a charity tariff to the following entities within 2017: · "The Smile of the Child" · Church of Greece, 144 connections to 124 institutions · Kosmeteio Foundation - "House of Constantinopoli-
tans", 7 connections · "Medecins du Monde", 2 connections · "Wind of Renewal: Social Cooperative Enterprise for
Social and Green Economy, Innovation and Culture", 2 connections · "KETHEA", 2 connections · " Society for the Care of Minors", 3 connections. Moreover, in the context of its social politics, EYDAP: · D ecided the full erasure of the overdue debts, at 07.09.2017, for the bills of connections of beneficiaries who were integrated to the regulations of Law 4389/2016 (Beneficiaries of the Social Solidarity Income), · A ctively contributed to the restoration of the water supply network at Mandra, Attica, even though it is not in its possession, as well as at the Municipality of Mandra-Eidillia, from the first moment that the aforementioned areas were struck by the bad weather, by sending technical teams, material and machinery, substantially assisting the project for the damage restoration that these Municipalities endured, · A ssisted, cooperating with the Lighthouse for the Blind of Greece, to the supply of specially designed services of widespread accessibility for consumers with vision problems (mailing of special readable bills in braille form, large fonts, sending sms and mails). The implementation was mutually examined and planned, in order to respond to the needs of the citizens of this category, aiming to facilitate them and creating autonomy conditions, · E conomically assisted to the Church of St. Vissarion in Kehrinia, Valtos, in order to support its social work, · E conomically assisted to the Church of the Holy Trinity, in order to support its social work, · P rovided school supplies in a hospitality structure for the refugees at Schistos.
E Fighting against Corruption and issues regarding Bribery
Main non-financial risks
In EYDAP we are consistently focused on conducting our business with integrity, honesty, transparency and respect towards the society and the environment. The issue of Fighting Corruption and Bribery, as a basic precondition for sustainable development and corporate responsibility, is always of very high priority, as the existence of such incidents would seriously damage the Company's reputation, the citizens' trust, it causes legal liability and financial damage, it increases operating

cost, it forms a negative corporate culture, and turns away business opportunity. The Company by responsibly managing this issue, complying with all current laws, implementing relative EU policy targets, Greek Anti-corruption Strategy and Action Plan, best OECD practices and directives, contributes towards the achievement of the 16th Sustainable Development Goal "PEACE, JUSTICE AND STRONG INSTITUTIONS", as defined by the United Nations. Corruption and Bribery are extremely serious offences undermining the rule of law, are a threat to sound Corporate Government, sustainable development, democratic process and the legality of transactions. The main risks related to issues of Corruption and Bribery, concerning EYDAP's activities are: 1. Bribing an employee, to accelerate a procedure or
process a case, to advance a collaboration with our Company. 2. Misappropriation of funds by Employees working at Company's cashiers, or fraud. 3. Abuse of power. 4. Abuse of authority for personal gain. 5. Dereliction of duty of a Company's employee to harm a citizen or the State, for personal gain or for other illegal reasons. 6. Overlooking illegal conducts or activities. 7. In particular, public contracts for the supply of goods, the provision of services and the execution of projects involve the following corruption risks: · drafting contractual obligations in a way that favors specific economic operators, · conflict of interest affecting various stages of competitive processes, · r ecourse to direct award of contracts in order to avoid the obligations of the tender procedure, · cooperation with unreliable or untrustworthy economic operators.
Company policy and due diligence
EYDAP is implementing preventive action against corruption within the framework of developing policies aiming at achieving sound Corporate Governance and Sustainable Development, in order to increase the Company's credibility and good reputation, transparency and efficiency of its corporate activities and the fulfillment of all stakeholders needs. EYDAP is implementing a policy of zero tolerance towards Corruption and Bribery, committed to conduct business transparently, showing ethos and integrity, always ensuring a level of excellence in the services it provides, while focusing on the citizen. In this context, the relative regulatory and legislative framework is being followed along with the appropriate practices described below: · Enhance transparency by applying the relevant proce-
dures arising from the current institutional framework, in particular from stock exchange legislation, such as disclosure of regulated information, valid and timely information to investors, disclosure of transactions by persons exercising managerial responsibilities to the Company, procedure to prevent abuse of privileged information and publication of important corporate information on the Company's website, disclosure of financial information statements to the Hellenic Capital Market Commission web portal, submission and publication of asset declarations by liable persons. · Publishing and distributing corporate literature reinforcing the dissemination of information relative to Company's activities, strategy, targets and performance. · Drafting an Internal Rules of Corporate Governance and Operation, in line with current legislation that facilitates the formulation of corporate governance policy and practices. The Regulation is structured to

ANNUAL FINANCIAL REPORT

103

meet the needs of the Company. It clearly shows the elements of corporate governance, the internal control system, and the assessment and management of operational risks. · Drafting of the Internal Staff Regulations, which establishes rights and obligations of its staff, especially when dealing with citizens. Among other things, it is expressly forbidden for the Company's employees to demand or receive from citizens, directly or indirectly, any gifts or fees or other benefits or related promises to themselves or to third parties. · In the area of public contracts, the Procurement Division and its responsible Services fully implement the procedures of the new Law 4412/2016 "on public contracts of works, supplies and services", under which contracting entities are required to deal with economic operators equally, non-discriminatively, act transparently, respecting the principles of proportionality, protection of public interest, protection of the rights of individuals, freedom of competition, environmental protection and sustainable development. Provisions are made to meet the obligation to effectively prevent, identify and remedy a conflict of interest, the obligation to disclose public contracts and the procedures and elements prior to their conclusion. In addition contracting is being set up digitally to provide additional guarantees regarding the prevention and detection of corruption practices as they help to increase transparency and facilitate control mechanisms. Furthermore, contracting entities exclude economic operators who are not trustworthy, especially if there is a final conviction against them for bribery or fraud or money laundering. Moreover it is noted that the personnel of the Procurement and Services Division has been trained, through seminars, to fully respect and apply the above. · In 11.1.2017, the Company issued the special "Anti-Corruption and Bribery Policy", which was compiled according to the best business practices internationally, and EYDAP's special needs and corporate culture. The Company is committed to operate with professionalism, legality and integrity in all its professional transactions, as well as establishing anti-corruption measures, in order to maintain high levels of ethics and protect its reputation. The planning of anti-corruption preventive actions reduces the risk of fraud and strengthens the Company's stock market value as it is a demonstration to stakeholders of the commitment to good Corporate Governance and Corporate Social Responsibility. Adopting a framework of anti-corruption procedures strengthens the company's reputation, the transparency and efficiency of its business activities and moreover it motivates and empowers employees allowing them to operate in a context in which efficiency is combined with respect for rules. This Policy applies to all Company personnel, irrespective of the level at which they work and the title / grade they carry, including top executives, senior officers, directors, Board members and Board of Directors, employees (permanent, with a fixed-term or temporary contract), consultants, contractors, students and trainees. Failure to comply with this Policy, whether intentional or unintentional, may result in disciplinary proceedings, which may result in dismissal, due to serious misconduct and the prosecution of the person involved under Greek law. Personnel is encouraged to report concerns about any matter or suspicion regarding an offense as soon as possible. No employee will suffer consequences be-

cause of raising serious concerns regarding bribery, corruption, inappropriate donations and payments for facilitation. Also, for the first time in the period 7-9 June 2017, on the initiative of the Administration through the Control Committee and the organizing support of the Internal Control Department, information events were organized on corruption and bribery issues, the purpose of which were to inform the executives about the "Company Policy Against Corruption and Bribery" and to comprehend the dimensions and aspects of such a serious risk, affecting not only businesses but also the country in general. · R ecording and evaluating the risks that the Compa-
ny's every organizational structure faces, so as corruption and bribery to be prevented.
EYDAP's objective is to implement a process of perpetual improvement and development in order to strengthen its position and credibility, and this is what its policies and strategies are aimed at.
Results of these policies and key non-financial indicators
Within the framework of the Company's Corporate Governance, the evaluation of the Internal Control System and the implementation of the Decisions of the Supervisory Authorities (Hellenic Capital Market Commission Decision 5/204/14.11.2000, Law 3016/17.05.2002, Law 4449/24.01.2017) a three-member Control Committee has been formed by members of the Board of Directors, which operates in accordance with Rules of Procedure approved by Company's Board of Directors. The Control Committee's Rules of Procedure was updated in 2017 to include the requirements of Law 4449/2017 and 1302/28-4-2017 Hellenic Capital Market Commission Bulletin. Control Committee's main responsibilities as defined by relevant legislation, regard the monitoring of financial information, the effective operation of the internal control system and the risk management system, as well as the proper functioning of the unit of internal inspectors of the Company. Furthermore, under the provisions of the Corporate Governance Act (Law 3016/17.05.2002 and Decision of the Hellenic Capital Market Commission 5/204/14.11.2000) the Internal Control Department aims at providing assistance to the Administration, the Board of Directors, the Company's executives and the employees in general, to perform their duties more effectively, by assessing the operation of internal control systems, data analysis and advisory services. The Internal Control Department's Rules of Procedure, which was updated in 2017, has been prepared in accordance with the International Standards for the Professional Practice of Internal Auditing of the Institute of Internal Auditors (IEE) of the current Greek legislation on Corporate Governance (Law 3016/17.05.2002, No 5/204/14.11.2000, Law 449/2017) and the particularities of EYDAP's operational environment. In addition, the Company is regularly audited by certified public accountants. For cases of disciplinary offenses related to the violation of the Staff Regulations (PD 597/1985) and the Internal Staff Regulations, the Company's Disciplinary Board takes control of the proceedings. Regulations and Policies are updated regularly to ensure constant compliance with current legislation and best international practices.

104

ANNUAL FINANCIAL REPORT

ANNUAL FINANCIAL REPORT

105

Verified incidents of corruption 2017 A. Total number and nature of verified incidents of corruption

Workers implicated in a case of a misappropriation of funds from a Company Regional Center's Cashier's Desk, due to a legal technicality the process is pending.

B. Total number and nature of verified incidents of corruption resulting to disciplinary action against Company employees, during the aforementioned period

A worker who has used a certificate whose authenticity has not been authenticated, the disciplinary proceedings have been completed in the year 2017 and received the corresponding penalty in accordance with Staff Regulations EYDAP (PD 597/1985).

C. T otal number and nature of verified incidents of corruption resulting in partner contract termination of contract or non-renewal due to incident of corruption, during the aforementioned period
D. P ublic legal cases related to corruption filed against the Company or its employees, during the aforementioned period

For the year 2017, there are no other identified cases of corruption

COMMUNICATION AND INFORMATION REGARDING COMPANY POLICIES AGAINST CORRUPTION

A. Number of Management members informed on the company policy against corruption
B. Number of employees notified on the Company's policies against corruption
C. N umber of partners notified on anti-corruption policies.
D. N umber of Administration members who attended seminars on the prevention of corruption and bribery.
E. Number of employees participating in seminars relating to the prevention of corruption and bribery.

Management (President, CEO,13 board members, Management Board (6 General Managers) percentage of coverage 100%) All employees (2.270 percentage 100%) via the Company's website During 2017, the Company published its anti-corruption policies in newspapers and websites to inform the general public. In addition, those policies are posted on EYDAP's intranet, and in 2018 they were also posted on its corporate website www.eydap.gr. President of the Board of Directors, CEO, 6 General Managers, 7 Assistant General Managers, 3 members of the Control Committee.
Organizing information sessions (June 7-9, 2017) for 234 employees from all General Divisions, Independent Divisions and Offices in relation to the "Company's Policy Against Corruption and Bribery" aiming at comprehending the dimensions and aspects of such a serious risk concerning not only all businesses but the country in general.

106

ANNUAL FINANCIAL REPORT

F. Supply chain issues
EYDAP, in order to meet its needs in materials and services, as well as implement technical projects, awards public contracts, operating responsibly and in accordance with Law 4412/2016 on Public Contracts pertaining to Works, Supplies and Services. The development and operation of a supply chain that creates added value for the Company, with economically, environmentally and socially responsible management methods and practices, is a constant challenge for the Company, which reflects to its stakeholders as well as to society as a whole. Affiliated suppliers are important partners for achieving the Company's business goals while responsible supply chain management ensures the competitiveness and sustainable development of EYDAP, affecting not only its economic performance but also its relations with other social partners. In this way EYDAP contributes to the achievement of the Sustainable Development Objectives 8 "Decent Work & Economic Development", 12 "Responsible Consumption & Production" and 16 "Peace, Justice & Strong Institutions" as defined by the United Nations. Adherence to public contracts pertaining to works, supply and services legislation ensures the maximization of the value of the Company and safeguards the interests of its shareholders and its employees as well as its other stakeholders as this ensures the uninterrupted flow of productive activity, with minimum cost, as well as compliance with the environmental conditions as described in the relevant legislation. To enhance the transparency of public procurement, the Company will post to the Electronic Online Depositary of Administrative Procedures ("DIAVGEIA") the notices of all electronic tenders publicized. The Company, in addressing the risks that may arise from the non-implementation of the law and its amendments, has taken a number of actions to avoid this possibility. At this point, it should be stressed that during 2017, EYDAP cooperated with approximately 200 suppliers and 198 contracts with a total value of approximately  50 million were signed. Of these contracts 61 concerned Supplies, 128 Services and 9 Supplies and Services (Mixed Contracts). The main objective of all the Company's procurement activities is to meet the needs of different business units in materials and services from the domestic and international markets in the following ways: · timely, · of high quality, according to the requirements as described in the individual technical specifications and · according to the best financial terms (cost, payment terms, guarantees, etc.) for all parties involved. In this way the Company is protected from stoppages thus ensuring the continuous flow of its productive activity. Additionally, with regard to suppliers, care is taken to ensure full understanding of the relevant requirements from the outset, and then be able to be informed in detail through special meetings at bilateral level. The exclusion of suppliers against whom an irrevocable court decision has been issued for any of the above categories is prescribed by existing legislation (Law 4412/2016, Article 73). Furthermore, the legal and contractual obligations and EYDAP's ethical principles require the respect of the confidentiality of sensitive information concerning the Company and its suppliers, in accordance with the provisions of Article 21 of the Law 4412/2016 on Privacy. EYDAP's executives directly or indirectly involved in tendering procedures, are prohibited from disclosing information between suppliers and contacting participating suppliers prior to the award of the con-

tract, except in cases of clarification, strictly on issues of technical nature relating to competitive tendering while respecting the principles of equal treatment and non-circumvention of competition. In particular, the list of candidate suppliers, prices offered, payment terms etc. are considered confidential information, not to be disclosed to third parties (Law 4412/2016, Article 257). Conducting competitive tendering is done under strict rules guaranteeing free competition, equal treatment of suppliers and a healthy relationship between EYDAP and its suppliers. According to Law 4412/2016, EYDAP proceeds with the conclusion of public contracts with suppliers taking into account: · the ability of exercising business activity, · their economic and financial capacity · their technical and professional ability and · their compliance to the quality and environmental
management standards. In particular, with regard to long-term agreements, we emphasize that they are compatible to the principles of free competition, subject to the following conditions: · to have been awarded following competitive proce-
dures, · technical specifications of products or services are
clear and detailed, · are governed by reciprocal obligations and rights be-
tween the contractual parties and are periodically inspected as to whether they remain competitive. The Company's obligation to fulfill its contractual obligations to suppliers, with particular emphasis on payments and the availability of the equipment, the means and materials that the contract provides, is a major priority, as this promotes the corporate image of EYDAP, as an integral and reliable member of the business community. Accordingly, EYDAP expects suppliers to meet their contractual obligations. In order to monitor compliance with suppliers' contractual obligations as well as to receive the goods and services provided, Monitoring and Receiving Committees comprised of three or five members, are set up to ensure the proper and lawful execution of the contracts. Suppliers of materials, equipment & services selected as EYDAP partners in fulfilling their contractual obligations are required to: · c omply with national and European Community law, decrees & regulations, · m eet their contractual obligations, · m eet their obligations regarding the Health and the Safety of their employees and subcontractors, · comply with environmental legislation, · refrain from any action that can be interpreted as a bribe or an act of corruption or fraud. The Monitoring and Acceptance Committee systematically monitors the performance of contracts in terms of meeting their contractual obligations. In the event of failure to comply with the conditions, the competent Committee for Monitoring & Acceptance may, in accordance with Law 4412/2016: · disqualify the Supplier (article 203), · impose contractual penalties to the Supplier (article 218), if the contracts relate to services, · reject the material provided and impose penalties on the Supplier for late delivery of goods (article 208), when contracts relate to supply of goods. EYDAP, in the context of monitoring all legal changes, keeps constantly training, through specialized seminars, all its executives involved directly or indirectly in the competitive procedures in the current regulatory framework. In 2017, 9 seminars took place on Law 4412/2016 on the subject of: · Institutional Framework for Public Contracts for Procurement and Services · Attachment of a Standardized Document of Formal

ANNUAL FINANCIAL REPORT

107

Declaration (SDFD) / of a Standard European Contractual Document (SECD). · N EPPS (National Electronic Public Procurement System) · Drafting of Tender Documents for Studies-Works · Conducting Electronic Tendering Procedures for Works, Studies & other related Technical Services through the NEPPS Platform. A total of 95 people (44 employees 51 executives) participated in these seminars With respect to compliance with legislation by suppli-

ers in 2017, no incidents of violation of the Law were found relating to: · child labor, · forced labor, · participation in a criminal organisation, · bribery, · fraud, · c ommitting acts of terrorism or committing crimes as-
sociated with terrorist organizations, · money laundering by suppliers.

Galatsi, March 28th 2018 The Members of the Board of Directors

Name
Konstantinos Papadopoulos Ioannis Benisis Konstantinos Vafeiadis Ioannis Kardaras Georgios Makrynos Alexandros Pouliasis Nikolaos Sarantis Michail Stavroulakis Georgios Chalambalakis Christos Mistriotis Panayotis Skoularikis Emmanouel Aggelakis Georgios Alexandrakis

Position
Chairman of the BoD, Member Chief Executive Officer, Executive Member Executive Member Member Member Independent Member Member Independent Member Member Member Member Member Member
Exact Copy of No 1257 Minutes of the Board of Directors of 28th of March 2018
The Chief Executive Officer
Ioannis Benisis

108

ANNUAL FINANCIAL REPORT

3.3 1. ANNUAL FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
OF THE FINANCIAL YEAR 1 JANUARY 2017 TO 31 DECEMBER 2017 IN ACCORDANCE WITH THE INTERNATIONAL FINANCIAL REPORTING STANDARDS (IFRS) OF THE GROUP AND EYDAP SA (THE COMPANY)
CONTENTS
· General Information for the Company · Statement of Income for the Financial Years ended on 31st December 2017 & 2016 · Statement of Total Comprehensive Income for the Financial Years ended on 31st December 2017 & 2016 · Statement of Financial Position of 31st December 2017 & 2016 · Statements of Changes in Shareholders' Equity of 1st January ­ 31st December 2017 & 2016 · Cash Flow Statements of 1st January ­ 31st December 2017 & 2016 · Notes on the Annual Financial Statements for the period ended on 31st December 2017
The present Financial Statements of the Company, pages 102 - 159, were approved by the Board of Directors on 28 March 2018 and are under the approval of the Annual Shareholders Meeting. The following officers signed the Financial Statements under the permission of the Board of Directors:

The Chairman of the Board of Directors
Konstantinos Ant. Papadopoulos
ID No. P 720446

Athens, 28 March 2018

The Chief Executive Officer
Ioannis Emm. Benisis ID No.  521661

The Director of Financial Services
Lemonia Mark. Skylaki ID NO.  971227
Economic Chamber of Greece Accounting
License Reg. No. /17806

The Head of Accounting Department
Dimitra Vas. Zarkadoula ID NO.  253061
Economic Chamber of Greece Accounting
License Reg. No. /112285

GENERAL INFORMATION FOR THE COMPANY

Company Name: Distinctive Title: Domiciliation: Date of Establishment: Company Duration: Main Activity: G.E.MI. (Greece's General Electronic Commercial Registry) Number: Pertinent Ministry: Tax Registration Number: Members of the Board of Directors:
Ending Date of the Current Period: Duration of the Period: Type of Financial Statements (which have been the basis in compiling the condensed financial statements):

Athens Water Supply and Sewerage Company S.A. EYDAP S.A. 156 Oropou St. ­ Galatsi, Athens, Greece 25/10/1999 100 years Water Supply - Sewerage 121578960000 Infrastructure and Transport 094079101 K. Papadopoulos, I. Benisis, K. Vafeiadis, I. Kardaras, G. Makrinos, G. Charalambakis, M. Stavroulakis, N. Sarantis, P. Skoularikis, Ch. Mistriotis, A. Pouliasis, Emman. Aggelakis, G. Alexandrakis
31 December 2017 12 months Annual

Date of Approval of Financial Statements (which have been the basis in compiling the condensed financial statements):
Chartered Auditors Accountants: Auditing Firm: Audit Report on the Annual Financial Statements from Chartered Auditors Accountants:
Internet address where the Financial Statements are registered:

28 March 2018
Efstratios Paparidis SOEL Reg. No. 14351 Dimitrios Stavrou SOEL Reg. No. 14791
«S.O.L.» S.A. CERTIFIED PUBLIC ACCOUNTANTS SOCIETE ANONYME, SOEL REG. NUMBER 125
In agreement ­ Matter of Emphasis
www.eydap.gr

DOMICILE: 156 OROPOU ST., GALATSI SOCIETE ANONYME REGISTRATION NUMBER 44724/06//99/52 G.E.MI. (Greece's General Electronic Commercial Registry) NUMBER 121578960000

ANNUAL FINANCIAL REPORT

109

STATEMENT OF INCOME FOR THE FINANCIAL YEARS ENDED ON 31ST DECEMBER 2017 & 2016

GROUP

COMPANY

Amounts in  thousand Turnover Cost of Goods Sold Gross Profit Other Operating Income General and Administration Expenses Distribution and Selling Expenses Operating Profit Other Expenses Financial Income Financial Expenses Impairment of Securities Profit before Taxes Income Tax Net Profit after Taxes Earnings per Share (in ) Proposed Dividend (in )

NOTE 5 6
5 6 6
9 10 17
11
12

31.12.2017 31.12.2016

327.343 328.851

(184.478) (182.637)

142.865 146.214

3.782

3.783

(67.564) (68.750)

(29.510) (26.991)

49.573 54.256

(1.753) (4.348)

19.156

13.914

(503) (4.431)

-

(18.067)

66.473 41.324

(23.046) (17.275)

43.427 24.049

0,41

0,23

31.12.2017 31.12.2016

327.324 328.821

(184.478) (182.637)

142.846 146.184

3.782

3.783

(67.487) (68.697)

(29.510) (26.991)

49.631 54.279

(1.753) (4.348)

19.148

13.904

(503) (4.431)

-

(18.067)

66.523 41.337

(23.046) (17.275)

43.477 24.062

0,20

0,11

STATEMENT OF TOTAL COMPREHENSIVE INCOME FOR FINANCIAL YEARS ENDED ON 31st DECEMBER 2017 & 2016

GROUP

COMPANY

Amounts in  thousand Net Profit for the Year

31.12.2017 43.427

31.12.2016 24.049

31.12.2017 43.477

31.12.2016 24.062

Reclassification of impairment losses from investments

available for sales in the Statement of Income

-

994

-

994

Valuation at fair of financial assets available for sale ­

Other income transferrable to following years' results

649

127

649

127

Actuarial profit-losses of defined benefit plans ­ Other income non transferrable to following years' results

4.901

(13.859)

4.901

Total Comprehensive Income after Taxes

48.977

11.311

49.027

The accompanying notes that are presented in an integral part of the present Financial Statements

(13.859) 11.324

110

ANNUAL FINANCIAL REPORT

STATEMENT OF FINANCIAL POSITION OF 31st DECEMBER 2017 & 2016

GROUP

Amounts in  thousand ASSETS NON-CURRENT ASSETS Goodwill Other Intangible Assets Tangible Assets Investments in Subsidiaries Investments Available for Sale Long-term Receivables Deferred Tax Assets Total Non-Current Assets CURRENT ASSETS Materials and Spare Parts Trade Receivables Other Receivables Current tax receivables Cash and Cash Equivalents Total Current Assets Total Assets

NOTES
13 14 15 16 17 18 19
20 21 22 11 23

31.12.2017 31.12.2016

3.357 1.026 852.522
3.659 19.034 104.685 984.283

3.357 1.284 881.337
2.855 22.598 107.588 1.019.019

10.940 215.971 21.328
5.178 294.921 548.388 1.532.621

12.387 207.437 17.329
15.124 280.544 532.821 1.551.840

LIABIITIES

SHAREHOLDERS' EQUITY

24

Share Capital

Share Premium

25

Reserves

26

Retained Earnings (earnings carried forward)

Total Shareholders' Equity

LONG TERM LIABILITIES

27

Liabilities for Employee Benefits

28

Provisions

Investment Subsidies and Customer Contributions 29

Consumers' Guarantees

30

Total Long-Term Liabilities

SHORT-TERM LIABILITIES

Operating Short Term Liabilities

31

Current Tax Liabilities

11

Other Short Term Liabilities

31

Total Short-Term Liabilities

Total Liabilities

63.900 40.502 379.123 458.503 942.028

63.900 40.502 378.474 421.890 904.766

301.006 35.245

291.214 41.701

183.187 18.387 537.825

186.737 18.297 537.949

38.889 -
13.879 52.768 1.532.621

78.190 -
30.935 109.125 1.551.840

COMPANY
31.12.2017 31.12.2016

3.357 1.026 852.520 1.210 3.659 19.034 104.685 985.491

3.357 1.284 881.337 1.210 2.855 22.598 107.588 1.020.229

10.940 215.955 21.297
5.178 293.920 547.290 1.532.781

12.387 207.439 17.303
15.124 279.471 531.724 1.551.953

63.900 40.502 379.123 458.666 942.191

63.900 40.502 378.474 422.003 904.879

301.006 35.245

291.214 41.701

183.187 18.387 537.825

186.737 18.297 537.949

38.882 -
13.883 52.765 1.532.781

78.182 -
30.943 109.125 1.551.953

ANNUAL FINANCIAL REPORT

111

STATEMENT OF CHANGES IN SHAREHOLDERS' EQUITY 1st JANUARY ­ 31st DECEMBER 2017 & 2016

GROUP

2017
Amounts in  thousand

Share Capital

Share Premium

Legal Reserve

Other Reserves

Securities' Reserves

Results (profit) carried forward

Equity Balance at1st January 2017

63,900

40,502

22,207

355,765

502

421,890

Net Profit for the Year

43,427

Other changes through the statement of total comprehensive income

649

4,901

Dividends

(11,715)

Equity Balance at31st December 2017

63,900

40,502

22,207

355,765

1,151

458,503

2016
Amounts in  thousand

Share Capital

Share Premium

Legal Reserve

Other Reserves

Securities' Reserves

Results (profit) carried forward

Equity Balance at1st January 2016

63,900

40,502

22,207

355,765

(619)

485,185

Net Profit for the Year

24,049

Other changes through the statement of total comprehensive income

1,121

(13,859)

Dividends

(73,485)

Equity Balance at31st December 2016
COMPANY

63,900

40,502

22,207

355,765

502

421,890

2017
Amounts in  thousand

Share Capital

Share Premium

Legal Reserve

Other Reserves

Securities' Reserves

Results (profit) carried forward

Equity Balance at1st January 2017

63,900

40,502

22,207

355,765

502

422,003

Net Profit for the Year

43,477

Other changes through the statement of total comprehensive income

649

4,901

Dividends

(11,715)

Equity Balance at31st December 2017

63,900

40,502

22,207

355,765

1,151

458,666

2016
Amounts in  thousand

Share Capital

Share Premium

Legal Reserve

Other Reserves

Securities' Reserves

Equity Balance at1st January 2016

63,900

40,502

22,207

355,765

(619)

Net Profit for the Year

Other changes

through the

statement of total

comprehensive

income

1,121

Dividends

Equity Balance at31st December 2016

63,900

40,502

22,207

355,765

502

Total Equity
904,766 43,427
5,550
(11,715) 942,028
Total Equity
966,940 24,049
(12,738)
(73,485) 904,766
Total Equity
904,879 43,477
5,550 (11,715) 942,191 Results (profit) carried forward 485,285 24,062
(13,859) (73,485) 422,003

112

ANNUAL FINANCIAL REPORT

CASH FLOW STATEMENTS OF 1ST JANUARY - 31st DECEMBER 2017 & 2016 GROUP

Amounts in  thousand Cash Flows from operating activities Profit before tax

1.1-31.12.2017 1.1-31.12.2016

66.473

41.324

Plus / minus adjustments for : Depreciation and amortization Amortization of customer contributions and investment subsidies Reductions / transfers of tangible and intangible assets Income from securities Provisions for personnel indemnities Other provisions Interest and related income Interest and related expense Impairment of securities
Plus / minus adjustments for changes in working capital accounts or related to operating activities: (Increase) Decrease Trade receivables Materials and spare parts Increase (Decrease) Operating short term liabilities Customers' guarantees Employees' contributions for compensation Plus: Surcharges of customers received Minus: Interest and related expenses paid Income tax paid
Net Cash Flows from Operating Activities (a) Cash flows from investing activities Purchases of tangible assets Purchases of intangible assets
Proceeds from customer contributions and subsidies Interest and related income received Dividends received
Total inflows / (outflows) from Investing Activities (b) Cash flows from financing activities Dividends paid
Total inflows / (outflows) from Financing Activities (c)
Net increase / (decrease) in cash and cash equivalents for the period (a) + (b) + (c) Cash and Cash Equivalents at the beginning of period Cash and Cash Equivalents at the end of period

44.963
(8.184)
(55) (60) 14.838 (308) (19.096) 503
-
3.215 1.241
(17.293) 90
1.857
5.010
(130) (24.750)
68.314
(14.992) (842)
4.633 7.336
60
(3.805)
(50.132)
(50.132)
14.377
280.544
294.921

45.539
(8.168)
(935) (66) 2.944 1.900 (13.848) 4.431 18.067
5.843 121
2.056 85 1.911
3.857
(36) (52.646)
52.379
(8.442) (901)
1.253 7.624
66
(400)
(31.854)
(31.854)
20.125
260.419
280.544

COMPANY 1.1-31.12.2017 1.1-31.12.2016

66.523

41.337

44.963
(8.184)
(55) (60) 14.838 (308) (19.089) 503
-

45.539
(8.168)
(935) (66) 2.944 1.900 (13.838) 4.431 18.067

3.240 1.241
(17.294) 90
1.857
5.010
(130) (24.750)
68.395
(14.991) (842)
4.633 7.326
60
(3.814)
(50.132)
(50.132)
14.449
279.471
293.920

5.835 121
2.055 85 1.911
3.857
(36) (52.646)
52.393
(8.442) (901)
1.253 7.614
66
(410)
(31.854)
(31.854)
20.129
259.342
279.471

ANNUAL FINANCIAL REPORT

113

NOTES ON THE ANNUAL FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OF 31st DECEMBER 2017

1. ESTABLISHMENT, BUSINESS ACTIVITY AND LEGAL FRAMEWORK OF THE COMPANY
The company "Athens Water Supply and Sewerage Company S.A." with distinctive title EYDAP SA ("EYDAP", or the "Company") was established in 1980 (L.1068/80) following the merger between the Hellenic Water Company of the cities of Athens ­ Piraeus and peripheral areas, and the Sewerage Organization of Athens. The Company's Headquarters are located at 156 Oropou Street, Galatsi, postal code 111 46, Athens, Greece. The Company operates in the sector of supply and refinement of water, providing as well sewerage services and waste management in region of Attica. In accordance with its Articles of Association, where the operation clauses are referred, EYDAP is responsible for the analysis, construction, establishment, operation, exploitation, maintenance, expansion and modernization/ renewal of water supply and sewerage installation and networks, within its area of responsibility. The activities of EYDAP also include the ability to use water supply and sewage networks in addition to the development of telecommunication and energy activities. The business activity of EYDAP, as amended by the article 68 of Law 4313/2014, is extended into the municipalities of the Attica Periphery, as these are defined in the field h' of paragraph 3 of article 3 of Law 3852/2010, apart from the municipalities of Aigina, Troizinia, Kythira, Spetses, Hydra and Poros of the Peripheral Unity of Islands of the Attica Periphery. EYDAP provides its water supply services through its 8,500 kilometers water distribution network. The Company also operates four Units of Water Refining with a total daily capacity of 1.8 million cubic water meters. The sewerage network has a total length of 6,000 kilometers and it is consisted of the main collectors system and the secondary sewerage network. With regard to the waste management, EYDAP SA possesses three waste management centers (WMC), one in Psitalia (capacity for 5,630,000 equivalent residents), one in Metamorphosi (500,000) and one in Thriasio (117,000). The Waste Management Center (WMC) in Psitalia also operates three Electrical and Thermal Energy Co-production units (ETEC). The one ETEC unit operates with the combustion of natural gas of electrical power 12.9 MWe and thermal power of 17.3 MWth respectively. The other two ETEC units operate with the combustion of biogas of total electrical power of 11.4 MWe (7.14 MWe & 4.25 We) and thermal power of 17.2 MWth, as well as a small-scale hydroelectric station of 489 KW capacity for the recovery of the contained energy in the wave of processed outflows prior to their disposition in Saronikos Golf. Through the operation of the Waste Management Center (WMC) in Psitalia, EYDAP has been incorporated in the System of Greenhouse Gas Emission Allowance Trading (December 2012). EYDAP has also installed and operates five small hydroelectric stations in the locations Kirphi, Eliconas, Kithaironas, Mandra of Mornos Aqueduct, and the small hydroelectric power station in Evinos. The Company's revenues are cyclical (increased water consumption in summer months) having as a consequence the occurrence of substantial variances from quarter to quarter in its revenues and financial results. Thus, the interim financial results cannot be characterized as indicative for the trend of the whole year but

they are indicative provided that they are compared with the respective results of the previous periods. The Company operates under the authority of the Ministry of Infrastructure and Transport and in accordance with the clauses of the Corporate Law 2190/1920 and establishment Law 1068/1980 as amended by Law 2744/1999. In 1999 the Hellenic State decided to list the Company's shares on the Athens Stock Exchange, Greece. The main clauses of Law 2744/1999 Law are as follows: The legal duration of EYDAP is set to 100 years commencing as of 25th of October 1999, date at which the Law 2744/1999 was published. The aforementioned period can be expanded by an individual resolution of the General Assembly. EYDAP has the exclusive right to provide supply and distribution of water and sewerage services in the Attica region for 20 years commencing as of the date on which the L 2744/1999 was published in the Government Gazette. This exclusive right is not transferable and it can be renewed following a written agreement between the Greek State and the Company. The signing process of a new Agreement is under progress, so that the above right is renewed for another 20-year period. According to article 4 of the L 2744/1999, the Legal Entity of Public Law (L.E.P.L.) under the name `'EYDAP Fixed Assets L.E.P.L.'' ("EYDAP L.E.P.L.") has been established with its objective concerning mainly the management of the operation and maintenance of the dams, the reservoirs and the main water transmission and distribution channels. In October 1999, the main infrastructure installations for the water supply of the Attica region, meaning the dams, the reservoirs of Evinos, Mornos, Marathon, Iliki lake and the transmission and distribution channels of crude water were transferred to EYDAP L.E.P.L.. The Greek State through the EYDAP L.E.P.L. is obliged to provide adequate quantities of crude water to the Company in order to be able to meet the demands for water supply. The company `'EYDAP Fixed Assets L.E.P.L.'' ("EYDAP L.E.P.L.") is responsible for the proper operation and maintenance of the dams, the watering channels that have been transferred to it. The daily maintenance of the External Water-Supply System (EWSS) is carried out by EYDAP. The relations between the Greek State, the company EYDAP L.E.P.L. and EYDAP SA are governed by the Agreement between them since the 12th of year 1999. This agreement provides for arrangements for the pricing of the services offered by EYDAP for the operation and daily maintenance of EWSS. The annual cost of the daily maintenance and operation of these facilities is offset against the cost of raw water provided by EYDAP L.E.P.L.. The mutual receivables of EYDAP and the Greek State until 30/06/2013 have been amortized with the Joint Ministerial Decision No. D6 / 2476/3/12/2013. In addition to the amendment made by article 68 of Law 4313/1414, the following legislative changes have also been made in Law 2744/1999: By the article 35 par.2 of the Law 4053/2012, EYDAP is enabled through its subsidiaries to undertake as well activities outside of its jurisdiction (according to Law 1068/80) as it is in effect through programmatic contracts of the article 100 of Law 3852/2010. At this case the subsidiaries are governed by the same legal and regulatory framework as effective for EYDAP with the exception of the tariffs policy which is defined by the programmatic contracts. EYDAP SA established on July

114

ANNUAL FINANCIAL REPORT

2011, (GG 6773/19.07.2011 BoD decision 17241/13.05.2011) a company under the name "ISLANDS WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE S.A." with distinctive title "ISLANDS' EYDAP SA", into the share capital of which participates by 100%. Consequently since 2011, the Group compiles Consolidated Financial Statements. By the decision on 21/09/2017 of the shareholders' Extraordinary General Assembly of the societe anonyme, the company name has been changed to "ISLANDS WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE S.A. DEVELOPMENT" and with the distinctive title "ISLANDS' EYDAP DEVELOPMENT SA". With the paragraph 2, of article 1 of legislative act, Gov. Gaz. A 175/07.09.2012, which was ratified with the article 1st of L. 4092/2012, Gov. Gaz.  220/08.11.2012, it is stipulated that the paragraph 10 of article 1 of L. 2744/1999 ( 222) is abolished. Transfers of shares of EYDAP S.A. from the Greek State to Hellenic Republic Asset Development Fund are valid even if they occurred prior to the enactment of the current Law. In accordance with the aforementioned legislation, the Articles of Association of the Company were also amended. With the article 64 of L. 4150/2013 Gov. Gaz.  102/29.4.2013, the paragraph 5A was added to the article 1 of L. 2744/1999, according to which the following are stipulated: "With joint decision of the Ministers of Development & Competitiveness, of Infrastructure, Transport & Networks, of Shipping & Aegean and of the other pertinent Ministers, EYDAP SA or subsidiary companies can be assigned with the study or with the assignment of a study with regard to the construction in island areas of projects related to the companies' activities, as well as with the assignment and the execution management of such projects. The decision stipulates special issues, such as the obligations of the Company (EYDAP S.A.) or its subsidiaries, the principal of the project, the financing scheme of the studies and the projects, the pertinent and responsible bodies, and any issue relevant to the application of this paragraph." With the article 33 of Law 4258/2014, the paragraphs 1 and 2 of article 3 of Law 2744/1999 were replaced. In synopsis, until the end of June 2015, the pricing policy with regard to the water supply and sewerage services are under the approval of the Minister of Finance following a relevant proposal from the Special Secretariat for Water. From 1st July 2015, the pricing policy with regard to water supply and sewerage services are placed under the decisions of the Special Secretariat for Water in consultation with the Minister of Finance and other pertinent bodies. Moreover, the decisions related to the above pricing policy for the different categories of consumers and users are in effect for five years and are issued at the end of each period for the following fiveyear period. With the decision of the Board of Directors of EYDAP S.A., which is approved by the Minister of Finance following a relevant proposal from the Special Secretariat for Water, special pricing rates for water supply or sewerage services can be defined, addressing the needs of inhabitants, companies and general users that are serviced by their own water supply or sewage network, independently of the Company's unified water supply and sewage network. On May 22, 2017, the Joint Ministerial Decision was published in GG B 1751, which had as its subject: "Adoption of general rules for the costing and pricing of water services. Method and procedures for recovering the cost of water services in its various uses." The purpose of the aforementioned JMD is the approval of the general costing and pricing rules of water services for various uses and rules and measures of those services' improvement as well as the definition of procedures and the method of recovering the cost of such services, including the environmental costs and water resource costs, in order to achieve sustainable use and improvement of the state of water and to ensure the constitutionally guaranteed public character of water

as a social good absolutely necessary for the human living. EYDAP examines the application of the general rules for the costing and pricing of water services in accordance with the above JMD. Finally, pursuant to Law 4389/2016 article 184, the societe anonyme under the name "Hellenic Holding and Property Company SA" (EESYP SA) was incorporated, governed by the provisions of this law and in addition by the provisions of c.l. 2190/1920. EESYP SA does not belong to the state or to the wider public sector, as it is defined each time. EESYP SA serves a specific public purpose (for "the public interest in accordance with the rules of the private economy"). Within the framework of Its purpose is to hold State-owned participation in companies under Law 3429/2005, which it manages professionally and to increase their value as well as to exploit them in accordance with best international practices and the guidelines of the Organization for Economic Co-operation and Development (OECD) on corporate governance, corporate compliance, supervision and transparency of procedures, and in line with best practices on socially and environmentally responsible businesses and consultation with the public enterprises interested parties. Pursuant to article 197 of Law 4389/2016 and Annex E, which is an integral part of the law, the total shares of the Hellenic State's ownership in EYDAP SA are transferred automatically and without consideration to EESYP. In particular, on March 21, 2018, (50% + 1 shares) of EYDAP SA were transferred from the Greek State to the "Hellenic Holding and Property Company SA" (EESYP SA) pursuant to paragraph 20 Article 380 of Law 4512/2018, replacing paragraph 1 of Article 197 of Law 4389/2016 with effect from 01.01.2018. The Greek State fully controls (by 100%) the company EESYP SA.
2. NEW STANDARDS, INTERPRETATIONS AND AMENDMENT OF EXISTING STANDARDS
Adoption of New and Revised International Standards
New standards, amendments to existing standards and interpretations have been issued and their application is mandatory for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2017. The impact of the application of these new standards, amendments and interpretations is set out below.
Standards and Interpretations mandatory for the current financial year 2017
IAS 12 (Amendment) "Recognition of Deferred Tax Assets for Unrealised Losses" The amendment clarifies the accounting concerning the recognition of deferred tax assets for unrealised losses incurring from debt instruments measured at fair value. The amendment is applicable for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2017. The amendment does not have material impact on the financial statements of the Company and the Group.
IAS 7 Statement of Cash Flows (Amendment) "Disclosures"
The amendment introduces mandatory disclosures that enable users of financial statements to evaluate the changes in liabilities arising from financing activities. The amendments shall require entities to provide disclosures that permit investors to evaluate changes in liabilities arising from financial activities, including

ANNUAL FINANCIAL REPORT

115

changes arising from cash flows and non-cash changes. The amendment is applicable for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2017. The amendment does not have material impact on the financial statements of the Company and the Group.
Standards and Interpretations mandatory for subsequent periods that have not been earlier applied by the Company and the Group
IFRS 9 "Financial Instruments" and subsequent amendments to IFRS 9 and IFRS 7 (applicable for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2018)
IFRS 9 replaces the IAS 39 and establishes a more principles-based approach with respect to the classification of financial assets. Based on this, financial assets are classified based on the business model in which they are held and the characteristics of their contractual cash flows. In addition, it replaces the impairment model of incurred credit losses applied with IAS 39 and introduces a new single model of impairment based on the expected credit losses. The Group will adopt the new standard on 1 January 2018 and will not restate the comparative information. The main areas on which the new standard applies are the following: · The Company and the Group has assessed the busi-
ness model in which its trade and other receivables are held. Based on this assessment, its trade and other receivables are held within a business model whose objective is to hold the assets in order to collect contractual cash flows and their contractual cash flow characteristics are nothing else than payment of principal and interest on principal outstanding. As a result, the classification and measurement of the trade and other receivables of the Group will not be significantly affected by the transition to IFRS 9. · The investments of the Group in equity instruments must be measured at fair value and relevant fair value changes to be recognized through profit or loss, except for investments in equity instruments for which the Group has made an irrevocable election at their initial recognition to be classified in fair value through other comprehensive income. · The new impairment model of financial assets requires the recognition of impairment losses based on expected credit losses. Based on the analysis carried out, the Group concluded that the adoption of the new standard will result in an increase of impairment losses of its trade receivables. The Group's management is in the final stage of its assessment concerning the impact from the adoption of the new standard on the impairment losses of financial assets that needs to be recognized based on expected credit losses. · The new standard also provides for further disclosure requirements for financial instruments as well as changes in the presentation of relevant information in the Group's Financial Statements.
IFRS 15 "Revenue from Contracts with Customers"
On 28 May 2014 the IASB issued IFRS 15 "Revenue from Contracts with Customers". IFRS 15 establishes a single comprehensive model for entities to use in accounting for revenue arising from contracts with customers. IFRS 15 is effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2018 and supersedes IAS 18 "Revenue", IAS 11 "Construction Contracts" and the interpretations IFRIC 13 "Customer Loyalty Programmes", IFRIC 15 "Agreements for the Construction of Real Estate", IFRIC 18 "Transfers of Assets from Customers" and SIC 31 "Revenue ­ Barter Transactions Involving Advertising Services".

The core principle of IFRS 15 is that an entity should recognise revenue to depict the transfer of promised goods or services to customers in an amount that reflects the consideration to which the entity expects to be entitled in exchange for those goods or services. Specifically, the Standard introduces a 5-step approach to revenue recognition: Step 1: Identify the contract(s) with a customer Step 2: Identify the performance obligations in the con-
tract Step 3: Determine the transaction price Step 4: Allocate the transaction price to the perfor-
mance obligations in the contract Step 5: R ecognise revenue when (or as) the entity sat-
isfies a performance obligation Under IFRS 15, an entity recognises revenue when (or as) a performance obligation is satisfied, i.e. when `control' of the goods or services underlying the particular performance obligation is transferred to the customer. Far more prescriptive guidance has been added in IFRS 15 to deal with specific scenarios. Furthermore, extensive disclosures are required by IFRS 15. In April 2016, the IASB issued Clarifications to IFRS 15 in relation to the identification of performance obligations, principal versus agent considerations, as well as licensing application guidance. The Group will apply IFRS 15 using the modified retrospective method and will record the cumulative effect adjustment to the opening balance of retained earnings on January 1, 2018. Water supply and sewerage services are the major sources of revenue for the Group and the Company. Based on a preliminary assessment performed by the management of the Group, water supply and sewerage services represent two separate performance obligations. This is similar to the current identification of separate revenue components under IAS 18. According to the provisions of IFRS 15, revenue for each of the above-mentioned two performance obligations will be recognised over time, since the customer simultaneously receives and consumes the benefits arising from both the water consumption and the utilization of the sewerage network. The timing of revenue recognition for water supply and sewerage services (i.e. over time by measuring the progress towards complete satisfaction of the performance obligations based on the quantities of water consumed and the effective pricelists) is also expected to be consistent with current practice. Furthermore, even though IFRS 15 requires the transaction price to be allocated to the different performance obligations on a relative stand-alone selling prices basis, the Group does not expect that the allocation will be different from that currently determined, given that no bundle discounts are provided to customers. Similarly, as regards the sale of electric power, the Group has assessed that represents a single performance obligation and revenue should be recognised over time by measuring the progress towards complete satisfaction of the performance obligation based on the kWh sold and the effective pricelists, which is consistent with current practice. The Group is still in the process of assessing the impact of IFRS 15 on its financial statements by further analyzing mainly the fulfilment of the criteria for contract identification for certain transactions and the accounting treatment for customers' contributions.
IFRS 16 "Leases"
On 13 January 2016 the International Accounting Standards Board (IASB) issued the IFRS 16 which supersedes the IAS 17. Purpose of the standard is to ensure that lessors and lessees provide useful information that presents fairly the substance of the transactions concerning leases. The FIRS 16 introduces a single lessee

116

ANNUAL FINANCIAL REPORT

accounting model on lessee's side, requiring lessees to recognise assets and liabilities for all leases unless the lease term is 12 months or less or the underlying asset has a low value. For the accounting, on the lessor's side, the IFRS 16 substantially incorporates the requirements of the IAS 17. Consequently, lessors continue to classify leases as operating or finance, and follow different lessor accounting for each type of contract. The new standard is applicable for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2019 and was approved by the European Union on 31 October 2017 and is under examination.
Standards and Amendments to existing Standards that have not been approved by the E.U.:
IFRS 10 (Amendment) "Consolidated Financial Statements" and IAS 28 (Amendment) "Investments in Associates and Joint Ventures" - Sales or Contributions of Items of Assets between an Investor and the Associate or the Joint-Venture
Main consequence of this amendment issued by the IASB on 11 September 2014, is that full gain or loss is recognised when a transaction includes an entity (either housed in a subsidiary or not). Partial gain or loss is recognised when a transaction includes items of assets that do not constitute an entity, even if these assets are housed in a subsidiary. The amendment is applicable for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2016 and has not yet been approved by the European Union.
IFRS 2 Share-based Payment (Amendment) "Classification and Measurement of Share-based Payment"
The amendment to IFRS 2 "Share-based Payment" clarifies the measurement basis for cash-settled, sharebased payments and the accounting for modifications that change an award from cash-settled to equity-settled. It also introduces an exception to the principles in IFRS 2 that will require an award to be treated as if it was wholly equity-settled, where an employer is obliged to withhold an amount for employee's tax obligation associated with a share-based payment and pay that amount to the tax authority. The amendment is applicable for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2018 and has not yet been approved by the European Union.
Annual Improvements to IFRSs 2014-2016 Cycle
The amendments below of the 2014 - 2016 Cycle were issued by the IASB on 8 December 2016, are applicable for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2018 and have not yet been approved by the European Union. The amendments below are not expected to have a material impact on the financial statements of the Company and the Group.
IFRS 12 Disclosures of Interests in Other Entities: Clarification of the scope of the Standard
The amendments clarify the disclosure requirements in IFRS 12, except for the disclosures for condensed financial information, regarding subsidiaries, joint ventures and associates apply for an entity's interests in a subsidiary, joint venture or associate classified as held for sale, as held for distribution or as discontinued operations in accordance with IFRS 5. The amendment is applicable for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2017.

IAS 28 (Amendment) "Measuring an Associate or Joint Venture at fair value"
The amendment clarifies that the election to measure at fair value through profit or loss investments in an associate or a joint venture that are held by an entity that is an investment capital management, or other qualifying entity, is available for each investment in an associate or joint venture on an investment -by- investment basis, upon initial recognition.
IAS 40 "Investment Property" Transfer of Investment Property
The amendments to IAS 40 issued by the IASB on 8 December 2016 clarify that an entity can transfer a property to, or from investment properties, when and only when, there is evidence of a change in use. To conclude if a property has changed use there should be an assessment of whether the property meets the definition. A change in management's intentions for the use of a property, in isolation, is not evidence of a change in use to support a transfer. The amendment is applicable for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2018 and has not yet been approved by the European Union.
IFRIC 22 Interpretation "Foreign currency transactions and Advance consideration"
The Interpretation 22 clarifies the accounting for foreign currency transactions including the receipt or the payment of consideration in advance. Specifically, it applies for the foreign currency transactions where an entity recognises a non-monetary asset or liability arising from the payment or the receipt of consideration in advance before the entity recognise the related item as expense or revenue. The interpretation states that the date of the transaction, for the purpose of determining the exchange rate to use on initial recognition of the related item, should be the date on which an entity initial ly recognises the non-monetary asset or liability arising from the advance consideration. If there are multiple payments or receipts in advance, the date of transaction is determined for each payment or receipt. The interpretation is applicable for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2018 and has not yet been approved by the European Union.
IFRIC 23 Interpretation "Uncertainty over Income Tax Treatments"
Interpretation 23 is to be applied to the determination of taxable profit (tax loss), tax bases, unused tax losses, unused tax credits and tax rates, when there is uncertainty over income tax treatments under IAS 12. In such case should be considered: · whether tax treatments should be considered collec-
tively or independently and on the assumption that the examinations will be done by the taxation authorities having full knowledge of all relevant information: · it is probable that the taxation Authorities will accept the entity's determination of taxable profit (tax loss), tax bases, unused tax losses, unused tax credits or tax rates and · a n entity has to reassess its judgements and estimates if facts and circumstances change.
IFRIC 23 is applicable for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2019 but has not yet been approved by the European Union.

Annual Improvements to IFRSs 2015-2017 Cycle

The following amendments of the 2015 - 2017 Cycle were

ANNUAL FINANCIAL REPORT

117

issued by the IASB on 8 December 2017, are applicable for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2019 and have not yet been approved by the European Union. The amendments below are not expected to have a material impact on the financial statements of the Company and the Group.
IFRS 3 Business Combinations and IFRS 11 Joint Arrangements
The amendments to IFRS 3 clarify that when an entity obtains control of a business that is a joint operation, it remeasures previously held interests in that business. The amendments to IFRS 11 clarify that when an entity obtains joint control of a business that is a joint operation, the entity does not remeasure previously held interests in that business.
IAS 12 Income Taxes
The IASB by the amendments to IAS 12 clarified that an entity shall recognise all the income tax consequences of dividends distribution in profit or loss, in other comprehensive income or in equity, depending on where the transactions or events that generated distributable profits are initially recognised.

During the acquisition of the subsidiary the respective receivables, liabilities as well as any potential liabilities are assessed at their fair value. In case that the cost value is greater than the fair value, the respective difference is recognized as goodwill. At the opposite case, where the cost value is lower than the fair value, the respective difference is credited in the financial results of the acquisition year. Minority interests are displayed at the proportion of the minority at the fair value of the assets and liabilities at which they have been recognized.
Subsidiaries' acquisitions are recognized under the purchase method. The subsidiaries' financial results which are either acquired or sold during the fiscal year, they are included in the respective consolidated statements respectively from their acquisition date or the date of their disposal.
When is deemed necessary, subsidiaries' financial statements are restated in order for the data to be homogeneous and comparable with the respective data of the remaining companies of the Group. During the consolidation all the intra-group transactions and balances as well as the losses and the gains between the companies of the Group are eliminated.

IAS 23 Borrowing Costs
The amendments clarify that if any specific borrowing remains outstanding after the related asset is ready for its intended use or sale, that borrowing becomes part of the funds that an entity borrows generally when calculating the capitalisation rate on general borrowings.
IAS 28 (Amendment) "Long-term Interests in Associates and Joint Ventures"
In October 2017, the IASB issued amendments to IAS 28 "Investments in Associates and Joint Ventures". In this amendment, the IASB clarified that the exclusion in IFRS 9 applies only to interests a company accounts for using the equity method. Entities shall apply IFRS 9 to other interests in associates and joint ventures, including long-term interests to which the equity method is not applied and that, is substance, form part of the net investment in those associates and joint ventures. The amendment is applicable for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2019 and has not yet been approved by the European Union.
3. SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES
Statement of Compliance
The financial statements have been prepared in accordance with the International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS).
Basis of Consolidation
The Consolidated financial Statements of the current as well as of the previous period, include the parent company and its subsidiary "ISLANDS' EYDAP DEVELOPMENT SA.".
Subsidiaries are all the companies which are managed and controlled directly or indirectly by the parent Company either through the majority holding of the companies' shares to which the investment has been made or through their dependence on the know-how which is provided to them by the Group. Subsidiaries' financial statements are included in the consolidated financial statements from the date of control accession until the date that the control cease to exist.

In the Company's financial statements participations in subsidiaries and affiliates are displayed at their cost value deducted by any impairment of their value. The company examines on a yearly basis or whenever there is any indication for impairment occurrence the accounting value of the aforementioned participations compared to the retrieval value on the basis of the higher value between fair value less cost to sell and the value in use.
Investments in associates
Associates are those companies on which the Group exercises significant influence but they do not meet the requirements to be treated as subsidiaries. The consolidated financial statements include the Group's share in the profits and losses of the associates, based on the equity consolidation method from the date that the Group obtains significant influence until the date that it ceases to exist such influence. When the Group's share in the losses of an associate exceeds the displayed book value of the investment, the carrying value of the investment is reduced to nil and the recognition of further losses stops, unless the Group has undertaken liabilities or contingent liabilities of the associate, beyond that arising from its shareholder state. The results stemming from transactions between the companies of the Group and the associates are eliminated to the extent of the investment of the Group in the associates.
In the separate financial statements of the Company, associates are valued at cost and they are subject to impairment audit annually or in interim periods when there are serious indications of impairment occurrence.
Goodwill
Goodwill arising from the acquisition of a subsidiary or a jointly controlled entity or other business activity represents the difference between the acquisition cost and the participation of the Company in the net fair value of the identified assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities of the subsidiary or that of the jointly controlled entity or other business activity recognized at the date of acquisition.
Goodwill is initially recognized as an asset at cost and subsequently is measured at cost less any accumulated impairment losses.

118

ANNUAL FINANCIAL REPORT

For the purpose of impairment testing, goodwill is allocated to each cash-generating unit of the company. Cash-generating units to which goodwill has been allocated are tested for impairment annually, or more frequently when there is an indication that the unit may be impaired. If the recoverable amount of the cash-generating unit is less than the carrying amount of the unit, the impairment loss is allocated first to reduce the carrying amount of any goodwill allocated to the unit and then to the other assets of the unit proportional based on the carrying amount of the unit's assets. An impairment loss recognized for goodwill is not reversed in a subsequent period.
During the disposal of a subsidiary or a jointly controlled entity or other business activity the defined amount of goodwill is included in the determination of the profit or loss that stems from disposal.

project, except in the case where this is not representative of the completion stage.
Variations from the initial contract, claims and incentive payments are included to the extent that they have been agreed with the client.
In case where the outcome of a contract for projects' construction cannot be estimated reliably, the conventional revenue are recognized to the extent where the realized conventional cost are estimated to be retrieved. The conventional costs are recognized at the financial results of the fiscal year during which they occur. When it is probable that the total conventional cost will exceed the total conventional revenue, the expected loss is recognized immediately at the results.
Leasing

The Company's policy for goodwill arising on the acquisition of an associate is described under `Investments in associates' above.
Revenue recognition

Leases are classified as finance leases whenever according to the terms of the lease they are transferred substantially all the risks and benefits stemming from the ownership of the lease to the lessee. All the other leases are classified as operating leases.

Revenue is measured at the fair value of the consideration received or receivable. Revenue is reduced by the estimated adjustments of customers' bills, the price reductions and other relevant downward adjustments.
The water supply and sewerage services are the major sources of income for the Company. Income from water supply are calculated on the basis of the consumed quantities and the price list in effect. Income from sewerage services are calculated as percentage on the value of the consumed water. The Company invoices the water consumption mainly on quarterly basis, via measurements, whereas with regard to the non invoiced consumption up to the ending date of the period of the financial statements, the Company proceeds with an accounting record of an accrued income, which is based on historical consumption data of the Company's customers for the non invoiced period.
Provision of services Revenue stemming from service provision they are recorded based on the stage of the contract's completion.
Income from dividend and interest The income stemming from participations' dividends are recorded when it has been finalized the right for their receipt by the shareholders. Interest revenue is recorded based on proportional timing with respect to the unpaid capital and the effective real interest rate which is the interest rate at which they are discounted the future cash receipts which are expected to be received throughout the usable life of the asset in order to be offset with the net book value of the asset.
Rental income Rental income from investment properties is recognized on a straight-line basis over the term of the relevant lease. (see also "Leasing" below)
Construction contracts
Where the outcome of a construction contract can be estimated reliably, revenue and costs are recognized based on the stage of the contract's completion by the reporting date of the financial statements, measured based on the proportion of the real conventional for the executed project until the timing of the financial position over the total conventional costs which are estimated at the respective date for the completion of the

The Company as lessor The amounts that are due from the lessees under finance leases are recorded as receivables at the amount of the Company's net investment in the leases. Finance lease income is allocated to the fiscal periods so as to reflect a constant periodic rate of return on the Company's net investment outstanding in respect of the leases.
Rental income from operating leases is recognized on a straight-line basis over the term of the relevant lease agreement. Initial direct costs which incur during the negotiation and the arrangement of the operating lease are added to the carrying amount of the leased asset and they are recognized on a straight-line basis over the lease term.
The Company as lessee Assets held under finance leases are recognized as assets of the Company at their fair value at the inception of the lease or, if it is lower, at the present value of the minimum lease payments. The corresponding liability to the lessor is included in the financial position report as a liability from the financial leasing.
Lease payments are apportioned between financing charges and reduction of the lease obligation so as to achieve a constant rate of interest burden on the remaining balance of the liability. Finance charges are charged directly on the financial results, unless this specific cost can be attributed directly to an individual asset, case where this is capitalized in accordance with the Company's general policy governing the borrowing costs (see below). Contingent rentals are recognized as expenses in the periods in which they incur.
Operating lease payments are recognized as an expense on a straight-line basis over the lease term, except where another systematic basis is more representative of the time pattern in which economic benefits from the leased asset are consumed. Contingent rentals arising under operating leases are recognized as an expense in the period in which they incur.
In case that lease incentives are received within the context of the lease agreement, the respective incentives should be recorded as a liability. The aggregate benefits of incentives are recorded as a reduction of the lease expense according to the straight-line basis,

ANNUAL FINANCIAL REPORT

119

unless another systematic basis is more representative of the time pattern in which economic benefits from the leased asset are consumed.
Foreign currencies
The financial statements of the Company are presented in the currency of the economic environment in which the entity operates (its operating currency), which is the Euro. During the compiling of the financial statements of the company, transactions in currencies other than the entity's operating currency (foreign currencies) are recorded at the rates of exchange prevailing at the dates of the transactions. On each financial statements report date, monetary items denominated in foreign currencies are retranslated at the rates prevailing on the financial statements report date . Non-monetary items which are estimated at fair value and they are denominated in foreign currencies are retranslated at the rates prevailing at the date when the fair value was determined. Non-monetary items that are measured in terms of historical cost in a foreign currency are not retranslated. Exchange differences are recognized in the financial result of the period in which they arise except for: · exchange differences which are related to assets under construction for future use in the production, which are included in the cost of those assets and they are regarded as an adjustment to the interest costs on foreign currency borrowings; · exchange differences in hedging transactions of certain foreign currency risks and · exchange differences on monetary items receivable from or payable to a foreign operation for which settlement is neither planned nor likely to occur, which form part of the net investment in a foreign operation, and which are recognized in the foreign currency translation reserve and recognized in profit or loss on disposal of the net investment.
Goodwill and fair value adjustments arising on the acquisition of a foreign operation are treated as assets and liabilities of the foreign operation and translated at the closing rate.
Borrowing costs

The Company receives subsidies from the European Union (E.U.) the Greek State and the Organization of Local Government for the financing of specific projects. Furthermore EYDAP's customers are required to participate in the initial network connection cost (supply, distribution network, connections pipes, etc) or in the upgrade/expansion of the Company's networks. Subsidies and customers' contributions are deferred and amortized into income, over the period necessary to match them with the related costs that they are provided to compensate, with the amortizing rate equal to the depreciation rate of the respective assets. The aforementioned income is presented as a subtraction from the depreciation expense at the financial statements.
State subsidies for the training of the personnel are recognized in the financial results within the periods that are required for the matching with the related expenses and they are presented as a deduction from them.
Retirement benefit costs
Contributions to defined staff indemnities benefit schemes are recognized as an expense when employees have provided services entitling them to the contributions.
For defined benefit retirement plans, the cost of providing benefits is determined using the Projected Unit Credit Method, with actuarial valuation studies being carried out on each financial position statement's date. Actuarial gains or losses are directly recognized in the total comprehensive income for the period during which they occur, and are not transferred to the income statement of a following period. Prior service cost is recognized immediately to the extent that the benefits are already vested, otherwise are amortized on a straight-line basis over the average period until the benefits become vested.
The retirement benefit obligation recognized in the financial position statement at the time of the indemnity represents the present value of the defined benefit obligation after taking into account the adjustments for the unrecognized actuarial gains and losses and unrecognized past work experience cost reduced by the fair value of scheme's assets.

The borrowing costs at all cases burden the financial results of the fiscal year during which they occur.
Subsidies

Any asset resulting from this calculation is limited to unrecognized actuarial losses and past working experience cost, plus the present value of available refunds and reductions in future contributions to the scheme.

Subsidies are not recognized until there is reasonable assurance that the Company will comply with the clauses that govern them and that the subsidy will be received.

Taxation
Income tax expense represents the sum of the current tax payable and the deferred tax.

State subsidies whose primary condition is the purchase or the construction, or by any other way the acquisition of non-current assets are recognized as deferred income in the balance sheet and they are transferred to the operating result on a systematic and rational basis during the useful life of the related asset.
Other subsidies are recorded on a systematic basis at the income of the respective periods during which there has to be made the matching of these subsidies with the respective costs. State subsidies which are received as compensation for expenses or losses which have already incurred or for the purpose of providing immediate financial support to the Company with no future related costs are recognized in the results of the period during which they become receivable.

Current tax The current tax payable is based on taxable profit for the year. Taxable profit differs from profit as reported in the income statement because it excludes items of income or expense that are taxable or deductible in other years and in addition it further excludes items that are will never be taxed or exempted . The Company's liability for the current tax is calculated using the effective tax rates or those who have been enacted by the financial statements report date.
Deferred tax Deferred tax is recognized on differences between the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities of the financial statements and the corresponding tax bases which are used for the calculation of the taxable profit. Differed tax is recorded by applying the balance sheet lia-

120

ANNUAL FINANCIAL REPORT

bility method. Liabilities from deferred tax are generally recognized for all the taxable temporary differences and deferred tax assets are generally recognized for all deductible temporary differences to the extent that it is probable that taxable profits will be available against which those deductible temporary differences can be utilized. Such assets and liabilities are not recognized if the temporary difference arises from goodwill or from the initial recognition (other than in a business combination) of other assets and liabilities in a transaction that does not affects neither the taxable profit nor the accounting profit. Deferred tax liabilities are recognized for all the taxable temporary differences associated which arise from investments in subsidiaries and associates, and participations in joint ventures, with the exception of the cases where the Company is able to control the reversal of the temporary difference and it is probable that the temporary difference will not be reversed in the foreseeable future. Deferred tax assets arising from deductible temporary differences associated with such investments and participations are only recognized to the extent that it is probable that there will be sufficient taxable profits against which they could be utilized the benefits of the temporary differences and they are expected to be reversed in the foreseeable future.
The carrying amount of deferred tax assets is reviewed at each balance sheet date and is been reduced to the extent that it is no longer probable that sufficient taxable profits will be available to allow all or part of the asset to be recovered.
Deferred tax assets and liabilities are measured according to the tax rates that are expected to be effective in the period at which the asset will be liquidized or the liability will be settled, based on effective tax rates or are effective by the balance sheet date. The measurement of deferred tax liabilities and assets reflects the tax results that will follow based on the way that the Company expects, at the reporting date, to recover or settle the carrying amount of its assets and liabilities.
Deferred tax assets and liabilities are offset when there is a legally enforceable right to set off current tax assets against current tax liabilities and when they are related to income taxes levied by the same taxation authority and furthermore the Company intends to settle its current tax assets and liabilities on a net basis.
Current and deferred tax for the period Current and deferred tax are recognized as an expense or income in the financial results, except when they are related to items credited or debited directly to equity, case where the tax is also recognized directly in equity, or where they arise from the initial recognition of a business combination. In the case of a business combination, the tax effect is taken into account in calculating goodwill or in determining the excess between the acquirer's interest in the net fair value of the acquired business identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities over cost of the company.
Property, plant and equipment
Land and buildings held for use in the production or sale of goods or services, or for administrative purposes, are displayed on the financial statement report at their acquisition cost less any subsequent accumulated depreciation and subsequent accumulated impairment losses. Properties under construction for production, rental or administrative purposes, or for purposes not yet determined, are carried at cost, less any recognized impairment loss. Cost includes the compensation of professionals.

Depreciation of these assets, on the same basis as other property assets, commences when the assets are ready for their intended use. Land owned by the Company is not depreciated.
The water supply and sewerage networks as well as the antipollution projects, waste processing centers, fixtures and equipment are stated at cost less accumulated depreciation and any accumulated impairment losses. Depreciation is charged against the results so as to decrease the cost or the value of the assets, with the exception of the land and properties under construction, over their estimated useful lives, using the straight-line method. The estimated useful lives, residual values and depreciation method are reviewed at end of each year, with the effect of any changes on the estimates to be calculated on a prospective basis.
Assets held under finance leases are depreciated over their expected useful lives on the same basis as the owned assets or, based on the term of the relevant lease term in case it is shorter.
The gain or loss arising from the disposal or the retirement of a property, plant and equipment item is determined as the difference between the sales proceeds and the net book value of the asset and it is recognized in the profit and loss account.
Intangible assets
Intangible assets acquired separately Intangible assets acquired separately are reported at cost less accumulated amortization and accumulated impairment losses. Amortization is charged on a straight-line basis over their estimated useful lives of the tangible assets. The estimated useful life and the amortization method are reviewed at the end of each annual reporting period, with the effect of any changes in estimates being accounted on a future basis.
Internally-generated intangible assets ­ research and development expenses Expenditure on research activities is recognized as an expense in the period in which it incurs.
An internally-generated intangible asset arising from development (or from the development phase of an internal project) is recognized if, and only if, all of the following can be proven:
· the technical feasibility of completing the intangible asset so that it will be available for use or sale; · the intention to complete the intangible asset and use or sell it; · the ability to use or sell the intangible asset · the intangible asset to be able to generate probable future economic benefits. · the availability of adequate technical, financial and other resources for the completion of the development and the utilization or sale of the intangible asset and · the ability to measure reliably the expenditure attributable to the intangible asset during its development.
The amount initially recognized for internally-generated intangible assets is the sum of the expenditure which arise from the date when the intangible asset first meets the recognition of the criteria listed above. Where it is not possible to recognize internally-generated intangible asset, development expenditure is charged to the profit and loss statement in the period in which it incurs. Subsequent to the initial recognition, internally-generated intangible assets are reported at cost less accumulated amortization and accumulated impairment losses, on the same basis as intangible assets acquired separately.

ANNUAL FINANCIAL REPORT

121

Intangible assets acquired in a business combination Intangible assets acquired in a business combination are identified and recognized separately from goodwill where they satisfy the definition of an intangible asset and their fair values can be measured reliably. The cost of such intangible assets is their fair value at the acquisition date.
Subsequent to initial recognition, intangible assets acquired in a business combination are reported at cost less accumulated amortization and accumulated impairment losses, on the same basis as intangible assets acquired separately.
Impairment of tangible and intangible assets excluding goodwill

Provisions
Provisions are recognized when the Company has a present obligation (legal or constructive) as a result of a past event, it is probable that the Company will be required to settle the obligation, and a reliable estimate can be made of the amount of the obligation.
The amount recognized as a provision is the best estimate of the consideration required to settle the present obligation on the financial statements reporting date, taking into account the risks and uncertainties surrounding the obligation. Where a provision is measured using the cash flows estimated to settle the present obligation, its carrying amount is the present value of those cash flows.

On the financial statements reporting date, the Company reviews the carrying amounts of its tangible and intangible assets to determine whether there is any indication that those assets have suffered an impairment loss. If any such indication occurs, the recoverable amount of the asset is estimated in order to determine the extent of the impairment loss (if any). Where it is not possible to estimate the recoverable amount of an individual asset, the Company estimates the recoverable amount of the cash flow-generating unit to which the asset belongs.
When a reasonable and consistent basis of allocation can be identified, corporate assets can also be allocated to individual cash flow-generating units, or otherwise they are allocated to the smaller group of cash flow-generating units for which a reasonable and consistent allocation basis can be identified.
Intangible assets with indefinite useful lives and intangible assets not yet available for use are tested for impairment annually, and whenever there is an indication that the asset may be impaired.
Recoverable amount is the higher between the fair value deducted by the sale costs and the value in use. In assessing value in use (of the asset), the estimated future cash flows are discounted to their present value using a pre-tax discount rate that reflects the current market assessments of the time value of money and the risks related to the asset.
If the recoverable amount of an asset (or cash flow-generating unit) is estimated to be less than its carrying amount, the carrying amount of the asset (cash flow-generating unit) is reduced to its recoverable amount. An impairment loss is recognized immediately in the profit and loss account. Where an impairment loss subsequently is reversed, the carrying amount of the asset (cash flow-generating unit) is increased to the revised estimate of its recoverable amount, so as the increased carrying amount does not exceed the carrying amount that would have been determined if there had not been recognized any impairment loss for the asset (or a cash flow-generating unit) in prior years. A reversal of an impairment loss is recognized immediately in the profit and loss account.
Inventories

When part or all of the economic benefits required to settle a provision are expected to be recovered from a third party, the receivable is recognized as an asset when it is practically certain that reimbursement will be received and the amount of the receivable can be measured reliably.
Onerous contracts Present obligations arising under onerous contracts are recognized and measured as a provision. An onerous contract is considered to occur where the Company has a contract under which the unavoidable costs of meeting the obligations under the contract exceed the economic benefits expected to be received under it.
Restructurings A restructuring provision is recognized when the Company has developed a detailed formal plan for the restructuring and has raised a valid expectation, to those been affected, that it will carry out the restructuring by starting the implementation of the plan or announcing its main features to those been affected by it. The measurement of a restructuring provision includes only the direct expenditures arising from the restructuring, which necessarily stem from the restructuring and simultaneously are not associated with the ongoing activities of the entity.
Warranties Provisions for warranty costs are recognized at the date of the sale of the relevant products, according to the management's best estimates for the expenditure required to settle the Company's obligation.
Financial assets
Investments are recognized and written off on the date of the trade where the purchase or sale of an investment is performed based on a contract whose terms require delivery of the investment within the timeframe established by the market concerned, and they are initially measured at the fair value, net of transaction costs.
Financial assets are classified into the following specified categories: financial assets as `at fair value through profit or loss' (FVTPL), `held-to-maturity investments', `availablefor-sale' (AFS) financial assets and `loans and receivables'. The classification depends on the nature and purpose of the financial assets and it is determined at the time of the initial recognition.

Inventories are recorded at the lower value between acquisition cost and net liquidation value. The acquisition cost is calculated via the weighted average cost method. The cost incorporates all respective materials and whenever is required it also includes direct labor costs and the respective general industrial expenses incurred for the processing of inventories to their final condition. The net liquidation value represents the estimated selling price less the estimated costs necessary for the completion of the sale.

Method of Effective interest rate The effective interest rate method is a method based on which it is calculated the amortized cost of a financial asset and it is allocated the interest income over the relevant period. The effective interest rate is the rate that exactly discounts the estimated future cash receipts (including all the commissions paid or received as they are an inextricable part of the effective interest ,transactions costs plus other additional fees or discounts) through the expected life of the financial asset, or a shorter period where it is

122

ANNUAL FINANCIAL REPORT

deemed as appropriate. Income is recorded on the profit and loss account by utilizing the effective interest rate basis except from those financial assets which have been identified as "at the fair value through the profit and loss" (FVTPL).
Financial assets at FVTPL Financial assets are classified as at FVTPL where the financial asset is either held for sale or it is designated as at FVTPL. A financial asset is classified as held for trading if: · it has been acquired principally for the purpose of selling
in the near future; or · it is a part of an identified portfolio of financial instru-
ments that the Company manages jointly and for that there is a recent actual pattern of short-term profit-taking; or it is a derivative that is not designated and effective hedging instrument. A financial asset other than a financial asset held for sale can be designated as at FVTPL upon initial recognition if: · such designation eliminates or significantly reduces an inconsistency which refers to the measurement or the recognition that would otherwise arise; or · the financial asset forms a part of a group of financial assets or financial liabilities or both, which is under management and its performance is evaluated based on its fair value, in accordance with the Company's documented risk management or investment strategy, and information about the grouping is provided internally on that basis; or · it forms part of a contract containing one or more embedded derivatives, and IAS 39 permits to the entire combined contract (asset or liability) to be designated as at FVTPL.
Financial assets at FVTPL are stated at fair value and any resultant gain or loss is recognized in the profit and loss statement. The net gain or loss recognized in the profit and loss statement incorporates any dividend or interest earned on the financial asset. The fair value is determined in the manner described in note 39.
Held-to-maturity investments Bills of exchange and debentures with fixed or determinable payments and fixed maturity dates that the Company has the positive intent and the ability to hold to maturity are classified as held-to-maturity investments. Held-to-maturity investments are recorded at amortized cost using the effective interest rate method less impairment, with revenue recognized at the profit and loss account on an effective yield basis.

in the amortized cost of the asset is recognized in profit or loss while other changes are recognized in the equity.
Loans and receivables Trade receivables, loans, and other receivables that have fixed or determinable payments that they are not traded in an active market are classified as `loans and receivables'. Loans and receivables are measured at their initial recognition at fair value and subsequently at amortized cost using the effective interest rate method less any impairment. Interest income is recognized by applying the effective interest rate method, except for short-term receivables where the recognition of interest would be immaterial.
Impairment of financial assets Financial assets, other than those at FVTPL, are assessed for indications of impairment on each financial statements date. Financial assets are impaired where there is objective evidence that, as a result of one or more events that occurred after the initial recognition of the financial asset, the estimated future cash flows of the investment have been impacted. For financial assets carried at amortized cost, the amount of the impairment is the difference between the asset's carrying amount and the present value of the estimated future cash flows, discounted at the initial effective interest rate. The carrying amount of the financial asset is reduced by the impairment loss directly for all the financial assets with the exception of trade receivables where the carrying amount is reduced through the use of a provision account. When a trade receivable is uncollectible, it is written off against the provision account. Subsequent recoveries of amounts previously written off are transferred in benefit of income statement. Changes in the carrying amount of the provision account are recognized in the profit and loss account. With the exception of AFS equity instruments, if, in a subsequent period, the amount of the impairment loss decreases and the decrease can be related objectively to an event occurring after the impairment it was recognized, the previously recognized impairment loss is reversed through profit or loss to the extent that the carrying amount of the investment at the date that the impairment is reversed does not exceed the amortized cost that would have been estimated if the impairment was not recognized. In respect of AFS equity securities, any increase in the fair value subsequent to an impairment loss it is recognized directly in the equity.
Financial liabilities and equity instruments issued by the Company

Available for sale (AFS) financial assets Listed shares and listed redeemable bonds held by the Company and traded in an active market are classified as being AFS and are stated at fair value. Fair value is determined in the manner described in note 39. Gains and losses arising from changes in the fair value are recognized directly in equity in the investments revaluation reserve with the exception of the impairment losses, the interest calculated using the effective interest rate method and the foreign exchange gains and losses on monetary assets, which are recognized directly in profit the loss account. When the investment is disposed or it is identified as impaired, the cumulative gain or loss previously recognized in the investments revaluation reserve is included in the profit and loss account of the period. Dividends on AFS equity instruments are recognized in profit or loss when it is finalized the Company's right to receive payments from the shareholders. The fair value of AFS monetary assets denominated in a foreign currency is determined in the respective foreign currency and it is translated at the spot rate at the financial statements report date. The change in fair value attributable to translation differences that result from a change

Classification as debt or equity Debt and equity instruments are classified as either financial liabilities or as equity in accordance with the substance of the contractual arrangement.
Equity instruments An equity instrument is any contract that evidences a residual interest in the assets of an entity after deducting all of its liabilities. Equity instruments are recorded with the product of the receipts, net of direct issuance costs.
Compound Financial instruments The component parts of compound instruments are classified separately as financial liabilities and equity in accordance with the substance of the contractual arrangement. At the issuance date, the fair value of the liability component is estimated using the prevailing market interest rate for a similar non-convertible instrument. This amount is recorded as a liability on an amortized cost basis until it is eliminated through its conversion or until its maturity date. The equity component is determined after the deduction of the liability component from the fair value of the compound instrument as a whole. This amount is recognized

ANNUAL FINANCIAL REPORT

123

and included in equity, net of income tax effects, and it is

not re-measured at a subsequent date.

Deletion-Cease-Discontinuance of recognition

Financial guarantee contract liabilities Financial guarantee contract liabilities are measured initially at their fair values and subsequently they are measured at the higher between: · the amount of the obligation under the contract, as de-
termined in accordance with IAS 37 "Provisions, Contingent Liabilities and Contingent Assets". · the amount initially recognized deductible by, when it is deemed necessary, the cumulative amortization recognized in accordance with the revenue recognition policies.

The Company deletes a financial liability only when it has been paid, cancelled or expired.
Cash and cash equivalents
Cash and cash equivalents comprise of cash on hand and deposits, and other short-term highly liquid investments that are easily converted to a known amount of cash and subject to an insignificant risk of changes in their value.
Sectors of Operations

Financial liabilities

Financial liabilities are classified as either financial liabilities at FVTPL or as other financial liabilities.

Financial liabilities at Fair Value Through Profit and Loss Account (FVTPL) Financial liabilities are classified as at FVTPL when the financial liability is either held for sale or if it is designated as a FVTPL.

A financial liability is classified as held for sale if:

·

i

t has been incurred principally for the purpose of repur-

chasing in the near future; or

· it is a part of an identified portfolio of special financial

instruments that the Company manages jointly and for

this there is a recent actual pattern of short-term prof-

it-taking; or

· it is a derivative that is not designated and effective as a

hedging instrument.

A financial liability other than a financial liability held for sale may be designated as at FVTPL upon initial recognition if: · such designation eliminates or significantly reduces an
inconsistency which refers to the measurement or recognition that would otherwise arise; or · the financial liability forms part of a group of financial assets or financial liabilities or both, which is managed and its performance is evaluated on a fair value basis, in accordance with the Company's documented risk management or investment strategy, and information about the grouping is provided internally on that basis; or · it forms part of a contract containing one or more embedded derivatives, and IAS 39 permits to the entire combined contract (asset or liability) to be designated as at FVTPL. Financial liabilities at FVTPL are stated at fair value, and any resultant gain or loss is recognized in the profit and loss account. The net gain or loss recognized in profit or loss incorporates any interest paid on the financial liability. Fair value is determined based on the way described in note 39.

Other financial liabilities Other financial liabilities, which includes as well borrowings, are initially measured at fair value, net of transaction costs. Other financial liabilities are subsequently measured at amortized cost using the effective interest rate method, with interest expenses recognized on an effective yield basis. The effective interest rate method is a method based on which is been calculated the amortized cost of a financial liability and the interest expense is been allocated over the relevant period. The effective interest rate is the rate that exactly discounts the estimated future cash payments through the expected life of the financial liability, or, in a shorter when deemed necessary.

The basic operations of the Company (water supply, sewerage services and others) are not subject to different risks and returns. As a result the company did not proceed into the presentation of notifications with respect to the sectors of operations. It is clarified that the Company operates in one geographical region (Attiki Metropolitan area). The policy and the decision making is common for the operating sectors of the Company.
4. C RITICAL ACCOUNTING TREATMENTS AND IMPORTANT SOURCES OF ESTIMATION OF UNCERTAINTITIES
During the preparation of the financial statements in accordance with the accounting policies of the Group, as they are presented in note 3, it is essential for the management to proceed with judgments, estimations and assumptions with regard to the book value of the assets and the liabilities, which are not obvious from other sources of information. The estimations and the relevant assumptions, are based on the past empirical evidence, estimations of specialized external advisors as well as other related factors. The actual results may differ from these estimates.
The estimates and the subjective assumptions are reviewed on constant basis. The revisions of accounting estimates are recognized in the period of occurrence, if such affect only the particular period or in future periods as well.
The accounting judgments which have been made by the management during the application of the Group's accounting policies and which significantly affect the financial statements of the company and the group are the following:
1. The provision for contingent doubtful customer receivables (retail customers, Greek State, public utilities).
2. C ontingent obligations of the Company toward the Greek State (maintenance cost of the assets of LEPL "EYDAP Fixed Assets", cost price of the crude water).
3. P rovisions concerning four defined benefit plans for the personnel.
4. Provisions for pending judicial cases relating to labor issues.
Furthermore the management reviews annually, in terms of assumptions and estimations, the following: 1. Economic life and repurchase values of the depreciated
tangible assets and the amortized intangible assets. 2. Income tax which incorporates the provision for the
current income tax and the provision for additional taxes and incremental charges for tax unaudited years. 3. Recoverability of deferred tax receivables.

124

ANNUAL FINANCIAL REPORT

ANNUAL FINANCIAL REPORT

125

5. REVENUES
The Company's revenues are analyzed as follows:
Amounts in  thousand REVENUES Revenues from water supply and related services Revenues from sewerage services Revenues from constructions for the Greek State Revenues from electric power sale Inventory Sales Total Turnover Other Operating Revenues Financial Income Total Revenues

GROUP
31.12.2017 31.12.2016

223.259 101.093
529 1.999 463 327.343 3.782 19.156 350.281

224.125 102.577
65 2.073
11 328.851 3.783 13.914 346.548

COMPANY
31.12.2017 31.12.2016

223.240 101.093
529 1.999 463 327.324 3.782 19.148 350.254

224.095 102.577
65 2.073
11 328.821 3.783 13.904 346.508

The decrease in turnover by 1.5 million Euro approximately is mainly due to the lower revenues from water consumption and also due to the lower income from sewerage services. The other operating revenues increased by 5.2 million Euro approximately mainly due to the repayment of the installments according to the settlement of overdue amounts from the municipalities to the Company.

126

ANNUAL FINANCIAL REPORT

6. ALLOCATION OF EXPENSES INTO THE OPERATIONS AND OTHER EXPENSES

The expenses accounts (by nature) have been allocated in the cost of goods sold and in the operations of administration and distribution as follows:

GROUP 31/12/2017 Amounts in  thousand Third-party expenses and fees Cost of Self-Constructed Assets Total  Personnel Fees & Expenses (note 8) Third-party contributions Depreciation and amortization (note 7) Various Provisions (note 20, 21, 28) Various Expenses Raw materials and consumables Cost of Self-Constructed Assets Total  Total ( + )

Cost of Goods Distribution Administration

Sold

Expenses

Expenses

40.978 (4.141) 36.837 70.751 20.170 32.601 13.141 10.470 6.804 (6.296) 147.641 184.478

2.260 -
2.260 18.642 5.656
1.181 -
1.485 286
27.250 29.510

8.289 -
8.289 38.845 9.492 2.997
7.245 696
59.275 67.564

Total
51.527 (4.141) 47.386 128.238 35.318 36.779 13.141 19.200 7.786 (6.296) 234.166 281.552

31/12/2016 Amounts in  thousand Third-party expenses and fees Cost of Self-Constructed Assets Total  Personnel Fees & Expenses Third-party contributions Depreciation and amortization Various Provisions Various Expenses Raw materials and consumables Cost of Self-Constructed Assets Total  Total ( + )  31/12/2017 Amounts in  thousand Third-party expenses and fees Cost of Self-Constructed Assets Total  Personnel Fees & Expenses (note 8) Third-party contributions Depreciation and amortization (note 7) Various Provisions (note 6.d) Various Expenses Raw materials and consumables Cost of Self-Constructed Assets Total  Total ( + )

Cost of Goods Distribution Administration

Sold

Expenses

Expenses

39.288 (2.405) 36.883 64.230 22.503 32.670 18.878 4.945
5.615 (3.087) 145.754 182.637

1.061 -
1.061 17.537 4.802 1.191
2.215 185
25.930 26.991

7.586 -
7.586 37.927 12.483 3.510
6.584 660
61.164 68.750

Total
47.935 (2.405) 45.530 119.694 39.788 37.371 18.878 13.744 6.460 (3.087) 232.848 278.378

Cost of Goods Distribution Administration

Sold

Expenses

Expenses

40.978 (4.141) 36.837 70.751 20.170 32.601 13.141 10.470 6.804 (6.296) 147.641 184.478

2.260 -
2.260 18.642 5.656
1.181 -
1.485 286
27.250 29.510

8.226 -
8.226 38.842 9.492 2.997
7.234 696
59.261 67.487

Total
51.464 (4.141) 47.323 128.235 35.318 36.779 13.141 19.189 7.786 (6.296) 234.152 281.475

31/12/2016 Amounts in  thousand Third-party expenses and fees Cost of Self-Constructed Assets Total  Personnel Fees & Expenses Third-party contributions Depreciation and amortization Various Provisions Various Expenses Raw materials and consumables Cost of Self-Constructed Assets Total  Total ( + )

Cost of Goods Distribution Administration

Sold

Expenses

Expenses

39.288 (2.405) 36.883 64.230 22.503 32.670 18.878 4.945
5.615 (3.087) 145.754 182.637

1.061 -
1.061 17.537 4.802 1.191
2.215 185
25.930 26.991

7.543 -
7.543 37.927 12.483 3.510
6.574 660
61.154 68.697

Total
47.892 (2.405) 45.487 119.694 39.788 37.371 18.878 13.734 6.460 (3.087) 232.838 278.325

ANNUAL FINANCIAL REPORT

127

The fluctuation of expenses compared to the previous year is due to the following categories of expenses: a. THIRD PARTY CONTRIBUTIONS (GROUP & COMPANY) The account is analyzed as follows:

Amounts in  thousand Electric Power Natural Gas Leases Telecommunication ­ Postal Expenses Maintenance and Repairs Other Third Party Contributions Total (Note 6)

GROUP

31.12.2017 15.155 522 8.101 5.308 4.431 1.801 35.318

31.12.2016 17.133 461 8.104 5.718 6.277 2.095 39.788

COMPANY

31.12.2017 15.155 522 8.101 5.308 4.431 1.801 35.318

31.12.2016 17.133 461 8.104 5.718 6.277 2.095 39.788

b. VARIOUS EXPENSES (GROUP & COMPANY)
The account is analyzed as follows:
Amounts in  thousand Taxes - Duties Materials for Immediate Consumption Promotion and Advertising Expenses Transport Expenses Sponsoring Expenses - Grants Other Expenses Total (Note 6)

GROUP

31.12.2017 7.567 2.013 988 646 387 7.599 19.200

31.12.2016 6.402 2.553 1.747 595 482 1.965 13.744

COMPANY

31.12.2017 7.564 2.013 988 646 387 7.591 19.189

31.12.2016 6.392 2.553 1.747 595 482 1.965 13.734

The significant increase in other expenses is mainly due to the increased activity of the Company in construction works and is included in the self-construction cost.

c. THIRD PARTY FEES & EXPENSES (GROUP & COMPANY)

The account, after the deduction of the cost of self-constructed assets (Total A), is analyzed as follows:

Amounts in  thousand Fees of Sub-contractors of Psyttaleia WTP Fees of Sub-contractors of Mornos WTP Fees of Water Supply Network Sub-contractors Other Third Party Fees Total (Note 6)

GROUP

31.12.2017 27.734 1.640 2.295 15.717 47.386

31.12.2016 28.400 2.054 3.249 11.827 45.530

COMPANY

31.12.2017 27.734 1.640 2.295 15.654 47.323

31.12.2016 28.400 2.054 3.249 11.784 45.487

d. VARIOUS PROVISIONS (GROUP & COMPANY)
The account is analyzed as follows
Amounts in  thousand Provisions for Doubtful Receivables Provisions for Litigations Cases Provisions for Obsolete Inventories Total (Note 6

GROUP

31.12.2017 5.942 6.993 206 13.141

31.12.2016 5.362 13.515 1 18.878

COMPANY

31.12.2017 5.942 6.993 206 13.141

31.12.2016 5.362 13.515 1 18.878

128

ANNUAL FINANCIAL REPORT

7. Depreciation Expenses

Depreciation expenses of fixed assets are recorded on the basis of fixed assets' economic life, via the straight line depreciation method as follows:

. WATER SUPPLY NETWORKS Primary Water Supply Pipelines Secondary Water Supply Pipelines Distribution Networks, External and Internal Pumping Stations Storage tanks ­ Water Treatment Plants . SEWERAGE NETWORKS Heavy Infrastructure and Primary Collection Units Secondary Pipelines External Branches Electromechanical Installations I. ANTI-POLLUTION PROJECTS AND Waste Water Treatment PLANTS Waste Water Treatment R&D Centers Waste Water Treatment Plants IV. OTHER Furniture & Fixture Computer Hardware Transportation Vehicles Mechanical Equipment Buildings

33-35. 25-50. 10-50. 17-50.
25-50. 25-50. 25-50. 20-50.
10-40. 10-40.
5. 3-4. 5-20. 7-10. 20-50.

The amounts recorded in the financial statements are analyzed as follows:

Amounts in  thousand Depreciation of tangible assets Amortization of intangible assets Amortization of customer contributions and investment subsidies Total (Note 6)

GROUP

31.12.2017 43.863 1.100 (8.184) 36.779

31.12.2016 44.594 945 (8.168) 37.371

COMPANY

31.12.2017 43.863 1.100 (8.184) 36.779

31.12.2016 44.594 945 (8.168) 37.371

8. PERSONNEL FEES & EXPENSES (GROUP & COMPANY)

Amounts in  thousand

31.12.2017

Salaries and Wages

81.576

Social Security Contributions

19.266

Provision for staff indemnity L. 2112 (note 27a)

1.780

Provision for Special One-Off Indemnity for employees hired up to the date 25/10/1999 (note 27.d) 13.453

Provision for Special One-Off Indemnity for employees hired after the date 25/10/1999 (note 27.c)

923

Provisions for Healthcare Beneficiaries (note 27.b)

5.502

Other Provisions

5.735

Total (Note 6

128.235

31.12.2016 81.311 19.344 1.859 2.665 164 5.940 8.411
119.694

The Company, applying the clauses of Law 4024/2011, aligns accordingly the personnel fees with the requirements of the above mentioned law.

9. FINANCIAL INCOME (GROUP & cOMPANY)
Amounts in  thousand Interest from Customers Dividends Interest earned on times deposits Other Income Total (Note 5)

GROUP

31.12.2017 8.910 60 7.100 3.086 19.156

31.12.2016 6.224 66 7.427 197 13.914

COMPANY

31.12.2017 8.910 60 7.092 3.086 19.148

31.12.2016 6.224 66 7.417 197 13.904

ANNUAL FINANCIAL REPORT

129

The item "Other Income" includes income from the settlement of overdue amounts payable to the Company for an amount of 2.9 million approximately.
10. FINANCIAL EXPENSES (GROUP & cOMPANY)
The Company's financial expenses of  503 thous. and  4,431 thous. on 31 December 2017 and 2016 respectively, moved lower due to the decreasing number of settlements with regard to overdue amounts payable to the Company from the municipalities.
11. INCOME TAX
a. Income Tax in the Statement of Income The income tax of the current year represents the sum of the current income tax, the deferred taxation, the tax provision for the unaudited financial years as well as the tax audit differences, and is analyzed as follows:

Amounts in  thousand Corresponding Income Tax Provision for additional tax for the year Tax audit differences Deferred Taxation Total The income tax during the current period derived as follows:
Amounts in  thousand Earnings before taxes

GROUP

31.12.2017 21.404 895 747 23.046

31.12.2016 26.932 463 (10.120) 17.275

COMPANY

31.12.2017 21.404 895 747 23.046

31.12.2016 26.932 463 (10.120) 17.275

GROUP

31.12.2017 31.12.2016

66.473

41.324

COMPANY

31.12.2017 31.12.2016

66.523

41.337

Income tax calculated with the tax rate in effect (29%) Provision for additional tax for the year Tax audit differences Tax on permanent differences and non tax-deductible expenses Total

19.277 -
895 2.574 23.046

11.984 463
4.828 17.275

19.292 -
895 2.859 23.046

11.988 463
4.824 17.275

The liability concerning the income tax has been calculated against the earnings of the financial year in accordance with the tax legislation based on the tax rate of 29% currently in effect.

b. Income Tax in the Statement of Financial Position Current Tax Receivable The amount of the income tax receivable as it is analyzed below, settled at 5.3 million Euro approximately:

Amounts in  thousand Income Tax Income tax receivable from tax audit of year 2014 Withheld tax / tax prepayment Total

31.12.2017 (21.404)
26.582 5.178

31.12.2016 (26.932)
13.569 28.487 15.124

It is also noted: The company has been audited by the tax authorities until the fiscal year 2010. The fiscal years 2011 until 2013 and 2014 until 2016 are subject to the tax audit of the Certified Auditors Accountants according to the clauses of the article 82, paragraph 5 of Law 2238/1994 (as it was amended by the article 21, paragraph 10 of Law 3943/2011) and of the article 65A of Law 4174/2013 respectively. For the fiscal years 2011 and until 2015, tax compliance certificates have been issued without any reservation. With regard to the fiscal year 2016, a tax compliance certificate was issued without reservation and with a matter of emphasis, mainly referring to a question made to the Independent Authority for Public Revenue (IAPR) concerning the Company's obligation of recording ownership rights in its Asset Registry Statement (E9). The financial statements incorporate provisions of  2.4 million approximately. ISLANDS' EYDAP DEVELOPMENT SA has not been audited for tax purposes from the fiscal year 2011 and going forward and in addition it has not formed any relevant provision due to its limited business transactions.

12. EARNINGS PER SHARE

The basic earnings per share are calculated by dividing the net profit of the period attributable to ordinary shareholders with the weighted average number of ordinary shares in issue during the period. Profits are defined as profits/ losses from continuing operations of the Company. It is noted that in the current year, as well as in the previous one, there were no discontinued operations. There were no convertible bonds or other potentially dilutive convertible securities during the periods reported in the accompanying financial statements, so there is no calculation of any diluted earnings per share.

GROUP

Earnings attributable to ordinary shareholders (in  `000) Weighted Average of outstanding shares Earnings per share ­ Basic in 

31.12.2017 43.427
106.500.000 0,41

31.12.2016 24.049
106.500.000 0,23

130

ANNUAL FINANCIAL REPORT

The Company's Board of Directors in its meeting on 28.03.2018 decided to submit a proposal to the Annual Ordinary Shareholders' Meeting with regard to the distribution of dividend, according to article 45 of Codified Law 2190/1920, amounting to twenty cents of Euro (or  0.20) per share (total gross amount of  21.3 million) for the financial year 2017. The dividend is subject to approval from the Ordinary General Shareholders' Meeting and is included in the balance of the account "Retained Earnings (earnings carried forward)".
13. GOODWILL
The goodwill of  3,357 thous. on 31st December 2017 concerns the amount paid in excess for the acquisition of Elefsina, Aspropyrgos and Lykovrisi networks as compared to the networks' net replacement cost, which was valued at the time of the acquisition. The cash generating units and consequently the goodwill of the networks, are under review for possible impairment in their values on annual basis, or periodically, provided that the events or the changes of conditions indicate that such impairment could be justified. The valuation audit of the goodwill from the acquisition of networks derived no loss due to impairment. The impairment audit was performed by the Financial Analysis Department of the Company in December 2017.
More specifically:
In order to settle its claims against certain local government authorities (OTA), the Company signed contracts with three municipalities (Aspropyrgos and Elefsina during the 2nd half of 2003 and Likovrisi in 2nd half 2006) for the transfer of ownership of their water supply networks. In the context of the above contracts, water supply networks of 327 kilometers were transferred to EYDAP. The networks service, via 26,786 connections, 65,000 inhabitants approximately of the particular municipalities, which are now added to the Company's customer base.
The acquisition of the network of Aspropyrgos Municipality accounted for  2,749 thous. and was settled by offsetting an equal debt to the Company. The appraisal of the network in replacement cost, which was performed by the Company's technical department and was in agreement with the corresponding estimates of the Municipality's technical department, amounts to  2,192 thous.
The acquisition of the network of Elefsina Municipality accounted for  1,800 thous. and was settled by offsetting a debt of  1,500 thous. to the Company and via a payment of  300 thous. from the Company to the municipality. The appraisal of the network in replacement cost, which was performed by the Company's technical department and was in agreement with the corresponding estimates of the Municipality's technical department, amounts to  681 thous.
The acquisition of the network of Likovrisi Municipality accounted for  2,271 thous. and was settled by offsetting an equal debt to the Company. The appraisal of the network in replacement cost, which was performed by the Company's technical department and was in agreement with the corresponding estimates of the Municipality's technical department, amounts to  590 thous.

14. Other Intangibles assets (GROUP & COMPANY)
Acquisition Cost on 31st December 2016 Additions Balance on 31st December 2017 DEPRECIATION 31st December 2016 Depreciation for the Year Total Depreciation on 31st December 2017 Net Value 31st December 2016 31st December 2017

30.417 842
31.259
(29.133) (1.100) (30.233)
1.284 1.026

Other intangible assets concern expenses for the purchase of software and other intangible fixed assets, which are expected to generate future benefits to the Company. These expenses are recorded as intangible assets. Software assets are mainly depreciated over a three-year period whereas with regard to the other intangible fixed assets, the Company reviews their economic life on regular basis.
15. Tangible assets
The Company, applying the provisions of IFRS 1 "First-time adoption of IFRS", utilized the exception concerning the recording and valuation of property assets during the compilation of the Transitional Balance Sheet to the IFRS on 1 January 2004. In this context, the Company considered the adjusted value of its property assets as deemed (implied) cost for the purposes of the compilation of the Transitional Balance Sheet to the IFRS on 1 January 2004. Specifically for the transition to IFRS, the Company recorded the self-utilized property assets at fair values based on studies performed by independent valuators. These fair values constituted the deemed cost for the compilation of the Balance Sheet.
The changes in fixed assets of the Group and the Company for the financial years 2017 and 2016 are presented in the table below:

ANNUAL FINANCIAL REPORT

131

2017 Amounts in  thousand

Land & Machinery & Buildings Mechanical
Equipment

Non-Depreciated Value on 1st January 2017 Additions Reductions/Transfers Deprecation Reverse Entry Depreciation of the Year Non-Depreciated Value on 31.12.2017

269.916 542 -
(3.627)
266.831

4.527 348
(1.048)
3.827

Water Supply Network &
consumption meters
236.753 6.458 -
(16.843)
226.368

1/1/2017:
Cost Accumulated Depreciation

303.180 24.149 (33.264) (19.622)

484.698 (247.945)

Net Non-Depreciated Value 269.916 4.527

236.753

31/12/2017:
Cost Accumulated Depreciation

303.722 24.497 (36.891) (20.670)

491.156 (264.788)

Net Non-Depreciated Value 266.831 3.827

226.368

Sewerage Networks & Biological Treatment

Motor Vehicles
& Furniture

Prepayments &
Constructions in Progress

Total

355.559 3.437 -
(18.774)
340.222

9.772 716 (55) 55
(3.572)
6.916

4.810 3.491
55 -
8.356

881.337 14.991
55 (43.863)
852.520

554.425

62.057

(198.866) (52.285)

355.559

9.772

4.810 -
4.810

1.433.319 (551.982) 881.337

557.862

62.718

(217.640) (55.802)

340.222

6.916

8.356 -
8.356

1.448.311 (595.791) 852.520

2016 Amounts in  thousand

Land & Machinery & Buildings Mechanical
Equipment

Non-Depreciated Value on 1st January 2016 Additions Reductions/Transfers Deprecation Reverse Entry Depreciation of the Year Non-Depreciated Value on 31.12.2016

273.328 215 -
(3.627)
269.916

1.826 3.730
(1.029)
4.527

Water Supply Network &
consumption meters
252.086 2.474 -
(17.807)
236.753

1/1/2016:
Cost Accumulated Depreciation

302.965 20.419 (29.637) (18.593)

482.224 (230.138)

Net Non-Depreciated Value 273.328 1.826

252.086

31/12/2016:
Cost Accumulated Depreciation

303.180 24.149 (33.264) (19.622)

484.698 (247.945)

Net Non-Depreciated Value 269.916 4.527

236.753

Sewerage Networks & Biological Treatment

Motor Vehicles
& Furniture

Prepayments &
Constructions in Progress

Total

373.689 705 -
(18.835)
355.559

9.361 3.943 (1.169) 934 (3.297)
9.772

6.265 1.700 (3.155)
-
4.810

916.555 12.767 (4.324)
934 (44.595)
881.337

553.720 (180.031) 373.689

59.283 (49.922)
9.361

6.265 -
6.265

1.424.876 (508.320)
916.555

554.425

62.057

(198.866) (52.285)

355.559

9.772

4.810 -
4.810

1.433.319 (551.982) 881.337

132

ANNUAL FINANCIAL REPORT

16. INVESTMENTS IN SUBSIDIARIES

On 18th July 2011, with the BoD decision 17241/13.05.2011, EYDAP SA established a company under the name "Islands Water Supply and Sewerage S.A." with distinctive title "ISLANDS' EYDAP SA", which is fully owned (100% via capital deposit of 1,210 thousand Euro) by EYDAP SA. With the decision of the Extraordinary General Assembly of shareholders of the societe anonyme dated 21/09/2017, the name changed to "ISLANDS' WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE S.A. DEVELOPMENT" with the distinctive title "ISLANDS' EYDAP DEVELOPMENT SA". "ISLANDS' EYDAP DEVELOPMENT SA" activates in the areas of water supply, sewerage, irrigation, and rain water collection in Greece's islands. The subsidiary possesses limited business activity until today.

17. INVESTMENTS AVAILABLE FOR SALE

The investments available for sale include the following:

· Interest in EYATH SA, a company listed on the Athens Exchange, which provides the company with the option to generate income from dividends and potentially from capital gains. The company was valued at fair according to the official price quote of the Athens Exchange on 31.12.2017 and the difference that emerged due to the change of fair value was recorded in the net worth through the Statement of Total Comprehensive Income.

· Acquisition of shares in Attica Bank. EYDAP SA, with the decision no. 18770/18.12.2015 of the Board of Directors approved its participation in the share capital increase of Attica Bank Societe Anonyme, based on an amount of  20 million. The above decision was verified by the Extraordinary General Meeting of shareholders on 15/01/2016.

The investment of the Company in the shares of Attica Bank is considered as strategic one and therefore it has been recorded under the category of financial assets available for sale. The particular investment was valued at fair based on the official price quote of the Athens Exchange on 31.12.2017, and the difference (profit) that emerged due to the change in the fair value according to the paragraph 55 of IAS 39 was recognized in the net worth through the Statement of Total Comprehensive Income.

In view of the above, the Company's portfolio was formed as follows:

Amounts in  thousand
Thessaloniki Water Supply & Sewerage Co. (EYATH) Attica Bank SA Total

Number of Shares 264.880
66.666.666

Acq. Cost 485 20.000

Valuation on Valuation on

31.12.2017 31.12.2016

1.192

922

2.467

1.933

3.659

2.855

18. Long-term receivables (group & company) The account is analyzed in the attached financial statements as follows:

Amounts in  thousand Personnel Loans (Note 22) Settlement of overdue amounts from Municipalities Third Party Works Guarantees (Public Power Corp., Real Estate) Total
Municipality Debt Settlements:

GROUP

31.12.2017 6.088 8.106 4.297 543 19.034

31.12.2016 6.573 11.693 3.769 563 22.598

COMPANY

31.12.2017 6.088 8.106 4.297 543 19.034

31.12.2016 6.573 11.693 3.769 563 22.598

The Company, in the context of its business activity, supplies with water (refined or decapitated) various Local Authorities (OTA) which manage their own distribution networks and price their citizens. In the course of settlement of the Greek State's liabilities by Local Authorities, Legal Entities and General Government bodies to the Company, the due liabilities were paid in 2013. The Company since 2014, in order to deal with delays in the collection of the relevant receivables by the Local Authorities, proceeded with the formation of contracts with specific Local Authorities, on the basis of which the remaining amounts of these Local Authorities are settled in interest-free monthly installments. These long-term receivables are presented in the financial statements at amortized cost. The discount rate applicable to due receivables by Municipalities is set 8.76% and the amount recognized in the financial income for the aforementioned receivables amounts to approximately 2.9 million Euro.

Construction Works for Third Parties (Group and Company)

The account in the attached financial statements is analyzed as follows:

Amounts in  thousand Ministry of Infrastructure, Transport and Networks "EYDAP Fixed Assets" L.E.P.L. Total

31.12.2017 2.766 1.531 4.297

31.12.2016 2.238 1.531 3.769

ANNUAL FINANCIAL REPORT

133

The Company, in accordance with its foundation law 2744/1999, signed a contract with the Greek State in 1999 to undertake the construction of flood protection infrastructure for the account of the former Ministry for the Environment, Planning and Public Works (currently named as Ministry of Infrastructure and Transport) as well as to undertake projects for the upgrade and expansion of water supply technical installations, which have been transferred to the L.E.P.L. "EYDAP Fixed Assets". Until 31/12/2012, the entire claims with regard to the above entities had been invoiced and collected.

19. DEFERRED TAX RECEIVABLE (GROUP & COMPANY)

The deferred tax receivables are offset against the deferred tax liabilities whenever there is legal right for such offsetting, whereas they are both subject to the same tax authority. Deferred tax assets (liabilities) at 31.12.2017 and 2016, respectively, have been calculated based on the applicable tax rate of 29%. Deferred tax assets (liabilities) are analyzed below:

Amounts in  thousands

2016

2017

Description

Opening

(Burden)/

(Burden)/

Ending Balance (Burden)/

(Burden)/

Balance

Benefit in

Benefit in Equity

31.12.2016

Benefit in Benefit in Equity

01.01.2016 Period's Results

Period's Results

Ending Balance 31.12.2017

Expensing of intangible

assets

39

Inventory impairment

562

Obligation for employee benefits Provisions for doubtful receivables

50.450 5.340

Other provisions for risks

and expenses

10.246

Customer and municipalities contributions 16.981

Depreciation differences due to adjustment of economic life

(6.275)

Income and expenses accrued

(80)

Deferred tax in Tax Reserve due to revaluation of real estate assets Impairment of securities Other deferred taxation items

9.001 406
5.543 92.213

45 3.919 668
173 (1)
5.239
76 10.120

5.661 -
-
(406)
5.255

39 562 56.156 5.340 14.166 17.649

60 3.078 (6.288) (1.279)

(2.002) -

39 622 57.232 5.340 7.878 16.370

(6.102) (81)

(323) (9)

-

(6.425)

-

(90)

9.001 5.239
5.619 107.588

-
4.014 (747)

(154)
(2.156)

9.001 5.085
9.633 104.685

The debit entry of deferred income taxes (expenses for the year ­ deferred tax liability) into the accounts of results, includes the fulfillment of temporary tax differences deriving from accounting expenses that were recorded in previous years. The credit entry of deferred income taxes (income for the year ­ deferred tax receivable), mainly includes temporary tax differences deriving from provisions, which are tax deductible at the time of the realization of the corresponding expenditure in subsequent time periods.
20. MATERIALS, SPARE PARTS & CONCUMABLES (GROUP & COMPANY)
The account in the financial statements is analyzed as follows:

Amounts in  thousand Consumables and Spare Parts Provision for Impairment Total

31.12.2017 13.087 (2.147) 10.940

31.12.2016 14.328 (1.941) 12.387

Inventories are utilized in the Company's networks (maintenance and expansion). Inventories amounting to  5 million approximately are expected to be recovered after 12 months (versus an amount of  7.8 million in the previous year).

The provision for impairment of consumables and spare parts that has been formed for estimated non-recoverable amounts is analyzed as follows:

Amounts in  thousand Opening Balance Provision for the Year Ending Balance

31.12.2017 1.941 206 2.147

31.12.2016 1.940 1 1.941

134

ANNUAL FINANCIAL REPORT

21. Receivables from customers, consumers (group & company)

The account in the financial statements is analyzed as follows:
Amounts in  thousand Retail customers and users Municipalities, Greek State, Public Utilities
Accrued, Non-Invoiced, Income
Minus: Provision for doubtful receivables

GROUP

31.12.2017 165.889 52.602 218.491 55.001 273.492 (57.521) 215.971

31.12.2016 161.625 41.571 203.196 55.847 259.043 (51.606) 207.437

COMPANY

31.12.2017 165.889 52.587 218.475 55.001 273.476 (57.521) 215.955

31.12.2016 161.625 41.573 203.198 55.847 259.045 (51.606) 207.439

The majority of retail customers (household users) are charged every three months based on indications provided by water meters. Non-invoiced income concerns water supply and sewerage services between the date of the last measurement and the ending date of the financial year, which have not been invoiced until 31/12/2017.

The statement of the provision for doubtful receivables which have been recorded for estimated non-recoverable amounts from water supply and sewerage services, is analyzed as follows:

Amounts in  thousand Opening Balance Provisions for the Period Ending Balance

31.12.2017 51.606 5.915 57.521

31.12.2016 45.293 6.313 51.606

The provision for doubtful receivables is monitored by the Department of Revenues and Trade Receivables Management, which continuously audits the Company's receivables, either separately or based on groups (invoice codes, customer categories) and incorporates this information into the creation of the relevant provision. In the context of procedures provided by the Public Revenue Collection Code (Law 356/1974), as it was amended with the law provisions 4174/2013, 4224/2013, 4337/2015 & 4517/2018, the Company calculates the relevant interest charged on the overdue amounts upon the payment of the amounts due.

22. OTHER RECEIVABLES (GROUP & COMPANY)

The account is analyzed as follows:



Amounts in  thousand

31.12.2017

Loans and advances to Personnel

4.972

Advances to subcontractors and suppliers

-

Receivable concerning Greek State's participation in the mandatory

coverage of the deficit of the special lump sum account

258

Various advances

2.198

Receivable concerning income from Bank of Greece

2.751

Receivables due to Personnel's Training Programs

1.367

Receivables from the Greek State concerning property tax return / taxes

Receivables from employees according to the BoD decision

-

19389/25.10.2017

Receivables from the Greek State concerning healthcare contributions 3.682

from new-entry employees (from 1/1/1993) to the Social Security Fund

(IKA)

2.549

Other receivables

3.440

Receivables concerning retention amounts from pensioners' health care

contributions

111

Total

21.328

31.12.2016 4.196 401
258 2.160 2.905 1.476
1.010
-
2.240 2.683
17.329



31.12.2017 31.12.2016

4.972

4.196

-

401

258 2.198 2.751 1.367

258 2.160 2.905 1.476

-

1.010

3.682

-

2.549 3.409

2.240 2.657

111 21.297

17.303

The outstanding amounts of other receivables have been reduced with the formed provision for doubtful other receivables for an amount of  5,305 thous. on 31/12/2017 and  5,277 thous. on 31/12/2016.

A small group of employees claimed their salary through interim proceedings without the cut of Law 4024/2011. Pursuant to the decision of the Court of First Instance of Athens, EYDAP SA with the decision of the Board of Directors No. 19389/25.10.2017, provisionally paid the relevant amounts, forming a receivable amounting to Euro 3.7 million.

Loans and Advances to Personnel:

The Company provides the personnel with zero interest loans, short-term payroll advances free of interest, cash facilities and long-term interest bearing loans. The amount of  4,972 thousand concerns the short-term part of the loans granted to personnel. The long-term part which as of 31 December 2017 amounted to  6,088 thousand is included in the balance of the long-term receivables (Note 18).

ANNUAL FINANCIAL REPORT

135

Greek State's participation in the mandatory coverage of the deficit of the special lump sum account: The amount concerns Greek State's obligation based on L. 2939/6.8.2001 to cover the deficit of the special lump sum account for end of service indemnity, concerning employees who retired and employees who worked for the Company until 25th October 1999.
The Balance of  258 thousand resulted as follows:

Accumulated deficit opening balance Compensation settlements Employees' retentions Receipt for the Greek State (article 52, L. 4186/2013) Offsetting entry / Greek State's dividend with the Account (decision issued by the Greek State) Accumulated deficit receivable from the Greek State closing balance

68.844 1.922 (769) (58.351) (11.388) 258

With the voting of article 52, L. 4186/17.9.2013, the Company received  58.4 million approximately on 25.09.2013, concerning the coverage obligation of the account from the Greek State, until 30.06.2013. The obligation in effect concerns an overdue amount payable from the Greek State from 01.07.2013 - 08.08.2013 (publication date of L. 4179/2013).
23. CASH AND CASH EQUIVALENTS
The account is analyzed as follows:

Amounts in  thousand Cash at hand Sight and time deposits Total

GROUP

31.12.2017 408
294.513 294.921

31.12.2016 498
280.046 280.544

COMPANY

31.12.2017 408
293.512 293.920

31.12.2016 498
278.973 279.471

The sight and time deposits carry floating interest rates based on the level of the deposit and the interest charged period. The current value of the above sight and time deposits approaches their accounting value due to the floating interest rates and their short-term maturities. The sight deposits' balance does not include amounts of  785 thous. and  869 thous. of overdue check payables on 31.12.2017 and 2016 respectively, which have been recorded in the account of other short-term liabilities (Note 31). Interest income from bank deposits is recognized via the principle of accrued income and is included in the financial income.

24. SHARE CAPITAL

EYDAP was established in 1980 pursuant to Law 1068/1980 and following the merger of the two water and sewerage utilities of Athens at the time, with the company names Hellenic Water Supply Company and the Sewerage Organization of Athens.

The initial share capital of the Company settled at  130,502 thous. and was based on the valuation of assets and liabilities of the merged entities according to the clauses of Law 1068/1980.

In 1992, the share capital amounted to  1,253,507 thous. consisting of 213,566,282 common shares with a nominal value of  5.87 per share. The share capital increase took place pursuant to Law 1914/1990 following a new valuation of the Company's net worth in view of significant number installations, which were contributed by the Greek State to the Company at the time, and following the capitalization of liabilities towards the State.

The Shareholders General Meeting on 30 June 1998 approved an additional increase of the Company's share capital by  6,845 thous. via the capitalization of investment subsidies that had been collected up to 31 December 1997. Following the above increase, the Company's share capital amounted to  1,260,352 thous. consisting of 214,732,544 common shares with a nominal value of 5.87 (two thousands drachmas) per share.

In 1999, due to the Company's listing on the Athens Exchange and according to Law 2744/1999, its share capital was set at  58,694 thousand consisting of 100,000,000 common shares with a nominal value of  0.59 (two hundred drachmas) per share. According to the same Law, the remaining amount of  1,201,658 thous. of the share capital was converted to a `'Special Non Taxable Reserve'', which was among others decreased by the net amount of fixed assets, which were transferred to «EYDAP Fixed Assets» at no cost. In December 1999, 6,500,000 new ordinary shares were issued at a nominal value of  0.59 (two hundred drachmas) per share and were allocated through an initial public offering for the Company's listing on the Athens Exchange.

As a result, the Company's share capital as of December 31, 2000 had amounted to  62,509 thousand consisting of 106,500,000 common shares with a nominal value of  0.59 (two hundred drachmas) per share.

In May 2001, EYDAP decided to denominate its share capital into Euro, through the increase of the nominal value per share from  0.59 to  0.60, and the amount of  1,391 thous. of the above share capital increase was transferred from the "Share Premium Account". Thus, the share capital of the Company on 31 December 2012 and 31 December 2011 was equivalent to  63,900 thousand consisting of 106,500,000 common shares with a nominal value of  0.60 per share.

No change occurred in the Company's share capital during the current as well as the previous financial year.

136

ANNUAL FINANCIAL REPORT

25. RESERVES
The account in the financial statements is analyzed as follows:
Amounts in  thousand Legal reserve Special Non-Taxable Reserve of Law 2744/99 Reserve from Non-Taxable Income Reserve from Specially Taxed Income Other reserves Total

31.12.2017 22,207 352,078 3,687 1,152 379,123

31.12.2016 22,207 352,078 3,687 502 378,474

Legal reserve:

According to the Greek commercial law (Article 44, L. 2190/1920), companies are required to transfer at least 5% of their annual net profits to a legal reserve until this reserve becomes equivalent with the 1/3 of the paid up share capital. The particular reserve is not distributable and the purpose of its creation is to cover future losses. On 31.12.2011, the Company covered the required by law legal reserve as percentage of its total paid up share capital. During the year 2015, the Company arranged a reserve formed due to revaluation of shares amounting to  660 thousand approximately according to article 72 of Law 4172/2013.

Special Non-Taxable Reserve of Law 2744/99:

The Special Non-Taxable Reserve was formed with the Company's listing on the Athens Stock Exchange (ASE) in financial year 1999, from the denomination of the Company's share capital at the time to the euro equivalent of  1,201,658. Based on the clauses of L. 2744/99, the initial balance of the reserve: · W  as reduced with the net, non-depreciated, value of the facilities which were granted to "EYDAP LEPL" at no con-
sideration. · Was decreased with the various amounts of provisions which were recorded in the Company's accounting books
during its listing on ASE. · W  as increased with the surplus value deriving from the revaluation of the installations and networks that remained
in the possession of the Company. · A nd was increased with the transfer of the account "Profit/loss carried forward" which was recorded in the Balance
Sheet of 31 December 1998.

In accordance with the L. 2744/99, the reserve was classified as "Special Non-Taxable Reserve".

Other Reserves:

On 31.12.2015, the revaluation difference was reclassified from the Net Worth and specifically from the account "Other Reserves" into the result for the year (see note 17) resulting to the increase of the balance of the above account.

26. RETAINED EARNINGS

The account in the financial statements is analyzed as follows: Amounts in  thousand Balance at 01.01.2016 Dividends Paid Net Income directly recorded in Equity Net Profit for the Year 2016 Reserve due to the revaluation of equities Balance at 01.01.2017 Dividends Paid Net earnings of fiscal year 2017 Net Income directly recorded in Equity Balance at 31.12.2017

GROUP 485.185 (73.485) (13.859) 24.049
421.890 (11.715) 43.427 4.901 458.503

COMPANY 485.285 (73.485) (13.859) 24.062
422.003 (11.715) 43.477 4.901 458.666

27. LIABILITIES FOR EMPLOYEE BENEFITS (GROUP & COMPANY)
The Company and the Group apply from 01.01.2013 the revised IAS 19 "Employee Benefits" with retroactive application from 01.01.2012 in accordance with the IAS 8 "Accounting Policies, Changes in Accounting Estimates and Errors". The fundamental change emanating from the new standard, thus implying a change in accounting principle, is the direct recognition of the actuarial gains and losses as well as of the prior service cost deriving from defined benefit plans. No transfer of the above items, based on the margin principle, is allowed, as it was the case with the previous IAS 19.
The account in the financial statements is analyzed as follows:

Amounts in  thousand Provision for staff indemnity due to retirement Healthcare coverage of personnel Special one-off indemnity (personnel hired prior to and after 25-10-1999) Total

31.12.2017 34.135 155.325 111.546
301.006

31.12.2016 33.105 168.168 89.941 291.214

ANNUAL FINANCIAL REPORT

137

The Company has the obligation to cover the respective healthcare benefits for its entire personnel, pensioners and their protected members. In addition, the Company retains an account for staff indemnity due to retirement and two plans of special one-off compensation for personnel hired prior to or after 25/10/1999. The actuarial valuation of the liabilities was compiled by independent valuators in accordance with the requirements of the revised IAS 19.
The change is due to the amendment in the economic assumptions, but the significant impact on the accounts of employees' special one-off compensation (recruited before and after 25.10.1999) is mainly due to the surcharge in the benefit allowance proportionally for the years 2009 to 2012. In particular, the surcharge in the compensation for the recruited employees before 25.10.1999 causes an increase in the actuarial liability on 31.12.2017, equal to Euro 11,172 thous. and for the employees recruited after 25.10.1999, equal to Euro 639 thous.. In accordance with IAS 19, the above actuarial surcharge is considered a past service cost recognized directly in the income statement. It is noted that within the framework of Laws 3833/2010 and 3845/2010 implementation, EYDAP has applied their clauses as a public company according to article 1 par.2 of Law 3429/2005. By virtue of the relevant clauses of the aforementioned legislation, EYDAP cut off 30% of the Christmas, Easter and holiday benefits to those who left between 01.01.2010 and 31.05.2010 and whose total gross monthly fees exceeded the amount of 3,000 Euro, while to those who left since 01.06.2010 and hereafter it cut off the corresponding allowances. The abovementioned cuts were also applied to the payment of the lump sum compensation due to the ESSE 1991 framework, having as a result as from 2010 and onwards to be pursued massive lawsuits by former employees against the Company demanding payment to them of the reduced proportion of Christmas, Easter and Holiday benefits in the above lump sum compensation. On this legal issue, court decisions were issued justifying former employees, having as a result the Company, with the no. 19224 / 24.05.2017 decision of the Board of Directors, to make a conciliation resolution of the collective labor dispute (note 28).
a. Provision for employees' end of service indemnity
The statement of the provision for employees' end of service indemnity for the years ending on 31 December 2017 and 2016 is the following:

PERIOD Amounts recognized in the balance sheet Present value of liabilities Fair value of the plan's assets Net liability recognized in the balance sheet Amounts recognized in the results Cost of current employment Net interest on the liability / (asset) Total admin. cost recognized in the account of results Ordinary expense in the account of results Recognition of prior service cost Cost of curtailment / settlements / service termination Total expense in the account of results Change in the present value of the liability Present value of liability at the beginning of period Cost of current employment Interest cost Employee contributions Benefits paid from the plan Benefits paid from the employer Cost of curtailment / settlements / service termination Cost of prior service at the period Actuarial loss / (profit) ­ financial assumptions Actuarial loss / (profit) ­ demographic assumptions Actuarial loss / (profit) ­ evidence from the period Present value of liability at the end of period Adjustments Adjustments in liabilities due to change of assumptions Empirical adjustments in liabilities Empirical adjustments in assets Total actuarial gain / (loss) in the Equity Changes in the Net Liability recognized in Balance Sheet Net Liability at beginning of period Contributions from Employer Benefits paid by the employer Total expenditure recognized in the results Change in Equity Net Liability at the end of year

01.01 - 31.12.2017 01.01 - 31.12.2016

34.135 -
34.135

33.105 -
33.105

1.354 426
1.780
1.780

1.261 598
1.859
1.859

33.105 1.354 426
(529) 175 (396) 34.135

29.373 1.261 598 (767) 2.389 251
33.105

(175) 396
221

(2.389) (251) -
(2.640)

33.105 -
(529) 1.780 (221) 34.135

29.373 -
(767) 1.859 2.640 33.105

138

ANNUAL FINANCIAL REPORT

The expected benefits (not discounted) from the plan over the following year are estimated at  2,101 thous. The major actuarial assumptions utilized for the calculation of the relevant provisions for employees' end of service indemnity are the following:

Actuarial assumptions Discount rate Inflation
Future salary increases
Duration of obligations

2017 1,29% 2018-22: ~1,50%, 2023+: 1,80% 2018-22: ~ 1,24%, 2023+: 1,80% 9,47

2016 1,35% 2017-21: ~1,26%, 2022+: 1,80% 2017-21: ~ 0,94%, 2022+: 1,80% 9,26

b. Medical and Healthcare Plan

The Company covers the medical and healthcare expenses of its employees, pensioners and their protected members based on the provisions of its internal regulation which is in effect. The plan is financed, in part, from the employees' and pensioners' contributions. The relevant liabilities of the Company arising from the medical and healthcare plan were estimated through an actuarial studies which were performed for the years 2017 and 2016.

The statement of the provision for medical and healthcare benefits during the financial years 2017 and 2016 is the following:

PERIOD Amounts recognized in the balance sheet Present value of liabilities Fair value of the plan's assets Net liability recognized in the balance sheet Amounts recognized in the results Cost of current employment Net interest on the liability / (asset) Total admin. cost recognized in the account of results Ordinary expense in the account of results Recognition of prior service cost Cost of curtailment / settlements / service termination Total expense in the account of results Change in the present value of the liability Present value of liability at the beginning of period Cost of current employment Interest cost Employee contributions Benefits paid from the plan Benefits paid from the employer Cost of curtailment / settlements / service termination Cost of prior service at the period Actuarial loss / (profit) ­ financial assumptions Actuarial loss / (profit) ­ demographic assumptions Actuarial loss / (profit) ­ evidence from the period Present value of liability at the end of period Adjustments Adjustments in liabilities due to change of assumptions Empirical adjustments in liabilities Empirical adjustments in assets Total actuarial gain / (loss) in the Equity Changes in the Net Liability recognized in Balance Sheet Net Liability at beginning of period Contributions from Employer Benefits paid by the employer Total expenditure recognized in the results Change in Equity Net Liability at the end of year

01.01 - 31.12.2017 01.01 - 31.12.2016

155.325 -
155.325

168.168 -
168.168

2.627 2.875
5.502
5.502

2.080 3.860
5.940
5.940

168.168 2.627 2.875
(5.165) 2.154 (15.333) 155.326

157.053 2.080 3.860
(5.737) 22.058 (11.146) 168.168

(2.154) 15.333
13.179

(22.058) 11.146 -
(10.912)

168.168 -
(5.165) 5.502 (13.179) 155.326

157.053 -
(5.737) 5.940 10.912 168.168

ANNUAL FINANCIAL REPORT

139

The expected benefits (not discounted) from the plan over the following year are estimated at  5,239 thousand. The major actuarial assumptions utilized for the calculation of the relevant provisions for the medical and healthcare benefits are the following:

Actuarial assumptions Discount rate Medical Care Inflation
Future salary increases
Duration of obligations

2017 1,66% 2018-22: ~ 1,50%, 2023+: 1,80% 2018-22: ~ 1,24%, 2023+: 1,80% 17,12

2016 1,74% 2017-21: ~ 1,26%, 2022+: 1,80% 2017-21: ~ 0,94%, 2022+: 1,80% 17,08

c. Special lump sum account for employees hired after 26.10.1999
With regard to the employees hired after October 25th, 1999, the Company has the obligation to fully repay the relevant indemnities, in accordance with the employment law and the collective employment agreement.

PERIOD Amounts recognized in the balance sheet Present value of liabilities Fair value of the plan's assets Net liability recognized in the balance sheet Amounts recognized in the results Cost of current employment Net interest on the liability / (asset) Total admin. cost recognized in the account of results Ordinary expense in the account of results Recognition of prior service cost Cost of curtailment / settlements / service termination Total expense in the account of results Change in the present value of the liability Present value of liability at the beginning of period Cost of current employment Interest cost Employee contributions Benefits paid from the plan Benefits paid from the employer Cost of curtailment / settlements / service termination Cost of prior service at the period Actuarial loss / (profit) ­ financial assumptions Actuarial loss / (profit) ­ demographic assumptions Actuarial loss / (profit) ­ evidence from the period Present value of liability at the end of period Change in the value of assets Value of plan's assets at beginning of period Expected return on assets Contributions from the employer Contributions from employees Benefits paid from the plan Expenses Asset adjustment (via Equity) Actuarial (loss) / gain Value of plan's assets at the end of the period

01.01 - 31.12.2017 01.01 - 31.12.2016

10.920 (7.039) 3.881

8.502 (6.485) 2.017

254

147

30

17

-

-

284

164

639

-

-

-

923

164

8.502 254 137 355 (17)
639 78 972 10.920

6.796 147 165 367 (101) 899 230
8.502

6.485 107 2 355 (17) 107
7.039

5.914 148 88 367 (101)
70 6.485

It is noted that the fair value of the plan's assets noted above, amounted to  7,039 thousand and  6,485 thousand on 31/12/2017 and 31/12/2016 respectively.

140

ANNUAL FINANCIAL REPORT

PERIOD Adjustments Adjustments in liabilities due to change of assumptions Empirical adjustments in liabilities Empirical adjustments in assets Total actuarial gain / (loss) in the Equity

01.01 - 31.12.2017 01.01 - 31.12.2016

(78) (972) 107 (943)

(899) (230)
70 (1.060)

Changes in the Net Liability recognized in Balance Sheet Net Liability at beginning of period Contributions from Employer Benefits paid by the employer Total expenditure recognized in the results Change in Equity Net Liability at the end of year

2.017 (2) 923 943 3.881

882 (88)
164 1.060 2.017

The expected contributions and benefits (not discounted) from the plan over the following year are estimated at  414 thous. and  219 thousand respectively. The major actuarial assumptions utilized for the calculation of the relevant provisions for the special lump sum account for employees hired after 26.10.1999, are the following:

Actuarial assumptions Discount rate Inflation
Future salary increases Duration of obligations d. Special lump sum account for employees hired until 25.10.1999

2017 1,54% 2018-22: ~ 1,50%, 2023+: 1,80% 2018-22: ~ 1,24%, 2023+: 1,80% 14,07

2016 1,63% 2017-21: ~ 1,26%, 2022+: 1,80% 2017-21: ~ 0,94%, 2022+: 1,80% 14,24

With the voting of article 45 of L. 4179/2013, which abolished the clauses of article 26 of L. 2939/2001 concerning the mandatory coverage of the account's deficit from the Greek State, the Company's Management proceeded with an actuarial study in order to estimate for the first time the relevant provision for employees' indemnity.

ANNUAL FINANCIAL REPORT

141

PERIOD Amounts recognized in the balance sheet Present value of liabilities Fair value of the plan's assets Net liability recognized in the balance sheet Amounts recognized in the results Cost of current employment Net interest on the liability / (asset) Total admin. cost recognized in the account of results Ordinary expense in the account of results Recognition of prior service cost Cost of curtailment / settlements / service termination Total expense in the account of results Change in the present value of the liability Present value of liability at the beginning of period Cost of current employment Interest cost Employee contributions Benefits paid from the plan Benefits paid from the employer Cost of curtailment / settlements / service termination Cost of prior service at the period Actuarial loss / (profit) ­ financial assumptions Actuarial loss / (profit) ­ demographic assumptions Actuarial loss / (profit) ­ evidence from the period Present value of liability at the end of period

01.01 - 31.12.2017 01.01 - 31.12.2016

100.627 (5.702) 94.925

81.440 (4.399) 77.041

1.399 882
2.281 11.172
13.453

1.358 1.307
2.665
2.665

81.440 1.399 944 1.210 (1.190)
11.172 (4) 5.656 100.627

73.618 1.358 1.380 1.275 (1.154)
44 4.513 450 81.440

Change in the value of assets Value of plan's assets at beginning of period Expected return on assets Benefits from the employer Contributions from employees Benefits paid from the plan Expense Asset adjustment (via Equity) Actuarial (loss) / gain Value of plan's assets at the end of the period

01.01 - 31.12.2017 4.399 62 1.125 1.210 (1.190) 97 5.702

01.01 - 31.12.2016 3.059 74 1.091 1.275 (1.154) 54 4.399

It is noted that the fair value of the plan's assets noted above, amounted to  5,702 thousand and  4,399 thousand on 31/12/2017 and 31/12/2016 respectively.

PERIOD Adjustments Adjustments in liabilities due to change of assumptions Empirical adjustments in liabilities Empirical adjustments in assets Total actuarial gain / (loss) in the Equity Changes in the Net Liability recognized in Balance Sheet
Net Liability at beginning of period Contributions from Employer Benefits paid by the employer Total expenditure recognized in the results Change in Equity Net Liability at the end of year

01.01 - 31.12.2017 01.01 - 31.12.2016

4 (5.656)
97 (5.555)

(4.513) (450)
54 (4.909)

77.041 (1.125)
13.453 5.555 94.924

70.558 (1.091)
2.665 4.909 77.041

142

ANNUAL FINANCIAL REPORT

The expected contributions and benefits (not discounted) from the plan over the following year are estimated at  8,227 thousand and  7,277 thousand respectively. The major actuarial assumptions utilized for the calculation of the relevant provisions for the special lump sum account for employees hired until 25/10/1999, are the following:

Actuarial assumptions Discount rate Inflation
Future salary increases
Duration of obligations

2017 1,16% 2018-22: ~ 1,50%, 2023+: 1,80% 2018-22: ~ 1,24%, 2023+: 1,80% 8,10

2016 1,22% 2017-21: ~ 1,26%, 2022+: 1,80% 2017-21: ~ 0,94%, 2022+: 1,80% 8,13

Sensitivity analysis of results The results of the valuation are dependent on the assumptions (financial and demographic) of the actuarial study. The actuarial liability (BDO) as of 31/12/2017 for each plan based on the following sensitivity analysis scenarios is presented below:

Actuarial liability (in ) Scenario Discount rate +0.5% Discount rate -0.5% Inflation +0.5% Inflation -0.5% Remuneration increase +0.5% Remuneration increase -0.5% Life expectancy +1 year Life expectancy -1 year

L. 2112/20 32.600.126 35.778.278 35.639.570 32.665.080 34.203.507 34.024.140 34.187.662 34.077.947

Special Account 10.203.841 11.701.093 10.651.056 11.194.416 11.944.698 9.994.527 10.927.174 10.912.320

Health Care 143.333.449 168.933.168 168.963.563 143.196.204 155.120.571 155.524.080 161.005.699 149.879.661

Special Provision 96.722.924 104.773.226 99.391.377 101.822.507 105.555.236 95.968.546 100.806.276 100.430.706

Actuarial liability (change) Scenario Discount rate +0.5% Discount rate -0.5% Inflation +0.5% Inflation -0.5% Remuneration increase +0.5% Remuneration increase -0.5% Life expectancy +1 year Life expectancy -1 year

L. 2112/20 -4,5% 4,8% 4,4% -4,3% 0,2% -0,3% 0,2% -0,2%

Special Account -6,6% 7,2% -2,5% 2,5% 9,4% -8,5% 0,1% -0,1%

28. Provisions for pending litigationS (group & company)

The account in the financial statements is analyzed as follows:

Health Care -7,7% 8,8% 8,8% -7,8% -0,1% 0,1% 3,7% -3,5%

Special Provision -3,9% 4,1% -1,2% 1,2% 4,9% -4,6% 0,2% -0,2%

Amounts in  thousand Provisions for pending litigations with employees - pensioners Provisions for civil litigations Total

31.12.2017 12.376 22.869 35.245

31.12.2016 18.874 22.827 41.701

As of 31.12.2017, the lawsuits for civil cases against the Company accounted for  74.7 million. The lawsuits concerned indemnities for damages from flooding (due to pipeline fractures or rainfalls), or cases involving various counterparty suppliers and sub-contractors with regard to violation of contractual terms. Furthermore, there are pending legal cases for employment differences of  137.3 million approximately.

During the year 2017, the Company proceeded with the implementation of a conciliation resolution of collective labor disputes of the following number: · 19105 / 21.12.2016 decision of the Board of Directors to resolve collective labor disputes and disburse approximately
Euro 17 million and · 1 9224 / 24.05.2017 decision of the Board of Directors, concerning the calculation of the special one-off compensation
with the surcharge of benefits and to disburse approximately Euro 13 million.

The total amount of the provisions that the Company has formed accounts for approximately Euro 37 million at 31.12.2017 (amount of Euro 58.7 million approximately as at 31.12.2016), of which approximately Euro 1.7 million, of the compromise solution of the above mentioned decisions' remaining amount is presented in the short-term liabilities (the corresponding amount in the previous year had settled at Euro 17 million approximately). The provision of disputed cases is based on management's estimates in conjunction with the Legal Services Division for the amount that is likely to be disbursed.

ANNUAL FINANCIAL REPORT

143

29. INVESTMENT SUBSIDIES AND CUSTOMER CONTRIBUTIONS (GROUP AND COMPANY) 30. CONSUMERS' GUARANTEES 31. OPERATING AND OTHER CURRENT LIABILITIES

29. INVESTMENT SUBSIDIES AND CUSTOMER CONTRIBUTIONS (GROUP AND COMPANY)

The account in the financial statements is analyzed as follows:
Amounts in  thousand Opening Value: Investment Subsidies Customer Contributions

31.12.2017
234.081 105.237 339.318

31.12.2016
230.523 104.163 334.686

Accumulated Depreciation Investment Subsidies Customer Contributions

(104.917) (51.214) (156.131)

(99.365) (48.584) (147.949)

Net (Non Depreciated) Value Investment Subsidies Customer Contributions

129.164 54.023 183.187

131.158 55.579 186.737

The Company receives subsidies from the European Union, through the Greek State, in order to finance certain projects. Furthermore, the Company's customers (including the public sector and the local government authorities) are required to participate in the financing scheme of the initial network development cost (meters, network connections, etc.) or its upgrade.

The above subsidies and customer contributions are accounted at the time of receipt and are recorded in the Statement of Financial Position in the long-term liabilities. These amounts constitute deferred income and are depreciated on the basis of the economic life of the relevant assets, at the time their operation commences. The amortization of subsidies and customer contributions are deducted from the depreciation of fixed assets in the statement of income.

Apart from the above, the Company has also received other type of state subsidies such as the granting of a concession to Psyttaleia island.

30. CONSUMERS' GUARANTEES

The amounts of  18,387 thousand on 31.12.2017 and of 18,297 thousand on 31.12.2016 concern customer guarantees for the use of the water meter, paid at the time of water supply connection. The above guarantees are paid back (free of interest) upon request from the customer for termination of the water supply connection. The above guarantees have been recorded in nominal value, and not at fair value, initially, and in a following stage in their net (amortized) cost, since they can be claimed from the customers at any time.

31. OPERATING AND OTHER CURRENT LIABILITIES

The account in the financial statements is analyzed as follows:

a. Operating Short-Term Liabilities

GROUP

COMPANY

Amounts in  thousand Suppliers Withheld Taxes Payable Social Security Contributions and Other Items Customer Advances Dividends Payable Operating Short-Term Liabilities

31.12.2017 24.956 8.061 2.955 2.449 468 38.889

31.12.2016 22.276 7.937 4.867 2.309 40.801 78.190

31.12.2017 24.949 8.061 2.955 2.449 468 38.882

31.12.2016 22.268 7.937 4.867 2.309 40.801 78.182

Operating current liabilities decreased by  39.3 million approximately mainly due to the decision of the Extraordinary General Meeting of shareholders on 23.12.2016 for the distribution of a dividend amounting to 40,470 thousand Euro, from the earnings of the previous years.

b. Other Current Liabilities
Amounts in  thousand Pending litigations with employees - pensioners Checks Payable Collections for Third Parties Provision for Non-Utilized Vacation Leave Personnel Compensation Other Short-Term Liabilities Short-Term Customer Guarantees Other Short-Term Liabilities

GROUP

31.12.2017 1.753 785 896 436 91 4.339 5.579 13.879

31.12.2016 16.978 869 912 909 292 5.462 5.523 30.935

COMPANY

31.12.2017 1.753 785 896 436 91 4.343 5.579 13.883

31.12.2016 16.978 869 912 909 292 5.460 5.523 30.943

Other current liabilities decreased by  17,1 million approximately due to the implementation of the settlement concerning labor differences.

144

ANNUAL FINANCIAL REPORT

32. EVENTS AFTER THE BALANCE SHEET DATE 33. COMMITMENTS AND CONTINGENT LIABILITIES ­ ASSETS
32. EVENTS AFTER THE BALANCE SHEET DATE
No event has occurred which may significantly affect the financial structure or the business performance of the Company and the Group from 31.12.2017 and until the approval date of the financial statements by the Board of Directors.
33. COMMITMENTS AND CONTINGENT LIABILITIES ­ ASSETS
Contingent liabilities are not recorded in the financial statements but they are disclosed, provided that the possibility of an outflow of resources incorporating financial benefits is minimal.
1. Relations with the Greek State
With a joint ministerial decision of 03.12.2013 which was issued according to the above law provisions, it was defined that the overdue amounts payable to the Company from the Greek State concerning investment plan's subsidized expenditures of  294 million for the decade 2000 ­ 2010 as stipulated from the agreement of 09.12.1999 between the Greek State and the Company, were offset with equivalent in value non tax related amounts payable to the Greek State from the Company, until 30.6.2013, concerning the cost of the collected crude water for the period 25.10.2004 ­ 30.6.2013. With the same joint ministerial decision, the other claims until 30.06.2013 between the Greek State and EYDAP SA were also amortized. With the decision of the Extraordinary General Shareholders' Meeting on 27th December 2013, the above ministerial decision was accepted.
On the other hand, the signing of a written agreement - as it is defined in the article 15 of the agreement on 9.12.1999 between the Greek State and the Company - which will determine the price paid to "L.E.P.L. EYDAP Fixed Assets" for the crude water collected from 1.7.2013 is pending from the year 2004 (Note 36). In absence of a written agreement, the Company continues, after 30/06/2013, to offset the cost of the collected crude water with the maintenance and operation services it provides for the fixed assets owned by "L.E.P.L. EYDAP Fixed Assets", affecting accordingly its financial results.
Changes in the pricing of water and sewerage services will stem from the application of JMD 135275 (No. 3, par. 9), GG 1751 / 22.05.2017 "Approval of general Costing and Pricing Rules of water services. Method and procedures for recovering the cost of water services in its various uses". At the current phase it is not possible to estimate any potential impact stemming from this process on the up to now applied policy by the Company.
2. Commitments concerning Non Executed Contracts
The Company's commitments which concern expansions, improvements and maintenance of networks and installations, electrical and thermal energy production unit installations, etc., accounted for  84 million approximately on 31.12.2017 (versus  69 million on 31.12.2016).
3. Letters of Guarantee
The Company has issued letters of guarantee for liability insurance of  230 thousand on 31.12.2017.

ANNUAL FINANCIAL REPORT

145

34. RELATED PARTY TRANSACTIONS (GROUP & COMPANY)
) Transactions with Members of the Board
Amounts in  thousand Fees (Chairman & CEO, and Executive Directors) Fees & attendance expenses of BoD members Total

31.12.2017 114 138 252

31.12.2016 114 81 195

) T ransactions and amounts outstanding with the Greek State and the Municipalities
Amounts in  thousand 1) Transactions - Income - Cost of Goods Sold (cost of construction works) - Income from non utilized provisions / (Various provisions) 2) Outstanding amounts - Long-term receivables (Projects for the Greek State) - Long-term trade receivables (settlements with Municipalities) - Trade receivables (Local authorities, Greek State) - Trade receivable ISLANDS' EYDAP DEVELOPMENT - Other receivables (from the Greek State for coverage of deficit concerning staff indemnities)

GROUP

COMPANY

31.12.2017 31.12.2016 31.12.2017 31.12.2016

61.512 529

58.459 66

61.512 529

58.459 66

4.297
12.961 53.286
-
258

3.769
21.038 38.964
-
258

4.297
12.961 53.286
24
258

3.769
21.038 38.964
24
258

The transactions with the Greek State and Local Government Authorities concern revenues of water supply, invoiced and accrued, as well as accrued income from the construction cost for the account of Ministry of Economy, Infrastructure and Transport, and of "EYDAP Fixed Assets".
35. AUDITORS' REMUNERATION

GROUP

COMPANY

Amounts in  thousand Auditors remuneration for auditing the annual accounts Other fees Total fees

31.12.2017 50 15 65

31.12.2016 51 25 76

31.12.2017 47 15 62

31.12.2016 48 25 73

36. EYDAP FIXED ASSETS «EYDAP L.E.P.L.»

1. " EYDAP Fixed Assets Legal Entity of Public Law L.E.P.L." was established at the time of the Company's public listing (IPO) aiming at transferring the ownership of the water dams and basins of Marathon, Mornos, Yliki and Evinos. Apart from the constructions and the expansions of the facilities which are connected to the above dams and basins, the Greek State through "EYDAP Fixed Assets L.E.P.L." supplies the Company with crude water so that the Company is in position to fulfill its obligations with regard to the provision of water supply services.

2. It is noted that: · the Aqueduct of Yliki until the Viliza in Thiva was transcribed to the competent Land Registry of Thiva and Oropos. · The construction sites of Amfissa and Chrissos in Delphi have already been incorporated into the competent office
of Amfissa which operates as Land Registry.

3. The Board of Directors of "EYDAP S.A." with the decision 18448/ 24.09.2014 approved the signing of an agreement between "EYDAP Fixed Assets Legal Entity of Public Law L.E.P.L." and "EYDAP S.A." concerning the water supply and invoicing, since 1/10/2014, of the local government authorities and other legal entities of public law from "EYDAP Fixed Assets L.E.P.L." along the External Water Supply System which concerns geographic areas beyond the jurisdiction of "EYDAP S.A.". Particularly, the above decision concerned the following Municipalities:
· Delfoi · Leivadia (and of DEYAL) · Thiva (and of DEYATH) · Tanagra · Chalkida (and of DEYACH) · Distomo ­ Arachova

37. MANAGEMENT OF CAPITAL

The Company manages its capital in such way in order to meet its objectives as these are mentioned in paragraph 4a of article 1 of Law 2744/99. In addition, according to paragraph 8 of the same article the placement of its fixed real estate assets used for water supply and sewerage purposes as collateral is prohibited. It is noted that according to article 5 of the same law there is no provision for compulsory administration of the assets of EYDAP used for water supply and sewerage purposes.

In the current period, the Company did not proceed with the signing of any bank liability either long-term or short-term. Following its listing on the Athens Exchange in 2000 and until 2013, the Company held mainly short-term debt, in order to meet its operating needs due to the fact that it had not collected payments for water supply bills from certain municipalities and other public entities. The Company maintains sufficient capital in order to serve its business objectives and to apply the appropriate dividend policy.

146

ANNUAL FINANCIAL REPORT

Leverage ratio

Amounts in  thousand Borrowings Cash and cash equivalents Total Equity Net Debt to Equity Ratio

GROUP

31.12.2017 -
(294.921) 942.028
0

31.12.2016 -
(280.544) 904.766
0

COMPANY

31.12.2017 -
(293.920) 942.191 0

31.12.2016 -
(279.471) 904.879
0

Therefore, there is no risk associated with any changes of the interest rates of banks.

38. Financial Risk Management

Risk management is processed by the Company's pertinent Departments which operate under certain rules which have been approved by the Board of Directors. The Board of Directors sets the objectives, defines the policy, and selects the risk management framework, the implementation of which is assigned to the Company's executives. The existence of a risk management framework is of central importance and the monitoring process is structured, continuous and consistent.

(a) Credit Risk The Company's exposure with respect to the credit risk it is eliminated to the financial assets which at the reporting date of the Financial Statements are analyzed as follows:

Financial Assets categories Available for sale financial assets Cash and cash equivalents Trade and other receivables Long-term receivables Investments in subsidiaries Total

GROUP

31.12.2017 3.659 294.921 237.299 19.034 -
554.913

31.12.2016 2.855
280.544 224.766 22.598
530.763

COMPANY

31.12.2017 3.659
293.920 237.252 19.034
1.210 555.075

31.12.2016 2.855 279.471
224.742 22.598
1.210 530.876

Cash and cash equivalents bear credit risk. The management of credit risk is conducted with the aggregation of the largest part of the Company's cash reserves in the Bank of Greece and via the containment of the Company's exposure to domestic banking institutions. Trade and other receivables include receivables from private customers which carry a relatively low level of loss risk mainly because of the extensive dispersion of claims, while for the receivables from Local Governments (OTA), the Company examines the possibility of collecting the respective due amounts through contract agreements (management of networks and settlements) or based on legislative arrangements.

Trade and other receivables are included in receivables from private clients for which there is a relative risk, which is limited by measures and actions taken by the competent directorates. The actions concern the assumption of measures in order to deal with the arrears of due liabilities and the provision of facilities for their repayment. For the category of local government liabilities, the Company examines the possibility of collecting arrears through the signing of contracts (network management or settlements) or through regulatory arrangements.

The provision regarding the trade receivables refers to overdue liabilities of individual customers the collection of which is delayed for more than two years and they have not been settled. Also, the provision includes a portion of arrears of individual clients of less than two years that meet certain criteria and have not been settled.

Below the analysis of the Company's receivables based on their maturity is displayed:

Amounts in  thousand

2017 PRIVATE CUSTOMERS STATE LOCAL GOVERNMENT Total

Non due 30.029 3.483
6.411 39.923

TIME ANALYSIS OF OVERDUE CLAIMS

0-1 month 1-6 months 6 months-2 years

9.548 30.352

45.046

736

1.806

3.671

2.450

8.139

10.901

12.734 40.297

59.617

2 years-5 years 33.458 5.369 16.743 55.569

> 5 years 33.422 3.367 860 37.649

Total 181.855 18.432 45.503 245.789

2016 PRIVATE CUSTOMERS STATE LOCAL GOVERNMENT Total

Non due 29.133 2.615 7.215 38.963

0-1 month 1-6 months 6 months-2 years

10.680 30.976

45.590

970

2.110

1.754

2.093

5.479

17.256

13.742 38.564

64.599

2 years-5 years 30.947 4.884 10.067 45.899

> 5 years 27.615 3.177 928 31.270

Total 174.940 15.509 43.038 233.487

ANNUAL FINANCIAL REPORT

147

It is noted that the paid amount of the installments, of the individuals' settlements on 31.12.2017 amounts to Euro 13,069 thousand against the amount of Euro 10,035 thousand of the previous year and it is not included in the balance of the private customers in the table of time analysis.
The Department of Revenue & Trade Receivables Management, as well as the Department of Special Customers Management, continuously monitor the claims of the Company, either separately or based on groups (invoice codes, customer categories) and incorporate this information into the credit risk control procedure. With regard to credit risk management, the Department of Collection Enforcement of the Legal Services Division reviews on constant basis and settles via judicial procedures (LD 356/1974 «Code for the Collection of Public Revenues») overdue receivables concerning water supply, utilization rights and property connection rights from retail customers and local government authorities (OTA). None of the financial assets has been placed as collateral or in any other form of credit insurance.
Correspondingly, the Company has not ceded any financial instruments of the Assets in the form of guarantee to any third parties.
(b) Liquidity Risk
The liquidity risk is being managed by the preservation of sufficient cash available and by the assurance of bank credits for use. There is no liquidity risk due to the existence of sufficient cash reserves which can cover the current operating and investment needs.
The following table analyses the Company's financial liabilities which are classified in groups according to their expiration date which are calculated according to the time balance from the balance sheet date until the contractual arrangement expiration date in non-discounted figures. Amounts in  thousand

Amounts in  thousand
2017 Debt liabilities Suppliers and other liabilities Total

TIME ANALYSIS OF LIABILITIES

0-1 month 2-3 months 3-6 months 6-12 months 1- 5 years

-

-

-

-

-

15.908

27.819

4.594

4.464

39.042

15.908

27.819

4.594

4.464

39.042

> 5 years -
315.576 315.576

Total -
407.403 407.403

2016 Debt liabilities Suppliers and other liabilities Total

0-1 month 2-3 months 3-6 months 6-12 months 1- 5 years

-

-

-

-

-

65.529

27.527

13.220

4.734

41.136

65.529

27.527

13.220

4.734

41.136

> 5 years -
308.191 308.191

Total -
460.337 460.337

c) Market Risk
Market risk is related to the Company's equity portfolio, which is a long-term, strategic investment and as a result is limited to pre-defined Position Limits.
(d) Risks due to capital controls in Greece
With the Act of Legislative Content on 28th June 2015, Greek banks were placed in a holiday status and capital controls were imposed. The bank holiday ended on 20th July 2015. The capital controls have been gradually relaxed, but on the other hand a significant part of these controls remains in effect. Due to the special nature and inelasticity of the product, its demand is not affected by the imposed capital controls, therefore the relevant financial developments in Greece have not affected the cash collections, payments and turnover of the Company.
(e) Regulatory risk
On May 22, 2017, the Joint Ministerial Decision published in GG B 1751, had as its subject: "Approval of general rules for the costing and pricing of water services. Method and procedures for recovering the cost of water services in its various uses". EYDAP SA examines the application of the general rules for the costing and pricing of water services in accordance with the aforementioned Joint Ministerial Decision. From the preliminary examination of the Joint Ministerial Decision by the Company, issues have emerged for clarification concerning:
· The price of raw water, as a basic cost element, · T he environmental costs and the resource costs per cubic meter of water as this will be communicated to the Company by
31 October 2018 by the Directorate of Waters of Decentralized Management, · T he opportunity cost of the invested capital and, in particular, the reasonable annual return on the private venture capital
used,
By a Joint Ministerial Decision, issued on 03.12.2013, it was decided that the Greek State's obligations to the Company from subsidized investment project expenditures for the period 2000-2010, resulting from the Greek Government's agreement with the Company of 09.12.1999, approximately of 294 million, are amortized with the Company's non-tax liabilities of equal value towards the Greek State, which relate to the cost of the non-refined water supplied to the Company for the period 25.10.2004-30.06.2013.
However, it is still pending from 2004 the conclusion of a written agreement as defined in article 15 of the contract of

148

ANNUAL FINANCIAL REPORT

09.12.1999 between the Greek State and the Company, which will determine the price of the collected crude water. In the absence of a written agreement, the Company continues to offset, even after 30.06.2013, the price of the collected crude water with the maintenance and operation services that it provides for the fixed assets that belong to the company " EYDAP L.E.P.L.", burdening its results.
Until the date 31.12.2018, when the invoice approved by GG 3188B / 16.12.2013 will be effective, no issue arises regarding the Company's burden with any price for the collected crude water. Such a fact would lead to an increase of the price of water and create an additional charge for citizens.
39. FAIR VALUE ASSESEMENT
The fair value of the financial items which are traded in active markets (stock exchanges) (i.e. derivatives, stocks, bonds, mutual funds) is assessed based on their published prices which are effective on the financial statements' reporting date. The available for sale financial assets are valued at fair, which is their market capitalization and therefore are classified under level 1, according to the provisions of IFRS 7, par. 27B.
The fair value of financial items which are not traded in active markets is assessed by the utilization of valuation techniques and assumptions which are based on market data on the Financial Statements reporting date.
The nominal value minus provisions of bad debts is estimated that approximates their real value. The real values of the financial liabilities for presentation purposes in the financial statements are calculated based on the present value of their future cash flows, applying the effective interest rate which is available for the Company for utilization of similar financial instruments.
40. RECLASSIFICATION OF ACCOUNTS
In order to more effectively depict the inflows - outflows from investment activities, it was selected the reclassification of the item "interest received" for the part that it concerns the "customer surcharges" from the investment activities in the operating activities. In order to become similar and comparable the items of the financial year 2016 with those for the year 2017, the published items of the Cash Flow Statement for the period 01.01.2016 - 31.12.2016 were reclassified as follows:

ANNUAL FINANCIAL REPORT

149

Amounts in  thousands

GROUP

31.12.2016

31.12.2016

As published As reclassified



31.12.2016

31.12.2016

As published As reclassified

Amounts in  thousands Cash Flows from operating activities Profit before tax Plus / minus adjustments for: Depreciation and amortization Amortization of customer contributions and investment subsidies Reductions / transfers of tangible and intangible assets Income from securities Provisions for personnel compensation Other provisions Interest and related income Interest and related expense Impairment of securities Plus / minus adjustments for changes in working capital accounts or related to operating activities:

41.324
45.539
(8.168)
(935) (66) 2.944 1.900 (13.848) 4.431 18.067

41.324
45.539
(8.168)
(935) (66) 2.944 1.900 (13.848) 4.431 18.067

41.324
45.539
(8.168)
(935) (66) 2.944 1.900 (13.848) 4.431 18.067

41.337
45.539
(8.168)
(935) (66) 2.944 1.900 (13.838) 4.431 18.067

(Increase) Decrease Trade receivables Materials and spare parts Increase (Decrease) Operating short term liabilities Customers' guarantees Employee contribution for indemnity Plus: Surcharges of customers received Minus: Interest and related expenses paid Income tax paid Net Cash Inflows / (Outflows) from Operating Activities (a) Cash flows from investing activities Purchases of tangible assets Purchases of intangible assets Proceeds from customer contributions and subsidies Interest and related income received Dividends received Purchase of securities Share capital increase in subsidiary / Receipt from liquidation of affiliated company Net Cash Inflows / (Outflows) from Investing Activities (b) Cash flows from financing activities Dividends paid Net Cash Inflows / (Outflows) from Financing Activities (c)

5.843 121
2.056 85 1.911
-
(36) (52.646)
48.522
(8.442) (901) 1.253 11.481 66 0
0
3.457
(31.854)
(31.854)

5.843 121
2.056 85 1.911
3.857
(36) (52.646)
52.379
(8.442) (901) 1.253 7.624 66 0
0
(400)
(31.854)
(31.854)

5.843 121
2.056 85 1.911
-
(36) (52.646)
48.536
(8.442) (901) 1.253 11.471 66 0
0
3.447
(31.854)
(31.854)

5.835 121
2.055 85 1.911
3.857
(36) (52.646)
52.393
(8.442) (901) 1.253 7.614 66 0
0
(410)
(31.854)
(31.854)

Net increase / (decrease) in cash and cash equivalents for the period (a) + (b) + (c) Cash and Cash Equivalents at the beginning of period Cash and Cash Equivalents at the end of period

20.125 260.419 280.544

20.125 260.419 280.544

20.129 259.342 279.471

20.129 259.342 279.471

150

ANNUAL FINANCIAL REPORT

2. INDEPENDENT AUDITOR'S REPORT
To the Shareholders of the Athens Water Supply and Sewerage Company (EYDAP S.A.)
Report on the Audit of the Separate and Consolidated Financial Statements
Opinion
We have audited the accompanying separate and consolidated financial statements of the Athens Water Supply and Sewerage Company (EYDAP S.A.) (the Company), which comprise the separate and consolidated statement of financial position as at 31 December 2017, and the separate and consolidated statements of income and comprehensive income, changes in equity and cash flows for the year then ended, and notes to the financial statements, including a summary of significant accounting policies. In our opinion, the accompanying separate and consolidated financial statements present fairly, in all material respects, the financial position of the Athens Water Supply and Sewerage Company (EYDAP S.A.) and its subsidiary (the Group) as at 31 December 2017, and their financial performance and their consolidated cash flows for the year then ended in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRSs) as adopted by the European Union.
Basis for Opinion
We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards on Auditing (ISAs) as incorporated into the Greek Legislation. Our responsibilities under those standards are further described in the "Auditor's Responsibilities for the Audit of the separate and consolidated Financial Statements" section of our report. We are independent of the Company and its consolidated subsidiary throughout our appointment in accordance with the International Ethics Standards Board for Accountants' Code of Ethics for Professional Accountants (IESBA Code), as incorporated into the Greek Legislation and the ethical requirements that are relevant to the audit of the separate and consolidated financial statements in Greece, and we have fulfilled our other ethical responsibilities in accordance with the requirements of the current legislation and the above-mentioned IESBA Code. We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our opinion.
Emphasis of Matter
We draw attention to note 33.1 to the financial statements, which describes the matter regarding the determination of cost, for the raw water that the Company is supplied from the Greek State. In the absence of a written agreement for determining the above cost, the Company continues also after 30.6.2013, date when was settled the total of outstanding debts to the Greek State, to set off the raw water cost against the cost of services incurred for the maintenance and operation of the assets used for saving and transferring water that belong to the Legal Entity under Public Law "EYDAP Assets" as provided for by article 15 of the dated 9.12.1999 contract with the Greek State. Changes in the pricing for water and sewerage services will result from the implementation of the Joint Ministerial Decision 135275 (G.G. 1751/22.05.2017) "Approval of General rules for Costing and Pricing of water services. Methods and procedures for cost recovery of water services in its various uses". At the present phase, it is not possible to forecast any consequences from the implementation of the above Joint Ministerial Decision on the company's policy until now. Our opinion is not qualified in respect of this matter.
Key Audit Matters
Key audit matters are those matters that, in our professional judgment, were of most significance in our audit of the separate and consolidated financial statements of the current period. These matters were addressed in the context of our audit of the separate and consolidated financial statements as a whole, and in forming our opinion thereon, and we do not provide a separate opinion on these matters.

ANNUAL FINANCIAL REPORT

151

Accuracy of revenue due to complex pricing systems

Key audit matter
The turnover of the company amounted for the year ended 31.12.2017 to  327,3 mil., ( 328,8 mil. for the year ended 31.12.2016). Relevant reference for revenue is made in note 3 (Accounting policies and methods) and note 5 (Turnover) to the financial statements. For the recognition of the company's revenue is required the periodic counting and invoicing based on the current consumption invoices of around 2.1 mil. supplies. Due to the complex pricing systems and the required processing of large amount of data, the accuracy of revenue was considered to be one of most significance matter.

Addressing the audit matter
Our audit approach included, among others, the following main procedures: - Understanding of the applied policies and procedures for
revenue recognition, in conjunction with the established corporate governance and operation internal rules of procedure, with respect to measurement, pricing and issue of bills process. - A ssessment with the assistance of a specialized technical advisor of the IT systems used by the company, the effectiveness of the controls and the revenue recognition accounting. - A ssessment of the completeness and accuracy of correct separation of accounting years, by examining whether the revenue invoiced after the end of the reporting period is recognized in the year it concerns.

Recoverability of trade receivables

Key audit matter
At 31.12.2017 the trade receivables of the Company amount to  273 mil. ( 259 mil. at 31.12.2016) while the related accumulated impairment amounts to  57,5 mil. ( 51,6 mil. at 31.12.2016). The disclosures of the Company regarding the trade receivables, the Municipal debt arrangements, the aging analysis of overdue receivables and the determination of impairment, are included in the notes 21, 18 and 38 to the financial statements. Taking into account the amount of receivables, the number of customers and the economic environment we assessed the recoverability of trade receivables to be one of most significance matter.

Addressing the audit matter
Our audit approach included, among other the following procedures: - U nderstanding and examining of the processes with
respect to monitoring the trade receivables and the possibility of their collection through relevant law provisions (cutting off of water, implementation of Code for the Collection of Public Revenue, responsibility of general or special property owners). - A ssessment of the assumptions and the methodology used by the Company for the determination of impairment. - Assessment of private customer balances included in the aging analysis of receivables due and the estimate of impairment based on the criteria consistently applied. - Assessment of the related disclosures in the company's financial statements.

Contingent liabilities due to labour claims

Key audit matter
In the years 2017 and 2016 the company proceeded to compromise labour dispute solutions totaling around  13 mil. and  17 mil. respectively. At 31.12.2017 is pending the labour claims litigation of total claimed amount  137 mil. The management of the company in cooperation with the Legal Department, has set up provision of total amount  14 mil. for the amount that is likely to be disbursed. Provided that it is not possible to be predicted with absolute certainty a judicial outcome because of the importance of the amount claimed we considered the labour disputes to be one of most significance matter. The above matter is described in note 28 to the financial statements.

Addressing the audit matter
Our audit approach included, among other, the following procedures: - In the context of the confirmation letter of pending count
cases, we received from the company's Legal Department a detailed statement of pending court cases for labour disputes and their alleged outcome. - F or the most important cases, we received further clarifications-opinions from the Legal Department and from a collaborating with the EYDAP Law Firm. - With the assistance of specialized officials, we assessed the above opinions of the company's lawyers. - We assessed the adequacy of the disclosures in the company's financial statements with respect to the above-mentioned matter.

152

ANNUAL FINANCIAL REPORT

Other Information
Management is responsible for the other information. The other information comprises the information included in the Board of Directors' Report for which reference is made to the "Report on Other Legal and Regulatory Requirements", to the Statements of the Members of the Board of Directors, but does not include the financial statements and our auditor's report thereon. Our opinion on the separate and consolidated financial statements does not cover the other information and we do not express any form of assurance conclusion thereon. In connection with our audit of the separate and consolidated financial statements, our responsibility is to read the other information and, in doing so, consider whether the other information is materially inconsistent with the separate and consolidated financial statements or our knowledge obtained in the audit or otherwise appears to be materially misstated. If, based on the work we have performed, we conclude that there is a material misstatement of this other information, we are required to report that fact. We have nothing to report in this regard.
Responsibilities of Management and Those Charged with Governance for the Separate and Consolidated Financial Statements
Management is responsible for the preparation and fair presentation of the separate and consolidated financial statements in accordance with IFRSs, as adopted by the European Union, and for such internal control as management determines is necessary to enable the preparation of separate and consolidated financial statements that are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error. In preparing the separate and consolidated financial statements, management is responsible for assessing the Company's and the Group's ability to continue as a going concern, disclosing, as applicable, matters related to going concern and using the going concern basis of accounting unless management either intends to liquidate the Company and the Group or to cease operations, or has no realistic alternative but to do so. The Audit Committee (art. 44 L. 4449/2017) of the Company is responsible for overseeing the Company's and the Group's financial reporting process.
Auditor's Responsibilities for the Audit of the Separate and Consolidated Financial Statements
Our objectives are to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the separate and consolidated financial statements as a whole are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error, and to issue an auditor's report that includes our opinion. Reasonable assurance is a high level of assurance, but is not a guarantee that an audit conducted in accordance with ISAs, as incorporated into the Greek Legislation, will always detect a material misstatement when it exists. Misstatements can arise from fraud or error and are considered material if, individually or in the aggregate, they could reasonably be expected to influence the economic decisions of users taken on the basis of these separate and consolidated financial statements. As part of an audit in accordance with ISAs as incorporated into the Greek Legislation, we exercise professional judgement and maintain professional skepticism throughout the audit. We also: · Identify and assess the risks of material misstatement of the separate and consolidated financial statements, whether
due to fraud or error, design and perform audit procedures responsive to those risks, and obtain audit evidence that is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our opinion. The risk of not detecting a material misstatement resulting from fraud is higher than for one resulting from error, as fraud may involve collusion, forgery, intentional omissions, misrepresentations, or the override of internal control. · Obtain an understanding of internal control relevant to the audit in order to design audit procedures that are appropriate in the circumstances, but not for the purpose of expressing an opinion on the effectiveness of the Company's and the Group's internal control. · E valuate the appropriateness of accounting policies used and the reasonableness of accounting estimates and related disclosures made by management. · Conclude on the appropriateness of management's use of the going concern basis of accounting and, based on the audit evidence obtained, whether a material uncertainty exists related to events or conditions that may cast significant doubt on the Company's and the Group's ability to continue as a going concern. If we conclude that a material uncertainty exists, we are required to draw attention in our auditor's report to the related disclosures in the separate and consolidated financial statements or, if such disclosures are inadequate, to modify our opinion. Our conclusions are based on the audit evidence obtained up to the date of our auditor's report. However, future events or conditions may cause the Company and the Group to cease to continue as a going concern. · Evaluate the overall presentation, structure and content of the separate and consolidated financial statements, including the disclosures, and whether the separate and consolidated financial statements represent the underlying transactions and events in a manner that achieves fair presentation. · O btain sufficient appropriate audit evidence regarding the financial information of the entities or business activities within the Group to express an opinion on the separate and consolidated financial statements. We are responsible for the direction, supervision and performance of the company and of its subsidiary audit. We remain solely responsible for our audit opinion. We communicate with those charged with governance regarding, among other matters, the planned scope and timing of the audit and significant audit findings, including any significant deficiencies in internal control that we identify during our audit. We also provide those charged with governance with a statement that we have complied with relevant ethical requirements regarding independence, and to communicate with them all relationships and other matters that may reasonably be thought to bear on our independence, and where applicable, related safeguards. From the matters communicated with those charged with governance, we determine those matters that were of most significance in the audit of the separate and consolidated financial statements of the current period and are therefore the key audit matters.

ANNUAL FINANCIAL REPORT

153

Report on Other Legal and Regulatory Requirements
1. B oard of Directors' Report
Taking into consideration that management is responsible for the preparation of the Board of Directors' Report and the Corporate Governance Statement included in this report, according to the provisions of paragraph 5 of article 2 (part B') of L. 4336/2015, we note that: a) T he Board of Directors' Report includes the Corporate Governance Statement that provides the data and informa-
tion defined under article 43bb of cod. L. 2190/1920. b) In our opinion the Board of Directors' Report has been prepared in accordance with the applicable legal require-
ments of the articles 43a and 107A and the paragraph 1 (cases c' and d') of the article 43bb of cod. L. 2190/1920 and its content corresponds with the accompanying financial statements for the year ended 31/12/2017. c) Based on the knowledge we obtained during our audit of the Athens Water Supply and Sewerage Company (EYDAP S.A.) and its environment, we have not identified any material misstatements in the Board of Directors' Report.
2. Additional Report to the Audit Committee
Our audit opinion on the accompanying separate and consolidated financial statements is consistent with the Additional Report to the Company's Audit Committee referred to in Article 11 of European Union (EU) Regulation 537/2014.
3. Provision of Non-Audit Services
We have not provided to the Company and its subsidiary the prohibited non-audit services referred to in Article 5 of EU Regulation 537/2014.
4. Auditor's Appointment
We have been appointed for the first time statutory auditors of the Company by the dated 29/4/2015 decision of the annual ordinary general meeting of shareholders. Since then, our appointment has been constantly renewed for a total period of 3 years based on the annual decisions of the Annual General Meetings of the Company Shareholders.

Athens, 29 March 2018

Efstratios G. Paparidis Certified Public Accountant Auditor Institute of CPA (SOEL) Reg. No. 14351

Dimitrios Ch. Stavrou Certified Public Accountant Auditor Institute of CPA (SOEL) Reg. No. 14791

Associated Certified Public Accountants s.a. member of Crowe Horwath International
3, Fok. Negri Street - 112 57 Athens, Greece Institute of CPA (SOEL) Reg. No. 125

154

ANNUAL FINANCIAL REPORT

08/02/2017 09/02/2017 07/04/2017
07/04/2017 16/06/2017 16/06/2017 23/06/2017 07/07/2017 13/09/2017 29/09/2017 01/11/2017

3.CORPORATE ANNOUNCEMENTS ­ RELEASES 2017
The following announcements/releases have been sent to the Daily Bulletin of Prices and are presented in the website of the Athens Exchange as well as in the Company's website www.eydap.gr .
FINANCIAL CALENDAR 2017 CHANGE OF AUDIT COMMITTEE COMPANY PRESENTATION TO THE REPRESENTATIVES OF THE CAPITAL MARKET FISCAL YEAR 2016 FINANCIAL RESULTS DIVIDEND OF 2016 YEAR PROFIT RESOLUTIONS OF THE ORDINARY SHAREHOLDERS' GENERAL MEETING JUNE 2017 BOARD OF DIRECTORS INAUGURAL MEETING BOD INAUGURAL MEETING APPOITMENT OF EXECUTIVES FIRST HALF 2017 FINANCIAL RESULTS CONCLUSION OF ORDINARY TAX AUDIT FOR FISCAL YEAR 2016 AND TAX CERTIFICATE ISSUANCE

ANNUAL FINANCIAL REPORT

155

4. DATA & INFORMATION

ATHENS WATER AND SEWERAGE COMPANY S.A. (E.YD.A.P)
Company's Number in the General Electronic Commercial Registry : 121578960000
Domicile: Oropou 156 - 11146 Galatsi, Greece FINANCIAL DATA AND INFORMATION FOR THE PERIOD FROM 1st January 2017 to 31 December 2017 (published in accordance with P.L. 2190/1920, article 135, for companies preparing annual financial statements, consolidated and not, according to IAS)

The information and financial data that derive from the financial statements below provide general information about the financial position and the results of EYDAP S.A. (the Company) and the Group. Therefore, we recommend the reader, before making any investment decision or proceeding to any transaction with the Group or the Company, to visit the Company's website where the financial statements according to International Financial Reporting Standards together with the auditor's report, when needed, are presented.

Ministerial Authority: Corporate Web Site:

Ministry of Infrastructure & Transport www.eydap.gr

COMPANY INFORMATION

Composition of Board of Directors:

K. Papadopoulos, I. Benisis, K. Vafeiadis, I. Kardaras, G. Makrinos, N. Sarantis, M. Stavroulakis, G. Chalambalakis, P. Skoularikis, Ch. Mistriotis, A. Pouliasis, Emman. Aggelakis, G. Alexandrakis

Date of Approval of Financial Statements from the Board of Directors: Chartered Auditors Accountants: Auditing Company: Audit Report from Chartered Auditor Accountants:

28 March 2018 Efstratios Paparidis (Reg. No. SOEL 14351), Dimitrios Stavrou (Reg. No. SOEL 14791) «S.O.L.» S.A. CERTIFIED PUBLIC ACCOUNTANTS SOCIETE ANONYME (SOEL Reg. Number 125)

In agreement ­ Matter of Emphasis

Amounts in  thousand
ASSETS Tangible assets Intangible assets Other noncurrent assets Inventories Trade Receivables Other current assets TOTAL ASSETS EQUITY AND LIABILITIES Share capital Other Equity Items Total Equity
Liabilities for employee benefits Investment subsidies and Consumers' participation Provisions/Other long-term liabilities Other Short- term liabilities Total liabilities TOTAL EQUITY AND LIABILITIES

STATEMENT OF FINANCIAL POSITION GROUP
31.12.2017

31.12.2016

852.522 1.026
130.735 10.940
215.971 321.427 1.532.621

881.337 1.284
136.398 12.387
207.437 312.997 1.551.840

63.900 878.128 942.028

63.900 840.866 904.766

301.006 183.187
53.632 52.768 590.593 1.532.621

291.214 186.737
59.998 109.125 647.074 1.551.840

Amounts in  thousand
Turnover Gross profit

STATEMENT OF TOTAL COMPREHENSIVE INCOME GROUP
1.01-31.12.2017 327.343 142.865

Profit before tax, financial and investment results Profit before tax Profit after tax (A) Other comprehensive income, net of tax (B) Total Comprehensive income for the period (A+B) Attributable to : Shareholders Basic earnings after taxes per share (in ) Profit before tax, financial, investment results, depreciation and amortization

47.820 66.473 43.427 5.550 48.977
43.427 0,41
84.599

Amounts in  thousand
Turnover Gross profit

STATEMENT OF TOTAL COMPREHENSIVE INCOME COMPANY
1.01-31.12.2017 327.324 142.846

Profit before tax, financial and investment results Profit before tax Profit after tax (A) Other comprehensive income, net of tax (B) Total Comprehensive income for the period (A+B) Attributable to : Shareholders Proposed dividend per share - (in ) Profit before tax, financial, investment results,
depreciation and amortization

47.877 66.523 43.477 5.550 49.027
43.477 0,20
84.656

COMPANY

31.12.2017

31.12.2016

852.520 1.026
131.945 10.940
215.955 320.395 1.532.781

881.337 1.284
137.608 12.387
207.439 311.898 1.551.953

63.900 878.291 942.191

63.900 840.979 904.879

301.006 183.187
53.632 52.765 590.590 1.532.781

291.214 186.737
59.998 109.125 647.074 1.551.953

1.01-31.12.2016 328.851 146.214
49.908 41.324 24.049 (12.738) 11.311
24.049 0,23
87.279
1.01-31.12.2016 328.821 146.184
49.931 41.337 24.062 (12.738) 11.324
24.062 0,11
87.302

Amounts in  thousand

STATEMENT OF CHANGES IN SHAREHOLDERS' EQUITY

GROUP

31.12.2017

31.12.2016

COMPANY

31.12.2017

31.12.2016

Equity balance at the beginning of the period (01.01.2017 and 01.01.2016 respectively) Profit of the year, after tax Net income directly recorded to equity Total comprehensive income after tax Dividends Distributed Equity balance at the end of the period (31.12.2017 and 31.12.2016 respectively)

904.766 43.427 5.550 48.977
(11.715) 942.028

966.940 24.049
(12.738) 11.311
(73.485) 904.766

904.879 43.477 5.550 49.027
(11.715) 942.191

967.040 24.062
(12.738) 11.324
(73.485) 904.879

Amounts in  thousand

CASH FLOW STATEMENT

GROUP

31.12.2017

31.12.2016

COMPANY

31.12.2017

31.12.2016

Cash Flows from operating activities Profit before tax (continued activities) Plus / minus adjustments for: Depreciation and amortization Amortization of customers' contributions and subsidies Reductions / transfers of tangible and intangible assets Impairment of securities Income from securities Provisions for personnel compensation Other Provisions Credit Interest and related income Debit Interest and related expense

66.473
44.963 (8.184)
(55) 0
(60) 14.838
(308) (19.096)
503

41.324
45.539 (8.168)
(935) 18.067
(66) 2.944 1.900 (13.848) 4.431

66.523
44.963 (8.184)
(55) 0
(60) 14.838
(308) (19.089)
503

41.337
45.539 (8.168)
(935) 18.067
(66) 2.944 1.900 (13.838) 4.431

Plus / minus adjustments for changes in working capital accounts or related to operating activities: (Increase) Decrease in : Trade Receivables Consumable materials and spare parts Increase (Decrease) in : Liabilities Consumers' guarantees Employee contribution for indemnity Plus: Surcharges of customers receivable Minus: Interest and related expenses paid Income tax paid Total cash inflows / (outflows) from operating activities (a)

3.215 1.241
(17.293) 90
1.857
5.010
(130) (24.750) 68.314

5.843 121
2.056 85
1.911
3.857
(36) (52.646) 52.379

3.240 1.241
(17.294) 90
1.857
5.010
(130) (24.750) 68.395

5.835 121
2.055 85
1.911
3.857
(36) (52.646) 52.393

Cash Flows from investing activities Purchase of tangible assets Purchase of intangible assets Proceeds from customers' contributions and subsidies Interest income received Dividends Received Net cash inflows / (outflows) from investing activities (b)

(14.992) (842) 4.633 7.336 60
(3.805)

(8.442) (901) 1.253 7.624 66 (400)

(14.991) (842) 4.633 7.326 60
(3.814)

(8.442) (901) 1.253 7.614 66 (410)

Cash Flows from financing activities Dividends paid Total cash inflows / (outflows) from financing activities ( c )

(50.132) (50.132)

(31.854) (31.854)

(50.132) (50.132)

(31.854) (31.854)

Net (decrease) / increase in cash and cash equivalents (a) + (b) + (c) Cash and cash equivalents, at the beginning of the period Cash and cash equivalents, at the end of the period

14.377
280.544 294.921

20.125
260.419 280.544

14.449
279.471 293.920

20.129
259.342 279.471

1. The number of employees of the Group and the Company as of 31 December 2017 was 2,270 (31 December 2016: 2,297).

ADDITIONAL DATA AND INFORMATION

2. The provisions formed by the Company until 31 December 2017 concern: a) Lawsuits for civil cases against the Company of a total amount  74.7 million, mainly relating to indemnities for damages from water flooding (due to pipelines fractures and rainfalls), as well as lawsuits from various counterparty suppliers and sub-contractors for violation of contractual terms. b) There are also pending litigations for labor differences of  137.3 million approximately. Against the losses which may arise if the above (a and b) pending litigations become irrevocably resolved, EYDAP has formed provisions of total amount  35.3 million (37.0 million ­ 1.7 million) on 31 December 2017 versus  41.7 million (58.7 million - 17 million) on 31 December 2016, which are deemed as adequate. Of the above provisions, an amount of  1.7 million approximately, concerning a settlement agreement for collective labor differences, is being recorded in the short-term liabilities as in the case of the amount of  17 million which was recorded in the previous year. c) The Company proceeded with the implementation of the decision numbered 19105/21.12.2016 of the Board of Directors, concerning a settlement agreement for collective labor differences and disbursed an amount of  17 million approximately during the year 2017. Furthermore, the Company proceeded with the implementation of the decision numbered 19224/24.05.2017 of the Board of Directors, concerning a settlement agreement for a special one-off indemnity and disbursed an amount of  13 million approximately during the year 2017 as well (note 28). d) Taxes for unaudited years of  2.4 million on 31 December 2017, meaning at the same level with the previous year (note 11). e) Other provisions for doubtful receivables (customers and debtors) and obsolete inventories of  65 million on 31 December 2017 versus  58.8 million on 31 December 2016.

3. As described in the note 33 of the annual financial statements, the signing of a written agreement - as it is defined in the article 15 of the agreement on 09.12.1999 between the Greek State and the Company - which will determine the price paid for the collected crude water is pending from the year 2004. In absence of a written agreement, the Company continues to offset the cost of the collected crude water with the maintenance and operation services it provides for the fixed assets owned by "L.E.P.L. EYDAP Fixed Assets", thus burdening its financial results.

4. The amounts of sales and purchases cumulatively from the beginning of the current period and the balances of receivables and liabilities of the Group and the Company at the end of the current period, which have been generated from related party transactions according to the definition of IAS 24, are as follows (amounts in  thousand):

i ) Income ii) Expenses iii) Receivables iv) Remuneration and compensation of Board Members and senior executives

GROUP 2017 61.512
529 70.802
252

2016 58.459
66 64.029
195

COMPANY 2017 61.512
529 70.826
252

2016 58.459
66 64.053
195

5. In the current year the following were recorded: a) an income of  649 thousand in the "Other comprehensive income after taxes" concerning a change in the fair value of assets available for sale, and b) actuarial profit of  4,901 thousand after taxes due to defined benefit plans according to the revised IAS 19.

6. No material event has occurred that could significantly affect the financial structure or the business course of the Company and the Group from 31.12.2017 until the approval date of the financial statements by the Company's Board of Directors (note 32).

7. Apart from EYDAP, the consolidated financial statements include ISLANDS' EYDAP DEVELOPMENT S.A. with domicile in Athens. EYDAP holds 100% of the company's share capital. ISLANDS' EYDAP S.A. was consolidated according to the full consolidation method and as a result no minority rights were recorded.
8. The matter of emphasis of the certified auditors is the following: "We advise that you pay attention to the analytical note 33.1 of the financial statements concerning the determination of the price of the crude water supplied to the Company from the Greek State. In absence of a relevant agreement, the Company continues even after 30.06.2013, the date on which the entire issues of economic nature with the Greek State were settled, to offset the cost of the collected crude water with the maintenance and operation services it provides for the fixed assets (used for water collection and distribution) owned by "L.E.P.L. EYDAP Fixed Assets", as stipulated by the article 15 of the contractual agreement with the Greek State dated on 09.12.1999. Changes in the pricing of water and sewerage services will stem from the application of JMD 135275 , GG 1751 / 22.05.2017 "Approval of general Costing and Pricing Rules of water services. Method and procedures for recovering the cost of water services in its various uses". At the current phase it is not possible to estimate any potential impact stemming from this process on the up to now applied policy by the Company. In our conclusion no reservation has been expressed with regard to this matter."
Athens, 28 March 2018

THE CHAIRMAN OF THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS

THE CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER

THE DIRECTOR OF THE ECONOMIC DEPARTMENT

THE CHIEF ACCOUNTANT SUPERVISOR

PAPADOPOULOS KONSTANTINOS ID. P. 720446

IOANNIS EMM. BENISIS ID No.  521661

LEMONIA MARK. SKYLAKI
ID No.  971227 Economic Chamber of Greece Accounting License Reg. No. A/17806

DIMITRA VAS. ZARKADOULA
ID No.  253061 Economic Chamber of Greece Accounting License Reg. No.
/112285

156

ANNUAL FINANCIAL REPORT

ANNUAL FINANCIAL REPORT

157

