2019
ANNUAL REPORT

Enea in Brief

SEK 1,012
MILLION
Revenue

25.5
PERCENT
Operating margin excl. non-recurring items

24.3
PERCENT
Research and development

Enea is one of the world's leading providers of software products for telecommunication and cybersecurity. It focuses on products created for cloud platforms and 5G in core networks, virtualization, and traffic intelligence. Over three billion people rely on Enea's technology every day when using their mobile phones or connecting to the Internet.
Organization and Offering
Enea has development centers and sales offices in Europe, North America, and Asia. The company's portfolio has the following product segments:
· Cloud data management · Mobile traffic management · Policy and access control · Embedded traffic intelligence · Virtualization platforms · Real-time operating systems
Enea also has a global services organization developing software on assignment from customers in different sectors subject to stringent performance and reliability standards. Engineers in this part of Enea's organization have executed development projects for customers that work on solutions for medical devices, the aviation industry, and aerospace technology.
Historically, data communication solutions have been Enea's core business since the company was founded over 50 years ago. Enea was the first company in the Nordic region to connect to the Internet, and received the first email in Sweden. The company also registered Sweden's first Internet domain, and at an early stage, was the hub of all Internet traffic in Sweden.
Enea was one of the pioneers behind the emergence of the Internet and mobile data communication, and continues to drive technological evolution by delivering market-leading products and solutions.
HEADQUARTERS: Stockholm, Sweden
NUMBER OF EMPLOYEES: 661
STOCK EXCHANGE: Nasdaq Stockholm

SEK m 1,200

REVENUE

1,000

800

600

400

200

0

2017

2018

2019

OPERATING PROFIT AND

OPERATING MARGIN EXCL.

NON-RECURRING ITEMS

SEK m

%

250

25

200

20

150

15

100

10

50

5

0

2017

2018

OPERATING PROFIT

0 2019
OPERATING MARGIN EXCL. NON-RECURRING ITEMS

EARNINGS PER SHARE
SEK 10

8

6

4

2

0

2017

2018

2019

2 ENEA ANNUAL REPORT 2019

Contents

A Word from the CEO

4

Business Concept and Strategy 6

Market

8

Products and Services

10

Employees

12

The Share and Shareholders

14

Directors' Report

16

Sustainability Report

18

Risks and Risk Management

20

Corporate Governance Report 22­30

Board of Directors

24

Executive Management Team

25

Financial Information

32­70

Income Statement ­ Group

32

Balance Sheet ­ Group

33

Statement of Changes in Equity ­ Group 34

Cash Flow Statement ­ Group

35

Income Statement ­ Parent Company 36

Balance Sheet ­ Parent Company

37

Statement of Changes in Equity ­

Parent Company

38

Cash Flow Statement ­ Parent Company 39

Notes

40

Accounting Policies

40

Declaration by the Board and CEO 71

Audit Report

72

Five-year Summary

76

Financial Definitions

77

Alternative Performance Indicators

77

Information for Shareholders

78

Invitation to AGM 2020

78

Financial Calendar

78

Enea ­ A Success Story

79

Enea ­ Worldwide

80

ANNUAL REPORT 2019 ENEA 3

A WORD FROM THE CEO

Strong Position on an Uncertain Market
2019 was another strong year for Enea, with increased sales, many new customers and more competitive offerings. Increased traffic and demand for new services in telecom and enterprise networks continue to drive market development towards 5G.

In 2019, Enea continued the positive progress the company has featured in recent years. From being a leader in one segment (operating systems for mobile networks), we have developed Enea into a company with global leadership in several different market segments, and initiatives in growth segments like 5G and cybersecurity.
For the first time in the company's history, we could report revenue of over SEK 1 billion, and our highest yearly earnings ever, with an operating margin of 25.5 percent excluding non-recurring items. Our financial position is strong, with low borrowing in relation to operating profit. Much of this success is due to Enea's business model, which is based on software sales with good margins, a high share of recurring revenue and strong cash flow.
A growing revenue share is sourced from the Network Solutions segment, now clearly our largest product group. A number of successful acquisitions have made us stronger as a company, and more attractive to partners and customers. Based on these experiences, we're continuing to screen strategic acquisitions that can extend our offering and increase our earnings capacity.
Focusing on the Customer Enea has two long-term key accounts in the Operating System segment, and most of the revenue for this product group is still from these accounts. Accordingly, I'm pleased that in recent years, we've built a broader base of strategic relationships in other segments. Our customer base includes several major system vendors that embed our products into larger systems. For example, we've been entrusted to supply traffic intelligence products for two of the largest vendors of enterprise networks in the US. In this context,

"F or the first time in the company's history, we could report revenue of over SEK 1 billion."

our software is used to improve cybersecurity, which is becoming increasingly important for many businesses.
We also sell products directly to some of the world's largest and most prominent telecom operators. New technology for cloud solutions creates business opportunities for software providers like Enea. With standard platforms, customers can select suppliers of different software components more easily.
We've already signed this type of contract with operators in the US and Germany, and our ambition is to move into more countries.
Another Successful Acquisition Our latest acquisition ­ a policy and access control business unit ­ has performed above plan, and rapidly become an integrated and important part of Enea. Policy and access control is used in all the world's 3G and 4G networks. This functionality will also be required in 5G networks to manage subscriptions, as well as traffic from subscribers and the Internet of Things. An increasing number and greater variety of connected devices will create a demand for more network capacity and new functionality.
We anticipate the market for 5G core networks to grow in the coming years, starting in 2020.

Enea is currently a challenger in this segment, and to increase our market share, we've prioritized interoperability with existing networks and software from other vendors.
Mobile operators welcome the opportunity to build 5G networks in a flexible and cost-efficient way, by combining software from specialized providers that are market leaders in their individual product segments.
Strong Finances The investments and acquisitions we've made in recent years required capital injections. We satisfied this capital need mainly with a bond loan and credit facilities from banks. The bond loan has served us well, but to reduce interest expenses, and certain constraints on corporate governance, we decided to execute a directed share issue and repay the bond loan in advance. This action will have a positive impact on earnings per share as early as from 2020.
Core Values As a company, we've undergone fundamental change. Our operations are largely new, and we have colleagues in many locations around the world. That's why shared core values are an important tool for creating a positive spirit and common corporate culture.

4 ENEA ANNUAL REPORT 2019

A WORD FROM THE CEO
"The introduction of 5G technology will create more opportunities in the telecom sector."

Together with the management team, all staff have selected five values to permeate their day-to-day work ­ customer focus, accountability, innovation, agility, and teamwork. We'll be making sure that these values direct how we work internally, and also how we help our customers.
Summary We can look back on a year with a lot of positive changes and good outcomes. At the same time, we're now witnessing the corona pandemic causing huge uncertainty, even if we believe the drivers of increased traffic and new services in telecom and enterprise networks will be sustained.

Enea is an innovation business that creates the communication solutions of the future in close partnership with its customers. We are continuing to work towards our ambition of increasing the company's revenue with good profitability.
Finally, I'd like to thank all our customers, colleagues and shareholders for their supp ort. Together we will build the future Enea!
Jan Häglund President and CEO
March 2020

ANNUAL REPORT 2019 ENEA 5

BUSINESS CONCEPT AND STRATEGY

Telecommunication and Cybersecurity ­ Enea's Key Segments
Enea's business concept is to sell software as a product and service. Its product portfolio includes software components and complete solutions. The company operates several parallel business models involving direct and indirect sales.

Market Strategy Being selective and focusing on market segments offering good profitability and growth potential is an important part of Enea's strategy. The company has purposefully developed specialist skills to become the market leader in these segments. At present, Enea is a leader in segments such as embedded traffic intelligence, mobile video traffic management, and real-time operating systems for radio base stations in mobile networks.
Investment Segments In addition to those segments where Enea is a leader, the company is making significant investments in other strategic segments. Based on global technology trends and the business opportunities they create, Enea is investing in core networks for the next generation of mobile systems (5G) where acquisitions in recent years have added

key competences, products, and customer relationships in traffic and data management. Enea also invests in the development of platforms for the network edge, where applications for connecting SD-WANs are an expansive market segment. These platforms can be considered the natural evolution of Enea's business in embedded operating systems.
Cybersecurity is another such segment. Enea is enhancing traffic intelligence products, enabling the creation of new applications for capturing and analyzing traffic in data networks.
Acquisition Strategy Enea continuously screens acquisition candidates that could complement its product portfolio and increase its growth rate. In the past four years, Enea has successfully executed three major acquisitions, rapidly integrating them into its operations.

The most recent example is a business unit focusing on policy and access control, which Enea acquired in the first quarter of 2019.
By combining investments in organic growth and acquisitions, Enea has successfully addressed the forecast downturn in its Operating Systems segment, creating completely new business opportunities in the Network Solutions segment.
Components and Complete Solutions Enea has extensive experience of selling components that can be integrated with various systems and solutions. Most of these contracts are signed with major system vendors, which means that when these customers are successful, Enea is successful too.
Sales of embedded components remain an important part of Enea's business, but the company has expanded its product portfolio and kept developing its business models.

Connected devices

Distributed network components
Distributed virtualization
platforms

Radio network

Core network

Mobile video traffic management

Real-time operating systems for mobile
networks

Cloud data management
Policy and access control

Embedded traffic intelligence

Internet and cloud services

Enea focuses on a cluster of selected key segments, where it pursues leadership. 6 ENEA ANNUAL REPORT 2019

BUSINESS CONCEPT AND STRATEGY

PRODUCT PORTFOLIO AND SALES MODELS

APPLICATIONS COMPONENTS

Mobile video traffic
Cloud data management
Policy and access control
Real-time operating systems
Embedded traffic intelligence
Virtualization platforms

System vendors
System integrators System vendors

Telecom operators

Enterprise customers

END-USERS

Thanks to a broader-based offering and larger product portfolio in Network Solutions, the company now has significant direct sales to end-customers like telecom operators.
Business and Sales Models Enea has two main sales models, direct sales to end-customers and indirect sales through partnerships. Direct sales of turnkey solutions to operators are mainly in mobile video traffic management, cloud data management, and policy and access control.

Indirect sales involve component sales to system vendors or system integrators, who in turn, deliver and implement complete solutions. This sales model is mainly in real-time operating systems, embedded traffic intelligence, and virtualization platforms.
The capability of operating several different business and sales models in parallel enables Enea to reach customers worldwide and across multiple market segments in telecom and enterprise networks.

Strategy
Enea focuses on a cluster of selected key market segments and pursues leadership in them. The company invests in organic growth based on global technology trends, while retaining profitability and financial strength to enable complementary acquisitions.

ANNUAL REPORT 2019 ENEA 7

MARKET

5G ­ Shorter Response Times, Higher Data Volumes, and More Connected Devices
There is growing interest in the next generation of mobile systems (5G). The rollout of this type of network will accelerate over the coming years, enabling new applications and driving developm ent of the Internet of Things. This implies greater demand for secure and reliable systems to manage traffic and data.

Global Trends Enea continuously monitors external factors and global technology trends to adapt its strategy and business operations, which is imperative to ensure the company's growth and success.
Virtualization and cloud solutions represent one of the main global trends. Software is becoming increasingly independent of equipment, offering competitive advantages to independent and pure-play software providers like Enea.
This trend also means that software is becoming more frequently divided into well-defined and interchangeable

components and function blocks ­ another advantage for specialized companies aiming for market leadership in selected segments.
The whole telecom industry is now discussing 5G, the fifth generation of mobile networks. This standard brings an all-new architecture for core networks, with well-defined function blocks, which are natively designed for cloud solutions. This creates opportunities for Enea to assume leadership in key segments like data management
Increasing volumes of data traffic and a complex mix of cyber threats are accentuating the demand for cybersecurity. Advanced technology and specialized products are

necessary to classify network traffic and prevent breaches, sabotage and theft of intellectual property. Enea's software in this segment is a market-leading product and an integrated part of the solutions offered by many security vendors.
The usage of open source is another trend, and the first choice for many system developers. Enea uses open source in some form in most of its products. This has enabled the rapid development of its product portfolio in the Network Solutions segment for example. At the same time, the usage of open source has clearly reduced the demand for Enea's proprietary real-time operating system products.

GLOBAL TECHNOLOGY TRENDS 2005

2010

2015

2020

VIRTUALIZATION AND CLOUD SOLUTIONS

Software and equipment integrated

Software and equipment separated

Network functions virtualized

2025
Micro services

INTRODUCTION OF 5G

4G (LTE)

5G New Radio (NSA) 5G Core Standalone (SA)

CYBERSECURITY

Security for access points

Security for networks

Analysis of user behaviour

Data mining and AI-based anomaly detection

SOFTWARE AS A SERVICE AND ARTIFICIAL INTELLIGENCE

SaaS AI

8 ENEA ANNUAL REPORT 2019

MARKET

Software as a Service (SaaS) is enjoying growing market acceptance, as are solutions based on artificial intelligence. Enea has already launched offerings where these new business models and technologies are important components.
Managing Mobile Video Traffic Video is the fastest growing type of traffic in mobile networks, and operators need to be able to manage and optimize encrypted video traffic. Research conducted by Cisco (Visual Networking Index, 2019) indicates that video traffic will constitute nearly 80 percent of all mobile traffic within two years. To retain subscriber loyalty, while simultaneously limiting investment in infrastructure, operators have to optimize video traffic and ensure a good user experience without delays and distortion effects. They will also need to consider implementing new business models centered on video traffic to boost their revenue and maintain profitability.
Cloud Data Management The rollout of 5G will enable new types of solution where the actual application software and associated data are managed separately. Research conducted by IDC also indicates that there will be 41.6 billion connected devices by 2025. This implies

completely new requirements on data management systems for 5G services and the Internet of Things. High availability, reliability, as well as extremely short response times, are fundamental criteria for various types of real-time functionality. Scalability and flexibility are two other key aspects and cloud systems will be part of the solution in these cases.
Core Networks for 5G The critical functions of well-designed 5G networks are not only on the radio network side, but also in the core network. This includes policy and access control. By planning for various scenarios, operators can define rules that automatically manage high traffic load and prioritize traffic that cannot be delayed, for example. Access control is a related function that verifies user subscriptions and opens access to services.
Cybersecurity Different types of traffic can be classified and measured using a technology called Deep Packet Inspection, enabling traffic optimization and a good user experience. This technology is also the foundation of cybersecurity solutions, and can prevent unauthorized access, while facilitating the identification of malicious traffic. Traffic intelligence is embedded into solutions for

telecom and enterprise networks such as components in firewalls and various cybersecurity services.
Virtualization For several years, telecom operators have been virtualizing core network functionality. There is a wealth of advantages ­ more flexible solutions, better utilization of available resources and a wider selection of software providers. At the same time, new cloud technology has created new requirements on skills, working methods, operation and maintenance systems and business relationships. This process has now reached the network edge, where similar concepts can offer many benefits. Enea was one of the first suppliers to offer SD-WAN solutions that can replace traditional enterprise networks, cutting costs for a raft of operations.
Summary The market for telecommunication and cybersecurity is continuing to evolve rapidly, due to the innovation of technology and business models. Enea is well positioned to exploit the business opportunities created by this progress, and maintains business relationships and active dialogue with most of the customers driving this market forward.

ANNUAL REPORT 2019 ENEA 9

PRODUCTS AND SERVICES

Enea ­ A Software Company
Enea delivers products and solutions for telecom and enterprise networks, and provides product-related services such as training, integration, and technical support. The company also offers operating systems for various types of application, and does some specific software development work on assignment from customers.

Market Segments Enea's product and service portfolio can be divided into three market segments:
· Network Solutions ­ software to optimize database communication and platforms for network function virtualization (NFV).
· Operating Systems ­ software that serves as the link between computer equipment and the applications that customers use.
· Software Development Services ­ software development on assignment from customers.
The product portfolio for the Network Solutions market segment was supplemented at the beginning of the year by the acquisition of a business unit focused on developing software for policy and access control.

Products The following section reviews Enea's main products and services in each market segment.
Network Solutions In the Network Solutions market segment, Enea delivers products for cloud solutions that satisfy the telecom and IT sectors' stringent reliability and security standards. This part of Enea's portfolio includes the following products and solutions:
Enea Access Manager ­ a product enabling mobile operators to authenticate user subscriptions and control access to services based on subscriber permissions.

Enea Policy Manager ­ a product enabling mobile operators to automatically control the usage of network resources, thus enhancing the user experience of different services.
Enea Unified Data Manager ­ a product enabling mobile operators to manage data related to subscriptions and services for any underlying database.
Enea Stratum Cloud Data Layer ­ a product enabling mobile operators to build databases that store information related to subscriptions and services securely.
Enea Encrypted Video Manager ­ a product enabling mobile operators to optimize video and data traffic for a superior user experience and cost-effective network solutions.

"Enea's engineers and project managers have extensive experience of software development, and take overall responsibility for everything from design and coding to project management, quality assurance, and training."
10 ENEA ANNUAL REPORT 2019

PRODUCTS AND SERVICES

Enea Qosmos ixEngine ­ a product enabling the classification of data traffic in telecom or enterprise networks, improving cybersecurity and simplifying network planning.
Enea Qosmos Probe ­ a product that builds on Enea Qosmos ixEngine, providing similar functionality, but delivered in the form of a software probe for customers that want to simplify the integration process.
Enea NFV Access ­ an NFV platform distributed to the edges of various networks, for example in software-defined wide area networks (SD-WANs).
Operating Systems In its operating systems market segment, Enea delivers real-time operating systems that provide support and are primarily intended for applications with extreme performance and predictability standards. This part of Enea's portfolio includes the following products and solutions:

Enea OSE ­ a real-time operating system that supports the communication interface between applications, primarily optimizing processor capacity and usage.
Enea Linux ­ an open source operating system (the Yocto Project, part of the Linux Foundation), which has been specifically developed for telecom and enterprise networks.
Software Development Services In its Software Development Services market segment, Enea helps customers in different sectors around the world to execute complex development projects, often developing software for high-technology solutions with demanding reliability and availability standards. Clients are in sectors including medical devices and aerospace technology, as well as the aviation industry.
Enea's engineers and project managers have extensive experience of software development, and take overall responsibility for everything from design and coding to project management, quality assurance, and training.

"Enea's marketleading products are natively designed for cloud solutions and satisfy the telecom and IT sectors' challenging reliability and security standards."

ANNUAL REPORT 2019 ENEA 11

EMPLOYEES

Enea's Employees

It is important for Enea that all staff feel a sense of community and contribute to the company's success. The single most important factors to acheive the company's ambitious goals are the skills and capabilities of its employees.

"Diversity is an essential factor for Enea's creativity and innovative capability."

Core Values Enea's corporate culture and ways of working are permeated by five shared core values, which have been formulated in dialogue with employees in a series of workshops at Enea's local companies. These core values form a platform for how all staff conduct themselves in work situations, towards customers and colleagues, making Enea a successful and attractive employer.
Enea should operate with agility and adapt its business to new market trends, while encouraging innovation to exploit new business opportunities. Customer focus

is a key element for the company, which always puts the needs and requirements of customers first. Enea's staff satisfy customer expectations by demonstrating accountability, which ultimately, means greater customer satisfaction.
All our work should also be permeated by teamwork. This means that all employees help each other face challenges and share positive feedback and successes.
Human Resources Policy Enea aspires to be an attractive employer with highly committed people. In line with this, the company works actively on individual competence development, promoting a healthy working environment and a good work-life balance. These initiatives are based on the understanding that colleagues who are happy and feel well also perform better.
Enea is a company with headquarters in Sweden, an international business and global presence. It currently has 661 employees, the large majority being technology graduates.
It is critical that the company is at the leading edge of research and development. To utilize local skills, a number of development centers have been established in Europe and Asia (India), and Enea's global presence also facilitates recruitment. Most Enea employees are stationed in Romania, where the Software Development Services business operates, and where part of the organization also works on developing Enea's proprietary products.
Enea ­ A Learning Organization The business environment and market segments like telecommunication and cybersecurity are evolving at an accelerating rate. This is why it is important for Enea to give current and future employees the opportunity to develop new skills. Primarily, this is achieved by means of continuous learning at work. Enea currently consists of five business units, all of which have professionals with unique specialist skills in each market segment. This means that collaboration and exchange of best practice across organizational borders

12 ENEA ANNUAL REPORT 2019

EMPLOYEES

also represent an opportunity to develop new skills. Enea's employees have individual development plans based on the company's needs, and their individual interests.
Diversity in an International Environment Diversity is an essential factor for Enea to enable the creativity and innovative capability necessary to remain a successful company, and widen its perspective on the challenges the company faces. Given that

Enea is a global corporation, it is important that the organization reflects the customer's organization, and that employees possess knowledge of local markets, as well as an understanding of different cultures.
Enea aspires to achieve a more even gender division, and has an objective to hire more women, as the majority of employees are currently men (79 percent). Accordingly, Enea is working actively to create an attractive workplace for both genders, and is facilitating this recruitment process, especially in functions that work on product development.
Leadership Good and effective leaders are characterized by trust in their own leadership and the skills of the employees. Good leadership is also about understanding people and why they act differently in similar situations.
Enea uses various initiatives to give its staff and managers an opportunity to evaluate their efforts and gain valuable insights. For example, many managers received "360 Feedback" during the year, and there is also a well-functioning process for staff appraisal interviews.

EMPLOYEES BY COUNTRY

UK 9% Croatia 11% India 7% Romania 38%

US 10% France 9%
Sweden 9%
Other countries 7%

CORE VALUES
Customer Focus ­ we spend time on understanding customer requirements, to ensure mutual success
Accountability ­ we honor commitments and deliver on promises, to customers and to each other
Innovation ­ we promote trying new concepts, business models and ways of working
Agility ­ we move quickly, adapt to change and embrace new opportunities
Teamwork ­ we compete and win as one team and one company, not as individuals

ANNUAL REPORT 2019 ENEA 13

THE SHARE AND SHAREHOLDERS

Shareholder Information

Enea AB had its initial public offering in 1989 and has been quoted on Nasdaq Stockholm Mid Cap (ENEA) since July 1, 2007.

Share Price Performance In the year, Enea's share price varied between a low of SEK 102.50 on January 2, and a high of SEK 198.50 on December 9.
The closing price at year-end was SEK 181.00, which means that Enea's share price increased by 78.3 percent in the year. This can be compared to the OMX Stockholm All-Share Gross Index (OMXSGI) and OMX Stockholm Technology Gross Index (SX9000GI), which rose by 34.6 and 19.1 percent respectively in the same period.
Trading Volume A total of approximately 4 million shares were traded in the year, with total value of SEK 330 million, equating to an average of 15,047 shares per trading day.
Ownership Enea had 8,265 shareholders as of December 31. On this date, the largest shareholders were Per Lindberg (direct and via endowment insurance) and Robur's Småbolagsfond (small cap fund). The ten largest shareholders held 60.1 (69.3) percent of the capital and votes, and foreign shareholdings were 17.9 (21.1) percent.
Source: Euroclear
Number of Shares There were 21,615,231 Enea shares as of December 31. At the same date, Enea AB held 314,760 treasury shares, or 1.5 percent of all shares. Each share has a quotient value of SEK 1.13 and carries one vote at the AGM. The provisions of the Articles of Association

mean that there is no limitation to transferability or each shareholder's voting rights at shareholders' meetings.
Capital Structure In a company of Enea's nature, where the development and sale of software is a significant part of operations, maintaining a strong financial position is important. For Enea to also continue growing through acquisitions, the company may be net leveraged over time. The Board of Directors continuously monitors the company's long-term financing need.
Dividend Policy Enea's long-term dividend policy is to transfer at least 30 percent of profit after tax to shareholders. However, the financial position, cash flow, acquisition opportunities and future prospects should also be considered. Given the acquisition opportunities and future prospects Enea's Board of Directors foresees for the coming years, no dividend is being proposed for 2019.
Authorization ­ Purchase of Treasury Shares The AGM 2019 resolved to authorize the Board of Directors to decide on the purchase and transfer of treasury shares. The purchase of treasury shares is only permitted via Nasdaq Stockholm, or in a takeover bid to all the company's shareholders. The maximum permitted purchase is such that the holding of treasury shares at no time exceeds 10 percent of all the shares of the company. Transfer

THE SHARE 2019
Share price 200 180 160 140 120 100 80 60 40 20
Jan Feb Mar Enea OMX Stockholm PI

RANDD 45%
SERVICEKONSULTER 31%

Apr May Jun

Jul

Aug Sep

OMX Stockholm Technology PI

Monthly share turnover, thousands

Turnover 900 800 700 600 500 400 300 200 100 0
Oct Nov Dec

of treasury shares is also permitted by means other than via the stock exchange, including the right of transfer waiving shareholders' preferential rights, and with payment by means other than cash. A maximum of 10 percent of the total number of the shares of the company may be transferred. The above authorization may be utilized on one or more occasions and by no later than the AGM 2020. The purchase of shares on the stock exchanges only permitted within the price range quoted on the stock exchange on each occasion. Transfer coincident with business combinations is permitted at the market value determined by the Board of Directors.
The purpose of the purchase and transfer of treasury shares is to continuously adapt the company's capital structure to its capital requirements, to enable full or part-funding of business combinations, and to ensure available shares in approved Share Savings Programs.

New Share Issue The AGM 2019 authorized the Board to decide on new share issues on one or more occasions in the period until the AGM 2020, to finance continued growth and expansion, e.g. in connection with company acquisitions.
This authorization meant that the Board is authorized to issue shares corresponding to a maximum of 1,965,023 shares, i.e. a maximum of 10 percent of the number of outstanding shares as of the date of notice to the AGM 2019.
The share issue may take place with or without waiving shareholders' preferential rights. The share price of the new issue should be on market terms. Payment for new shares shall be made in cash, via offset or contribution in kind or other terms stated Shianrecphricaep. 13 § 5. 1 point 6 of the Swedish 18C0 ompanies Act, and that the Board may otherwise determine the terms and conditions 15o0 f the new share issue.
Enea executed a directed share issue of 1,965,000 shares in August 2019 for consider-
120
ation of SEK 271 million, implying dilution of 10 percent of the number of shares. For more
90
information, see www.enea.com

60
Investor Relations

Enea's IR work features transparency, as
30
well as relevant and accurate information.

The company provides this information in

0

the form o20f1p5 ress releases2,0I1n6terim Report2s017

2018

and AnnEunaeal Reports, and on Enea'OsMwX Setobcskhitoelm. Technology PI

StakeholdOMeXrsStcoacknhoslumbPIscribe to preMsosnrthelyleshaasreetsurnover, thousands

and financial reports via e-mail.

14 ENEA ANNUAL REPORT 2019
Kurs

Omsättning

THE SHARE AND SHAREHOLDERS

SHARE-RELATED KEY FIGURES, SEK
Net asset value per share Earnings per share Earnings per share after full dilution Cash flow from operating activities per share Dividend per share*
*Board of Directors' proposal to AGM 2020

2019
69.54 8.47 8.47 12.24 0

2018
50.99 7.33 7.33 8.72 0

2017
39.3 4.73 4.73 6.63
0

2016
26.61 5.95 5.95 8.06
2

2015
25.06 5.49 5.49 6.53 4.20

DIVISION BY SIZE OF SHAREHOLDING DECEMBER 31, 2019

Holding

No. of shareholders

1­500

7,101

501­1000

485

1 001­5 000

501

5 001­10 000

74

10 001­15 000

24

15 001­20 000

12

20 001­ Total

68 8,265

No. of shares 774,371 382,586
1,077,791 526,954 302,379 210,166 18,340,984 21,615,231

% of votes and capital 3.6 1.8 5.0 2.4 1.4 1.0 84.9 100.0

DIVIDEND PER SHARE SEK
5 4 3 2 1 0
2015 2016 2017 2018 2019

Turnover 900 800 700 600 500 400 300 200 100 0
Dec

TEN LARGEST SHAREHOLDERS, BY OWNERSHIP GROUP DECEMBER 31, 2019

Shareholder
Per Lindberg Försäkringsaktiebolaget, Avanza pension 1 Swedbank Robur Småbolagsfond, Sweden JP Morgan bank Luxembourg S.A. Handelsbanken Svenska Småbolag Swedbank Robur Småbolagsfond, Nordics HSBC Bank PLC, W8IMY Handelsbanken Microcap Sweden Core Ny Teknik Handelsbankens Nordiska Småbolag Total, ten largest shareholders Enea AB Other shareholders Total

No. of shares
5,110,810 2,521,267 1,284,531 1,059,146 800,000
550,000 527,367 500,000 337,661 317,898 13,008,680 314,760 8,291,791 21,615,231

1 Per Lindberg's endowment insurance is 2,264,858 shares of this holding.

% of votes and capital
23.6 11.7 5.9 4.9 3.7 2.5 2.4 2.3 1.6 1.5
60.1 1.5
38.4 100.0

THE SHARE, 2015­2019
Share price 180

150

120

90 60

30

0 2015

2016

2017

2018

Enea

OMX Stockholm Technology PI

OMX Stockholm PI

Monthly share turnover, thousands

Turnover 1,500
1,200
900 600
300
0 2019

SWEDISH AND FOREIGN OWNERSHIP, BASED ON HOLDING, NO. OF SHARES
Foreign ownership 17.9%

Swedish ownership 82.1%

LEGAL ENTITIES AND PHYSICAL PERSONS, BASED ON HOLDING, NO. OF SHARES
Physical persons 47%

Legal entities 53%

OWNERSHIP BY GEOGRAPHICAL REGION

REGION
Domiciled in Sweden
Rest of Nordics
Rest of Europe (excl. Sweden and Nordics)
US
Rest of world
Total

Share % of votes holders, % and capital

96.3

82.1

1.2

3.6

1.7 0.6 0.3 100.0

11.1 3.2 0.1 100.0

Omsättning

ANNUAL REPORT 2019 ENEA 15

DIRECTORS' REPORT

Directors' Report
The Board of Directors and Chief Executive Officer of Enea AB (publ), corp. ID no. 556209-7146, with registered office in Stockholm, Sweden, hereby present the accounts for the financial year January 1­December 31, 2019 for the parent company and the group.

Enea is a global provider of software for telecommunication and cybersecurity. The company offers products in the following segments:
· Cloud data management · Mobile video traffic management · Policy and access control · Embedded traffic intelligence · Virtualization platforms · Real-time operating systems
Software Development Services is part of this offering, and means that Enea also develops software on assignment from customers.
Network operators, system vendors and system integrators use Enea's products to create attractive and user-friendly solutions and services. Today, over 3 billion people use these solutions and services to communicate using mobile phones and the Internet. Enea is also a leading provider of software for products used in sectors with extreme availability and performance standards.
Revenue Enea's revenue increased by 22 (41) percent in 2019 to SEK 1,012.0 (830.3) million. Currency adjusted, revenue increased by 17 (38) percent. Revenue in the Network Solutions product group was SEK 607.4 (417.2) million, an increase of 46 (132) percent, mainly due to the acquisition of a policy and access control business unit at the beginning of the year. Revenue in the Operating Systems product group was SEK 249.6 (258.7) million, a 5 (4) percent decrease, which is a consequence of Key Accounts in this market segment increasingly using open source solutions for product launches. Sales in the Software Development Services product group increased somewhat on 2018.
Profit/loss Enea's operating profit excluding non-recurring items was SEK 258.4 (192.5) million, equivalent to an operating margin excluding non-recurring items of 25.5 (23.2) percent. Operating profit increased to SEK 254.7 (188.9) million, equivalent to an operating margin of 25.2 (22.7) percent.
The profit increase is largely related to the acquired policy and access control operation. Currency effects on the group's earnings were SEK 6.0 million. Gross margin for the full year was 73.0 (73.2) percent. The

financial net for the full year was SEK -51.7 (-27.7) million. Profit after tax was SEK 169.7 (141.7) million for the full year. Earnings per share for the full year were SEK 8.47 (7.33). Without adjusting for holdings of treasury shares, and based on the total number of shares at year-end, earnings per share were SEK 7.85(7.21).
Cash Flow and Financial Position Cash flow from operating activities was SEK 245.1 (168.6) million and total cash flow was SEK 71.2 (-241.1) million. Cash flow was mainly impacted positively by increased operating profit. Cash flow from changes in working capital varies between quarters, depending on factors including the timing of revenue receipts from major licensing deals.
Cash and cash equivalents and financial investments were SEK 146.1 (74.7) million at year-end. At the same date, total interest-bearing liabilities were SEK 362.1 (634.2) million, divided between SEK 99.1 (94.3) million of current interest-bearing liabilities and SEK 263.0 (539.8) million of long-term interest-bearing liabilities.
At the beginning of the year, Enea arranged a new SEK 80 million bank loan, which replaced a previous loan of the same amount. In August 2019, Enea executed a directed share issue raising SEK 271 million before deducting transaction costs (6 million). In October, Enea redeemed a SEK 500 million bond loan from 2018 in advance, simultaneously arranging a new, SEK 250 million bank loan.
Total assets at year-end were SEK 2,213.8 (1,919.7) million, when net debt was SEK 215.9 ( 559.5) million. Enea has retained a strong financial position with an equity ratio of 66.9 (51.4) percent.
Investments, Depreciation and Amortization The group's investments were SEK 279.0 (816.3) million for the full year. Depreciation and amortization for the full year was SEK 65.3 (40.5) million. The increase mainly relates to the aforementioned acquisition of a policy and access control business unit. SEK 79.7 (60.3) million of product development expenses were capitalized for the full year, and amortization of capitalized development expenses for the year was SEK 30.0 (19.7) million.

Research and Development Enea conducts research and development to secure its positioning as a leading technological innovator. Expenditure for research and development before capitalization increased by 23 percent to SEK 246.7 (136.3) million, or 16.5 (16.4) percent of revenue. This increase mainly relates to the new policy and access control business unit.
Parent Company The parent company's operations mainly focus on central functions and administration in terms of business control, accounting, finance, IT, and administration. The parent company's revenue for the full year was SEK 77.6 (53.1) million, and the loss before appropriations and tax was SEK -1.3 (-1.1) million. The parent company's financial net was SEK -1.3 (-1.1) million, and its cash and cash equivalents and financial investments at year-end were SEK 1.7 (17.7) million. The parent company's investments were SEK 1.6 (1.9) million. The parent company had 13 (11) employees at year-end. The parent company does not conduct any operating activities, and its risks primarily relate to the operations of subsidiaries.
Acquisitions On March 1, Enea acquired a policy and access control business unit, an operation that develops market-leading products in its segment. The acquisition means Enea expanding its product portfolio and potential market, simultaneous with the company migrating up in the value chain, with greater influence over relationships with end-customers.
Enea has integrated the acquisition into the Network Solutions product group. The acquired operation reported revenue of SEK 128.8 million and an operating margin above the group average for the period MarchDecember. The acquisition was financed with cash and bank loans. The goodwill item is tax deductible, and relates to expected profitability, complementing the product portfolio and anticipated synergy effects. Acquisition related expenditure for 2019 was SEK 2.7 million, recognized in comprehensive income as consulting expenses.

16 ENEA ANNUAL REPORT 2019

DIRECTORS' REPORT

Guidelines for Remuneration of Senior Executives The guidelines for remuneration of senior executives are stated in note 4. No significant amendments are being proposed at the AGM 2020. However, the proposed guidelines are more detailed due to amendments of the Swedish Companies Act and the Swedish Code of Corporate Governance.
Other Significant Events Jan Häglund became CEO at Enea's AGM on May 6, replacing Anders Lidbeck, who became Chairman of the Board.
Events after the End of the Reporting Period The coronavirus (Covid-19) may affect Enea's customers, with potentially, some investment decisions being deferred. There is also a greater need for communication, creating underlying demand for telecom and enterprise network services and capacity.
First and foremost, the impact on Enea's operating activities relate to limited mobility to our offices, and in contact with customers.

However, most of Enea's development and delivery can be done from home, because our products are software.
Sustainability Report A Sustainability Report has been prepared see pages 18-19) and has been reviewed by the company's Auditors.
Dividend Policy Enea's objective is to build a larger and stronger company that provides increasing value for customers, employees and shareholders. Acquisitions that consolidate the company's market positioning and long-term earnings capacity, and continued investments in its product portfolio are important parts of this endeavor.
To enable, and be well prepared for, this type of acquisition, Enea needs a strong and flexible capital structure. On occasion, this may mean the company is net leveraged. Accordingly, the Board of Directors needs to consider the company's long-term investment need and financial position when considering dividends.

Enea's long-term dividend policy is to transfer at least 30 percent of profit after tax to shareholders. However, this should consider the company's financial position, cash flow, acquisition opportunities and future prospects.
Given the acquisition opportunities and future prospects Enea's Board of Directors foresees for the coming years, no dividend is being proposed for 2019.

Proposed Appropriation of Profits The following funds are at the disposal of the parent company, SEK:

Share premium reserve

562,748,745

Retained earnings

249,910,653

Profit for the year

3,227,300

Total815,886,698

The Board of Directors proposes that these funds are appropriated so that SEK 815,886,698 is carried forward.

BUSINESS HIGHLIGHTS IN 2019
JANUARY
· T raffic intelligence contract worth USD 4.2 million signed with a customer in the US. · M obile traffic management contract worth USD 3.2 million signed with a customer in the US.
FEBRUARY
· Publication of Annual Statement for 2018. · Å sa Sundberg voluntarily leaves the Board of Directors. · M arket-leading products and solutions showcased at the Mobile World Congress in Barcelona. · E nea Qosmos Probe wins Product Excellence of the Year award from Info Security Products Guide at the Global Excellence Awards®.
MARCH
· C ompletion of acquisition of a policy and access control business unit for purchase consideration of EUR 18 million. · E nea Qosmos Probe recognized as the Most Innovative Product in Forensics, and Most Cutting Edge Product in Threat Hunting, by Cyber Defense Magazine at the 2019 InfoSec Awards.
APRIL
· P ublication of Annual Report for 2018. · Publication of First-quarter Interim Report. · S EK 20 million mediation settlement reached with major customer. · A nnouncement of collaborative agreement on SD-WAN solutions with Fortinet.

MAY
· Annual General Meeting in Stockholm. · Jan Häglund becomes CEO. · Announcement of collaborative agreement on SD-WAN solutions with Lanner. · Announcement of collaborative agreement on SD-WAN solutions with Advantech. · E nea RAN Congestion Manager and Enea Stratum Cloud Data Manager recognized as the Most Innovative NFV and SDN Solution and Cutting-Edge Virtualization Proof of Concept respectively by Informa at Network Virtualization and SDN Europe.
JUNE
· Traffic intelligence contract worth USD 2.8 million signed with a customer in the US.
JULY
· Publication of Second-quarter Interim Report. · Three contracts for Enea's new NFV Access product signed with customers in the Netherlands, South Africa and Saudi Arabia. · EUR 21.2 million framework agreement on Operating Systems signed with global telecom equipment vendor.
AUGUST
· SEK 271 million directed share issue executed, number of shares and votes increases from 19,650,231 to 21,615,231. · EUR 1.5 million access control contract signed with a customer in Germany. · USD 2.3 million video traffic management contract signed with a customer in South-east Asia.

SEPTEMBER
· L aunch of a new version of Enea Qosmos Probe.
OCTOBER
· Publication of Third-quarter Interim Report. · B ond loan 2018/2021 of SEK 500 million redeemed in advance. · N ew SEK 250 million bank loan arranged. · A nnouncement of collaborative agreements on SD-WAN solutions with flexiWAN and Intel.
NOVEMBER
· Capital markets day in Stockholm. · A pple TV+ traffic optimized using Enea's solution based on machine learning, on the same day the new streaming service was launched.
DECEMBER
· Launch of a complete solution for data management in 5G networks.

ANNUAL REPORT 2019 ENEA 17

SUSTAINABILITY REPORT

Sustainability Report

The Board of Directors and Chief Executive Officer of Enea AB (the parent company and the group) hereby present the Sustainability Report for 2019. The Report is based on Swedish law and the Swedish Annual Accounts Act.

Minimal Environmental Impact Today's customer expects suppliers to reorient their operations and make an active contribution to a sustainable society. The objective is to reduce the consumption of the world's finite resources, and create stable energy conversion.
Many of Enea's customers develop solutions that help reduce environmental impact. In the telecom sector, Enea's products facilitate and improve remote communication, alleviating the need for physical meetings, and enabling workers to avoid travelling as much. Additionally, Enea helps its customers create products that use less energy and use resources more efficiently.
Creating innovative solutions that support sustainable development is a key component of the company's product plans. Enea's software products are mainly delivered by means of download. This implies minimal environmental impact for distribution, and obviously, invoicing and payment is electronic.
The main environmental impact of Enea's business is staff commuting to work. Accordingly, Enea always tries to find office premises with good public transport links. The company also continuously evaluates new working methods to identify alternatives that can reduce its environmental impact.
Since Enea is a global corporation with operations in many countries, tools for communication and cross-border collaboration are critical and must be reliable. To reduce internal business travel, Enea uses various types of conference call and video conferencing tool. This helps increase a sense of community, enables regular meetings, regardless of geographical distance, and avoids the negative environmental impact.
Enea complies with relevant environmental legislation and satisfies the environmental standards on the markets where the group operates. Additionally, the company avoids wasting resources by recycling materials and waste generated in office environments.

Enea and the UN's Sustainable Development Goals Agenda 2030 and the UN's 17 Global Sustainable Development Goals offer support to the many people that work on fighting poverty, arresting climate change and achieving equality. Enea can make a direct contribution to a number of these global goals, and considers them in its strategy work and daily business. This includes the company working continuously to improve working conditions, promote human rights and protect the environment end-to-end in the value chain.
Enea makes direct and indirect contributions to social progress. The company is also responsible for generating growth and profitability for its stakeholders. Its objective over time is to increase the value of the company, and thus ensure sustainable development.
This enables Enea to contribute to stable economic progress across society through usage of the company's products and by creating new jobs.
Code of Conduct against Corruption The risk of corruption can occur in business relationships with customers and in procurement of equipment and services. Enea's Code of Conduct summarizes the group's ethical guidelines.

It ensures that the company's employees comply with laws and ordinances, and that they respect anti-corruption regulations, which involve ethical business rules and dealing with gifts.
The purpose of the Code of Conduct is to emphasize the fundamental principles that govern the way Enea conducts operations and manages relationships with its employees, business partners and other stakeholders. All major transactions or transactions with non-standard discounting are reviewed by the Executive Management Team.
Human Rights Enea supports and respects the UN Declaration on Human Rights. The Code of Conduct the company has developed is based on the UN Global Compact, and no infringement of human rights is tolerated. It is extremely important to the company that its staff conduct themselves in a socially and ethically responsible manner.
The main risks are associated with the usage of Enea's products. Technological solutions in the communication segment can be used for good and evil, with the latter involving illegal monitoring or data collection that infringes on personal

THE UN'S SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT GOALS

18 ENEA ANNUAL REPORT 2019

SUSTAINABILITY REPORT

integrity and individual rights. To ensure that Enea'semployees comply with the company's Code of Conduct, there are detailed processes and guidelines regulating the approval and granting of individual transactions.
All major deals are reviewed by an internal committee that includes the whole Executive Management Team, and sensitive transactions involving technology subject to export controls are reviewed correspondingly, regardless of the size of deal.
In the year, Enea refrained from doing business with countries and companies that are unsuitable users of the company's products for various reasons.

Respect for Colleagues and Customers Enea is a company where the shared core values of customer focus, accountability, innovation, agility, and teamwork, permeate operations. These values serve as an inner compass for how employees conduct themselves internally and towards customers. They also provide guidance when taking ethical standpoints, and contribute to reaching wise, long-term decisions.
Every employee should be recognized and feel that they are contributing to the success of Enea. In the long term, this helps enhance employee motivation and performance.
One precondition for Enea to stay at the cutting edge of technological evolution is the company succeeding in creating an open corporate culture with active learning and continuous skills development. The rapid transition to a digital society also means working methods must be adapted.
Gender equality and diversity are two other areas that Enea is prioritizing. They help improve decision-making, occupational health and safety and an inclusive corporate culture. Management is convinced that diversity also creates business opportunities through larger contact networks and a better understanding of individual needs.
Enea aspires to achieve a higher share of female employees (currently 21 percent) in all parts of its business operations and in management positions. Gender equality is evaluated regularly based on criteria in four

segments: salary and benefits, recruitment, health and safety, and skills development.
Discrimination and prejudicial treatment are two risks in the human resources area. Enea manages these risks through the company's Code of Conduct and Equal Opportunities Policy. The Code of Conduct states guidelines on individual rights and obligations, while the Equal Opportunities Policy states that no one may be subject to prejudicial treatment based on their gender, religion, age, disability, sexual orientation,

nationality, political opinion, or social and ethnic origin.
Enea's open corporate culture encourages its staff to think in new ways, which has resulted in innovative products and leadership in several key market segments. Accordingly, employees having diverse backgrounds and experiences is something Enea values in recruitment. It is also a strength and competitive advantage when communicating with customers and stakeholders in different countries.

ANNUAL REPORT 2019 ENEA 19

RISKS AND RISK MANAGEMENT

Risks and Risk Management
Enea is exposed to a number of risks that could affect the group's earnings. The company continuously identifies and manages these risks. Those judged to have the greatest significance are reviewed below, divided into the categories of business-related, market-related and financial risks.

Business-related Risks
Customer Structure Enea is dependent on a small number of Key Accounts .
Contract Structure Enea's revenue consists of repeat revenue and non-recurring revenue, the latter meaning that new contracts need to be signed to enable good revenue generation.
Skills Management Enea's success is highly dependent on the company's capability to hire, develop, and retain qualified staff.
Product Liability, Intellectual Property, and Legal Disputes Enea's products are important components in customers' solutions and faults could damage customer relations and cause damages claims. There is a risk that Enea's intellectual property is exposed to infringement. There is also risk that Enea's products infringe on other company's companies' intellectual property.

Comment
Enea Is dependent on the long-term investment and product development plans of its Key Accounts. When developing new product generations, their decisions can impact which of Enea's products and services will be used.
Enea cannot influence the progress of future royalty income. Customers' production volumes are critical for the scale of these revenues. Meanwhile, the expenses for this revenue stream are limited.
There is intense competition over qualified staff in the IT sector. However, Enea's operations, with their combination of a strong product offering and software development services, gives the company an advantage by offering more career opportunities.
Enea is insured against damages claims and considers that the company has sufficient cover for the risk of claims to be limited. Enea also has insurance cover against the company's products infringing on other parties' patents or copyright. Enea continuously appoints legal expertise to protect its intellectual property and reduce the risks of intellectual property infringement.

Exposure
Total revenue from Key Accounts is some 28 percent of the company's total, significantly lower than a few years ago. The risk of rapid negative changes is limited through long-term contracts that prevent customers from terminating usage of Enea's products and services at short notice.
Repeat revenues represent the majority of Enea's yearly software revenues.
Enea's staff turnover is higher in services than in product development. However, it regards staff turnover in each segment as consistent with sector averages. The fact that the company has development centers in several different countries reduces its dependency on individual key staff in each country. The group's overall staff turnover was 11.4 percent in the year.
Regarding legal disputes, court proceedings or arbitration procedures, Enea AB or its subsidiaries are currently involved in a small number of minor disputes. It does not consider that any of these disputes will have any material negative impact on its financial position.
Disagreement over the application of contracts could result in disputes.

Market-related Risks
Macroeconomic Progress Enea is dependent on economic progress and the growth of its major customers. Most revenues are sourced from customers in the telecom sector, which means that macroeconomic risks are not only associated with the business cycle generally, but also to progress of the telecom sector.

Comment
Poor economic conditions mainly have an impact by reducing customers' willingness to invest, leading to fewer purchases of Enea's products and services. Poorer economic conditions can also impact customers' sales, which in turn will have a negative impact on Enea's royalty revenues.
Structural change can have a greater impact than cyclicality because it determines how widely embedded systems are used in different contexts. In 2020, the coronavirus (Covid-19) impacted the global economy (see page 17, comments in the Directors' Report in the section "Events after the end of the reporting period").

Exposure

Other 10%
Security 7% Aerospace/ Defense 5%

Allocation of Revenue
Telecom, operators 29%

Telecom, OEMs 49%

Products and Technology Enea's competitiveness and market positioning is largely dependent on the company's capability of delivering innovative products, often in close partnership with customers and system vendors. The company also needs to be able to deliver products consistently with the evolution of customer needs in order to be able to grow with the market.

Close partnerships with major customers are highly significant to Enea's product development. Enea partners with a number of OEMs so it can adapt product plans to future solutions and be able to integrate products into these solutions at an early stage.
Enea's product development process is well structured, but simultaneously flexible and adaptable to enable rapid realignment when customer demand and needs change.

Product Development Expenditure

SEK 000

%

250,000

25

200,000

20

150 ,000

15

100,000

10

50,000

5

0

0

2017

2018

2019

Capitalized product development expenses RandD expenses RandD expenses, % of revenue

Competitors In the telecom sector, Enea competes with a number of independent, specialist vendors of software, but also major system providers on direct sales to operators. In other sectors, Enea competes with software vendors of about the same size that also have a global presence. There are also specialist enterprises that compete with Enea in specific niches.

Apart from competition from businesses with a similar profile and type of operations as Enea, and major system vendors, customers' proprietary software can represent a type of competition. However, this is relatively rare as software products have become more complex, often requiring specialist knowledge. For Enea's open source products, competition may also be sourced from non-commercial developers.

Enea is strongly positioned in the telecom sector, and one of the leading vendors in selected market segments, such as products for mobile video traffic management, embedded traffic intelligence, and real-time operating systems. .

20 ENEA ANNUAL REPORT 2019

RISKS AND RISK MANAGEMENT

Financial Risks
Currency Currency risk means the value of financial assets may vary due to fluctuations in exchange rates.

Comment
Enea is a multinational company, the majority of whose sails are in Swedish kronor, euro, and US dollars. Currency exposure is reduced by operations being conducted through foreign subsidiaries, where most of revenue and expenditure are denominated in local currency.
An account structure at group level with several different currencies minimizes the impact of exchange rate fluctuations. This account structure also confers more flexibility in terms of the timing of currency exchange.
Major foreign currency contracts are hedged using currency forwards, in accordance with Enea's Finance Policy. Foreign subsidiaries are translated to Swedish kronor using the current method, which means statements of comprehensive income are translated at average rates of exchange for the period, and balance sheets are translated at closing day rates. Translation exposure is not hedged.

Pricing Price risk relates to changes in value of saleable financial instruments held by the group.

Surpluses from Enea's operations may only be invested in certificates of deposit, bonds or unit trusts, as stipulated in the company's Finance Policy. Those unit trusts selected should have a mandate only permitting investment in fixed-income securities or corporate bonds with minimum ratings of BB- from Standard and Poor's or equivalent. Any investments in unclassified companies must have quantitative credit ratings at least on a par with what applies to the above fixed-income securities or corporate bonds.

Liquidity Risk Liquidity risk is the risk of not being able to fulfil payment obligations or difficulties in arranging external loans.

The operational subsidiaries prepare regular cash flow forecasts consolidated at group level. Reporting and monitoring the group's liquidity is monthly. Enea's cash and cash equivalents, mainly in the Swedish companies, and financial investments, are administered by the parent company.
Surplus liquidity is invested in fixed-income securities with maturities of less than one year (in certain cases up to a maximum of two years) with reputable financial institutions. Enea is able to terminate these investments during their term. The investments have limited risk level compliant with Enea's Finance Policy.

Capital Management The objective of the group's capital management is to maintain a stable financial position that safeguards the group's capability to continue operations and generate returns for shareholders. This objective also benefits others stakeholders and engenders trust for creating close and long-term customer relations.

In order to maintain or alter its capital structure, the group can pay dividends or return capital to shareholders, issue new shares or sell assets to reduce its liabilities.

Share Dividend Dividends mean dividend transfers to Enea's shareholders.
Interest Interest risk means the value of financial instruments varying due to variations in market interest rates.

Enea's long-term dividend policy is to transfer at least 30 percent of profit after tax to shareholders. However, dividends should consider financial position, cash flow, acquisition potential, and future prospects.
After repaying a bond loan in the year, Enea has significantly lower interest expenses. Interest on the group's loans is mainly dependent on progress on the Swedish bond market.

Credit Credit risk means a party in a financial transaction being unable to fulfil an obligation. The primary credit risk for Enea is outstanding accounts receivable.

Most of the group's customers are large, well-established corporations with good solvency, located in many countries. To limit these risks, the company's Credit Policy states guidelines and provisions for credit checks on new customers as well as regulation and procedures governing payment terms and managing accounts receivable.

Exposure
A total of EUR 25 (11) million was currency hedged in the year. There were 14 outstanding derivatives with total value of EUR 17 million, at a rate of 10.58 at yearend 2019. If the Swedish krona had appreciated/depreciated by an average of 5 percent against the euro with all other variables constant, revenue would have been SEK 22 million lower/higher. The corresponding figure for the US dollar is SEK 24 million.

Enea's price risk was previously related to holdings of corporate bonds with high credit ratings, i.e. very limited risk. At year-end, Enea had no investments in financial instruments.

Enea's liquidity risk is low because the company has stable cash flow and low net debt in relation to EBITDA. Net debt at year-end was SEK 215.9 (559.5) million, with SEK 146.1 (74.7) million cash and interest-bearing bank liabilities of SEK 362.1 (634.2) million.
Enea has two bank loans, one of SEK 330 million, and an SEK 70 million overdraft facility, of which SEK 32 million had been utilized at year-end. The bank loans are being repaid at a yearly rate of SEK 67 million. These loans are unsecured.
The loans have covenants relating to the group's debt service ratio and net debt/EBITDA. The covenants were satisfied at year-end.
Enea executed a directed share issue that generated SEK 265 million net in the year. It also redeemed a SEK 500 million bond loan in advance with the aim of reducing its financing costs. A new, SEK 250 million bank loan was arranged in tandem with the repayment. Overall, this also increased financial flexibility because the new structure has fewer limiting terms. An additional purpose was to create a stronger Balance Sheet to enable investments for organic growth and potential future acquisitions.
With the acquisition potential and future prospects Enea's Board of Directors sees for the coming years, no dividend is proposed for 2019.

At year-end, the group had an external bank loan of SEK 330 million, and a SEK 70 million overdraft facility, of which SEK 32 million had been used. Enea's interest risk is moderate. A 1 percent increase/decrease in its debt interest would have an impact of approx. SEK 4 million on financial net.

A SEK 1.3 (2.3) million allowance was created for doubtful debt in the year, which changed as follows in the period.

Opening balance, Jan. 1, 2019:

2.9

Repayment of doubtful debt:

­1.3

Write-off of doubtful debt:

­

Allowance for doubtful debt:

1.3

Closing balance, Dec. 31, 2019:

2.9

ANNUAL REPORT 2019 ENEA 21

CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT
Corporate Governance Report 2019
Enea is a Swedish limited company with its headquarters in Stockholm, Sweden. The company is listed on Nasdaq Stockholm and the group's corporate governance is based on Swedish legislation, as well as the rules and recommendations issued by organizations such as the Swedish Corporate Governance Board and Swedish Securities Council.

Governance Model Enea's governance, management, and control are divided between the shareholders at the Annual General Meeting, the Board of Directors and the CEO in compliance with the Swedish Companies Act and the Board of Directors' Rules of Procedure.
During the financial year, Enea complied with the Swedish Code of Corporate Governance issued by the Swedish Corporate Governance Board, and this Corporate Governance Report has been prepared accordingly. The company's Auditor has completed a statutory review of this report.
1 Shareholders Enea's ordinary share is quoted on Nasdaq Stockholm's Mid Cap list. According to the share register maintained by Euroclear Sweden, there were 21,615,231 shares as of December 31, 2019. At the same date, share capital was SEK 24,430,872, and Enea held 314,760 treasury shares, or 1.5 percent of all shares. As of December 31, 2019, the largest shareholder was Per Lindberg, with 35.3 percent of the shares through direct ownership and endowment insurance.
AGM The Annual General Meeting, or where applicable, Extraordinary General Meetings, is Enea's chief decision-making body. All shareholders are entitled to participate in the Annual General Meeting (either in person by proxy through power of attorney) and have a matter considered. The AGM resolves on issues including:
· any amendment of the Articles of Association
· election of the Board of Directors, Chairman of the Board and Auditor
· a doption of Income Statements and Balance Sheets, appropriation of the company's profit

or loss and discharging Board members and the Chief Executive Officer from liability · p rinciples for appointing a nomination committee · the Board of Directors' proposed guidelines for remuneration of senior executives 
A two-thirds voting majority is required for resolutions to amend the Articles of Association.
The AGM was held on May 6, 2019 in Kista, and its resolutions included:
· a doption of Income Statement and Balance Sheet of the parent company and group
· d ischarging the Board members and Chief Executive Officer from liability
· that no dividend would be payable for the financial year 2018 · a pproving fees for Directors and Auditors · a pproving the Board of Directors' proposed
guidelines for remuneration of senior executives · a uthorizing the Board of Directors to decide on the purchase and transfer of treasury shares in accordance with the Board's proposal · a uthorizing the Board of Directors to decide on new share issues to finance continued growth and expansion · a pproving the Board of Directors' proposals on: i) adoption of a long-term share-based incentive program for 2019 ii) transfer of repurchased shares to participants in this program · appointment of the following Directors: i) re-election: Anders Skarin, Kjell Duveblad, Mats Lindoff, and Gunilla Fransson ii) election: Birgitta Stymne Göransson and Anders Lidbeck.

Anders Lidbeck was elected Chairman of the Board. Former Director Åsa Sundberg voluntarily left the Board in February, and Director Torbjörn Nilsson declined re-election.
Öhrlings PricewaterhouseCoopers was re-elected Auditor.
The minutes from the AGM including decision-support documentation has been published at the company's website (www. enea.com) In the Investors section.
2 Nomination Committee The AGM resolves on principles for appointing a new Nomination Committee. The Nomination Committee should consist of representatives of two major shareholders, and the Chairman of the Board. However, it may have representatives of three or four major shareholders and the Chairman of the Board, if when forming the Nomination Committee, the Chairman considers that the major shareholders have such an interest.
It is the Chairman's duty to contact the four largest registered shareholders in terms of votes at the end of September each year, requesting that each appoints a member of the Nomination Committee. If more than two of the shareholders do not wish to appoint a member, shareholders in order of size should then be requested to appoint a member of the Nomination Committee. The names of the Nomination Committee members should be published in the company's Interim Report for the first three quarters of the year. The term of office for the appointed Nomination Committee should be until a new Nomination Committee has been appointed. A shareholders' representative should be appointed as Chairman of the Nomination Committee. If material changes of control occur after the Nomination Committee has been constituted, its composition should be altered in accordance with the above principles.

22 ENEA ANNUAL REPORT 2019

CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT

GOVERNANCE MODEL ­ OVERVIEW

6 AUDITORS
INFORMATION

INFORMATION ELECTION

1 SHAREHOLDERS
ELECTION

PROPOSALS ELECTION

2

NOMINATION COMMITTEE

3 BOARD OF DIRECTORS

INFORMATION

4 COMMITTEES

TARGETS STRATEGIES GOVERNANCE INSTRUMENTS
POLICIES

REPORTS INTERNAL CONTROLS

5 CEO AND EXECUTIVE MANAGEMENT

Pursuant to the above, at the end of September, the Chairman of the Board contacted the four largest shareholders to request them to each appoint a member of the Nomination Committee.
The Nomination Committee should consult on, and submit proposals to the AGM regarding, the following:
· Chairman of the forthcoming AGM
· election of the Chairman of the Board and other Board members
· D irectors' fees divided between the Chairman and other Directors, and principles for any compensation for committee work
· election and fees for the company's Auditors, and where applicable, Deputy Auditor
· decisions on principles for appointing a nomination comittee
The Nomination Committee for the AGM 2020 has the following members: Per Lindberg, Jan Dworsky (appointed by Swedbank Robur Fonder), Niklas Johansson (appointed by Handelsbanken Fonder), Henrik Söderberg (appointed by C WorldWide Asset Management) and Anders Lidbeck (Chairman of the Board of Enea AB).
The Nomination Committee has appointed Per Lindberg as its Chairman, and the Nomination Committee's complete proposals for the AGM 2020, with their reasoning, will be published in the invitation to the AGM. The invitation is published on

the company's website (www.enea.com) in the Investors section.
3 Board of Directors Pursuant to its Articles of Association, Enea's Board of Directors should be elected by the AGM and consist of five to seven members, and a maximum of seven deputies.
Enea's Board of Directors has been appointed in accordance with the Swedish Code of Corporate Governance and the company's diversity policy. Consideration has been given to the need for versatility, skills, and experience, which in different ways, contribute to Enea's progress, and for the requirement to endeavor for even gender division. Consideration has also been given to Directors being able to reserve the necessary time for their service with the company. The composition of the Board of Directors reflects this, and most Directors have knowledge and long-term experience of the sectors that Enea operates in.
In the year, Enea's Board of Directors had six members elected by the AGM. The CEO and CFO participate at every Board meeting and report on the company's business situation, prospects, financial position and events of material significance. Other company executives also present reports at Board meetings when necessary. The CEO does not participate in the parts of Board meetings that discuss the relationship between the CEO and the company. The work of the CEO and other senior executives is appraised at least yearly.

Board of Directors' Independence According to the Swedish Code of Corporate Governance, a majority of Board members elected by the AGM should be independent of the company and Management. A minimum of two of these should also be independent of the company's major shareholders.
All Board members were judged to be independent in respect of the company and Executive Management Team and major shareholders. For information on Board members and their shareholdings, see page 24.
The Work of the Board of Directors The Board of Directors' Rules of Procedure are adopted each year at the Board meeting following election in conjunction with the AGM and are only revised subsequently when specifically required. In addition to the Board of Directors' duties, the Rules of Procedure also state the Board's responsibilities and segregation of duties. The Board also issues instructions for the CEO.
The members of the Board's Audit and Nomination Committees are also determined at the Board meeting following election.
Apart from the Board meeting following election, the Board will hold at least five meetings each year. The Board will manage affairs in the interests of the company and all shareholders.

ANNUAL REPORT 2019 ENEA 23

CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT
BOARD OF DIRECTORS 2019

Name Born in Elected Board position Education
Previous positions

Anders Lidbeck

Anders Skarin

Birgitta Stymne Göransson

1962

1948

1957

2019

2005

2019

Chairman of the Board Board member

Board member

(Chairman 2011­2019)

Gunilla Fransson
1960 2016 Board member

Kjell Duveblad
1954 2008 Board member

Mats Lindoff
1961 2010 Board member

Jenny Andersson
1973 2019 Employee representative, SI

B.Sc. (Econ.), Lund University

B.Sc. (Econ. and IT)

President and CEO of Enea, President and CEO of Telelogic, sales and marketing positions at Nokia, ICL and Telia Megacom, including President of ICL Direct in Benelux and Vice President of Sales and Marketing for ICL Industry systems Europe.

President of Programator (listed) and Nordic Manager of Cap Gemini, directorships and management consulting.

M.Sc. (Eng.) Royal Institute of Technology, Stockholm, MBA, Harvard Business School

M.Sc. (Eng.) Chemical Engineering (Royal Institute of Technology, Stockholm), Licentiate of Nuclear Chemistry (Royal Institute of Technology, Stockholm)

MBA, Stockholm School of Economics

Strategy consultant, McKinsey and Co, COO of Telefosgruppen, President of Semantix AB and Memira AB.

Business Area Manager, Security and Defense Solutions at Saab AB. Prior to that, various executive positions with Ericsson.

Sales Director of IBM Svenska AB and President of Oracle Sweden, Nordics and Baltics.

M.Sc. (Eng.) EE

Computer technology graduate

Chief Technology Officer, Sony-Ericsson, President of C-Technologies AB.

Enea employee since 2010 (test and project manager).

Other direct- Chairman of

Chairman of Multisoft

orships

Creandum Advisor AB. Consulting and Data

Ductus.

Chairman of MAG Interactive AB, BCB Medical Oy and the National Swedish Industrial Development Fund. Director of Elekta AB and Pandora A/S.

Main

Directorships

employment

Management consult- Industry advisor and ing and directorships directorships

Personal and related party shareholdings 2019

14,000

15,000

2,000

Committee service

Chairman of Remuneration Committee

Audit Committee

Audit Committee

Chairman of NetInsight AB. Director of Trelleborg AB, Nederman AB, Eltel AB and several unlisted companies.

Director of several unlisted companies.

Director of Precise Biometrics AB, IMINT AB and several unlisted companies.

Directorships 1,000

Management consult- Strategy consultant ing and directorship

10,000

990

Group Quality Manager
0

Remuneration Committee

Chairman of Audit Committee

Not a Committee member

Not a Committee member

The duties of the Board include:
· formulating business targets and strategy
· appointing, appraising, and where necessary, dismissing, the CEO
· implementing effective systems for monitoring and controlling the company's operations
· ensuring satisfactory control over the company's compliance with laws and other regulations that apply to the company's operations
· formulating the necessary ethical guidelines for the company's conduct
· continuously evaluating strategic and complementary acquisitions
· ensuring corporate communication features openness, is relevant, and reliable

In the year, the Board dealt with the company's strategy and its business operations, rules of procedure for the Audit Committee and remuneration of senior executives. The CEO's status report, which includes ongoing monitoring of operations and forecasts, is provided to the Board each month, apart from January and July. In the year, the Board also considered these matters and Interim Reports, budgets and the business plan for 2020, as well as acquisition plans and initiated acquisition projects. Additionally, the Board discussed staff and management issues, as well as exogenous factors such as competition and technological progress. The Board's' work was evaluated at the end of the year.
The Board held ten meetings where minutes were taken, and one Board meeting following election in 2019. Apart from regular service on the Board, certain Directors are

also members of the company's Audit and Remuneration Committees. Attendance at Board meetings in the year is on page 26.
4 Audit Committee The overall responsibilities of the Board cannot be delegated, but the Board has constituted an Audit Committee to go to greater depth and consult on the following critical issues. At the Board meeting following election after the AGM, Kjell Duveblad (Chairman), Anders Skarin, and Birgitta Stymne Göransson were appointed members of the Audit Committee. Åsa Sundberg and Torbjörn Nilsson were members until February and May respectively. Enea's CEO, CFO and Auditor are co-opted to Audit Committee meetings, which are normally held once per quarter.

24 ENEA ANNUAL REPORT 2019

EXECUTIVE MANAGEMENT TEAM 2019

CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT

Name

Jan Häglund

Born in
Employee since

1966 2019

Member of management since

2019

Björn Westberg
1962 2018

Adrian Leufvén
1972 1998

Jean-Philippe Lion
1966
2017, Enea 2007, Qosmos

Bogdan Putinica Erik Larsson

1977 2007

1960 2016

2018

2008

2018

2011

2016

Daniel Forsgren John Giere

Roland Steiner

1973 2006
2014

1963

1974

2018, Enea 2012, Openwave Mobility
2018

2019 2019

Position
Education
Previous positions
Personal and related party shareholdings 2019 Max. no. of shares from incentive programs

President and CFO CEO

Senior Vice President OS Business Unit

Ph.D. in Physics, Royal Institute of Technology, Stockholm, DEA in Physics, Grenoble University of Technology, M.Sc. (Eng.) in Engineering Physics, Royal Institute of Technology, Stockholm.

M.Sc. (Eng.), Industrial Engineering and Management, Linköping University.

M.Sc. (Eng.) Mechatronics, Royal Institute of Technology, Stockholm.

Ericsson ­ product portfolio and development manager, Digital Services product area, Product area VP for Network Analysis and Control, Product area VP for IP and Broadband.

CFO of Bonesupport AB, CFO and COO of Recipharm AB and CFO of Jeeves.

SVP Operations and Quality at Enea, SVP Software Sales at Enea, SVP Global Delivery at Enea, VP Strategic Outsourcing at Enea, VP Support at Enea, VP Marketing at Enea, Director of Asian Sales at Enea.

0

0

10 000

42,000 LTIP 2019

36,000 LTIP 2018, LTIP 2019

41,544 LTIP 2017, LTIP 2019

Senior Vice President DPI Business Unit

Senior Vice President Global Services

M.Sc. in Telecom munication Engineering, Telecom ParisTech, MBA INSEAD (France).

International Finance and Banking, Academy of Economic Studies, Bucharest, Romania.

VP Sales Engineer and Apac at Qosmos, Local Loop BU General Manager and Business Development Director at SFR, Senior Associate at Booz Allen and Hamilton.

CEO of Enea Romania, Global Sales Director Product Services at Enea Romania and President of IP Devel.

0

872

30,579 LTIP 2017, LTIP 2019

41,544 LTIP 2017, LTIP 2019

Senior Vice President Marketing
M.Sc. (Eng.) in Engineering Physics, Royal Institute of Technology, Stockholm. MBA IU Kelley School of Business, US.
VP of Marketing at Netcenterx (now part of Mavenir), VP of Marketing at Integra (now Level 3), Marketing Director at Nortel, Consultant at Business Sweden.
0
41,544 LTIP 2017, LTIP 2019

Senior Vice President Corporate Development
M.Sc. (Eng.) in Applied Physics and Electrical Engineering, Linköping Institute of Technology.

CEO Openwave Mobility
MBA University of Maryland, BSBA Georgetown University.

SVP Product Management at Enea, Principal Engineer at Enea's CTO office, System Architect at Enea. Software Engineer at Virtutech.

Alcatel-Lucent, Lucent Technologies, Ericsson.

12,395

0

41,544 LTIP 2017, LTIP 2019

48,000 LTIP 2018 LTIP 2019

Senior Vice President Policy and Access Control M.Sc. Electrical Engineering, Vienna University of Technology.
VP Global Head of Telco Solutions at Atos, VP Business Unit LTE at Siemens Convergence Creators.
0
24,000 LTIP 2019

Minutes are taken at Audit Committee meetings, which are reported to the Board. The Committee is responsible for consulting on the Board's work in terms of:
· quality-assuring the company's financial reporting
· s taying informed on the orientation and scope of the audit
· d iscussing coordination between the external audit and the company's internal control functions, and view of the company's risks
· setting guidelines for services other than auditing that the company may purchase from its Auditors
· appraising the Auditor's work and informing the company's Nomination Committee about this appraisal

· assisting the Nomination Committee on consulting on proposals for the company's Auditors and audit fees
The Audit Committee held four meetings relating to quarterly financial statements in the year. Primarily, the Committee discussed the presentation of the company's interim reports, product profitability, goodwill and other intangible assets, accounts receivable, risk management, finance-related issues, and internal controls.
The company's Auditors report their observations from the audit to the whole Board each year in tandem with the annual financial statement. Additionally, the Board meets the company's Auditor at least once per year, without Management being in attendance, to receive information on the

audit's orientation and scope. The coordination between the external audit and internal controls, and view of the company's risks as above, is also discussed at these meetings.
4 Remuneration Committee As stated above, the Board's overall responsibilities cannot be delegated, but the Board has also constituted a Remuneration Committee, whose duty is to consult on issues relating to salary, other benefits, and other employment terms of the CEO, and where appropriate, other members of the Executive Management Team. The Remuneration Committee is convened as required, and reports on its work to the Board. The Remuneration Committee held four meetings where minutes were taken

ANNUAL REPORT 2019 ENEA 25

CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT

in the year. At the Board meeting following election after the AGM, Anders Lidbeck (Chairman) and Gunilla Fransson were appointed members. Anders Skarin was a member of the Remuneration Committee until May.
Evaluation of the Work of the Board of Directors The Chairman of the Board is responsible for evaluating the work of the Board. This evaluation is in two phases, the first being an open discussion within the Board, with each Director given the opportunity and time to reflect and discuss their view of the Board's work. This discussion is then the foundation of the second phase, which consists of the Nomination Committee excluding the Chairman, individually interviewing one or two Directors each. The Nomination Committee receives written reports used as a basis for evaluating the work of the Board.
5 C hief Executive Officer and Executive Management Team
Jan Häglund was appointed Chief Executive Officer on May 6, 2019. His previous assignments and experience are in the presentation of the Executive Management Team on page 25. Mr. Häglund has no significant holdings of shares in companies that Enea

has business relationships with. Anders Lidbeck served as CEO until May 6, 2019.
In the year, the members of Enea's Executive Management Team were the CEO, CFO, as well as seven managers of central and line functions representing organizational functions and business areas. For more information on the members of the Executive Management Team, see page 25. The Executive Management Team meets twice per month to analyze the business position of all business units, and to discuss other regular and relevant issues. The Executive Management Team also meets several times per year to discuss the company's strategy and report its proposal for a strategy for the coming years to the Board. Based on the approved strategy, the CEO and CFO produce a business plan for the coming year. This business plan is submitted for approval at a Board meeting in December.
6 Auditors The AGM 2019 elected Öhrlings PricewaterhouseCoopers as Auditor, with Nicklas Kullberg (Authorized Public Accountant) as Auditor in Charge. The company's Auditor conducts a review of the company's internal controls each year, reporting observations and evaluation to the whole Board. The guidelines for the work of

the Board are based on the rules of procedure that formalize issues including the segregation of duties within the Board and between the Board and Management.
In the year, the Auditor also conducted a review of the annual financial statement, and the Audit Report is included in this Annual Report (page 73). A summary review of the third quarterly financial statement was also conducted, and the company's Auditor presented his Audit Report in the Interim Report for the period January-September. Enea's internal controls were one of the focuses of the Auditor's review of the Third-quarter Interim Report.
REMUNERATION Remuneration of the Board of Directors. A total of SEK 1,915,000 of Directors' fees are payable, divided between SEK 500,000 to the Chairman, and SEK 235,000 to each of the other Directors appointed by the AGM. Fees for committee work are payable as follows, a total of SEK 240,000 for the Audit Committee, divided between SEK 80,000 for the Chairman and SEK 40,000 to each of the two members, and for the Remuneration Committee, SEK 50,000 for the Chairman and SEK 30,000 to one member. The Board's employee representatives do not receive Directors' fees.

ATTENDANCE AT BOARD MEETINGS, 2019

Board Member Anders Lidbeck 1 Anders Skarin 2 Birgitta Stymne Göransson 3 Gunilla Fransson Kjell Duveblad Mats Lindoff Åsa Sundberg 4 Torbjörn Nilsson 5 Johan Carlsson 6 Jenny Andersson 7

Board Meetings (of 11) 8 11 8 11 11 11 1 3 11 ­

1 Elected at the AGM 2019. Member of the Remuneration Committee from May 2019. 2 Member of the Remuneration Committee until May 2019 and the Audit Committee from May 2019. 3 Elected at the AGM in May 2019 Member of the Audit Committee from May 2019. 4 Left the Board of Directors in February 2019. 5 Resigned at AGM in May 2019. 6 Employee representative until December 2019 inclusive. 7 Employee representative from December 2019.

Audit Committee (of 4)
2 2
4
1 2

Remuneration Committee (of 4) 2 2
4

26 ENEA ANNUAL REPORT 2019

CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT

Remuneration to Senior Executives In order to hire and retain senior executives, the company offers competitive terms and conditions with remuneration at market levels. Overall remuneration to senior executives comprises basic and variable salary, pension provisions, and share-based payment. Basic and variable salary are set yearly at individual level.
The variable portion of senior executive remuneration has a predetermined ceiling, and may never exceed the basic salary portion. The model for senior executives' variable salary, and determining its outcome, are subject to decision by the Board after proposal from the Remuneration Committee.
Additionally, variable salary is based on performance in relation to targets set yearly, primarily relating to the company's sales and EBIT, as well as individual targets adapted to the individual executive's responsibilities. If these targets are achieved, 50 percent of maximum variable salary is payable, and if targets are exceeded, up to 100 percent of variable salary may be payable.
Senior executives may be offered the opportunity to participate in share-based incentive programs, subject to AGM resolution. This means that compensation may also be payable in the form of share-based payment, providing that the targets and other conditions of such share-based incentive program are satisfied. Remuneration to the Chief

Executive Officer is subject to decision by the Board, after proposal from the Remuneration Committee.
Pension Arrangements The pension arrangements of the Chief Executive Officer are decided by the Board after proposal from the Remuneration

Committee, and make up 30 percent of basic salary. Other senior executives in Sweden have pension arrangements lying within the framework set by the ITP (Supplementary Pensions for Salaried Employees) plan, with retirement ages of 65, and pension provisions related to employee salary. Pension premiums are paid continuously.

THE WORK OF THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS IN 2019

Business plan, budget, appraisal of Management

Business conditions, Interim Report

Q4

Dec Jan

Q1

Nov

Feb

Oct

Mar

Business conditions, Annual Statement Annual Report, preparation for AGM

Strategy, organization Business conditions, Interim Report

Sep

Apr

Business conditions, Interim Report

Aug

Q3

Jul

May

Jun

Q2

AGM Business conditions, strategy

ANNUAL REPORT 2019 ENEA 27

CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT

Severance Pay On termination of the Chief Executive Officer's employment, the company will observe a notice period of six months, and the Chief Executive Officer has a notice period of six months to the company. In addition, severance pay corresponding to six months' basic salary is payable for employment terminated by the company.
If a change of control results in a new majority shareholder, the CEO is entitled to severance pay of six months' salary. All dismissal and severance pay are deducted from any other income. For other senior executives, notice periods of three to twelve months apply. The Board reserves the right to depart from the proposed guidelines if there are special circumstances in an individual case.
Internal Controls and Risk Management The Board is responsible for internal controls and risk management in accordance with the Swedish Companies Act, the Swedish Annual Accounts Act, and the Swedish

Code of Corporate Governance. The Audit Committee monitors Enea's internal control, which does not affect the Board's responsibilities and work otherwise. The purpose is for operations to be pursued expediently and efficiently, and that external reporting complies with legislation and internal regulations governing the company. For this work to be successful, the Board works on a structured basis, delegating specific duties to the Executive Management Team, the Audit Committee, and other staff. Enea states how this work is to be conducted and delegated in policies, such as the Finance Policy and Authorization Policy.
Internal Controls over Financial Reporting Enea's control environment forms the basis of the company's internal controls over financial reporting. Clear communication of decision paths, authorization, and responsibilities throughout the organization is a key component of Enea's control environment. Enea's objective is to fulfil the requirements

for ongoing work on internal controls and risk management as part of the company's compliance with the Swedish Code of Corporate Governance.
For Enea, internal controls over financial reporting are an integrated part of the company's corporate governance. This involves procedures and methods to safeguard the company's assets and the accuracy of financial reporting, which in turn, is designed to protect shareholders' investments in the company. The Board monitors the quality of financial reporting in a number of ways.
Each year, the Board adopts rules of procedure, which regulate activities including the Chairman's and CEO's duties. According to these rules, the CEO is responsible for the control environment, and reviews and quality-assures all financial reporting, as well as ensuring that the Board receives all other reports necessary for evaluation of the group's financial position on an ongoing basis.
The instructions for the CEO state the matters that require authorization or approval from the Board. The Board approves rules

28 ENEA ANNUAL REPORT 2019

CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT

of procedure for the Board, Audit Committee and Remuneration Committee at the Board meeting following election after the AGM. Additionally, the Board adopts instructions for the CEO, an approvals list, Finance Policy and instructions for trading in the company's shares.
Enea's CEO and Executive Management Team bear operational responsibility for internal controls. Based on the Board's guidelines, as well as legislation and regulation of financial reporting, such as the Swedish Companies Act, the Swedish Annual Accounts Act, and the Swedish Code of Corporate Governance, the Executive Management Team has adopted the segregation of roles and duties for employees that work on financial reporting within the group.
The group is divided into units, whose managers are responsible for performance against target and budget, as well as governance issues for their operations. Enea's organizational structure is communicated on the group's intranet, to clarify areas of responsibility and roles for everyone working on financial information. Enea has instructions for the group's staff, stating the authorization of each employee to take certain actions, such as approval and authorization policies. Enea also has a number of policies governing day-to-day work, laying a foundation of internal controls, such as its Finance Policy, Insider Policy (pursuant to the EU MAR), Authorization Policy, IT Policy, Sustainability Policy, and Corporate Communication Policy. The group also has an Accounting and Financial Reporting Manual, stating the group's accounting policies, and providing reporting instructions. It also includes a schedule for ensuring the availability of consistent and accurate account information at the appropriate times.
The guidelines are updated regularly and communicated to those employees that work directly or indirectly on financial reporting. To safeguard internal controls, all critical governance documents are kept available on Enea's intranet, and in the company's document management system. Accordingly, all staff always have access to the relevant documents and policies. These documents are also classified by authorization level, depending on the roles of individual staff members.
The Board receives monthly business reports. The Board analyzes these reports and potential actions are discussed at the following Board meeting. For urgent actions, the Chairman convenes additional Board meetings to consult on the relevant issue. Internal controls are monitored through a number of channels including the Accounting and QA function, Enea's General

Counsel, the Delivery function, internal quality meetings, and at quarterly Audit Committee meetings.
These functions work on the basis of various targets and control documents to assure the quality of the company's procedures and decision-making.
Risk Assessment The objective of Enea's risk assessment is to safeguard the group's earnings performance and financial position. The Board approves the principles and guidelines governing the company's risk management, while

the CEO and Executive Management Team bear operational responsibility. Regular risk assessments of the Executive Management Team and each business unit manager are conducted within Enea's monthly financial follow-ups, with actions taken as necessary. As stated above, Enea's organization is structured to manage, review, and evaluate internal controls. Internal controls are also covered in the company's planning and budgeting process, which involves a yearly review of the risks of operations. The Audit Committee and Board are responsible for analyzing and assessing these risks.

ANNUAL REPORT 2019 ENEA 29

CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT

Control Activities Enea's control environment is structured to manage the risks that the Board considers material to internal controls over financial reporting. The control environment is based on the company's organization having clear roles that enable effective segregation of duties, and control activities being capable of discovering and preventing risks of misstatements in financial reporting early. Examples of activities and documentation for this purpose include:
· reviews conducted by registered Auditors in addition to statutory audit
· governance and regular monitoring of the company's accounting
· financial and legal policies
· quarterly updates of the company's forecast
· regular monitoring and review of special segments
· The Board's quarterly review of business conditions, in terms of plans and budgets
· monitoring financial performance of the company's business units and products
· analysis of major transactions, cash flow, balance sheet, and future prospects

· T he finance function reviews development projects with the development function, usually each month. Commercial viability and other criteria that new projects need to satisfy are discussed
Enea has had ISO certification since 2006. The company's product activities comply with the principles defined by ISO 9001:2015.Enea recertifies every third year, and follow-up audits are conducted in intervening years.
Information and Communication The governance documents (such as policies, guidelines and manuals) relating to financial reporting are communicated on Enea's intranet and document management system. Each governance document is owned by the department responsible for its content and any revisions.
Most communication is digital, and when necessary, departmental managers meet staff to inform, follow up, and evaluate. The Board's and Executive Management Team's corporate communication rules are stated on pages 23­26.
Governance documents for internal and external corporate communication have been prepared to ensure compliance with disclosure liabilities, and to manage communication with internal and external stakeholders.

Follow-up Enea's Finance functions within the group are integrated by a single, collective financial control system, and have shared accounting instructions. The company's marketing and sales function deals with current and potential customers in its customer relationship management system, which ensures that Enea's sales staff have access to the necessary information. The company reports regularly to the Board and Audit Committee on compliance with the Code of Conduct and the export legislation that Enea is liable for compliance with, on a regular basis.
Against the background of the size and nature of operations, and the current reporting procedures to the Board and Audit Committee, the Board does not consider that constituting a dedicated internal audit function would be justifiable. The internal controls reviewed above are considered sufficient to assure the quality of financial reporting.

30 ENEA ANNUAL REPORT 2019

Contents

Financial Information

32­70

Income Statement ­ Group

32

Balance Sheet ­ Group

33

Statement of Changes in Equity ­ Group

34

Cash Flow Statement ­ Group

35

Income Statement ­ Parent Company

36

Balance Sheet ­ Parent Company

37

Statement of Changes in Equity ­

Parent Company

38

Cash Flow Statement ­ Parent Company

39

Notes 

40

Accounting Policies

40

Declaration by the Board and CEO

71

Audit Report

72

Five-year Summary

76

Financial Definitions

77

Alternative Performance Indicators

77

Information for Shareholders

78

Invitation to AGM 2020

78

Financial Calendar

78

Enea ­ A Success Story

79

Enea ­ Worldwide

80

ANNUAL REPORT 2019 ENEA 31

INCOME STATEMENT ­ GROUP

CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF COMPREHENSIVE INCOME

SEK 000 (January 1­December 31) Revenue Reversed additional purchase price Total revenue Operating expenses Cost of sold products and services Gross profit Sales and marketing expenses Product development expenses Administrative expenses Operating profit * Financial income Financial expenses Financial net Profit before tax Tax Profit after tax

Note 2,17
3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 10, 11, 21 8 9

Other comprehensive income reclassifiable to profit or loss Exchange differences Cash flow hedges, profit before tax Cash flow hedges, tax effect Other comprehensive income not reclassifiable to profit or loss Pension obligations Total comprehensive income for the year, net of tax

Net profit attributable to equity holders of the parent Comprehensive income for the period attributable to equity holders of the parent

* Non-recurring items included in operating profit Operating profit, including non-recurring items Reversed additional purchase price Restructuring costs Expenses for integrating new operation Transaction costs for major acquisition Costs for legal consulting Operating profit, excluding non-recurring items

Earnings per share, SEK

16

The company has no potentially dilutive instruments outstanding.

2019 1,012,044
­ 1,012,044
­273,659 738,385 ­204,276 ­166,967 ­112,416 254,726
19,978 ­71,661 ­51,683 203,043 ­33,381 169,661
41,262 2,238 ­479
487 213,170
169,661 213,170
254,726 ­ ­
992 2,721
­ 258,439
8.47

2018 830,329
11,662 841,991
­222,627 619,364 ­182,697 ­136,272 ­111,539 188,855
24,866 ­52,574 ­27,708 161,147 ­19,497 141,650
84,095 ­391 86
185 225,625
141,650 225,625
188,855 ­11,662
5,302 ­
9,633 406
192,534
7.33

32 ENEA ANNUAL REPORT 2019

CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEET
SEK 000 (December 31) Assets Intangible assets Rights of use Equipment, tools, fixtures and fittings Derivative instruments Deferred tax assets Other long-term receivables Total fixed assets
Accounts receivable Tax receivables Prepaid expenses and accrued income Other receivables Derivative instruments Cash and cash equivalents Total current assets Total assets
Equity Share capital Other paid-up capital Reserves Retained earnings including profit for the year Total equity
Provisions Other provisions Total provisions
Long-term liabilities Deferred tax liabilities Long-term liabilities, interest-bearing Obligation for employee benefits Long-term liabilities, lease obligations Total long-term liabilities
Current liabilities Current liabilities, interest-bearing Current liabilities, lease obligations Accounts payable Tax liabilities Other liabilities Derivative instruments Accrued expenses and deferred income Total current liabilities Total equity and liabilities

BALANCE SHEET ­ GROUP

Note 10 7 11 15 9
12 13 15 19
15, 26
9 24 25 7
24 7
24 14 17

2019
1,634,951 37,391 17,417 55 10,188 3,368
1,703,370
208,493 53,339 87,961 13,891 569 146,147
510,400 2,213,770
24,431 992,529 116,284 348,023 1,481,267
6,569 6,569
79,974 263,000
12,433 20,633 376,040
99,066 17,956 18,119 2,431 17,067
­ 195,255 349,894 2,213,770

2018
1,381,382 ­
16,194 ­
17,485 3,134 1,418,195
174,671 41,100 101,570 109,484
­ 74,673 501,498 1,919,693
22,210 727,939 73,275 162,411 985,835
10,870 10,870
68,417 539,822
7,501 ­
615,740
93,342 ­
21,441 1,098 16,080 1,937 173,350 307,248 1,919,693

ANNUAL REPORT 2019 ENEA 33

STATEMENT OF CHANGES IN EQUITY ­ GROUP

CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF CHANGES IN EQUITY

SEK 000 (January 1­December 31) Opening equity, Jan. 1, 2018 Comprehensive income Profit for the year Other comprehensive income Cash flow hedges, profit before tax Cash flow hedges, tax effect Translation difference Pension obligations Total other comprehensive income Total comprehensive income Transactions with equity holders Share saving program Total transactions with equity holders Closing equity, Dec. 31, 2018 Opening equity, Jan. 1, 2019 Restatement of opening balance, changed accounting policy Comprehensive income Profit for the year Other comprehensive income Cash flow hedges, profit before tax Cash flow hedges, tax effect Translation difference Pension obligations Total other comprehensive income Total comprehensive income Transactions with equity holders New share issue* Share saving program Total transactions with equity holders Closing equity, Dec. 31, 2019
* New share issue New share issue, cash Transaction costs, new share issue Tax on transaction costs accounted directly in equity Net, new share issue

Share Capital
22,210

Other Paid-up Capital
727,939

­ 22,210 22,210

­ 727,939 727,939

2,221
2,221 24,431

264,590
264,590 992,529

271,170 ­5,546
1,187
266,811

Reserves

Cash Flow Hedges
­421

Retained

Translation

Earnings Incl.

Reserve Profit for the Year

­10,094

14,533

Total Equity 754,167

141,650

141,650

­391 86
­305 ­305

84,095
84,095 84,095

185 185 141,835

­391 86
84,095 185
83,975 225,625

­ ­726 ­726

­ 74,001 74,001

6,043 6,043 162,411 162,411
-1,214

6,043 6,043 985,835 ,985,835
-1,214

169,661

169,661

2,238 ­479
1,759 1,759

41,250
41,250 41,250

487 487 170,148

2,238 ­479 41,250 487 43,496 213,157

1,033

115,251

16,678 16,678 348,023

266,811 16,678 283,489 1,481,267

34 ENEA ANNUAL REPORT 2019

CASH FLOW STATEMENT ­ GROUP

CONSOLIDATED CASH FLOW STATEMENT

SEK 000 (January 1­December 31) Operating activities Profit before tax Adjustment for non-cash items

Note 19

Tax paid

Cash flow from operating activities before change in working capital

Cash flow from change in working capital

Change in operating receivables

Change in operating liabilities

Cash flow from change in working capital

Cash flow from operating activities

Investing activities

Purchase of intangible assets

10

Purchase of property, plant and equipment

11

Purchase/sale of financial assets

Acquisition of operation, after deducting for acquired cash and cash equivalents*

Cash flow from investing activities

Financing activities **

Borrowings

Amortization of loans

Amortization of lease liability

New share issue

Cash flow from financing activities

Cash flow for the year

Cash and cash equivalents at beginning of year

Exchange difference in cash and cash equivalents

Cash and cash equivalents at end of year

* Payment for acquisition of operation consisted of consideration from Atos Convergence Creators **Financing activities do not include any translation effects impacting cash flow

2019
203,043 108,891 311,934 ­23,645 288,289
­10,464 ­32,719 ­43,183 245,106
­81,531 ­8,655
­745 ­47,143 ­138,074
362,066 ­642,363
­21,180 265,624 ­35,853 71,179 74,673
295 146,147

2018
161,147 54,506 215,653 ­17,639 198,014
­24,583 ­4,789 ­29,372 168,642
­64,748 ­7,046 102,273
­954,399 ­923,920
548,690 ­34,510
­ ­ 514,180 ­241,098 312,028 3,743 74,673

ANNUAL REPORT 2019 ENEA 35

INCOME STATEMENT ­ PARENT COMPANY

PARENT COMPANY STATEMENT OF COMPREHENSIVE INCOME

SEK 000 (January 1­December 31) Net sales Operating expenses Administrative expenses Operating profit Interest income and similar profit (loss) items Interest expenses and similar profit (loss) items Financial net Profit (loss) after financial net Appropriations Profit before tax Tax Profit for the year

Note 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 10, 11, 21
8 9

2019 77,556
­77,556 ­
46,107 ­47,380 ­1,273 ­1,273
5,972 4,699 ­1,472 3,227

2018 53,113
­53,113 ­
27,962 ­29,094 ­1,132 ­1,132
1,216 84
­384 ­300

36 ENEA ANNUAL REPORT 2019

PARENT COMPANY BALANCE SHEET
SEK 000 (December 31) Assets Intangible assets Equipment, tools, fixtures and fittings Participations in group companies Total fixed assets Receivables hos group companies Tax receivables Prepaid expenses and accrued income Other receivables Cash and cash equivalents Total current assets Total assets
Equity Restricted equity Share capital Non-restricted equity Share premium reserve Accumulated profit or loss Profit for the year Total equity Provisions Untaxed reserves Total provisions Long-term liabilities Long-term liabilities, interest-bearing Total long-term liabilities Current liabilities Current liabilities, interest-bearing Accounts payable Tax liability Liabilities to group companies Other liabilities Accrued expenses and deferred income Total current liabilities Total equity and liabilities

BALANCE SHEET ­ PARENT COMPANY

Note 10 11 18 20 13 19
15
24 24 20 17

2019
909 2,480 172,034 175,423 1,058,435 1,202 6,123
75 1,749 1,067,584 1,243,007

2018
870 1,966 172,034 174,870 1,021,527 1,202 5,481
75 17,712 1,045,997 1,220,867

24,431
562,749 249,911
3,227 840,318
4,089 4,089
263,000 263,000
99,066 5,282 285 3,247 1,435
26,285 135,600 1,243,007

22,210
298,159 233,533
­300 553,602
4,529 4,529
539,822 539,822
94,013 5,411 384 3,247 2,158 17,701
122,914 1,220,867

ANNUAL REPORT 2019 ENEA 37

STATEMENT OF CHANGES IN EQUITY ­ PARENT COMPANY

PARENT COMPANY STATEMENT OF CHANGES IN EQUITY

SEK 000 (January 1­December 31) Opening equity ,Jan. 1, 2018 Share saving program Profit for the year Closing equity, Dec. 31, 2018 Opening equity, Jan. 1, 2019 New share issue* Share saving program Profit for the year Closing equity, Dec. 31, 2019

Restricted Equity

Share Capital
22,210

Statutory Reserve
­

22,210

­

22,210

­

2,221

24,431

­

* New share issue
New share issue, cash
Transaction costs, new share issue Tax on transaction costs accounted directly in equity Net, new share issue

271,170 ­5,546
1,187 266,811

Non-restricted Equity

Share Premium
Reserve

Accumulated Profit or Loss Profit for the Year

298,159

227,490

6,043

­300

298,159

233,533

­300

298,159

233,233

264,590

16,678

3,227

562,749

249,911

3,227

Total Equity 547,859 6,043 ­300 553,602 553,602 266,811 16,678 3,227 840,318

38 ENEA ANNUAL REPORT 2019

CASH FLOW STATEMENT ­ PARENT COMPANY

PARENT COMPANY CASH FLOW STATEMENT
SEK 000 (January 1-December 31) Operating activities Profit before tax Adjustment for non-cash items
Tax paid Cash flow from operating activities before change in working capital Cash flow from change in working capital Change in operating receivables Change in operating liabilities Cash flow from change in working capital Cash flow from operating activities Investing activities Purchase of intangible assets Purchase of property, plant and equipment Purchase/sale of financial assets Cash flow from investing activities Financing activities Borrowings Amortization of loans New share issue Group contribution received/paid Cash flow from financing activities Cash flow for the year Cash and cash equivalents at beginning of year Cash and cash equivalents at end of year

Note 20
11 11

2019
4,699 19,924 24,623 ­384 24,239
­37,552 7,734
­29,818 ­5,579
­339 ­1,254
­ ­1,593
362,066 ­642,013
265,624 5,532
­8,791 ­15,963
17,712 1,749

2018
84 8,842 8,926
­ 8,926
­865,305 12,345
­852,960 ­844,034
­779 ­1,161 102,268 100,328
548,690 ­34,000
­ ­ 514,690 ­229,016 246,728 17,712

ANNUAL REPORT 2019 ENEA 39

ACCOUNTING POLICIES

NOTE 1 ­ Accounting Policies

Consolidated Balance Sheet is quantified in the following summary:

Amounts in SEK 000 unless otherwise stated.
Consistency with Standards and Legislation
The consolidated accounts have been prepared in accordance with the Swedish Annual Accounts Act, International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS) published by the International Accounting Standards Board (IASB), and interpretations from the International Financial Reporting Interpretations Committee (IFRIC) as endorsed by the EU. The Swedish Financial Reporting Board's recommendation RFR 1 Supplementary Accounting Rules for Groups has also been applied.
The parent company applies the same accounting policies as the group except in the cases stated below in the section on "parent company accounting policies". The inconsistencies between the parent company's and the group's policies stem from the limited potential for applying IFRS to the parent company as a consequence of the Swedish Annual Accounts Act, and in some instances, for tax reasons.
Basis of Preparation of Parent Company's and the Group's Financial Statements
The parent company's functional currency is Swedish kronor (SEK) which is also the presentation currency of the parent company and the group. This means that the financial statements are presented in SEK. Assets and liabilities are recognized at historical cost, except certain financial assets and liabilities, which are measured at fair value.
In order to prepare financial statements in accordance with IFRS, Management is required to make accounting judgements and estimates as well as assumptions that affect the application of the accounting policies and the carrying amounts of assets, liabilities, revenue and expenses. These estimates and assumptions are based on historical experience and other factors that are deemed reasonable in prevailing circumstances. The result of these estimates and assumptions are then used to assess the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities that are not otherwise clear from other sources. Actual outcomes may differ from these estimates and judgements.
The estimates and assumptions are reviewed regularly. Changes to estimates are recognized in the period in which the change is made if the change has only affected that period, or in the period in which the change is made and future periods if the change affects both the current period and future periods. When applying IFRS, assessments made by the Executive Management Team that have a significant impact on the financial statements and the estimates and which could result in material restatements of the financial statements of subsequent years are described in more detail in Note 24.
The accounting policies stated below for the group have been applied consistently to all periods presented in the consolidated accounts unless otherwise stated. The group's accounting policies have been applied consistently for the recognition and consolidation of subsidiaries.
Changes in Accounting Policies and Disclosures New and Revised Standards and Interpretations of Existing Standards Applied by the Group
The following standards have been applied by the group for the first time for the financial year beginning January 1, 2019:
IFRS 16 Leases The standard replaces IAS 17 Leases and IFRIC 4 Determining whether an Arrangement Contains a Lease and related regulations. The new standard implies that lessees must recognize all arrangements that satisfy the Standard's definition of a leasing arrangement (with the exception of arrangements of a maximum duration of 12 months and individual arrangements of low value) as an asset and liability in the Balance Sheet, with recognition of amortization and interest expenses in the Income Statement. Accordingly, as stated above, expenses are reclassified from lease expenses. Where they satisfy the Standard's definition, arrangements that were previously classified as operating leases are capitalized in the Balance Sheet. IFRS 16 became effective on January 1, 2019, and is applied prospectively. Enea has reviewed all operating lease arrangements, and computed a right-of-lease asset and lease liability for each arrangement, based on their terms and conditions. This change means that total assets and operating profit will increase, which will impact various key indicators. The transition effect on the year-2018 Balance Sheet to the new standard means assets increasing by SEK 45 million, liabilities increasing by SEK 46 million, and equity decreasing by SEK 1 million. The transition effect on the

SEK m
Amount in accordance with current accounting policy, Jan. 1, 2019
Restatement resulting from IFRS 16
Amount according to new accounting policy, Jan. 1, 2019

Assets Equity Liabilities

1,920

986

934

45

­1

46

1,965

985

980

New Standards, Amendments and Interpretations of Existing Standards
that Have Not Been Applied Prospectively by the Group A number of new standards and amendments to existing standards and interpretations come into effect for financial years beginning after January 1, 2019. These standards are not mandatory, have no material effect on the group, and accordingly and have not been applied.

Segment Reporting
The operating segments are reported in a manner consistent with internal reporting provided to the chief operating decision maker (CODM). The CODM is that function responsible for allocating resources and evaluating the performance of segments. For the group, this function has been identified as the CEO.
The group has applied IFRS 8 Operating segments effective January 1, 2009.
Classification, etc.
Non-current assets and non-current liabilities in the parent company and group essentially consist only of amounts expected to be recovered or paid after more than 12 months of the reporting date. Current assets and current liabilities in the parent company and group essentially consist only of amounts expected to be recovered or paid within 12 months of the reporting date.

Consolidation Policies
Subsidiaries Subsidiaries are companies that Enea AB exercises a controlling influence over. Controlling influence entails a direct or indirect right to determine a company's financial and operational strategies with the purpose of generating economic benefits. When assessing whether controlling influence exists, shares conferring entitlement to vote that can be exercised or converted without delay are taken into account. The financial statements of subsidiaries are included in the consolidated accounts effective the date the controlling influence transfers to the group until the time the controlling influence ceases.
The purchase method is used to recognize the group's business combinations. The purchase consideration for the acquisition of a subsidiary comprises the fair value of transferred assets, liabilities and the shares issued by the group. The consideration also includes the fair value of all assets or liabilities resulting from an agreement concerning a contingent consideration. Acquisition-related costs are expensed as they arise. Identifiable acquired assets and assumed liabilities in a business acquisition are initially measured at fair value on the date of acquisition. For each acquisition, the group determines whether all non-controlling interests in the acquired entity are recognized at fair value or at the proportionate share of net assets of the acquired entity.
The amount by which the transferred consideration, any non-controlling interests and the fair value of previous shareholdings on the date of transfer exceeds the fair value of the group's share of identifiable acquired net assets, is recognized as goodwill.
When the difference is negative, it is recognized directly in profit or loss. Intra-group receivables, liabilities, income or expenses and unrealized gains or losses attributable to intra-group transactions are eliminated when the consolidated accounts are prepared.
Unrealized losses are eliminated in the same way as unrealized gains.

Foreign Currency
Transactions in Foreign Currency Transactions in foreign currency are translated to the functional currency at the rate of exchange ruling on the transaction date. Monetary assets and liabilities in foreign currency are translated to the functional currency at closing day rates. Exchange differences occurring in translations are recognized in profit or loss. Exchange differences on non-monetary assets and liabilities are recognized in operating profit or loss, and exchange differences on monetary

40 ENEA ANNUAL REPORT 2019

ACCOUNTING POLICIES

assets and liabilities are recognized in financial net. Non-monetary assets and liabilities recognized at historical cost are translated at the rate of exchange ruling on the transaction date. Non-monetary assets and liabilities recognized at fair value are translated to the functional currency at the rate of exchange ruling at the time of fair value measurement, the change in exchange rate is then recognized in the same way as other value changes relating to the asset or liability.
The functional currency is the currency in the primary economic environments where companies conduct operations. The group's constituent companies are the parent company and subsidiaries. The parent company's functional currency, and presentation currency, is Swedish kronor. The group's presentation currency Swedish kronor.
Financial Statements of Foreign Operations Assets and liabilities in foreign operations including goodwill and other consolidated surplus values and deficits, are translated to Swedish kronor at closing day rates. The revenues and expenses of a foreign operation are translated to Swedish kronor at an average rate of exchange that is an approximation of the rates at each transaction date. Translation differences arising on currency conversion of foreign operations are recognized in other comprehensive income. When selling a foreign operation, the accumulated translation differences attributable to the operation are realized. Accumulated translation differences are presented as a separate category and the `reserves' item and contain translation differences accumulated from January 1, 2004 onwards. Accumulated translation differences prior to January 1, 2004 are allocated between other equity categories and are not disclosed separately.
Revenue
The group generates revenue from sales of software and services, and applies IFRS 15 Revenue from Contracts with Customers effective January 1, 2018.
The following are the criteria for recognizing the revenue from licenses and, wherever appropriate, the revenue from services:
· A written contract signed by both parties,
· Delivery has occurred,
· The license fee must be a fixed amount or calculated using a reliable method, and no withdrawal options are available, or the credit period is less than 12 months,
· It is probable that payment will be received.
Software Sales Sales of software generate revenue in the form of license fees, buyouts (the customer purchases the product for an unlimited time), royalties and revenue for support and maintenance.
When Enea is entitled to recognize revenue, a contract asset/accrued income arises. The contract assets transfer to a receivable from a customer when all the criteria regarding the rights to invoice the customer are satisfied.
Developer Licenses and Buyouts A license is a performance obligation. When the customer develops a product, a developer license is paid to Enea. Developer licenses are normally priced per development engineer. The customer can decide to purchase a time-based or perpetual license.
For both developer licenses and buyouts, income is recognized when delivery of the software has been completed, and the customer has control over the good. Income from time-based license fees is accrued over the contract period on a straight-line basis, because during the contract term, the customer is dependent on continuous upgrades and modifications in order to use the license, while the revenue from perpetual license fees and buyouts is recognized at delivery when no performance obligations remain.
Support and maintenance are sold in part separately from, and in part together with, the licenses. Separate maintenance contracts normally have a term of 12 months and the income is allocated on a straight-line basis over the contract term.
In the sale of perpetual developer licenses, support and maintenance is included in the license fee, as is entitlement to continuous upgrades. In respect of such multi-component contracts, revenue from license sales is recognized in the amount representing the independent sales price of the license in relation to the total sales price pursuant to the contract on delivery of the license. Revenue from the service component, which corresponds to the independent sales price of the service component in relation to the total contracted sales

price, is allocated over the service period. The independent sales price of each component is measured on the basis of current market prices of these components when sold separately. Discounts are allocated proportionally to each separate performance obligation (license and support/maintenance).
Production Licenses (Royalties) In order to deliver a finished product containing Enea's technology, the customer signs a production license. This may be time-based or perpetual and often consists of royalties, i.e. a revenue item per sold unit. In turn, royalties may consist either of fixed or variable compensation. Royalty revenues are recognized in accordance with the economic substance of the relevant agreement when delivery is complete, and all performance obligations are satisfied. Revenues from customers with sales-based royalties are always recognized quarterly in arrears.
Services The revenue from service assignments rendered on open account is recognized as work is completed. The revenue from services that are based on a functional undertaking are recognized on a straight-line basis over the contract term during which the services are rendered. A functional undertaking involves a service function with an indefinite number of services that are to be maintained over a specific period. Revenue from projects that are executed on a fixed-fee basis is recognized by degree of completion, which is determined based on contract costs incurred in relation to estimated contract costs for the whole contract in accordance with the percentage of completion method. If a loss risk is deemed to exist, individual allowances are posted continuously.
Government Grant A SEK 9.6 million government grant for research and development (2018:0) is included in the revenue item "revenue from software sales." There are no unsatisfied terms and conditions or contingent liabilities associated with this grant. The group has not received any other form of government grant.
Operating Expenses and Financial Income and Expenses Expenses for Leases
The group leases offices, office equipment and vehicles. Usually, leases have fixed periods of between six months and five years, although there may also be extension options.
Effective January 1, leases are recognized as rights of use with the corresponding liability. Assets and liabilities from leases are initially recognized at present value, with payments discounted with the lessee's incremental borrowing rate.The incremental borrowing rate is the interest rate that the individual lessee would pay to borrow the necessary funds to purchase an asset of similar value as the right of use in a similar economic environment, with similar terms and conditions and security. Lease payments are allocated between amortization of the liability and interest. Interest is recognized in profit or loss over the lease period in a way that implies a fixed rate of interest for the lease liability being recognized in the period.
Assets with right of use are measured at cost and include the following:
· The amount the lease liability was originally measured at · Lease payments made at or before the commencement date, after deducting for any benefits received in tandem with entering the lease · Initial direct expenditure · Expenditure to maintain the asset in the condition stipulated by the terms and conditions of the lease
Expenses for operating leases of low individual value and with periods of less than 12 months are recognized in profit or loss on a straight-line basis over the lease period.
A number of the group's arrangements include options to extend and cancel leases. Most of these extension options have not been included in the lease liability because the group can replace these assets without incurring material expenses or disrupting operations.
Financial Income and Expenses Financial income and expenses may consist of interest income on bank balances and receivables, and fixed-income securities, interest expenses on loans, dividend income, exchange differences, unrealized and realized gains on financial investments and derivative instruments used in financing activities. Interest income on receivables and interest expenses on liabilities is computed by applying the effective interest method. Effective interest is the rate that

ANNUAL REPORT 2019 ENEA 41

ACCOUNTING POLICIES

makes the present value of all future payments received and made during the fixed-interest period equal to the carrying amount of the receivable or liability. Interest income includes allocated amounts of transaction costs and any discounts, premiums and other differences between the original value of the receivable and the amount received when due. The group does not capitalize interest in the cost of assets because the group's development projects do not have a period of longer than one year.
Financial Instruments
Financial instruments recognized in the Balance Sheet include, on the assets side, financial assets held for sale, other long-term receivables, cash and cash equivalents and accounts receivable, and, on the liabilities and equity side, accounts payable and other current and non-current liabilities. A financial asset or financial liability is recognized in the Balance Sheet when the company becomes a party to the contractual terms of the instrument. Accounts receivable are recognized in the Balance Sheet when the invoice has been sent. Accounts payable are recognized in the Balance Sheet when the invoice has been received. A financial asset is derecognized from the Balance Sheet when the contractual rights have been realized, expire or the company loses control over them. Spot purchases and sales of financial assets are recognized on the transaction date, which is the date on which the company delivers the asset. A financial liability is derecognized from the Balance Sheet when the contractual obligation has been fulfilled or is in some other way extinguished.
The fair value of quoted financial assets corresponds to the highest price paid quoted for the asset on the reporting date. Should no such price be available, valuation takes place through generally acceptable methods, such as discounting of future cash flows to the market interest rate for the relevant maturity.
For short-term loans and investments, the fair value is assumed to corres-pond to book value since a change in market interest rates would not have a material effect on market value.
Financial assets and liabilities are offset and recognized in a net amount in the Balance Sheet only when a legal right exists to offset the items and there is an intention to settle the amount net, or to simultaneously realize the asset and settle the liability. Financial assets and liabilities are divided into the following categories according to IAS 39.
Loans and Accounts Receivable This category includes financial assets that are not derivative instruments, with fixed or determinable payments, and that are not listed on an active market. These receivables arise when money, goods or services are provided directly to another party without an intention to trade in the receivables. The assets in this category are measured at amortized cost, less any provision for value depletion. The category includes accounts receivable and cash and cash equivalents.
Accounts Receivable When the estimated maturity of accounts receivable is short, recognition occurs in the amount expected to flow in based on an individual assessment of doubtful receivables and without discounting, according to the method for recognizing amortized cost. Any impairment losses on accounts receivable are recognized in operating profit. According to IFRS 9, a credit loss reserve based on expected credit losses should be recognized. The group has recognized the transition prospectively, considering historical credit losses over a business cycle, and concludes that there is no reason to create an impairment allowance.

Financial Assets Held for Sale Financial assets held for sale are assets that are not derivatives and where the assets have been identified as being held for sale or have not been classified in any other category. The assets form part of non-current assets unless management intends to sell the asset within 12 months of the end of the reporting period.
Financial Assets Measured at Fair Value through Profit or Loss This category includes assets intended for sale in the short term. Derivatives with positive market value are included in this category if not used for hedge accounting. Investments in corporate bonds and unit trusts are also included in this category. Assets in this category are recognized continuously at fair value and value changes are recognized in profit or loss. No financial derivative instruments were classified in this category in the year.
Financial Liabilities Measured at Fair Value through Profit or Loss This category includes derivative instruments with a negative market value if they are not subject to hedge accounting. Similarly, it includes financial liabilities held for sale. The liabilities in this category are measured continuously at fair value and the changes in value are recognized in profit or loss. During the year, no financial derivatives were classified in this category.
Recognition of Derivatives Used in Hedge Accounting All derivatives are measured initially and then continuously at fair value in the Balance Sheet. Gains or losses arising from the re-measurement of derivatives are used for hedging purposes as follows. Changes in value pertaining to cash flow hedges are recognized in other comprehensive income and entered in profit or loss at the pace at which the hedged cash flow impacts profit or loss. Any ineffective component is recognized directly in profit or loss. Gains losses arising from the re-measurement of derivatives intended as fair value hedges are recognized in profit or loss together with changes in the fair value of the receivable or liability that is exposed to the hedged risk. To qualify for hedge accounting, certain documentation is required concerning the hedging instrument and its relationship to the hedged item. The group also documents objectives and strategies for risk management and hedging measures together with an assessment of how effective the hedging relationship is in terms of evening out changes in fair value or cash flow for hedged items, both when the hedge is initiated and in continuous recognition.
Financial Liabilities Measured at Amortized Cost This category includes financial liabilities that are not held for trading, such as accounts payable and loan liabilities. These are initially recognized at fair value, net, after transaction costs and subsequently at amortized cost, applying the effective interest rate method.
Loans and Accounts Payable The measurement policy used for loans and accounts payable is amortized cost. Since the expected maturity of loans and accounts payable is short, such liabilities are recognized at a nominal amount without discounting. Liabilities that fall due within 12 months are classified as current liabilities.

Cash and Cash Equivalents Cash and cash equivalents consist of cash at financial institutions and shortterm investments with an original maturity of less than three months. Cash and cash equivalents are recognized at nominal amount.

42 ENEA ANNUAL REPORT 2019

ACCOUNTING POLICIES

FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS BY CATEGORY
December 31, 2019 Assets in the Balance Sheet Derivative instruments Accounts receivable and other receivables, excluding interim receivables Cash and cash equivalents
December 31, 2018 Assets in the Balance Sheet Accounts receivable and other receivables, excluding interim receivables Cash and cash equivalents

Loan Receivables and Accounts Receivable

Financial Assets

Derivative

Measured at fair Instruments Used

Value through

for Hedging

Profit or Loss

Purposes

Financial Assets Held for Sale

­ 235,519
146,147 381,666

­

624

­

­

­

­

­

­

­

­

624

­

335,815 74,673 410,488

­

­

­

­

­

­

­

­

­

December 31, 2019 Liabilities in the Balance Sheet Liabilities to credit institutions Liabilities lease obligations Accounts payable and other liabilities, excluding financial liabilities
December 31, 2018 Liabilities in the Balance Sheet Liabilities to credit institutions Purchase consideration posted to liabilities, short term Derivative instruments Accounts payable and other liabilities, excluding financial liabilities

Financial Assets

Derivative

Measured at fair Instruments Used

Value through

for Hedging

Profit or Loss

Purposes

Liabilities Measured at Amortized Cost

­

­

­

362,066

­

­

­

38,589

­

­

­

35,186

­

­

­

435,841

­

­

­

633,164

­

1,346

­

­

­

­

1,937

­

­

­

­

36,175

­

1,346

1,937

669,340

Total
624 235,519 146,147 382,290
335,815 74,673 410,488
Total
362,066 38,589 35,186
435,841
633,164 1,346 1,937 36,175
672,622

ALLOCATION BY LEVEL IN FAIR VALUE MEASUREMENT AS OF 31 DECEMBER 2019

SEK 000 Derivative instruments used for hedging purposes Receivable currency derivatives Total 2019
The carrying amounts of all liabilities are judged to correspond to fair value.

Level 1
­ ­

Level 2
624 624

Level 3
­ ­

Total
624 624

ANNUAL REPORT 2019 ENEA 43

ACCOUNTING POLICIES

FINANCIAL ASSETS MEASURED AT FAIR VALUE THROUGH PROFIT OR LOSS
The subcomponents included in financial assets measured at fair value through profit or loss are listed corporate bonds and a corporate bond fund. 
CASH AND CASH EQUIVALENTS
The subcomponents included in cash and cash equivalents are cash, bank and special deposits or commercial paper with an insignificant risk of fluctuations in value and that can easily be converted into cash and cash equivalents, and which have a maturity of no more than three months from acquisition date.

Cash and Cash Equivalents Cash and bank balances Total

2019 146,147 146,147

2018 74,673 74,673

ACCOUNTS PAYABLE AND OTHER LIABILITIES
Accounts payable are unsecured and normally paid within 30 days. The fair value of Accounts Payable and other liabilities is considered equal to their carrying amounts, because they are inherently short term.

Current Liabilities Accounts payable Other liabilities Total

2019 18,119 17,067 35,186

2018 21,441 14,734 36,175

BORROWING
Unsecured Loans Overdraft facility Bank loans Total
Unsecured Loans Overdraft facility Bond loans Bank loans Total

Short-term 32,066 67,000 99,066
Short-term 60,013 ­ 33,329 93,342

2019 Long-term
263,000 263,000
2018 Long-term ­ 491,822 48,000 539,822

Total 32,066 330,000 362,066
Total 60,013 491,822 81,329 633,164

44 ENEA ANNUAL REPORT 2019

ACCOUNTING POLICIES

Intangible Assets Goodwill
Goodwill represents the difference between the cost of a business combination and the fair value of the acquired assets, assumed liabilities and conting-ent liabilities. Goodwill is measured at cost less any accumulated impairment. Goodwill is divided between cash-generating units and is impairment tested at least yearly.
Research and Development Research expenses aimed at obtaining new scientific or technical knowledge are recognized as an expense when they arise.
Development expenditure, where the research results are aimed at achieving new or improved products or processes, is recognized as an asset in the Balance Sheet when the following criteria have been fulfilled:
· it is technically feasible to complete the asset, · the company intends to complete the asset and use or sell it, · the company has sufficient resources to complete development, · the asset is expected to generate future economic benefits, · it is possible to measure the expenditure required to complete the
asset reliably
The carrying amount includes expenditure for materials, direct expenditure for salaries and indirect expenditure attributable to the asset in a reasonable and consistent manner. Other development costs are recognized as expense in profit or loss when they arise. The development expenditure recognized in the Balance Sheet is booked at cost, less accumulated amortization and impairment losses.
Other Intangible Assets These consist mainly of trademarks and brands, licenses and contractual customer relations arising through business combinations. The assets are recognized at fair value on the acquisition date less accumulated amortization.
Amortization Policies Amortization is recognized on a straight-line basis in profit or loss over the estimated useful life of the intangible assets, assuming that useful life is not indeterminable. Goodwill is impairment tested on a quarterly basis or as soon as there are indications that the asset in question has declined in value. Amortizable intangible assets are amortized as of the date on which they become available for use. The estimated useful life of capitalized development expenditure is between 3 and 5 years. Acquired product rights are amortized over 5-10 years, while acquired contractual customer relations are amortized over 7-10 years.
Property, Plant and Equipment Owned Assets
Property, plant and equipment are recognized as assets in the Balance Sheet when it is probable that the future economic benefits associated with the holding will flow to the company and that the cost of the asset can be measured reliably. Property, plant and equipment are recognized at cost in the group less accumulated depreciation and any impairment losses. Cost includes the purchase price and expenses directly attributable to bringing the asset to the site and condition required for it to be used in accordance with the aim of the purchase. Examples of directly attributable expenses included in cost are expenses for delivery and handling, installation, consultancy services and legal services.
Leased Assets IAS 17 is applied in respect of leased assets. In the consolidated accounts, leases are classified either as finance or operating leases. With no significant exceptions, all leases are operating and relate mainly to cars and rent for premises. For operating leases, the lease fee is expensed over the duration of the lease based on useful life, which can differ from the actual payment made to cover lease payments during the year. The cost of leasing is recognized on a straight-line basis over the useful life.

Impairment
The carrying amounts of the group's assets, with the exception of deferred tax assets and financial assets, are impairment tested at each reporting date. If there is any indication of impairment, the recoverable amount of the asset is calculated. For the exempted assets as stated above, the carrying amounts are tested in accordance with the relevant standard. For goodwill and intangible assets, which are not yet ready for use, the recoverable amount is measured yearly.
If it is not possible to determine essentially independent cash flows for an individual asset, the assets are grouped at the lowest level at which it is possible to identify essentially independent cash flows (known as a cash-generating unit). An impairment loss is recognized when the carrying amount of an asset or cash-generating unit exceeds the recoverable amount. Impairment is recognized as an expense in profit or loss.
Impairment of assets identified for a cash-generating unit (group of units) is allocated initially to goodwill. Subsequently, proportional impairment of other assets included in the unit (group of units) is conducted.
Measurement of Recoverable Amount The recoverable amount is the greater of the fair value less selling expenses and value in use. When measuring value in use, future cash flow is measured using a discount rate that takes into account risk-free interest and the risk associated with the specific asset. For an asset that does not generate cash flows that are essentially independent of other assets, the recoverable amount is measured for the cash-generating unit to which the asset belongs.
Reversal of Impairment Impairment of goodwill is not reversed. Impairment of other assets is reversed if a change to the underlying assumptions for measuring the recoverable amount have occurred. Impairment is only reversed to the extent the asset's carrying amount after the reversal does not exceed the carrying amount the asset would have had if no impairment have been taken, considering the depreciation and amortization that would then have been taken.
Employee Benefits Pensions
Obligations regarding fees for defined-contribution plans are recognized as expenses in profit or loss when they arise. All pension solutions in foreign subsidiaries, with the exception of Qosmos in France and Enea Germany, are classified and recognized as defined-contribution plans, which means that the group's profit (loss) is charged with pension expenses in pace with vesting benefits.
Salaried employees in Sweden are covered by the ITP plan, which is recognized as a defined-contribution pension plan. Obligations for retirement pensions and survivors' pensions for salaried employees in Sweden are covered by an insurance policy with Alecta. According to a statement from the Swedish Financial Reporting Board, UFR 10, this is a multi-employer, defined-benefit plan. Alecta is unable to provide Enea or other Swedish companies with sufficient information to determine an individual company's share of the total commitment and its plan assets. Accordingly, ITP pension plans covered by insurance with Alecta are recognized as defined-contribution. This plan is being financed on an ongoing basis through pension insurance policies. Alecta's surplus can be distributed to the policyholders and/or the insured. The collective consolidation ratio consists of the market value of Alecta's assets as a percentage of its insurance obligations, calculated in accordance with Alecta's actuarial assumptions, which do not comply with IAS 19. Salaried employees in Qosmos France and Enea Germany are covered by a defined-benefit pension plan. The group's net obligation for defined-benefit plans is calculated by estimating future compensation accrued by employees in the current and earlier periods. This remuneration is discounted to present value. The liability for defined-benefit pension plans posted to the Balance Sheet corresponds to the present value of the defined-benefit obligation. Revaluation gains (losses) resulting from experience-based restatements and changes in actuarial assumptions are reported in other comprehensive income in the period in which they arise. Costs relating to employment in earlier periods are recognized directly in profit or loss.

Depreciation Policies Depreciation is on a straight-line basis over the asset's estimated useful life. The estimated useful life of property, plant and equipment such as equipment, tools, fixtures and fittings is 5 years. The useful life and residual value of assets are tested yearly.

ANNUAL REPORT 2019 ENEA 45

ACCOUNTING POLICIES

Remuneration on Termination In conjunction with notice of employment termination, a provision is recognized only if the company is contractually obligated to terminate an employment position before the normal time, or when payments are made as an offering to encourage voluntary termination. For cases in which the company implements personnel cutbacks, a detailed plan is prepared that covers at least the workplace concerned, positions, and the approximate number of affected employees and disbursements for every personnel category or position, as well as a time schedule for the plan's implementation.
Remuneration of Senior Executives The guidelines for remuneration of senior executives are adopted by the Annual General Meeting. For the Executive Management Team, salaries and other employment conditions are applied based on market conditions. In addition to basic annual salaries, members of the group's Executive Management Team receive variable remuneration based on earnings performance in relation to predetermined targets. Remuneration of certain senior executives within the Enea group can also be paid in the form of share-based payment.
Share-based Payment The group has three outstanding incentive programs from which payments are made in the form of shares, with the company receiving services from employees as payment for the group's equity instruments (shares). The fair value of the service that provides the employees with entitlement to granting of equity instruments is expensed over the vesting period. The Share Savings Program is measured using conventional models. For more information on the incentive program, also refer to Note 21.
Provisions
A provision is recognized in the Balance Sheet when the group has an existing legally enforceable or constructive obligation resulting from an event that has occurred, and it is probable that an outflow of economic resources will be required to fulfil the obligation and the amount concerned can be reliably estimated. If the effect of when payment is made is significant, the provision is measured by means of discounting of the anticipated future cash flow at a pre-tax interest rate that reflects current market assessments of the time value of money and, where applicable, the risks associated with the liability.
Restructuring A provision for restructuring is recognized when the group has established a detailed and formal restructuring plan, and restructuring has either been commenced or announced publicly. No provisions are made for future operating expenses.

Financial Risks
The greatest financial risks are liquidity risk, currency risk and interest rate risk. Enea has a Finance Policy established by the Board of Directors, which sets a framework of guidelines for managing financial risks. A detailed description of the financial risks is presented in the Directors' Report.
Earnings per Share
The measurement of earnings per share is based on consolidated profit for the year attributable to equity holders of the parent and on the weighted average number of shares outstanding during the year. When measuring earnings per share after dilution, earnings and the average number of shares is restated to take into account the dilutive effects of potential ordinary shares, which arise during reported periods from convertible debentures and warrants issued to employees. Dilution occurs only when the exercise price is lower than the share price. The exercise price is adjusted by means of a supplement for the value of future services linked to the equity-settled stock option programs recognized as share-based payments pursuant to IFRS 2.
Contingent Liabilities
A contingent liability is recognized when there is a possible obligation deriving from events that have occurred whose existence can only be confirmed if one or more uncertain future events occur or when there is a commitment that has not been recognized as a liability or entered as a provision because it is not likely that an outflow of resources will be required.
Parent Company's Accounting Policies
The parent company has prepared its annual accounts in accordance with the Swedish Annual Accounts Act (1995:1554) and the Swedish Financial Accounting Standards Council's recommendation RFR 2 Accounting for Legal Entities. According to RFR 2, the parent company, as the legal entity, must apply all of the EU-endorsed IFRS and statements insofar as possible within the framework of the Swedish Annual Accounts Act and taking into account the relationship between accounting and taxation. The recommendation indicates the exemptions and supplements that are to be made compared with IFRS. The differences between the group's and parent company's accounting policies are described below.
Differences between the Group's and Parent Company's Accounting Policies The differences between the group's and parent company's accounting policies are reviewed below. The accounting policies stated below for the parent company were applied consistently in all periods presented in the parent company's financial statements.

Onerous Contracts A provision for onerous contracts is recognized when the anticipated rewards the group expected to receive from a contract are less than the unavoidable expenses to satisfy obligations pursuant to contract.
Taxes
Income taxes comprise current tax and deferred tax. Income tax is recognized in profit or loss, except when the underlying transaction is recognized directly against equity, in which case the related tax effect is recognized in equity. Current tax is tax to be paid or recovered for the current year using the tax rates already enacted or substantively enacted at the reporting date, including restatements of current tax attributable to earlier periods.
Deferred tax is computed in accordance with the balance sheet method, based on temporary differences between carrying amounts and tax bases of assets and liabilities. The following temporary differences are not taken into account: temporary differences arising upon initial recognition of goodwill; initial recognition of assets and liabilities that are not business combinations and which at the time of the transaction did not affect either recognized or taxable gains. Temporary differences attributable to participations in subsidiaries that are not expected to be reversed in the foreseeable future are not taken into account. Measurement of deferred tax is based on how the carrying amount of underlying assets or liabilities is expected to be recovered or settled. Deferred tax is measured using the tax rates and regulations enacted or substantively enacted at the reporting date.
Deferred tax assets pertaining to deductible temporary differences and tax loss carry-forwards are only recognized insofar as they are likely to be utilized in the future. The value of deferred tax assets is reduced when it is no longer probable that the assets can be utilized. Any additional income tax relating to dividends is recognized at the same date as the dividend is recognized as a liability.

Subsidiaries Participations in subsidiaries are recognized in the parent company in accordance with the cost method. Dividends received are only recognized as revenue if they are derived from profits earned after acquisition. Dividends in excess of such earnings are regarded as repayment of the investment and reduce the carrying amount of the participating interest.
Dividends Dividends to the parent company's shareholders are recognized as liabilities in the consolidated financial statements for the period in which the dividend is approved by the parent company's shareholders. Anticipated dividends from subsidiaries are recognized if the parent company has sole entitlement to decide on the size of the dividend and the parent company has made a decision on the size of the dividend before the parent company has published its financial statements.
Taxes The parent company recognizes untaxed reserves including deferred tax liabilities. In the consolidated financial statements, however, untaxed reserves are divided into deferred tax liabilities and equity.
Group Contributions and Shareholder Contributions for Legal Entities Shareholder contributions are entered directly in the equity of the recipient and are capitalized in shares and participations by the donor, to the extent that impairment is not required.
Due to the correlation between recognition and taxation, group contributions paid by the parent company to subsidiaries are recognized as a financial cost in profit or loss. Group contributions received are recognized as appropriations. The tax effect is recognized in accordance with IAS 12.

46 ENEA ANNUAL REPORT 2019

NOTES

NOTE 2 ­ Nature of Income and Operating Segment Reporting
Operating segments are reported consistent with internal reporting to the chief operating decision maker (CODM). The CODM is the function responsible for allocating resources and evaluating the performance of segments. In the group, this function has been identified as the CEO, and Enea reports the whole operation as a single segment.

Revenue by Business Unit Key Accounts Software sales 1 Software Development Services

2019 283,764 581,326 146,954 1,012,044

2018 226,331 458,784 145,214 830,329

Revenue by Market Segment Telecom/OEMs Telecom/operators Security Aerospace/defense Other 2

2019 494,136 296,868 69,483
47,154 104,403 1,012,044

2018 359,446 259,532 66,234
41,123 103,994 830,329

Revenue by Product Group Operating Systems Network Solutions Software Development Services Other

2019 249,561 607,431 145,845
9,207 1,012,044

2018 258,714 417,156 145,212
9,247 830,329

Revenue by Geographical Market Sweden Americas EMEA excluding Sweden Asia

2019 145,192 399,394 353,796 113,662 1,012,044

2018 174,255 302,997 262,068 91,009 830,329

Fixed Assets by Geographical Market Sweden Americas France Rest of Europe and Asia

2019 306,426 911,850 393,878
40,214 1,652,368

2018 107,977 867,732 382,971 38,896 1,397,576

E nea has a few major customers that account for a significant share of the company's sales. Two of the company's customers each account for 10 percent or more of the company's sales, with a share of 11 (16) percent and 17 (11) percent respectively of the company's sales.
Sales by geographical market are based on customers' geographical domicile.

1 Software sales include a government grant of SEK 9.6 million for the company's RandD activities in Northern Ireland. 2 Most of Enea's revenue in the Aerospace/Defense market segment is for civil applications in the aerospace industry.

ANNUAL REPORT 2019 ENEA 47

NOTES

NOTE 3 ­ Exchange Gains and Exchange Losses
GROUP Exchange gains on operating receivables/liabilities Exchange losses on operating receivables/liabilities
PARENT COMPANY Exchange gains on operating receivables/liabilities Exchange losses on operating receivables/liabilities

2019
7,842 ­5,415
2019
­ ­

2018
5,274 ­4,025
2018
­ ­

NOTE 4 ­ Employees and Other Senior Executives

The Board of Directors' Proposal on Guidelines for Remuneration of Senior Executives The Board of Directors proposes that the Annual General Meeting (AGM) approves the following guidelines for remuneration of senior executives.
Who the Guidelines Cover, and their Applicability These guidelines for remuneration of senior executives cover the Chief Executive Officer and other members of group management. The guidelines should be applied to compensation agreed, and amendments to compensation previously agreed, after the guidelines have been adopted by the AGM 2020. Regarding employment terms in other legislatures than Sweden, the relevant adaptations should be made to comply with mandatory local regulation or practice, in order for the overall purpose of these guidelines to be met. These guidelines do not cover compensation resolved by the AGM.
The Board of Directors is entitled to temporarily depart from these guidelines wholly or partly if there are special reasons for this in an individual case, and a departure is necessary to serve the company's long-term interests and sustainability, or to ensure the company's profitability. If such departure occurs, this should be stated in the Remuneration Report at the following AGM. These guidelines apply to the period from the AGM 2020 onwards. Matters regarding departure from the guidelines should be subject to consultation by the Remuneration Committee, and decision by the Board of Directors.
The Guidelines' Promotion of the Company's Business Strategy, Long-term Interests and Sustainability Enea's ambition is to be a global software company, with a strong and leading position in those markets that it addresses, with yearly sales growth, high profitability and healthy cash flows. Organic growth is the foundation of operations, and work is ongoing to develop, rationalize and optimize it. Strategic and complementary acquisitions will be continuously screened, and if considered to add value for customers and shareholders within a well-considered risk level, Enea will attempt to execute such acquisitions. Enea's target is to maintain an EBIT margin of over 20 percent per year. EBIT margin will vary during quarters, keeping pace with growth. Growth and earnings will vary between years and quarters, mainly depending on how individual deals occur, and the progress of royalty streams. For more information on Enea's strategy, see www.enea.com

The Board of Directors' opinion is that the company's ability to attract, motivate and retain high-performing staff and managers is critical for successful implementation of the company's business strategy and protection of the company's long-term interests, including sustainability. This entails the company being able to offer competitive benefits packages. Total compensation should contain a variable component linked to the individual performance of staff and managers, but that is also synchronized with the company's profitability and long-term sustainability.
Forms of Compensation, etc. Remuneration and other employment terms of senior executives should be at market levels. Remuneration consists of basic salary, variable remuneration and pensions. Additionally ­ and independent of these guidelines ­ the AGM is entitled to resolve on share or share price-based payments.
Fixed Basic Salary The basic salary of the CEO and other senior executives is subject to yearly review. For the CEO, fixed basic salary may represent a maximum of 60 percent of total compensation excluding the LTIP (long-term incentive program) and assuming a 50 percent outcome of the STIP (short-term incentive program). For other senior executives, fixed basic salary may represent a maximum of 90 percent of total compensation excluding LTI, and assuming a 50 percent outcome of the STIP.
Enea's STIP has three parts. Two of these parts relate to the company achieving specific targets, while one is determined by the achievement of individual targets. The majority of compensation is linked to the company's financial targets, while the individual part of compensation corresponds to a lesser proportion of them.
The criteria applied relate to the company's targets for sales and EBIT, pursuant to the adopted annual financial statement. The criteria applying to the individual targets should be formulated prior to the end of the first quarter of the financial year the compensation relates to, and should be as specific as the criteria relating to the company's targets. The criteria are designed to promote the company's business strategy, long-term interests, as well as sustainability, and accordingly, the company's long-term value creation.

48 ENEA ANNUAL REPORT 2019

NOTES

The outcome of compensation is subject to consultation by the Remuneration Committee, and decided by the Board of Directors for the CEO. For other senior executives, the outcome of compensation is consulted and decided by the Remuneration Committee. Payment of compensation is as soon as possible after the Board meeting where the company's annual financial statement is adopted for the vesting year. Variable remuneration is not pensionable, nor used to calculate vacation pay. The company is not entitled to reclaim this compensation.
For the CEO, the STIP may be a maximum of 100 percent of fixed basic salary, and may be a maximum of 50 percent of total compensation excluding the LTIP. For other senior executives, the STIP may be a maximum of 120 percent of fixed basic salary, and may be a maximum of 60 percent of total compensation excluding the LTIP.
Senior executives are eligible for incentive programs that are basically share, or share price, related. An incentive program should be designed to increase participants' commitment to the company's progress, and be implemented on market terms. Share and share price-related incentive programs are subject to AGM resolution, and accordingly, are not covered by these guidelines.
Pension The CEO's agreed retirement age is 67, and other senior executives do not have any specifically agreed retirement ages. All pension benefits of senior executives are defined contribution. This means that for senior executives, the company pays individually agreed defined contribution pension premiums. Apart from these pension benefits, the company has no pension obligations to senior executives.
For the CEO, pension will be a maximum of 20 percent of total compensation excluding LTIP, assuming a 50 percent outcome from the STIP. For other senior executives, pension will be a maximum of 20 percent of total compensation excluding the LTIP, and assuming a 50 percent outcome from the STIP.
Senior executives employed in countries other than Sweden are subject to local pension plans in their respective home countries. Such plans are consistent with those offered to other employees in the same countries. Accordingly, in terms of retirement age and any additional pension obligations, there may be some variation in employment terms in other legislatures than Sweden where mandatory local regulation or practice requires, and accordingly, the overall purpose of these guidelines should still be met.

Notice Period and Severance Pay The employment or service contracts of senior executives should apply until further notice, or for a specific period. For the CEO, a six-month notice period applies for termination by the company. In addition to dismissal pay, the CEO is entitled to severance pay of six times fixed monthly salary. During the notice period, the employment contract and associated benefits apply. For other senior executives, maximum notice periods of six months apply to termination by the company. Apart from dismissal pay, other senior executives are not entitled to severance pay. Applicable employment contracts and associated benefits apply during notice periods. Where severance pay is due, no other benefits are payable after the end of the notice period.
Salary and Employment Terms of Employees Consultation on the Board of Directors' proposal on guidelines for remuneration of senior executives considers salary and employment terms of the company's employees. Information on employees' total compensation, the components of such compensation, as well as increases and rates of increase of compensation over time, have been collated and served as part of the decision-support data for the Remuneration Committee and the Board of Directors when appraising the reasonableness of the guidelines and their ensuing limitations.

ANNUAL REPORT 2019 ENEA 49

NOTES

Average Number of Employees Parent company Subsidiaries Group total of which: Sweden US Romania China Japan France Germany UK Singapore Croatia Austria Spain Canada India Group total

2019

Total Of Which Men, %

12

66

617

79

629

79

55

78

71

80

241

68

4

75

4

100

61

86

16

89

60

92

1

100

55

87

7

87

5

81

3

100

46

87

629

79

2018

Total Of Which Men, %

10

48

553

76

563

76

61

76

76

78

265

68

5

79

4

100

63

85

2

50

46

91

2

100

­

­

­

­

5

83

2

79

31

86

563

76

Gender Division in Executive Management Team Board of Directors Other senior executives

7

57

8

100

7

71

9

100

Salaries, Other Benefits and Social Security Expenses GROUP Salaries and benefits* Share-based payments * * of which Board of Directors, CEO and other senior executives 1 Pension expenses 2
of which defined-benefit pension plans of which defined-contribution pension plans Other social security expenses Total

2019
391,747 28,661 41,336 24,582
731 23,851 67,759 512,749

2018
358,005 8,715 39,941 18,182 287 17,895 61,496
446,398

Salaries, Other Benefits and Social Security Expenses PARENT COMPANY Salaries and benefits * Share-based payments * * of which Board of Directors, CEO and other senior executives 3) Pension expenses 4)
of which defined-contribution pension plans Other social security expenses Total

2019
17,013 5,852 13,434 5,388 5,388 5,364 33,617

2018
14,710 776
11,483 5,079 5,079 5,250 25,815

1 Of the group's salaries and benefits, SEK 2,342,000 (4,661,00) is variable remuneration for the group comprising the Board of Directors and CEO (including the Presidents and Boards of subsidiaries). 2 Of the group's pension expenses, SEK 3,083,000 (3,614,000) is for the group comprising the Board of Directors and CEO. 3 Of the parent company's salary and benefits, SEK 2,342,000 (4,000,000) is variable remuneration for the group comprising the Board of Directors and CEO. 4 Of the parent company's pension expenses, SEK 3,083,000 (3,559,000) is for the group comprising the Board of Directors and CEO.

50 ENEA ANNUAL REPORT 2019

NOTES

In accordance with the resolution of the Annual General Meeting, Board members appointed by the AGM who are not employed by the company received the following remuneration in 2019

Directors' Fee

Audit Committee Fee

Remuneration Committee Fee

Total

Anders Lidbeck (Chairman)

500

­

50

550

Kjell Duveblad

235

80

­

315

Anders Skarin

235

40

­

275

Gunilla Fransson

235

­

30

265

Mats Lindoff

235

­

­

235

Birgitta Stymne Göransson

235

40

­

275

Total 2019

1 675

160

80

1 915

In accordance with the resolution of the Annual General Meeting, Board members appointed by the AGM who are not employed by the company received the following remuneration in 2018

Audit Committee

Directors' Fee

Fee

Remuneration Committee Fee

Total

Anders Skarin (Chairman)

480

­

40

520

Kjell Duveblad

225

60

­

285

Åsa Sundberg

225

30

­

255

Gunilla Fransson

225

­

20

245

Mats Lindoff

225

­

­

225

Torbjörn Nilsson

225

30

­

255

Total 2018

1 605

120

60

1 785

Summary of remuneration and other benefits in 2019

Variable Basic Salary Remuneration Other Benefits

CEO Jan Häglund (from April 2019)

2,105

1,342

­

former CEO Anders Lidbeck (until April 2019 inclusive)

1,918

1,000

­

Other senior executives (8)

14,599

6,573

73

Total 2019

18,622

8,915

73

Share-based Payments 673 924
6,827 8,424

Total 4,120 3,842
28,072 36,034

Summary of remuneration and other benefits in 2018

CEO Anders Lidbeck Other senior executives (11)* Total 2018

Basic Salary 3,519
15,664 19,183

Variable Remuneration
4,000
6,240
10,240

Other Benefits ­
1,333 1,333

Share­based Payments
1,051
3,104
4,155

Total 8,570 26,341 34,911

* The number of senior executives varied in the year.

Pension Expense
837 2,245
1,559 4,641
Pension Expense
3,559 1,164 4,723

ANNUAL REPORT 2019 ENEA 51

NOTES

NOTE 5 ­ Fees and Reimbursement of Auditors
Auditing assignments are defined as examinations of the Annual Report and financial statements, as well as of the administration of the Board of Directors and CEO, other duties that the company's Auditors are obliged to conduct and advice or other assistance required due to observations made during such reviews or during the performance of such other duties. All other work is defined as other assignments. Of Audit assignments, SEK 1,258,000 (1,124,000) relates to PwC Sweden, of tax consulting, SEK 25,000 (0) relates to PwC Sweden, and of other assignments, SEK 441,000 (52,000) relates to PwC Sweden. 

GROUP PricewaterhouseCoopers Auditing Other statutory assignments Tax consultancy Other

2019
1,393 ­ 25
441

2018
1,124 ­ ­ 52

Ernst and Young Auditing Other statutory assignments Tax consultancy Other

667 ­ ­ ­
2,526

584 ­ ­ ­
1,760

PARENT COMPANY PricewaterhouseCoopers Auditing Other statutory assignments Tax consultancy Other

2019
812 ­ 25
116 953

2018
1,004 ­ ­ 52
1,056

NOTE 6 ­ Operating Expenses by Type

Consumables and subcontracting consultants Other external expenses Personnel costs Depreciation/amortization and impairment

2019 33,613 119,934 517,676 86,094 757,317

2018 18,786 127,357 466,528 40,465 653,136

Depreciation/amortization and impairment losses for the year are allocated between cost of sold products and services totaling SEK 58.6 (34.0) million, sales and marketing expenses totaling SEK 4.0 (0.5) million, product development costs totaling SEK 3.2 (0.6) million and administrative costs totaling SEK 20.2 (5.4) million. SEK 20.7 million of amortization and impairment of the year is for rights of use pursuant to IFRS 16. 

52 ENEA ANNUAL REPORT 2019

NOTE 7 ­ Leases

Lease Arrangements The following amounts related to leases are recognized in the Balance Sheet:

Assets with Right of Use

2019

Real estate

36,200

Vehicles

1,191

37,391

Additional right-of-use assets in 2019 were SEK 13.1 million, of which SEK 6.5 million was additional from acquisitions.

Lease Liabilities

2019

Long-term

20,633

Short-term

17,956

38,589

Maturity Analysis of Lease Liabilities Within 1 yr. of reporting date More than 1 yr. but within 2 yrs. of reporting date More than 2 yrs. but within 5 yrs. of reporting date More than 5 yrs. after reporting date

2019 17,956 10,925 8,223 1,485 38,589

The following amounts related to leases are recognized in the Income Statement: Amortization of Rights of Use Real estate Vehicles

2019 20,179
587 20,766

Interest expenses (included in financial expenses) Expenses related to short-term leases Expenses related to leases where the underlying asset is of low value The group has no variable lease payments

1,434 862
277

Measurement of lease liability Operating lease obligations as of December 31, 2018 Discounted by lessee's incremental borrowing rate Less: short-term leases not recognized as a liability Less: leases where the underlying asset is of low value, not recognized as a liability
Less: adjustments due to different treatment of options to extend or cancel arrangements Reported lease liability as of January 1, 2019

55,026 ­1,865 ­1,150
­3,854
­2,094 46,063

Of which: Short-term lease liabilities Long-term lease liabilities Weighted incremental borrowing rate:

17,221 28,842
3,2%

NOTES
2018 ­ ­ ­
2018 ­ ­ ­
2018 ­ ­ ­ ­
2018 ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­

ANNUAL REPORT 2019 ENEA 53

NOTES

Operating Lease Obligations GROUP Lease payments in current year Contracted future minimum lease payments within 1 yr. Contracted future minimum lease payments within 2­5 yrs.

2019
­ ­ ­

PARENT COMPANY Lease payments in current year Contracted future minimum lease payments within 1 yr. Contracted future minimum lease payments within 2­5 yrs.

2019
4,302 4,166 8,192

Effective January 1, 2019, the group recognized rights of use for of these leases (mainly premises), apart from short-term leases and leases where the underlying asset has low value. 

NOTE 8 ­ Financial Net
GROUP Profit (loss) on liquidation of subsidiary Interest income Exchange gains Financial income
Interest expenses Other financial expenses Exchange losses Financial expenses Financial net
PARENT COMPANY Interest income, other Interest income, group companies Exchange gains Interest income and similar profit (loss) items
Interest expenses, other Interest expenses, group companies Other financial expenses Exchange losses Interest expenses and similar profit (loss) items Financial net

2019
­ 585 19,393 19,978
­25,631 ­21,303 ­24,727 ­71,661 ­51,683
2019
35 44,849
1,223 46,107
­24,363 ­36
­21,303 ­1,678 ­47,380 ­1,273

2018
20,401 19,641 35,385
2018
4,676 4,302 12,537
2018
236 337 24,293 24,866
­23,504 ­3,947 ­25,123
­52,574 ­27,708
2018
210 26,346
1,406 27,962
­23,221 ­
­3,145 ­2,728 ­29,094 ­1,132

54 ENEA ANNUAL REPORT 2019

NOTE 9 ­ Tax
GROUP Current tax expense Tax expense for the period
Deferred tax ­tax expense in loss carry-forwards used in the year ­ tax expense/income related to temporary differences ­ change deferred tax due to changed tax rate
Adjustment of tax for previous years
Reconciliation of Effective Tax GROUP Profit before tax Standard rate tax 21.4% (22%)
Tax effect of ­ other tax rates in foreign subsidiaries ­ use of previously capitalized loss carry-forwards ­ use of previously non-capitalized loss carry-forwards ­ non-deductible expenses ­ non-taxable revenue ­ changed future tax rate ­ research and development
Other tax Adjustment of tax for previous years Adjustment of tax for previous years
PARENT COMPANY Current tax Tax for the period
Reconciliation of Effective Tax PARENT COMPANY Profit before tax Tax 21.4% (22%)
Tax effect of ­ non-deductible expenses ­ non-taxable revenue
Other taxes Total tax recognized, parent company

NOTES

2019
­15,371 ­15,371
­7,737 ­10,273
­ ­18,010 ­33,381
2019
203,043 ­43,451
­3,511 ­
6,124 ­3,274
4,611 ­
13,805 ­7,685
­ ­33,381
16%
2019
-1,472 -1,472
2019
4,699 ­1,006
­456 ­
­10 ­1,472
31%

2018
­11,731 ­11,731
­5,559 ­2,975
768 ­7,766 ­19,497
2018
161,147 ­35,452
­1,803 ­123 9,790
­3,011 3,517
791 11,647 ­4,315
­538 ­19,497
12%
2018
-384 -384
2018
84 ­18
­361 ­ ­5
­384 458%

ANNUAL REPORT 2019 ENEA 55

NOTES

Deferred Tax Assets and Tax Liabilities GROUP The following components are included in deferred tax assets and tax liabilities Deferred tax assets:
­ loss carry-forwards ­ other temporary differences Total deferred tax assets
Deferred tax liabilities: ­ temporary differences
Total deferred tax liabilities

2019
2,494 7,694 10,188
79,974 79,974

2018
10,532 6,953 17,485
68,418 68,418

Change in Deferred Tax 2019 GROUP Deferred tax assets Loss carry-forwards Other temporary differences Total deferred tax assets
Deferred tax liabilities Appropriations Intangible assets Other temporary differences Total deferred tax liabilities

Recognized

in Other

Opening Recognized in Comprehensive

Balance Profit or Loss

Income

Exchange Acquisitions of Differences Subsidiaries

Closing Balance

10,532 6,953 17,485

­8,323 1,386
­6,937

­

285

­357

­288

­357

­3

­

2,494

­

7,694

0

10,188

27,417 27,887 13,113 68,417

7,220 ­4,145
7,997 11,072

­

­

­

972

­

­487

0

485

­

34,637

­

24,714

­

20,623

0

79,974

Change in Deferred Tax 2018 GROUP Deferred tax assets Loss carry-forwards Other temporary differences Total deferred tax assets

Recognized

in Other

Opening Recognized in Comprehensive

Balance Profit or Loss

Income

Exchange Acquisitions of Differences Subsidiaries

Closing Balance

15,513 5,855 21,368

­5,559 681
­4,878

­

578

86

331

86

909

­

10,532

­

6,953

0

17,485

Deferred tax liabilities Appropriations Intangible assets Other temporary differences Total deferred tax liabilities

28,992 7,811 4,976
41,779

­1,575 ­3,384
7,847 2,888

­

­

­

27,417

­

261

23,199

27,887

­

290

­

13,113

0

551

23,199

68,417

Deferred tax assets for loss carry-forwards pertain to subsidiaries in Germany and France. Management's opinion is that the capitalized loss carry-forwards will be utilized in the coming years based on profit forecasts and that the loss carry-forwards have indefinite useful lives. Non-capitalized deferred tax assets for unutilized deficits total SEK 84.8 (101.5) million and relate to the US and UK.

56 ENEA ANNUAL REPORT 2019

NOTES

NOTE 10 ­ Intangible Assets
2019 GROUP Accumulated cost Opening balance, Jan. 1, 2019 Purchased in the year Sales/retirements in the year Translation difference for the year Closing balance, Dec. 31, 2019
Accumulated amortization and impairment Opening balance, Jan. 1, 2019 Sales/retirements in the year Amortization and impairment for the year Translation difference for the year Closing balance, Dec. 31, 2019
Carrying amount, Dec. 31, 2019

Capitalized

Development

Goodwill

Expenses

Product Rights

Customer Contracts

1,151,182 81,299 ­ 33,467
1,265,948

299,326 79,690
­ 855 379,871

53,953 24,732
­ 1,509 80,194

70,155 84,126 ­400 2,444 156,325

­

­198,389

­

­

­

­30,012

­

87

­

­228,314

1,265,948

151,557

­8,626 ­
­8,620 ­100
­17,346
62,848

­9,657 400
­16,341 ­144
­25,742
130,583

Brands

Other Intangible
Assets

Total

22,126 ­ ­
626 22,752

12,316 455 ­ 30
12,801

1,609,058 270,302 ­400 38,930
1,917,890

­ ­ ­ ­ ­
22,752

­11,004 ­512 ­ ­20
­11,537

­227,676 ­112
­54,973 ­178
­282,939

1,264 1,634,951

2018 GROUP Accumulated cost Opening balance, Jan. 1, 2018 Purchased in the year Sales/retirements in the year Translation difference for the year Closing balance, Dec. 31, 2018
Accumulated amortization and impairment Opening balance, Jan. 1, 2018 Sales/retirements in the year Amortization and impairment for the year Translation difference for the year Closing balance, Dec. 31, 2018
Carrying amount, Dec. 31, 2018

Capitalized

Development

Goodwill

Expenses

Product Rights

Customer Contracts

Brands

Other Intangible
Assets

Total

424,246 654,674
­ 72,261 1,151,182

237,442 60,254
­ 1,631 299,326

22,897 27,774
­ 3,282 53,953

10,604 54,499
­ 5,052 70,155

9,446 11,315
­ 1,365 22,126

12,947 779
­1,651 241
12,316

717,582 809,295
­1,651 83,832 1,609,058

­

­178,587

­

­

­

­19,717

­

­85

­

­198,389

1,151,182

100,937

­2,868 ­
­5,555 ­203
­8,626
45,327

­1,946 ­
­7,450 ­261
­9,657
60,498

­ ­ ­ ­ ­
22,126

­11,960 1,733 ­563 ­215
­11,004

­195,361 1,733
­33,285 ­764
­227,676

1,312 1,381,382

ANNUAL REPORT 2019 ENEA 57

NOTES

Other Intangible Assets PARENT COMPANY Accumulated cost Opening balance, Jan. 1 Purchased in the year Closing balance, Dec. 31

2019
8,135 339
8,474

2018
7,356 779
8,135

Opening balance, Jan. 1 Amortization for the year Closing balance, Dec. 31

­7,265 ­300
­7,565

­6,979 ­286
­7,265

Carrying amount, Dec. 31

909

870

Capitalized development expenses within Enea relate mainly to internal work on the development of new products. The amortization term for capitalized development expenditure is five years, ten years for product rights, seven to ten years for customer contracts and three to five years for other intangible assets. The remaining amortization term for intangible assets amounts to one to nine years. 
Impairment Testing of Capitalized Development Expenses Enea routinely conducts impairment tests on significant assets regardless of whether there is any indication of impairment. The measurement is reviewed quarterly. Impairment tests of capitalized development expenses have the same assumptions as for goodwill. Management's opinion is that there is no impairment in 2019. 
Impairment Testing of Goodwill Goodwill as of December 31, 2019 amounted to a book value of SEK 1,265.9 (1,151.2) million. Assets with indefinite useful lives are tested yearly for impairment. Individual assets may be subject to more frequent testing if there are indications of impairment. The group's measurement is based on three cash-generating units, Enea group excluding Qosmos and Openwave Mobility, and Qosmos and the Openwave Mobility groups. The impairment tests are based on measurement of value in use. Value in use is measured on the basis of discounted cash flows and are based on group management's financial forecasts over a five-year period. The Gordon model has been used for computing the terminal value of cash flows. Cash flows beyond the five-year period have been forecast using a 3 (2) percent growth rate. Forecast cash flows are based on annual earnings growth for the group excluding Qosmos and Openwave of 4 (4) percent, for Qosmos an average of 5 (5) percent, and for Openwave Mobility, an average of 12 (8) percent based on estimated growth of existing customers and underlying markets. The cost trend for the group excluding Qosmos and Openwave is forecast at 3 (4) percent, 3 (3) percent for Qosmos, and 8 (3) percent for Openwave. The present value of forecast cash flows was measured by applying a discount rate of 9 (9) percent before tax. The discount rate is judged as consistent with market required returns. Sensitivity analyzes have been conducted that consider the discount rate (risk) and long-term growth rate, implying a general reduction in the growth rate after 5 years by 1.5 percentage points and a general increase in the weighted cost of capital by 1 percentage point. The sensitivity analyzes did not indicate any impairment. Accordingly, management's opinion is that a reasonable potential change in assumptions would not reduce the recoverable amount below book value. Important assumptions for impairment testing are outlined below: 

Variable Revenue growth Cost trend Discount rate Long-term stable growth

Assumptions, Enea

2019

2018

4%

(4%)

3%

(4%)

9%

(9%)

3%

(2%)

Assumptions, Qosmos

2019

2018

5%

(5%)

3%

(3%)

9%

(9%)

3%

(2%)

Assumptions, Openwave

2019

2018

12%

(8%)

8%

(3%)

9%

(9%)

3%

(2%)

58 ENEA ANNUAL REPORT 2019

NOTES

NOTE 11 ­ Equipment, Tools, Fixtures and Fittings
Accumulated cost At beginning of year Purchased in the year Purchased in the year via acquisition of operation Sales/retirements Translation differences for the year
Accumulated depreciation and impairment At beginning of year Sales/retirements Depreciation and impairment for the year Depreciation for the year via acquisition of operation Translation differences for the year
Carrying amount at end of year

2019

Group

2018

108,350 8,655 3,634 ­1,000 3,845
123,484

58,245 7,046 44,728 ­2,612
942 108,350

­92,156 1,000 ­9,842 ­1,769 ­3,300
­106,067 17,417

­48,653 2,375 ­7,190
­38,024 ­664
­92,156 16,194

Parent Company

2019

2018

11,801 1,254
­ ­ ­ 13,055

10,981 1,161 ­ ­341 ­
11,801

­9,835 ­
­740 ­ ­
­10,575 2,480

­9,592 341
­584 ­ ­
­9,835 1,966

Depreciation relates to cost of sold products and services, sales and marketing expenses, product development expenses and administrative expenses.

NOTE 12 ­ Accounts Receivable
Non-overdue accounts receivable are from customers with good solvency and payment history. Accounts receivable usually become due for payment within 30-90 days. Accounts receivable that are impaired are consistent with the provision for doubtful debt. A reserve is made when the company has taken measures to collect the receivable without success, and judges that the likelihood of the customer paying is low. The reserve for doubtful debt amounts to SEK 2.9 (2.9) million. The allowance for doubtful debt is recognized as a selling expense in the Income Statement. The fair value of accounts receivable corresponds to the carrying amount. Accounts receivable are predominantly denominated in SEK, EUR and USD. The age analysis of accounts receivable follows:

Age Analysis of Accounts Receivable GROUP Not overdue Overdue 1­60 days Overdue 61­90 days Overdue 90 days Total

2019
174,816 27,163 5,962 552
208,493

2018
143,953 23,801
629 6,288 174,671

Change in Doubtful Debt GROUP Opening balance Repayment Written off Allowance for the year Total

2019
2,890 ­1,262
­ 1,262 2,890

2018
1,038 ­765
­ 2,617 2,890

ANNUAL REPORT 2019 ENEA 59

NOTES

NOTE 13 ­ Prepaid Expenses, Contract Assets and Accrued Income
GROUP Prepaid insurance Prepaid rents Accrued income Other prepaid expenses

2019
912 2,809 68,717 15,523 87,961

PARENT COMPANY Prepaid insurance Prepaid rents Accrued income Other prepaid expenses

2019
­ 1,092
­ 5,031 6,123

Contract Assets

The Group is Reporting the Following Revenue-related Contract Assets

2019

Contract assets relating to fulfilled performance obligations, where

60,550

entitlement to payment is conditional on factors other than time



Contract assets have not been subject to impairment, and accordingly, carrying amounts are recognized net.

Material Changes to Contract Assets The group's contract assets increased in 2019, due to the type of contracts signed in the year, mainly by Openwave Mobility.

2018
573 2,399 77,726 20,872 101,570
2018
501 1,037
­ 3,943 5,481
2018 30,474

NOTE 14 ­ Derivative Instruments
Long-term Currency forwards ­ cash flow hedges Short-term Currency forwards ­ cash flow hedges

Assets

2019 Liabilities

55

­

569

­

Assets

2018 Liabilities

­

­

­

1,937

60 ENEA ANNUAL REPORT 2019

NOTES

NOTE 15 ­ Equity

Group Share Capital
As of December 31, 2018, the registered share capital comprised 21,615,231 ordinary shares with a quotient value of SEK 1.13 per share. Holders of ordinary shares are entitled to dividends at amounts specified in arrears, and shareholdings carry voting rights at Annual General Meetings of one vote per share. In the year, the company purchased 0 (0) treasury shares and sold 0 (0) treasury shares.

Other Paid-up Capital Equity contributed by owners. This includes share premium reserves transferred to the statutory reserve as at December 31, 2005. Provisions to the share premium reserve from January 1, 2006 onwards are also recognized as paid-up capital.

Number of Shares
Opening number of shares New share issue Closing number of shares

2019 19,650,231 1,965,000 21,615,231

2018 19,650,231
­ 19,650,231

Reserves Hedging Reserve Opening hedging reserve Cash flow hedges: - fair value-gains/losses in the year - tax on fair value-gains/losses - transfers to profit or loss - tax on transfers to profit or loss Closing hedging reserve

2019 ­726
2,555 ­547 ­316
67 1,033

2018 ­421
­1,096 241 705 ­155
­726

Translation Reserve The translation reserve includes all exchange rate differences that arise when translating net assets from foreign operations that have prepared their financial statements in currencies other than the currency in which the group's financial reports are presented. The parent company and group present their financial reports in Swedish kronor.

2019

2018

Opening translation reserve

74,001

­10,094

Translation differences for the year

41,250

84,095

Closing translation reserve

115,251

74,001

Retained Earnings Including Profit for the Year Profit brought forward, including profit (loss) for the year, includes earned profits in the parent company and its subsidiaries. Earlier provisions to the statutory reserve, excluding transferred share premium reserves, are included in this equity item.
The total holding of treasury shares as at December 31, 2019 was 314,760. The shares are held as treasury shares and were fully paid up on December 31, 2019.

Non-restricted equity Share Premium Reserve
When shares are issued at a premium, so the price paid for the shares is higher than their quotient value, an amount corresponding to the amount received over and above the quotient value of the share is transferred to the share premium reserve.

Retained Earnings This consists of the preceding year's non-restricted equity following any statutory reserve provision and dividends paid. With the profit (loss) for the year, this is total non-restricted equity, i.e. the amount available as dividends to shareholders.

See also the Consolidated Statement of Change in Equity and Parent Company Statement of Change in Equity.

ANNUAL REPORT 2019 ENEA 61

NOTES

NOTE 16 ­ Earnings per Share
Earnings per share before dilution Profit for the year after tax Average number of shares, 000 Earnings per share before dilution, SEK

2019
169,661 20,035
8,47

Earnings per share after dilution Profit for the year after tax Average number of shares, 000 Earnings per share before dilution, SEK

169,661 20,035
8,47

Earnings per share is measured by dividing earnings for the period attributable to equity holders of the parent by the average number of shares.

2018
141,650 19,335
7,33
141,650 19,335
7,33

NOTE 17 ­ Accrued Expenses, Contract Liabilities, Deferred Income and Performance Obligations

GROUP Deferred support income* Accrued personnel costs Other deferred income* Other

2019
98,030 69,761 11,862 15,602 195,255

2018
41,609 71,514 34,516 25,711 173,350

PARENT COMPANY Accrued personnel costs Other

2019
24,324 1,961
26,285

2018
14,039 3,662 17,701

Contract Liabilities * When Enea receives a payment but has not fulfilled a performance obligation, a contract liability arises, which consist of the deferred income relating to support contracts and licenses. A contract liability is recognized until the performance obligations is fulfilled, or become due for the customer to utilize, when it is recognized as revenue.

The Group Recognizes the Following Revenue-related Contract Liabilities Contract liabilities relating to unfulfilled performance obligations

2019 109,941

2018 76,125

Opening Contract Liabilities Recognized as Revenue in the Year GROUP

2019 59,380

Material Changes to Contract Liabilities: The group's contract liabilities increased in 2019 due to the acquisition of a business unit from Atos Convergence Creators.

2018 44,340

Performance Obligations Revenue from Performance Obligations Satisfied in Previous Periods GROUP

2019 76,504

2018 52,988

Unfulfilled Long-term Performance Obligations* GROUP

2019 241,791

2018 153,197

* Revenue from performance obligations for long-term, irrevocable contracts that will be recognized as revenue in future periods.
Management expects that 59 percent of the transaction price that has been allocated to unfulfilled agreements as of December 31, 2019 will be recognized as revenue in the following financial year (SEK 143,232,000). The remaining 41 percent will be recognized in the years 2021-2025.

62 ENEA ANNUAL REPORT 2019

NOTES

NOTE 18 ­ Parent Company Holdings in Group Companies
Parent Company Holdings in Group Companies Enea Software AB
Enea Zealcore AB Enea Software and Services, Inc Enea GmbH Enea KK Enea Polyhedra Ltd Enea Romania SRL Qosmos SA Openwave Mobility Inc Enea Software GmbH Enea Software d.o.o.

Accumulated cost At beginning of year Closing balance, December 31
Accumulated impairment At beginning of year Closing balance, December 31
Carrying amount at end of year

Specification of Parent Company's Holdings of Participations in Subsidiaries
Subsidiary/corp ID no./Reg. office
Enea Software AB, 556183-3012, Kista

No. of Shares 5,900

Country Sweden Sweden
US Germany
Japan UK
Romania France US Austria Croatia
2019
330,630 330,630
­158,596 ­158,596
172,034
Prop., %
100

Participating Interest, % 100 100 100 100 100 100 100 100 100 100 100
2018
330,630 330,630

­158,596 ­158,596

172,034

Carrying Amount

2019

2018

172,034 172,034

172,034 172,034

NOTE 19 ­ Cash Flow Statement
Cash and Cash Equivalents The subcomponents included in cash and cash equivalents are cash at bank and special deposits or commercial paper with an insignificant risk of fluctuations in value and that can readily be converted into cash and cash equivalents, and which have a maturity of no more than three months from the time of acquisition.

Cash and Cash Equivalents Cash and bank balances Total 
Disclosures on Interest Rates Interest received in the period amounted to Interest paid in the period amounted to

2019 146,147 146,147

Group

2018 74,673 74,673

2019 585
­46,935

Group

2018 236
­27,176

Parent Company

2019

2018

1,749

17,712

1,749

17,712

Parent Company

2019

2018

44,884

26,287

­45,914

­26,366

ANNUAL REPORT 2019 ENEA 63

NOTES

Adjustment for Non-cash Items Depreciation/amortization and impairment Gain (loss) on retirement of fixed assets Share saving program Appropriations Actuarial changes in pension liability Provisions Transaction costs, loans Exchange differences net Total

2019 86,092
­ 16,678
­ 678 ­971 8,178 ­1,764 108,891

Group 2018 40,475 111 6,043 ­ 185 4,033 3,145 514
54,506

Parent Company

2019

2018

1,040

870

­

­

16,678

6,043

­5,972

­1,216

­

­

­

­

8,178

3,145

­

­

19,924

8,842

NOTE 20 ­ Related Parties

Summary of Transactions with Related Parties GROUP There were no transactions with related parties
PARENT COMPANY Related Party Relationship Subsidiaries Subsidiaries

Sale of Goods

and Services to

Year

Related Party

2019

77,757

2018

53,113

Purchase of Goods and Services from Related Party
281
­

Liability to Related Party as
of Dec. 31
3,246
3,247

Receivable from Related
Party as of Dec. 31
1,058,435
1,021,527

Transactions with related parties are on arm's length basis. For information on remuneration of key personnel in executive positions, see Note 4 Employees and personnel expenses, and Note 21 Pensions, share-based
payment, benefits to senior executives. The parent company has a close relationship with its subsidiaries (see Note 18).

NOTE 21 ­ Pensions and Share-based Payments

Defined-contribution Plans The methods for measuring pension expenses and pension liabilities differ from country to country. Companies report according to local regulations and the reported figures are consolidated in the consolidated financial statements. All pension solutions in foreign subsidiaries, with the exception of Qosmos in France and Enea GmbH in Germany, are defined-contribution plans, which means that the group's profit (loss) is charged with pension expenses as benefits are vested. Salaried employees in Sweden are covered by the ITP plan, which is reported as a defined-contribution pension plan. Obligations for retirement pension and survivors' pension for salaried employees in Sweden are secured through an insurance policy with Alecta. According to a statement from the Swedish Financial Reporting Board, UFR 10, this is a multi-employer defined-benefit plan. Alecta, which is a mutual insurance company that also administers benefits under the pension plan, is unable to provide Enea or other Swedish companies with sufficient information to determine an individual company's share of the total obligation and its assets. Accordingly, ITP pension plans that are vested through an insurance policy with Alecta are reported as defined-contribution. The cost for 2019 amounts to SEK 4,556,000 (4,453,000). The cost for 2020 is estimated to amount to an equivalent figure. Alecta's surplus can be distributed to policyholders and/or the insured.
At the end of 2019, Alecta's surplus in the form of its collective consolidation ratio amounted to 148 (142) percent. The collective consolidation ratio consists of the market value of Alecta's assets as a percentage of its insurance obligations, calculated in accordance with Alecta's actuarial accounting assumptions, which do not comply with IAS 19.

Defined-benefit Plans A number of salaried employees of France and Germany are covered by a defined-benefit pension plan. The group's net obligation for defined-benefit plans is measured by estimating future benefits accrued from employment in current and previous periods. These benefits are discounted to present value and recognized as a liability in the Balance Sheet.

Group

Parent Company

2019

2018

2019

2018

Cost of defined-contribution plans

19,005

17,895

5,388

5,079

Cost of defined-benefit plans

837

287

­

­

64 ENEA ANNUAL REPORT 2019

NOTES
Share-based Payments LTIP 2017 In May 2017, the AGM resolved to offer key employees the opportunity to participate in a Long Term Incentive Program (LTIP). The principal objective of the program is to align the interests of shareholders, management and other key individuals in order to maximize long-term value creation. LTIP 2017 is also expected to facilitate the recruitment and retention of management and other key individuals.
The program involves 32 senior executives, key individuals and certain other employees. Participants are allocated performance-based warrants that entitle the holder the right to subscribe for shares. After the end of the fixed vesting period, on condition that specific performance requirements are met, participants are entitled to receive shares in the company free of charge. The allocation of shares requires continued employment with the Enea group during the vesting period. The granting of shares is conditional on specific performance requirements linked to Enea's sales growth, operating profit and earnings per share for the financial years 2017­2019. Threshold values for accumulated sales in 2017-2019 are SEK 1,890 million, accumulated operating profit for 2017-2019 of SEK 425 million, and average earnings per share of SEK 6.89. The maximum value participants receive per warrant (including any compensation for extraordinary dividends) has been capped at SEK 415. In the event that the value of the Enea share exceeds the maximum value at the time of allocation, the number of shares each warrant entitles the holder to reduces proportionally. The fair value of services rendered is based on the share price of the shares expected to be granted. The incentive program entails financial exposure for the company as a result of fluctuations in Enea's share price and the anticipated allocation of shares. To secure the Program, a decision was made to transfer already acquired treasury shares under the Program. The number of shares that can be transferred to participants under the Program, free of charge, has been capped at 441,000, including compensation relating to extraordinary dividends.
LTIP 2018 In May 2018, the AGM resolved to offer key employees the opportunity to participate in a Long Term Incentive Program (LTIP). The principal objective of the program is to align the interests of shareholders, management and other key individuals in order to maximize long-term value creation. LTIP 2018 is also expected to facilitate the recruitment and retention of management and other key individuals. The specific purpose of LTIP 2018 is to offer the management of Openwave Mobility and selected members of management that did not participate in LTIP 2017, a long-term incentive. LTIP 2018 involves a total of seven employees, consis-ting of senior executives and other key individuals.
Participants are allocated performance-based warrants that entitle the holder the right to subscribe for shares. After the end of the fixed vesting period, on condition that specific performance requirements are met, participants are entitled to receive shares in the company free of charge. The allocation of shares requires continued employment with the Enea group during the vesting period. The granting of shares is conditional on specific performance requirements linked to Enea's yearly growth of earnings per share for the financial years 2018-2020. The maximum value conferring full entitlement is Enea's accumulated earnings per share in 2018-2020 being a minimum of SEK 18.89. The minimum level for granting is that accumulated earnings per share are a minimum of SEK 15.66 in 2018-2020. The maximum value participants can receive per warrant (including any compensation for extraordinary dividends) has been capped at SEK 312. In the event that the value of the Enea share exceeds the maximum value at the time of allocation, the number of shares each warrant entitles the holder to reduces proportionally.
The fair value of services rendered is based on the share price of the shares expected to be granted. The share price is determined at the time of the participants' investment, adjusted for the dividends that do not accrue to the employee during the vesting period. The incentive program entails financial exposure for the company as a result of fluctuations in Enea's share price and the anticipated allocation of shares. To secure the Program, a decision was made to transfer already acquired treasury shares under the Program. The number of shares that can be transferred to participants under the Program, free of charge, has been capped at 180,000, including compensation relating to extraordinary dividends.
LTIP 2019 In May 2019, the AGM resolved to offer key employees the opportunity to participate in a Long Term Incentive Program (LTIP). The principal objective of the program is to align the interests of shareholders, management and other key individuals in order to maximize long-term value creation. LTIP 2019 is also expected to facilitate the recruitment and retention of management and other key individuals. LTIP 2019 involves some 25 employees, consisting of senior executives and other key individuals.
Participants are allocated performance-based warrants that entitle the holder the right to subscribe for shares. After the end of the fixed vesting period, on condition that specific performance requirements are met, participants are entitled to receive shares in the company free of charge. The allocation of shares requires continued employment with the Enea group during the vesting period. The granting of shares is conditional on specific performance requirements linked to Enea's yearly growth of earnings per share for the financial years 2019-2021. The maximum value conferring full entitlement is Enea's accumulated earnings per share in 2019-2021 being a minimum of SEK 29.27. The minimum level for granting is that accumulated earnings per share are a minimum of SEK 24.26 in 2019-2021. In addition to the main principle, there is an alternative rule that comes into effect if outcomes per year generate better earnings than the main principle. In the alternative rule, the years 2019, 2020 and 2021 are computed separately, with a maximum of 1/4 of full granting available based on growth of earnings per share for each year. Participants will receive allocation according to the most advantageous alternative for them. The maximum value participants can receive per warrant (including any compensation for extraordinary dividends) has been capped at SEK 551. In the event that the value of the Enea share exceeds the maximum value at the time of allocation, the number of shares each warrant entitles the holder to reduces proportionally.
The fair value of services rendered is based on the share price of the shares expected to be granted. The incentive program entails financial exposure for the company as a result of fluctuations in Enea's share price and the anticipated allocation of shares. To secure the Program, a decision was made to transfer already acquired treasury shares under the Program. The number of shares that can be transferred to participants under the Program, free of charge, has been capped at 438,000, including compensation relating to extraordinary dividends.
ANNUAL REPORT 2019 ENEA 65

NOTES

LTIP 2017 No. of warrants allocated Forfeited in the period Expired in the period Outstanding at end of period Number of participants, Dec. 31
LTIP 2018 No. of warrants allocated Forfeited in the period Expired in the period Outstanding at end of period Number of participants, Dec. 31
LTIP 2019 No. of warrants allocated Forfeited in the period Expired in the period Outstanding at end of period Number of participants, Dec. 31
Personnel costs for share-based payments Group Incentive programs

2019 357,000 ­27,000
­ 330,000
23
2019 156,000 ­48,000
­ 108,000
4
2019 438,000
­ ­ 438,000 28
2019 28,661

2018 450,000 ­93,000
­ 357,000
26
2018 156,000
­ ­ 156,000 6
2018 ­ ­ ­ ­ ­
2018 8,715

NOTE 22 ­ Translation Exposure

Enea's foreign subsidiaries are translated into Swedish kronor in accordance with the current method. This means that Balance Sheets are translated at closing day rates and Income Statements at average rates of exchange for the period.

The rates used for the group's significant currencies are stated in the table below. 

Closing Day Rate

Currency

2019

2018

EUR

10.4336

10.2753

USD

9.3171

8.9710

GBP

12.2145

11.3482

JPY

0.0853

0.0812

RON

2.1797

2.2008

SGD

6.9043

6.5605

INR

0.1325

0.1282

CAD

7.1283

6.5922

HRK

1.3998

N/A

Average Rate

2019

2018

10.5892

10.2567

9.4604

8.6921

12.0658

11.5928

0.0868

0.0787

2.2308

2.2047

6.9327

6,4397

0.1343

0.1271

7.1308

6.7103

1.3691

N/A

66 ENEA ANNUAL REPORT 2019

NOTES

When translating foreign subsidiaries' balance sheets to Swedish kronor, the group is exposed to exchange rate fluctuations. The effect on equity in 2019 for the translation of foreign subsidiaries' accounts to Swedish kronor was SEK 41,250,000 (84,095,000). The group's exposure in equity for exchange rate fluctuations on the reporting date was as follows:

2019

2018

Currency

Translated to SEK at Amount Closing Day Rate

Translated to SEK at Amount Closing Day Rate

EUR

20,280

211,593

16,590

170,467

USD

9,480

88,326

3,513

31,515

GBP

16,258

198,583

15,587

176,884

JPY

68,925

5,881

63,945

5,192

RON

18,090

39,431

12,993

28,595

SGD

247

1,705

219

1,437

INR

15,590

2,065

19,067

2,444

CAD

228

1,625

200

1,318

HRK

816

1,142

N/A

N/A

NOTE 23 ­ Critical Estimates and Judgments
Estimates and judgements, which are reviewed continuously, are based on historical experience and other factors, including expectations of future events that are considered reasonable in prevailing circumstances.
Critical Judgments Regarding Application of the Group's Accounting Policies
Management has discussed the progress, choice and disclosures regarding the group's most important accounting policies and estimates, and the application of these policies and estimates with the Audit Committee. The estimates and judgements mainly include revenue recognition, the measurement of deferred tax assets on loss carry-forwards, the financial effect of business combinations such as. acquisition analysis, and the estimated outcome of contingent considerations, and any impairment. Some important accounting estimates made on application of the group's accounting policies are described below. 
Key Sources of Estimation Uncertainty Impairment Testing of Goodwill
When measuring the recoverable amount of cash-generating units for judging goodwill impairment, a number of assumptions have been made regarding future conditions and estimates of parameters. Enea has conducted a sensitivity analysis of key assumptions in which management found that no reasonable changes to these assumptions would result in any impairment as at December 31, 2019. They are reviewed in Note 10.  Impairment Testing of Capitalized Development Expenditure When measuring the recoverable amount of cash-generating units for judging impairment of capitalized development expenditure, a number of assumptions have been made regarding future conditions and estimates of parameters. Enea has conducted a sensitivity analysis of key assumptions in which management found that no reasonable changes to these assumptions would result in any impairment as at December 31, 2019. They are reviewed in Note 10.
Measurement of Loss Carry-forwards The group's loss carry-forwards are valued on an ongoing basis and when it is likely that taxable profit can be offset against loss carry-forwards in a reasonable time frame, a deferred tax asset is recognized. Future profit is forecast and set in relation to the loss carry-forwards, which forms the basis of decision-making data for capitalization.


ANNUAL REPORT 2019 ENEA 67

NOTES

NOTE 24 ­ Maturity Analysis, Financial Liabilities and Interest Financial Liabilities

Long-term Liabilities, Interest-bearing Liabilities to credit institutions Total long-term liabilities, interest-bearing

2019 263,000 263,000

Group 2018
548,000 548,000

Current liabilities, interest-bearing Liabilities to credit institutions Total current liabilities, interest-bearing

99,066 99,066

94,342 94,342

Current liabilities, non-interest-bearing Purchase consideration entered as a liability Accounts payable Other liabilities Accrued expenses, supplier related Total current liabilities, non-interest-bearing Total financial liabilities

­ 18,119 17,067 12,190 47,376 409,442

1,346 21,441 14,734 11,676 49,197 691,539

Maturity Analysis
Long and Short-term Interest-bearing Liabilities Within 1 yr. of reporting date More than 1 yr. but within 3 yrs. of reporting date More than 3 yrs. but within 5 yrs. of reporting date
Interest Within 1 yr. of reporting date More than 1 yr. but within 3 yrs. of reporting date More than 3 yrs. but within 5 yrs. of reporting date
Non-interest-bearing Liabilities Within 1 yr. of reporting date More than 1 yr. but within 3 yrs. of reporting date More than 3 yrs. but within 5 yrs. of reporting date

2019 99,066 263,000
­

Group 2018
94,342 548,000
­

4,408 3,528
­

27,757 31,833
­

47,376 ­ ­

49,197 ­ ­

Total Assets and Interest Within 1 yr. of reporting date More than 1 yr. but within 3 yrs. of reporting date More than 3 yrs. but within 5 yrs. of reporting date

150,850 266,528
­

171,296 579,833
­

Parent Company

2019

2018

263,000

548,000

263,000

548,000

99,066 99,066

94,013 94,013

­ 5,282 1,435 1,961 8,678 370,744

­ 5,411 2,158 3,662 11,231 653,244

Parent Company

2019

2018

99,066

94,013

263,000

548,000

­

­

4,408 3,528
­

27,757 31,833
­

8,678 ­ ­

11,231 ­ ­

112,152 266,528
­

133,001 579,833
­

68 ENEA ANNUAL REPORT 2019

NOTES

NOTE 25 ­ Obligations Relating to Employee Benefits, etc.
The group has defined-benefit pension plans for employees of Qosmos in France and Enea GmbH in Germany. The pension plans are based on employees' pensionable compensation and term of service. The defined-benefit obligation amounted to SEK 11.2 (7.5) million as of December 31, 2019. Costs for defined-benefit pensions totaled SEK 731,000 (287,000), of which SEK 731,000 (287,000) was charged to Enea's profit. The costs for 2020 are estimated at approx. EUR 80,000.

2019 GROUP Accumulated cost Opening balance, Jan. 1, 2018 Required pension liability Value change/currency translation/reallocation Closing balance, Dec. 31, 2019

Defined Benefit Pension Plans
7,501 3,391
262 11,153

Defined benefit pension plans are judged to be payable after more than 5 years .

Defined-benefit Obligations Present value of unfunded defined-benefit obligations Total liability, unfunded obligations

2019 11,153 11,153

Group

2018 7,501 7,501

Actuarial assumptions, % Discount rate Future salary increases

2019 1.04
­

Group

2018 1.70 3.75

NOTE 26 ­ Proposed Appropriation of Profits

PARENT COMPANY Share premium reserve Retained earnings Profit for the year Total

2019
562,748,745 249,910,653
3,227,300 815,886,698

The Board of Directors is proposing that these funds are appropriated so that SEK 815,886,698 is carried forward.

NOTE 27 ­ Pledged Assets
GROUP Bank guarantee Rent deposits

2019
­ 2,419 2,419

2018
4,700 2,109 6,809

ANNUAL REPORT 2019 ENEA 69

NOTES

NOTE 28 ­ Business Combinations
Acquisition of a Global Software Operation
On March 1, Enea Software AB acquired a business unit from Atos Convergence Creators through a net asset acquisition. The total purchase consideration amounts to SEK 152 million, financed through cash and bank loans. Enea takes over assets and liabilities, primarily related to pre-paid expenses and accrued income, of SEK 37 million. This business unit is a leader in policy management, authentication and managing subscriber information. The acquisition means Enea expanding its offering and addressable market, and migrating upwards in the value chain. The business unit was consolidated into Enea effective March 1, and operations were integrated into the Network Solutions product group. For March-December 2019 , this unit reported revenue of SEK 128.8 million, and an operating margin above the group average. The acquired goodwill arising from the purchase of the net assets of the business is tax deductible, and judged to relate to expected profitability, complementing the product portfolio, and acquired synergy effects. The financial effects of this transaction are stated below. The acquisition analysis of fair value adjustments product rights, customer contracts, short-term receivables and current liabilities is preliminary until 12 months after the acquisition date.


Purchase consideration

SEK 000

Summary of purchase consideration paid:

Cash and cash equivalents

152,195

Total purchase consideration paid

152,195



Carrying amounts (preliminary fair values) of identifiable assets and liabilities taken over as of the acquisition date:

Product rights Customer contracts Property, plant and equipment Short-term receivables Current liabilities, non-interest-bearing Net identifiable assets and liabilities Goodwill Expense, group

Fair Value Recognized
in Group 24,732 84,126 1,555 326 -39,843 70,896 81,299
152,195

Acquisition-related Expenses Acquisition-related expenses of SEK 2,726,000 are included in administrative costs in the Consolidated Income Statement for 2019.

70 ENEA ANNUAL REPORT 2019

DECLARATION BY THE BOARD AND CEO

The Board and CEO declare that the consolidated accounts have been prepared in accordance with the International Financial Reporting Standards, IFRS, as endorsed by the EU, and the Swedish Annual Accounts Act, and give a true and fair view of the group's results of operations and financial position. The Directors' Report for the group and parent company gives a true and fair view of the progress of the group and parent company's operating activities, financial position and results of operations, and covers significant risks and uncertainties affecting the parent
company and companies within the group.
As stated above, the annual accounts and consolidated accounts were approved for issue by the Board of Directors on March 30, 2020. The Consolidated Income Statement and Consolidated Balance Sheet, and the Parent Company Income Statement and Parent Company Balance
Sheet, will be subject to adoption by the Annual General Meeting on May 6, 2020.
Enea AB (556209-7146) Stockholm, Sweden March 30, 2020

Anders Lidbeck Chairman of the Board

Anders Skarin Board member

Birgitta Stymne Göransson Board member

Gunilla Fransson Board member

Kjell Duveblad Board member

Mats Lindoff Board member

Jenny Andersson Employee representative

Jan Häglund President and CEO
Our Audit Report was presented on March 30, 2020 Nicklas Kullberg
Authorized Public Accountant Öhrlings PricewaterhouseCoopers AB

ANNUAL REPORT 2019 ENEA 71

AUDIT REPORT

Audit Report

To the Annual General Meeting of Enea AB (publ.), corp. ID no. 556209-7146
REPORT ON THE ANNUAL ACCOUNTS AND CONSOLIDATED ACCOUNTS Opinions We have audited the annual accounts and consolidated accounts of Enea AB (publ) for the year 2019 except for the corporate governance statement and sustainability report on pages 22-30 and 18-19 respectively. The annual accounts and consolidated accounts of the company are included in the printed version of this document on pages 16-71.
In our opinion, the annual accounts have been prepared in accordance with the Annual Accounts Act and present fairly, in all material respects, the financial position of the parent company as of December 31, 2019 and of its financial performance and its cash flows for the year then ended in accordance with the Annual Accounts Act. The consolidated accounts have been prepared in accordance with the Annual Accounts Act and present fairly, in all material respects, the financial position of the group as of December 31, 2019 and of its financial performance and cash flows for the year then ended in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards, as adopted by the EU, and the Annual Accounts Act. Our opinions do not cover the corporate governance statement and sustainability report on pages 22-30 and 18-19 respectively. The statutory administration report is consistent with the other parts of the annual accounts and consolidated accounts.
We therefore recommend that the Annual General Meeting adopt the Income Statement and Balance Sheet for the parent company, and the Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive income and the Consolidated Statement of Financial Position.
Our opinions in this report on the annual accounts and consolidated accounts are consistent with the content of the additional report that has been submitted to the parent company's and group's audit committee in accordance with the Audit Regulation (537/2014) Article 11.
Basis for Opinions We have conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards on Auditing (ISA) and generally accepted auditing standards in Sweden. Our responsibilities under those standards are further described in the Auditor's Responsibilities section. We are independent of the parent company and the group in accordance with professional ethics for accountants in Sweden and have otherwise fulfilled our ethical responsibilities in accordance with these requirements. This includes that, based on the best of our knowledge and belief, no prohibited services referred to in the Audit Regulation (537/2014) Article 5.1 have been provided to the audited company or, where applicable, its parent company or its controlled companies within the EU. We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our audit opinions. .

Our Audit Approach Scope and Focus of Audit Enea is a software company that sells both software and services. The customers are mainly active in the telecom sector, but also in aerospace and defense. For the sale of software, revenue recognition is often dependent on contract terms, and when control is transferred to customers. Service operations provide around 15 percent of group revenue, and are focused on the US market. Services are generally delivered on account where hours spent are invoiced to customers in arrears.
Software operations consist of sales of software licenses and maintenance and product-related services. Sales of licenses comprises production licenses and developer licenses. Customer contracts for sales of developer licenses often include a combination of licenses and services, which implies that the risks and benefits for the relevant part of an agreement are transferred to the customer at different times. Accordingly, revenue is recognized for the respective part at different times, and invoicing and payment occur at a different time to revenue recognition. Overall, this means that revenue recognition of developer licenses is dependent on Management's assessment of the distribution of revenue over components and contractual agreements with customers. Enea has conducted two major acquisitions in recent years, French company Qosmos in late-2016, and recently, US company Openwave in early-2018. These acquisitions resulted in a significant increase in book values of intangible assets in the consolidated accounts. The value of these assets is tested for impairment annually or when there are indicators of impairment.
We prepared our audit by defining materiality and evaluating the risk of material misstatement in financial reporting. We focused on areas where the Managing Director and Board of Directors have made subjective judgments, such as key accounting estimates on the basis of assumptions and forecasts, which are by their nature uncertain. Like for all audits, we also considered the risk of the Board of Directors and the Managing Director overriding internal control, and factors such as whether there is any evidence for systematic departures that have given rise to material misstatement resulting from fraud.
We adjusted our audit to conduct an expedient examination in order to comment on the financial statements as a whole, with consideration given to the group structure, accounting procedures and controls, and the sector in which the group is active.
Materiality The scope and focus of the audit were affected by our assessment of materiality. An audit is designed to obtain reasonable assurance that the financial statements are free from material misstatement. Misstatements may arise due to fraud or error. They are considered material if, individually and in aggregate, they can reasonably be expected to influence financial decisions made by users on the basis of the financial statements.
Based on our professional judgement, we determined certain quantitative thresholds for materiality, including thresholds for the financial statements as a whole (see table below). Based on these thresholds, as well as qualitative considerations, we determined the focus and scope of the audit and the nature, timing and scope of our audit procedures, and assessed the effect of any misstatements, both individually and in aggregate, on the financial statements as a whole.

72 ENEA ANNUAL REPORT 2019

AUDIT REPORT

Key Audit Matters Key audit matters of the audit are those matters that, in our professional judgment, were of most significance in our audit of the annual accounts and consolidated accounts of the current period. These

matters were addressed in the context of our audit of, and in forming our opinion thereon, the annual accounts and consolidated accounts as a whole, but we do not provide a separate opinion on these matters.

Key Audit Matters

Audit Approach

Sales of Developer Licenses In addition to the license itself, customer agreements for developer licenses, which are either term-based or perpetual, include the right to services in the form of support and maintenance during the contract term.
This means that agreements broken down into individual components where the timing of revenue recognition for each respective component is dependent on the contractual terms. Revenue for each respective component is recognized when the risks and benefits have been transferred to the customer. Accordingly, the time of revenue recognition does not usually correspond to invoicing and payment by the customer.
This implies that Management is required to make estimates and judgments relating to the price of the components of customer contracts.
As a result of the inherent complexity of revenue recognition and the element of estimates and judgments by Management, we assess that revenue from systems sales constitutes a key audit matter.

We have focused a significant part of our audit on evaluating Enea's principles and underlying assumptions in order to break down revenue from developer licenses into various components, for example by reviewing and checking selected assumptions. We have done this by implementing audit measures that include:
· Evaluating the terms of Enea's customer contracts from an accounting perspective.
· Evaluating assumptions of revenue recognition principles.
· Conducting an analytical review of revenue in the year.
· Reviewing a selection of new customer agreements to ensure that revenue recognition follows Enea's principles, and that license rights have been transferred to customers at the time of revenue recognition.
· Cross-checking a selection of new customer agreements spanning multiple years to determine the correct estimated amortization in the accounts.
· Verifying that revenue has been recognized in the correct period and at the right amount by checking a selection of licenses that have been delivered to customers at the end of the financial year.

For the above accounting policies, please refer to page 41, and notes 2, 13, and 17 in the Annual Report for 2019.
This review has not resulted in any material observations reported in the Audit.

ANNUAL REPORT 2019 ENEA 73

AUDIT REPORT

Impairment Testing of Acquisition-related Surplus Values and Goodwill Acquisition-related surplus values and goodwill of SEK 1,525 million were included in the Consolidated Balance Sheet.
Goodwill and acquisition-related surplus values correspond to the difference between the value of net assets and the purchase consideration paid in connection with an acquisition. In contrast with other non-current assets there is no amortization of goodwill, and goodwill and brands are tested annually for impairment or when there is an indication that impairment may be necessary. Other acquisition-related non-current assets are depreciated over their estimated useful life.
The impairment testing, and thereby the recognized value, is dependent on the Board's and Management's estimates and assumptions regarding factors such as growth and future profitability and discount rates. Future events may come to change these judgments and estimates, and it is therefore particularly important that management continuously evaluates whether the value of acquisition-related intangible assets can be justified considering these assumptions. Management's calculation of the value in use of assets is based on next year's budget and forecasts for the ensuing four-year period. For a more detailed description of these assumptions, see Note 10.
Impairment testing naturally includes a significant element of estimates and judgments by Management, which explains why we have designated it a key audit matter.
For more information about the aforementioned Accounting policies, see page 45 and Note 10 in the Annual Report for 2019.
Our audit focused on Management's impairment testing and the surplus values identified:
We have taken audit measures including the following:
· Evaluated Enea's process for impairment testing of goodwill and
acquisition-related assets.
· Reviewed how Management identifies cash-generating units and
compared this with how Enea monitors goodwill and acquisition-related assets internally.
· Evaluated the reasonableness of the assumptions made and con-
ducted sensitivity analyzes for changed assumptions.
· Evaluated the reasonableness of the discount rate applied with the
aid of PwC's internal valuation specialists.
· C ompared the estimated value in use with the market capitalization
as of December 31, 2019.
· Evaluated Management's forecasting ability by comparing earlier
forecasts with actual outturns.
· Verified that sufficient information has been presented in the Notes
to the Annual Report from a materiality perspective.
This review has not resulted in any material observations reported in the Audit.

Other Information than the Annual Accounts and Consolidated Accounts This document also contains other information than the annual accounts and consolidated accounts and is found on pages 18-19, 2-15, 22-30 and 78-83. The Board of Directors and the Managing Director are responsible for this other information.
Our opinion on the annual accounts and consolidated accounts does not cover this other information and we do not express any form of assurance conclusion regarding this other information.
In connection with our audit of the annual accounts and consolidated accounts, our responsibility is to read the information identified above and consider whether the information is materially inconsistent with the annual accounts and consolidated accounts. In this procedure we also take into account our knowledge otherwise obtained in the audit and assess whether the information otherwise appears to be materially misstated.
If we, based on the work performed concerning this information, conclude that there is a material misstatement of this other information, we are required to report that fact. We have nothing to report in this regard.
Responsibilities of the Board of Directors and the Managing Director The Board of Directors and the Managing Director are responsible for the preparation of the annual accounts and consolidated accounts and that they give a fair presentation in accordance with the Annual Accounts Act and, concerning the consolidated accounts, in accordance with IFRS as adopted by the EU and the Annual Accounts Act. The Board of Directors and the Managing Director are also responsible for such internal control as they determine is necessary to enable the preparation of annual accounts and consolidated accounts that are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error.
In preparing the annual accounts and consolidated accounts, The Board of Directors and the Managing Director are responsible for the assessment of the company's and the group's ability to continue as a going concern. They disclose, as applicable, matters related to going concern and using the going concern basis of accounting. The going concern basis of accounting is however not applied if the Board of Directors and the Managing Director intends to liquidate the company, to cease operations, or has no realistic alternative but to do so.
The Audit Committee shall, without prejudice to the Board of Director's responsibilities and tasks in general, among other things oversee the company's financial reporting process.
Auditor's Responsibility Our objectives are to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the annual accounts and consolidated accounts as a whole are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error, and to issue an auditor's report that includes our opinions. Reasonable assurance is a high level of assurance, but is not a guarantee that an audit conducted in accordance with ISAs and generally accepted auditing standards in Sweden will always detect a material misstatement when it exists. Misstatements can arise from fraud or error and are considered material if, individually or in the aggregate, they could reasonably be expected to influence the economic decisions of users taken on the basis of these annual accounts and consolidated accounts.
For more information about our Audit responsibility for the Annual Report and Consolidated Financial Statements, see the Supervisory Board of Public Accountants' www.revisorsinspektionen. se/revisornsansvar This description is part of the Audit Report.

74 ENEA ANNUAL REPORT 2019

AUDIT REPORT

REPORT ON OTHER LEGAL AND REGULATORY REQUIREMENTS Opinions In addition to our audit of the annual accounts and consolidated accounts, we have also audited the administration of the Board of Directors and the Managing Director of Enea AB (publ) for the year 2019 and the proposed appropriations of the company's profit or loss.
We recommend to the general meeting of shareholders that the profit (loss) be appropriated in accordance with the proposal in the statutory administration report and that the members of the Board of Directors and the Managing Director be discharged from liability for the financial year.
Basis for Opinions We conducted the audit in accordance with generally accepted auditing standards in Sweden. Our responsibilities under those standards are further described in the Auditor's Responsibilities section. We are independent of the parent company and the group in accordance with professional ethics for accountants in Sweden and have otherwise fulfilled our ethical responsibilities in accordance with these requirements.
We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our opinions.
Responsibilities of the Board of Directors and the Managing Director The Board of Directors is responsible for the proposal for appropriations of the company's profit or loss. At the proposal of a dividend, this includes an assessment of whether the dividend is justifiable considering the requirements which the company's and the group's type of operations, size and risks place on the size of the parent company's and the group's equity, consolidation requirements, liquidity and position in general.
The Board of Directors is responsible for the company's organization and the administration of the company's affairs. This includes continuous assessment of the company's and the group's financial situation and ensuring that the company's organization is designed so that the accounting, management of assets and the company's financial affairs otherwise are controlled in a reassuring manner. The Managing Director shall manage the ongoing administration according to the Board of Directors' guidelines and instructions and among other matters take measures that are necessary to fulfill the company's accounting in accordance with law and handle the management of assets in a reassuring manner.

Reasonable assurance is a high level of assurance, but is not a guarantee that an audit conducted in accordance with generally accepted auditing standards in Sweden will always detect actions or omissions that can give rise to liability to the company, or that the proposed appropriations of the company's profit or loss are not in accordance with the Companies Act. For more information about our responsibility for the audit of the administration, see the Swedish Inspectorate of Auditors' website: www.revisorsinspektionen.se/en/English This description is part of the Audit Report.
The Auditor's Examination of the Corporate Governance Statement The Board of Directors is responsible for ensuring that the Corporate Governance Statement on pages 22-30 has been prepared in accordance with the Annual Accounts Act.
Our examination of the Corporate Governance Statement is conducted in accordance with FAR's auditing standards RevU 16 The auditor's examination of the Corporate Governance Statement. This means that our examination of the Corporate Governance Statement is different and substantially less in scope than an audit conducted in accordance with International Standards on Auditing and generally accepted accounting practice in Sweden. We believe that the examination has provided us with a satisfactory basis for our opinions.
A corporate governance statement has been prepared. Disclosures in accordance with chapter 6 section 6 the second paragraph points 2­6 of the Annual Accounts Act and chapter 7 section 31 the second paragraph the same law are consistent with the other parts of the annual accounts and consolidated accounts and are in accordance with the Annual Accounts Act.
Auditor's Opinion Regarding the Statutory Sustainability Report It is the Board of Directors who is responsible for the sustainability report for the year 2018 on pages 18-19, and that it is prepared in accordance with the Annual Accounts Act.
Our examination has been conducted in accordance with FAR's auditing standard RevR 12 The auditor's opinion regarding the statutory sustainability report. This means that our examination of the statutory sustainability report is different and substantially less in scope than an audit conducted in accordance with International Standards on Auditing and generally accepted auditing standards in Sweden. We believe that the examination has provided us with sufficient basis for our opinion.
A statutory sustainability report has been prepared.

Auditor's Responsibility Our objective concerning the audit of the administration, and thereby our opinion about discharge from liability, is to obtain audit evidence to assess with a reasonable degree of assurance whether any member of the Board of Directors or the Managing Director in any material respect:
· h as undertaken any action or been guilty of any omission which can
give rise to liability to the company, or
· in any other way has acted in contravention of the Companies Act,
the Annual Accounts Act or the Articles of Association.
Our objective concerning the audit of the proposed appropriations of the company's profit or loss, and thereby our opinion about this, is to assess with reasonable degree of assurance whether the proposal is in accordance with the Companies Act.

The AGM on May 6, 2019 appointed Öhrlings PricewaterhouseCoopers AB, Torsgatan 21, Stockholm, Sweden, as Enea AB's (publ) Auditor, who have served as the company's Auditor since May 15, 2007.
Stockholm, Sweden, March 30, 2020
Öhrlings PricewaterhouseCoopers AB
Nicklas Kullberg Authorized Public Accountant Auditor in Charge

ANNUAL REPORT 2019 ENEA 75

FIVE-YEAR SUMMARY

All amounts in SEK m INCOME STATEMENT Revenue Reversed additional purchase price Operating expenses Operating profit Financial net Profit before tax Net profit Total

2019 1,012.0
­ ­757.3 254.7 ­51.7 203.0 169.7 169.7

2018 830.3
11.7 ­653.1 188.9
­27.7 161.1 141.7 141.7

Balance Sheet Intangible assets Other fixed assets Other financial fixed assets Financial assets held for sale, non-current Short-term receivables Financial assets held for sale, current Cash and cash equivalents Total assets

1,672.3 27.6 3.4 ­
364.3 ­
146.1 2,213.8

1 381.4 33.7 3.1 ­ 426.8 ­ 74.7
1,919.7

Equity Long-term liabilities, interest-bearing Long-term liabilities, non-interest-bearing Current liabilities, interest-bearing Current liabilities, non-interest-bearing Total equity and liabilities

1,481.3 263.0 119.6 99.1 250.8
2,213.8

985.8 539.8 86.8 94.3 212.9 1,919.7

Cash flow from operating activities from investing activities from investing activities - sale of operation from investing activities - acquisition of operation from financing activities Cash flow for the period

245.2 ­90.9
­ ­47.1 ­35.9 71.2

168.6 30.5
­ ­954.4
514.2 ­241.1

KEY DATA Revenue growth, % Operating margin, % Profit margin, % Return on capital employed, % Return on equity, % Return on total capital, % Interest coverage ratio, multiple Equity ratio, % Liquidity, % Average number of employees Revenue per employee,, SEK m Net asset value per share SEK Earnings per share, SEK Dividend per share

22 25.2 20.1 15.6 13.8 13.3 3.8 66.9 145.9 629
1.6 69.54 8.47
­

41 22.7 19.4 17.0 16.3 13.8
4.1 51.4 163.2 563 1.5 50.99 7.33
­

* The figures for 2015-2016 have not been restated pursuant to IFRS 15.

2017 588.4
­ ­485.6
102.8 ­5.2 97.6 82.5 82.5
522.2 31.0 2.7 62.1
203.6 40.2 312.0 1,173.8
754.2 82.0 161.8 34.0 141.8 1,173.8
116.6 ­139.7
­ ­96.3 206.6 87.2
17 17.5 16.6 16.3 14.0 11.1 5.4 64.3 316.1 467 1.3 39.00 4.69
­

2016 501.3
­ ­382.5
118.8 5.2
124.0 94.6 94.6
499.2 34.4 6.5
­ 219.4
­ 223.5 983.0
422.9 116.0 161.9 34.0 248.2 983.0
128.1 49.6
­ ­139.6
56.2 94.3
4 23.7 24.7 27.8 23.0 18.1 10.2 43.0 156.9 410 1.2 26.61 5.95 2.00

2015 481.5
­ ­371.4 110.0
2.5 112.5 88.0 88.0
128.4 8.5 2.0 70.7
196.2 ­
132.8 538.6
398.9 ­
21.5 ­
118.2 538.6
104.6 ­52.8
­ ­ ­100.1 ­48.3
12 22.9 23.4 29.7 22.0 22.9 16.2 74.1 278.3 400 1.2 25.06 5.49 4.20

76 ENEA ANNUAL REPORT 2019

FINANCIAL DEFINITIONS

Financial Definitions

RETURN ON EQUITY Profit (loss) after tax in relation to average equity.
RETURN ON CAPITAL EMPLOYED Operating profit plus financial income in relation to average capital employed.
RETURN ON TOTAL CAPITAL Profit after financial items plus financial costs in relation to average total assets.
GROSS MARGIN Gross profit less reversed additional purchase price in relation to revenue.
DIVIDEND YIELD The dividend as a percentage of the market price at year-end.
EBITDA Profit before financial items plus depreciation and amortization.
EQUITY PER SHARE Profit after tax in relation to the average number of shares.
NON-RECURRING ITEMS Items of a non-repeat nature in normal operations. Non-recurring items include restructuring expenses, expenses for legal advice in major disputes, and transaction expenses relating to major acquisitions. Transaction expenses include expenses for legal and financial advice, but exclude financing costs. Reversed additional purchase prices are also included in non-recurring items. The purpose of specifying these items is to clarify the progress of underlying operations.

CASH FLOW FROM OPERATING ACTIVITIES PER SHARE Cash flow from operating activities in relation to the average number of shares.
LIQUIDITY Cash and cash equivalents including short-term investments and short-term receivables in relation to current liabilities.
NET DEBT Interest-bearing liabilities and unconditional acquisition-related liabilities less cash and cash equivalents and financial investments, i.e. negative net cash.
REVENUE PER EMPLOYEE Revenue in relation to the average number of employees.
REVENUE GROWTH Revenue for the period in relation to revenue in the previous period.
EARNINGS PER SHARE Profit after tax in relation to the average number of shares.
INTEREST COVERAGE RATIO Profit after financial net plus financial costs in relation to financial costs.
OPERATING MARGIN Operating profit in relation to net sales.

OPERATING PROFIT EXCL. NON-RECURRING ITEMS Operating profit before financial items and tax, restated for any non-recurring items.
DEBT SERVICE RATIO Cash flow from operating activities ­ ongoing investments + total financial expenses in relation to amortization and total financial expenses during a reference period of twelve months.
EQUITY RATIO Equity including minority interests in relation to total assets.
NET ASSET VALUE PER SHARE Net asset value, equivalent to equity, in relation to the total number of shares outstanding.
CAPITAL EMPLOYED Total assets less non-interest-bearing liabilities including deferred tax liabilities. Average capital employed has been calculated as opening capital employed plus closing capital employed divided by two.
DIVIDEND PER SHARE Dividend for the current financial year divided by the number of shares on the reporting date.
PROFIT MARGIN Profit after financial items in relation to net sales.

ALTERNATIVE PERFORMANCE INDICATORS
the Annual Report for 2019 refers to the non-IFRS indicators used by Enea and other parties when evaluating Enea's results of operations. These indicators provide Management and investors with valuable information required to analyze trends in the company's business operations. These non-IFRS indicators are intended to complement, not replace, financial indicators presented in accordance with IFRS.

RECONCILIATION OF REVENUE GROWTH
Revenue, SEK m Revenue growth, SEK m Revenue growth, % Currency effect, unchanged exchange rates previous year, SEK m Currency effect, unchanged exchange rates previous year, % Revenue growth, unchanged exchange rates previous year, SEK m Revenue growth, unchanged exchange rates previous year, %

Full Year

2019

2018

1,012.0

830.3

181.7

242.0

22

41

38.9

19.2

4,7

3.3

142.9

222.7

17

38

RECONCILIATION OF FINANCIAL NET
Financial income Financial expenses Reported financial net, SEK m

Full Year

2019

2018

20.0

24.9

-71.7

-52.6

-51.7

-27.7

ANNUAL REPORT 2019 ENEA 77

INFORMATION FOR SHAREHOLDERS

Annual General Meeting 2020
Enea's Annual General Meeting will be held at 4:30 p.m. CET on May 6, 2020 at Kista Science Tower (Färögatan 33, Kista) Sweden. Shareholders who wish to participate must be included in the share register maintained by Euroclear Sweden by no later than April 29, 2020. Participants must also have notified Enea by mail, email or telephone (contact information below) by 5 p.m. on the same day. Registrations must state names, addresses, telephone numbers, personal or corporate identity numbers, shareholdings, and details of any assistants.
Information Sources
All financial information is published on Enea's website, and financial reports can also be ordered by mail or email (Web address and contact information below).
Contact Information
Mail: Enea AB Box 1033 164 21 Kista
Sweden
email:ir@enea.com (ordering financial rapporter) agm@enea.com (attendance at AGM)
Tel: +46 (0)8 507 14000
Enea AB is a public company (corporate. ID no. 556209-7146) with its registered office in Kista, Sweden.
Follow Enea
www.enea.com Information for customers, shareholders, and investors is available on Enea's website. Blog posts, news articles, interviews, and webinars offer more in-depth information on various topics.
www.linkedin.com/company/enea-software-ab Information on Enea's product portfolio and solutions, as well as new contracts and business highlights are reported on Enea's LinkedIn account. This is also a recruitment channel.
www.twitter.com/EneaAB Enea's Twitter account maintains a continuous stream of updates on press releases, blog posts and other activities. This is an excellent channel for stakeholders that want to keep up to date with Enea's newsflow.
www.youtube.com/EneaSoftware Interviews with industry analysts and Enea experts are published on Enea's YouTube channel. Recordings from training, webinars and product demos are also uploaded.

Financial Calendar
April 28, 2020: Publication of Interim Report for January­March 2020

May 6, 2020:

AGM 2020

July 16, 2020: Publication of Interim Report for April­June 2020

October 21, 2020: Publication of Interim Report for July­September 2020

January 29, 2021: Publication of Annual Statement for 2020

Investor Relations
Enea strives to always provide transparent, relevant and accurate information to shareholders, investors and financial analysts to increase knowledge of the group's operations and share. Enea shares information in the form of interim reports, annual reports and press releases, and provides detailed information on the company's website. Shareholders and other stakeholders can subscribe to press releases and financial reports via e-mail.
In 2019, press releases were published for major product news, key strategic transactions and high-value contracts. General information is uploaded to our website, such as shareholder lists at each quarter end. When major changes occur, we update our website immediately. There is no communication of financial information in the three weeks prior to the publication of a financial report.

The currency for all amounts stated in this Annual Report is Swedish kronor unless otherwise stated. For thousands and millions of Swedish kronor, the abbreviations SEK 000 and SEK m are used respectively. Unless otherwise stated, all amounts are for current operations, and amounts in brackets are for 2018.
Information on trends and competitive situations are Enea's opinion unless another source is stated. These opinions are based on the latest available factual information.
This Annual Report was produced by Enea in partnership with Box IR. Tomas Hasselrot was the contributing photographer. Images of the Board of Directors and Executive Management Team, and in the contents, are from various sources, and purchased images.
The audited annual accounts are on pages 16-17, 20-21 and 32-71.
The Sustainability Report on pages 18-19 has been reviewed by the Auditors in accordance with FAR's auditing standard RevR 12 The auditor's opinion regarding the statutory sustainability report.

78 ENEA ANNUAL REPORT 2019

ENEA ­ A SUCCESS STORY

Enea ­ A Success Story
How is it possible that Enea, a company with 650-plus employees, has become a global leader in a number of key market segments of telecom and enterprise networks?

Enea has been an innovator ever since it was founded back in 1968. Its employees ­ and primarily the company's development engineers ­ have always been driven by a passion for new technology.
Although the company has transformed from an IT consulting firm into a software vendor, the theme throughout has been solving customers' problems with innovative and inventive solutions.
Many of Enea's ideas have been genuinely pioneering. For example, one of its first assignments was to produce a data management solution for an air traffic control system. Obviously, its client, the Swedish Civil Aviation Administration, applied very stringent standards on availability and short response times. It's no exaggeration to say that with the development and delivery of a real-time operating system back in the late 60s, Enea made history.
This success, and experience of operating systems, paved the way for developing new products and applications for other sectors. In 1985, Enea launched Enea OSE, now one of the world's most used and widespread operating systems. Ericsson and Nokia have been using this product in their radio base stations for several generations of mobile networks.
In the same decade, Enea became a pioneer and visionary in electronic communication and the Internet. The company was the first in the Nordics to connect to the Internet, received the first email in Sweden, and registered the country's first Internet domain. In this early stage, Enea was the hub of all Internet traffic in Sweden.

Enea was also part of the emergence of mobile data communication. The latest version of Enea OSE was central to Ericsson's global rollout of GSM networks in the 90s. Enea's real-time operating system enabled the routing of calls, and later, mobile data communication.
Enea also developed the first mobile version of HTML (the Internet text formatting language).
In recent years, acquisitions have helped strengthen Enea's position in strategic market segments. The integration of Qosmos and Openwave Mobility expanded its portfolio by adding the market's best embedded traffic intelligence and mobile video traffic management solutions respectively. In 2019, Enea also launched one of the world's first cloud-based solutions for data management in 5G networks.
Enea is continuing to monitor market development and make investments in strategic market segments where the company's professionals can add value through the skills and experience they possess. In some cases, this business intelligence results in acquisitions. Two segments where the company has rapidly secured leadership through acquisitions are embedded traffic intelligence and mobile video traffic management.
This type of investment in organic growth and complementary acquisitions offers a good illustration of the strategy that Enea has formulated to ensure its continued growth and success.

Leading Market Positions

Real-time operating systems

Embedded traffic intelligence

Managing mobile video traffic

Historical Milestones

Enea receives Sweden's first email.

Enea creates the first real-time operating system for mobile
networks.

Enea develops the first mobile version
of HTML.

Enea launches the first commercial application of embedded traffic
intelligence.

Enea provides the first solution for
optimizing encrypted video
traffic.

Enea launches one of the first cloud-based
solutions for data management in 5G
networks

1983

1988

1998

2006

2016

2019

ANNUAL REPORT 2019 ENEA 79

ENEA ­ WORLDWIDE

Enea ­ Worldwide
Enea is a global company with customers in many countries worldwide. Its headquarters are located in Stockholm, Sweden, and the company has development centers in Europe and India. To facilitate its dialog with customers and capture new market demands, Enea also has sales offices in strategically selected locations in different regions. A total of 661 people work for the company.

Region Europe

Country Austria Croatia France Germany Romania

Sweden UK
North America US

North-East Asia South-East Asia

China Japan India Singapore

Product

City

Development

Vienna Osijek

Paris Berlin

Bucharest Craiova

Iasi Stockholm

Belfast Bristol

Boston Phoenix

Redwood City Shanghai

Tokyo Pune

Singapore

Sales Support

80 ENEA ANNUAL REPORT 2019

HEADQUARTERS

ENEA ­ WORLDWIDE

ANNUAL REPORT 2019 ENEA 81

www.enea.com

