ANNUAL REPORT 2018
A catalyst for the connected society

Enea in brief
Enea is a global provider of software for the connected society. We deliver solutions for mobile traffic management, network virtualization and traffic classification, combined with embedded operating systems and services. Network operators, system integrators and OEMs rely on Enea when creating world-leading solutions and services. Every day, 3 billion people communicate using products that have been delivered by Enea. Enea is a global leader in producing software platforms for communication-intensive products with extreme availability and performance standards.
We have offices across Europe, North America and Asia, and are listed on Nasdaq Stockholm.
VISION
Our software and expertise help you develop amazing solutions for the connected society.
MISSION
We provide the network software platforms and expert services our customers need to create the connected society of today and tomorrow.
COMMITMENT TO THE ECOSYSTEM
Our commitment is to work together with the leading hardware vendors and our customers ­ as a key contributor in the open source community­ to develop and strengthen optimal software solutions for tomorrow's connected society.

· Head office Kista, Sweden
· Revenue SEK 830.3 million
· Operating margin 23.2 percent excl. non-recurring items

· Employee headcount 571 · R&D OPEX investment 16 percent · Listed on Nasdaq Stockholm

OPERATING PROFIT AND OPERATING MARGIN EXCL.
NON-RECURRING ITEMS

SEK MILLION

%

250

25

200

20

150

15

100

10

50

5

0 2016 2017
OPERATING PROFIT

0 2018
OPERATING MARGIN EXCL. NON-RECURRING ITEMS

REVENUE
SEK MILLION 1 000

800

600

400

200

0

2016

2017

2018

EARNINGS PER SHARE

SEK 8

7

6

5

4

3

2

1

0

2016

2017

2018

ENEA'S OFFERING

Software for embedded applications generally and communications solutions in particular · Operating System Solutions · Network Solutions · Tools, protocols, etc.

Maintenance, support and services · Related to Enea's products · F or integrated solutions, incl. third-party solutions

Training · Related to Enea's products · Related to Linux generally · Customer specific

Services · In-house projects · On-site projects · Bridged services · Product services

Contents

A word from the CEO Vision, strategy and business concept Market Products and services Employees The share and shareholders Sustainability Report

4­5
6­7 8­9 10 11 12­13 14­15

Directors' Report
Risks and risk management

16­19
18­19

Corporate Governance Report
Board of Directors Executive Management Team

20­27
22 23

Financial information

28­64

Consolidated Income Statement

28

Consolidated Balance Sheet

29

Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity 30

Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows

31

Parent Company Income Statement

32

Parent Company Balance Sheet

33

Parent Company Statement of Changes in Equity 34

Parent Company Cash Flow Statement

35

Notes

36

Accounting policies

36

Declaration

65

Audit Report

66

Five-year summary

71

Financial definitions

72

Information for shareholders

74

Notice of Annual General

Meeting 2019

74

Financial calendar

74

Enea's 50th anniversary

75

Addresses

76

Products and services for businesses that develop communication-intensive products for the connected society

Enea delivers products and expert services for companies that develop communication-intensive products for the connected society. Our operating systems are at the core of Enea's product portfolio and are supplemented by expert services to meet market demand for customer-specific solutions. There is a need for different types of operating system depending on where in the system it should be placed, what other systems it must interact with, what characteristics it needs.
Real-time operating systems are used when the priority is very high performance and predictability. Apart from operating systems, Enea offers development tools, databases, network solutions, communication protocols and communication software. Enea's products are modified in large-scale customer engagements, where our services portfolio and expertise are at least as important as our products.
Operating System Solutions Operating systems are the software that forms the link between hardware and the programs it runs. Enea's operating systems are used in embedded systems that are components of telecom equipment, for example. Enea OSE and Enea OSEck are Enea's market-leading real-time operating systems. Enea has been a leading provider of real-time systems for three decades and has world-leading competence in this segment.

Performance and predictability are critical factors for real time operating systems, which creates a strong position in embedded and hardware-related solutions.
Network Solutions In Network Solutions, Enea provides platforms and technology that accelerate and optimize the development of products centered on network communication in 5G, NFV and adjacent markets. Enea NFV Access and Enea NFV Core deliver complete platforms for network function virtualization (NFV). The Device and Network Management products: Enea Element, ElementCenter and the Network Intelligence products: Qosmos ixEngine, Qosmos Probe and Qosmos Signatures are products that create the potential to build optimized and differentiated network products that fit contemporary network architectures.
Services By combining competence, high quality and innovation, Enea services delivers highly developed applications for global players. Enea's Bridged Services concept delivers broad-based competence across a raft of segments, such as telecom and medical devices, as well as developing and modifying products according to customer needs. Enea's new Packaged Services concept has been developed to deliver Enea's strong product portfolio alongside, and integrated with, the expert services Enea offers.

KEY FIGURES Revenue, SEK million Revenue growth, % Revenue growth, currency adjusted, % Operating profit excl. non-recurring items, SEK million Operating profit, SEK million Operating margin excl. non-recurring items, % Operating margin, % Profit after tax, SEK million Earnings per share, SEK Cash flow from operating activities, SEK million Cash and cash equivalents and financial investments, SEK million

2018 830.3
41 38 192.5 188.9 23.2 22.7 141.7 7.33 168.6 74.7

2017 588.4
17 17 134.5 102.8 22.9 17.5 82.5 4.69 116.6 414.3

2016 501.3
4 3 121.6 118.8 24.3 23.7 94.6 5.95 128.1 223.5

ANNUAL REPORT 2018 ENEA 3

A WORD FROM THE CEO

Thank you for another successful year
Dear shareholders, customers and colleagues, I'd like to start by thanking you for your trust, and for another successful year. 2018 was the best in Enea's history in many ways. We've never achieved higher growth, delivered better operating profit or reported higher earnings per share. Nor have we ever generated a greater operating cash flow than in 2018. The major acquisitions we completed in recent years have also performed very well, making an outstanding contribution to our successes. This helped us to set a new growth record, with revenues 2018 up by 41 percent, and operating profit excluding non-recurring items growing by 43 percent over 2017. We are witnessing a new Enea, and the results exceeded our expectations. It's hard not to be satisfied with our progress.

Our global software business grew significantly in the year, up by 50 percent year over year. Worldwide Software Sales, outside our Key Accounts, grew by all of 122 percent on 2017--growth largely driven by our acquisition of Openwave Mobility. Revenues from the business segment we call Key Accounts were down year over year, and we expect this to continue. This decline might even accelerate the coming years with the more widespread adoption of open source. Accordingly, our dependency on individual Key Accounts is continuing to decline, and these revenues represented 27 percent of the total in 2018, compared to 42 percent in the previous year. Our reduced exposure to Key Accounts is a significant change for Enea, and the fact that we have been able to achieve record growth and record earnings during this transformation, is obviously very positive.
Major acquisitions 2017 was also a good year for Enea which that raised the standards, and the expectations, for 2018. Obviously, for all of us that work at Enea, this was encouraging, but also challenging--we all realized that we would need to do something exceptional to exceed 2017. We previously stated our ambition

and plan to move higher up the software stack, to move higher up the value chain, and to get closer to our end-users. So it was a major milestone when we were able to announce the biggest acquisition in Enea's history--Openwave Mobility--already in the first quarter of 2018. This acquisition has proved very positive, and to date, has achieved results fully satisfying our plans and expectations. The acquisition we completed in 2016, of the company Qosmos, has also performed really well as an integrated part of Enea. The results are unequivocal--sales in new product segments are continuing to grow, and the Network Solutions product group is now not only our fastest-growing segment, but also our largest segment with 50 percent of total revenues.
Stronger than ever Enea celebrated its 50th anniversary in 2018, and is now larger and stronger than ever, with a broader product portfolio, more stable customer base, a better revenue mix and greater geographical reach than ever. The acquisitions we have made in the last three years have been fundamental to our successes in recent years. So at the end of the fourth quarter, we announced a new acquisition in the telecom application segment

focusing on policy management, authentication and data management of subscriber information. Managing subscriber information, authentication and policy management will be critical components for building new business models and creating individualized and tailored services in the next generation of mobile networks. Following our acquisition of Openwave Mobility, we enjoy a leadership in data management for 5G mobile networks, and this latest transaction enhances and complements this position with some of the key applications needed in the central part of mobile networks. This acquisition adds to the foundation for Enea's continued success as a company, with a stronger market position around telecom applications for 4G and 5G mobile networks.
Even if our center of gravity now lies in the Network Solutions product group, where we announced several major contracts and key product news in 2018, our legacy in operating system solutions remains an important part of Enea, and OSE remains Enea's single biggest product. In the year, we attracted a good inflow of new business in this segment, with several significant deals addressing for example 5G use cases. Late in the year, we were also able to announce a renewed three-year license agreement with

4 ENEA ANNUAL REPORT 2018

A WORD FROM THE CEO
"We've never achieved higher growth, delivered better operating profit or reported higher earnings per share. Nor have we ever generated a greater operating cash flow than in 2018."

a world leader in the professional mobile radio segment. But overall, revenues in this segment are decreasing with the long-term trend towards open source, even though these new deals do demonstrate the durability and strength of this business segment.
A new era Even though if in the long term, securing the company's market position and generating growth, healthy margins and strong cash flows are most important, the stock market is an important value benchmark of a public company. In late-2018, Nasdaq Stockholm decided to upgrade Enea to its Mid Cap list, because our market capitalization had risen above the threshold for two consecutive years. While shareholders can be pleased by the fantastic progress that we have made, one also needs to be aware that we have an operation that varies from quarter to quarter, and that these variations increase with the

acquisitions we have made in recent years. The acquired entities have a higher share of new business, where individual contracts may be large in absolute terms, but with varying degrees of recurring revenues.
Acquisitions that advance our market position and improve long-term earnings capacity are an important part of the transformation Enea has been going through, and that is fundamentally positive and important to the company. It is also this strategy that creates the potential for us to retain our ambition to keep growing the company with good profitability and strong cash flows, despite reducing revenues from our Key Accounts.
Let me conclude by once again thanking shareholders, customers and colleagues for your trust. This time round, it also feels extra special for me because I'll be leaving my job in 2019 after eight years as Enea's CEO. It has been unbelievable years when we consider

the company's earnings performance, but also fantastic in so many other ways. First and foremost, in this context, I'd like to highlight the major and fundamental change we've made to Enea in recent years. This has created great potential for a new, exciting and successful journey for Enea over the coming years, and the fact that we succeeded with this while also delivering the highest earnings per share ever, feels great.
Your trust in these years has meant everything to me.
March 2019
Anders Lidbeck President & CEO

ANNUAL REPORT 2018 ENEA 5

VISION, STRATEGY & BUSINESS CONCEPT

Pioneers in network solutions

When we talk about network solutions for the connected society of tomorrow, we're linking back to the core business that has always guided the company. Since our inception over 50 years ago, software focusing on data communication has been our backbone, and has laid the foundation of Enea as a global software company.

Network solutions and telecom have been a constant theme throughout much of our proud history. We actually started building the connected society long before `connected' became a buzzword. We were the first company in the Nordics to connect to the Internet. We received the first email sent to Sweden. We were the first company in Sweden to register an Internet domain, and were the backbone of all Swedish Internet traffic during the Internet's infancy. We were one of the pioneers of the emergence of the Internet and mobile datacommunication, and are still staking out new territory for the connected society of tomorrow. Even if the Internet and mobile data are and now part of our everyday lives, our journey continues. The explosive evolution of network traffic and mobile data communication does not

mark the end of this journey. In fact, it is a testament of our efforts and start of the next phase of Enea's development.
A strategy for growth Overall technology trends, such as the emergence of the Internet and the breakthrough of mobile communication have made Enea the company it is today. Looking ahead, our strategic decisions are to position the company so the major technology trends keep building growth and success for Enea. Enea is now a software company, and we provide a limited selection of services to supplement our software products. Our proprietary embedded operating systems have been our main product for many years, and our software is now integrated into over one billion different systems and devices, serving a critical role in

many of the world's mobile networks. This has been a growth engine for Enea for over three decades, and it remains the single largest and most profitable product family.
But our business environment has altered. The usage of open source has become progressively more widespread, and is now the first choice for many embedded systems and solutions, which obviously impact on the market conditions of our proprietary operating system solutions. In a situation where operating systems and other hardware-related software is encountering a growing presence of open source, it is easier for us to find growth with good margins higher up the software stack. When growth of the software closest to hardware slows, we will increasingly focus on software closer to applications and the actual user.

6 ENEA ANNUAL REPORT 2018

VISION, STRATEGY & BUSINESS CONCEPT

One important part of Enea's strategy is now about helping our customers to protect, optimize and monetize network traffic. Our operating system solutions have always helped enable the traffic itself--now we're taking the next step, building even more value based on the content of this traffic. Our solutions for mobile traffic management help the world's leading mobile operators to maximize the usage of mobile networks, while also limiting traffic peaks. Quality of Experience (QoE) is used as a competitive tool, while Quality of Service (QoS) and differentiated services becomes a way to build new revenue streams. Our traffic classification and network intelligence solutions also address the same segments. When operators want to optimize traffic flow, differentiate between different types of traffic, or simply protect a system against unwanted traffic, the ability to identify different types of traffic is crucial
Enea's strategy is to keep focusing on network solutions and telecommunication, but we're shifting our focus higher up the software stack.

and markets that we could not target directly on our own.
Although this is a well-established business concept for us, there is no shortage of challenges. More widespread use of open source is obviously such a challenge, as we've touched on many times. In a situation where we are encountering a greater presence of open source, proprietary software must increasingly focus on adding value over and above a growing open source platform. But the challenges don't stop there by any means.
As a subcontractor of software components, we constantly encounter challenges. Being further down the value chain, there's always a risk of getting squeezed when other players higher up the chain want to

maximize and develop their own business. You're always further away from end-customer needs, and do not possess knowledge of end-customers' strategic challenges. And you have progressively less control over your own future and destiny.
In recent years, we've taken several steps to develop our business concept and business model. We've been working actively to migrate higher up the value chain, closer to the end-customer and end-user. After the acquisition of Openwave Mobility, we now have more business that include a direct dialogue with end-users. Our business concept has been expanded from selling software in individual components, to now also selling applications and solutions direct to end-customers.

Evolving our business concept to address new challenges For many years, one key component of Enea's business concept has been selling proprietary software as a sub-component to various types of embedded systems and solutions. When our customers achieve success, this also translates to success for Enea. This business model remains an important part of Enea's business, and enables us to address a wide variety of customer groups

ANNUAL REPORT 2018 ENEA 7

MARKET

Market
The market for communication-intensive products is dynamic, driven by a completely connected society, the continued growth of Internet traffic and operator needs to demonstrate good profitability. This creates high demand for software that optimizes, monetizes and protects online services.

Market segments Enea provides products and services for communications in a raft of segments including the aerospace and automotive industries, medical devices, and its historically strong telecom sector. Although Enea operates in a broad communication market, its clear focus is on telecom and technologies for virtualized networks. Enea delivers a diverse portfolio of products, from embedded software to turnkey solutions sold directly to telecom operators. To clarify Enea's value and focus, we divide our markets between Telecom/ OEMs, Telecom/Operators, Cyber Security, Aerospace/Defense and Other.
Telecom/OEMs This segment includes operating systems, virtualization platforms and traffic analysis software. Depending on product, Enea sells to different participants in the value chain:

OEMs or system integrators. As an example, Enea sells its OSE operating system to OEMs, while its traffic analysis product Qosmos Probe is either sold to OEMs or system integrators that embed the product in their complete solutions for operators.
Market trends: traffic optimization and valuing subscriber data The Internet is the core of the connected society, and traffic is continuing to expand rapidly. This applies especially to video traffic, which is growing by 50 percent per year, presenting a challenge for operators who must guarantee good video quality in order to retain and attract new subscribers.
The fact that most traffic is generated by players like Netflix, Google and Facebook, whose services build on encrypted communication protocols, presents a difficulty.

To address this, sophisticated optimization technology is a must.
Additionally, mobile traffic patterns are unpredictable, which means operators are unable to utilize traditional optimization technology to deal with traffic peaks and troughs. The outcome is a negative subscriber experience.
Finally, over 50 percent of mobile video is viewed in high definition (HD), which uses nearly four times more bandwidth than standard quality. Operators did not anticipate this growth of HD traffic, which is straining networks to breaking point. All these difficulties create an ideal situation for technology that enables operators to solve these problems, while also valuing mobile data. This is one key reason for our acquisition of Openwave Mobility--as a result, telecom applications now represent over 30 percent of Enea's total revenues.

APPLICATIONS COMPONENTS

MARKET SEGMENTS AND SALES CHANNELS

Traffic Management
Cloud Data Management

TELECOM OPERATORS

Traffic Intelligence

OEMS

SYSTEM INTEGRATORS

End-users

Network Virtualization
Operating Systems

OEMS

SYSTEM INTEGRATORS

8 ENEA ANNUAL REPORT 2018

MARKET

Telecom/Operators Openwave Mobility enables Enea to offer turnkey solutions direct to telecom operators. Openwave Mobility's traffic management software helps operators cope with the explosive growth of mobile video traffic, and build new business models focused on mobile video. This software can optimize encrypted traffic, minimize radio overload and create new revenues for operators.
Openwave Mobility's cloud data management solutions help operators to distribute and manage data at the core of mobile networks consistently, and make this data available to the applications that make up the backbone of the mobile network flexibly.
Cyber Security Deep Packet Inspection (DPI) allows Enea's software to inspect and analyze network data traffic in real time, with minimal impact on signal performance. The analysis instantaneously identifies malicious activity and transmits a signal to separate control software that prevents cyber attacks or data infringement.
Enea sells security software to customers whose products include embedded real time analysis, typically used for firewalls, cyber security services, and analysis of suspicious traffic etc. Thanks to the market's most extensive protocol classification, the software identifies all traffic, presenting the optimal and most secure overview of network activity.

Aerospace/Defense Enea offers software and services for the aerospace and space industries, as well as for a variety of defense equipment. Enea is an established and recognized provider of systems solutions, including all necessary components such as requirements specifications and management, software architecture and design, development, quality assurance and lifecycle management.
Enea's extensive expertise in the aerospace and space technology sector is used to support the US aerospace industry in obtaining federal certification standards (DO-178B/C, DO-254), and to provide training in the processes and methods necessary for bringing products to market.

Other The Other market segment includes customers in system integration and the automotive and manufacturing industries.
Enea has capacity for complex projects of varying scale and geographical coverage, and can deliver its skills in a variety of forms, on the customer's premises or off site at Enea's offices and by deploying flexible business models.
Product-related services are often required to integrate or optimize one or several products for specific customer needs. Enea bundles implementation, support and maintenance according to a set price list, or customizes packages according to customer needs.

ANNUAL REPORT 2018 ENEA 9

PRODUCTS AND SERVICES

Products and services for the connected society

Enea provides products and services for telecommunication and other high-technology sectors like the automotive and aerospace industries.

In 2018, the acquisition of Openwave Mobility reinforced our offering in the network virtualization and 5G mobile network segments. This expansion of our product portfolio has moved us up the value chain, and we now sell complete solutions to network operators to optimize mobile traffic and monetize subscriber data.
Our product revenues mainly consist of licenses and royalties for operating systems, embedded software and turnkey solutions sold to operators. Enea's service offering consists of a broad array of R&D-intensive development services for all phases of product or system development life cycles
Network Solutions Last year, we significantly extended our product range by adding Openwave Mobility solutions to manage mobile traffic and subscriber data.
Traffic Management--solutions to manage and value the phenomenal growth of mobile video. This software can optimize encrypted traffic, alleviate radio overload and create new revenues.
Cloud Data Management--technology that enables operators to integrate, store safely and offer access to data from all virtualized applications--and accelerate readiness for 5G.
Openwave Mobility Traffic Manager-- mobile video and data optimization solution that satisfies operator standards and subscriber expectations of video quality. Several of the world's largest operators use this product to optimize and monetize the exceptional growth of mobile communication.
Stratum Cloud Data Manager-- a specialized 5G data layer capable of storing subscriber data efficiently. Traditionally, data management and storage can take up to nine months. Openwave Mobility enables operators to reduce this time to as little as 15 days.
Traffic Intelligence--a way for OEMs and operators to understand which traffic is flowing on a network through deep packet inspection (DPI). This enables traffic flows to be optimized, cyber security to be managed, and end-user QoS to be enhanced.

COMPONENTS

APPLICATIONS

Qosmos ixEngine--DPI software that extracts and classifies metadata to ensure compliance with the appropriate traffic policies. ixEngine is also used in cyber security solutions to block cyber attacks and malicious software. Qosmos Probe--a software probe based on Qosmos ixEngine that generates detailed traffic information in virtualized networks. Its format simplifies integration in complete solutions for data security and traffic analysis.
Operating System Solutions Enea has well-established skills in operating systems solutions. Enea also provides a portfolio of complementary products that are usually combined into custom solutions, supplemented by services. Enea OSE--a real-time operating system for embedded systems. Enea OSE optimizes processor resources and channelizes their characteristics through a software interface that various applications communicate with to enable execution. Enea Linux--an operating system built from open source code from the Yocto project, which is within the Linux Foundation. Enea Linux is a distribution especially produced for telecom and network purposes, and is especially adapted for high performance standards.
TRAFFIC MANAGEMENT
CLOUD DATA MANAGEMENT
TRAFFIC INTELLIGENCE
NETWORK VIRTUALIZATION OPERATING SYSTEMS
GLOBAL SERVICES

Enea NFV Access--a software platform for high network performance, with a compact footprint. Enea NFV Access is streamlined, so we can deliver virtualized functionality at network edges, and can be executed with minimal memory resources and system impact. Enea has long-term experience and tried-and-tested solutions for managing individual devices, physical and virtual, up to major distributed clusters and systems.
Enea ElementCenter--a model-driven development platform that integrates processing functions for configuration, management and control of physical and virtual network functions through an adaptable web-based user interface.
Global Services Enea possesses the capacity for complex projects of different sizes and geographical reach, including design and development, project management, training and quality assurance. It can deliver its skills packaged in a variety of ways, with the customer or offsite at Enea's premises, and through flexible business models.
Services close to products are often required to integrate or optimize one or several products for the customer's specific use cases, and in these contexts, Enea packages implementation, support and maintenance in a predetermined price list, or preferably, fully tailored to customer needs.
Training Enea also provides a wide array of training packages in embedded programming, and has a broad offering of Linux courses thanks to its partnership with the Linux Foundation.

10 ENEA ANNUAL REPORT 2018

EMPLOYEES

People with world-class skills

Enea has just over 570 employees stationed in Europe, Asia and North America. In the year, we welcomed new colleagues in locations including India, Northern Ireland and the USA through our acquisition of Openwave Mobility. Our largest employee headcount is in Romania, where much of Enea's R&D operations and most of its service operations are based. Developing Enea's R&D operations in Romania is a strategic decision based on the skills excellence and educational standards of the country.

Competence and diversity For Enea, employee skills and innovation are the key factors for success. A clear majority of Enea's staff are graduates, most of them engineers. It is critical that Enea's engineers keep up to date with the latest developments in the technology sector. Enea encourages individually tailored personal and career development programs, based on each employees' needs and interests. To secure the right skills on a competitive market, Enea has established offices around the world. When hiring new staff, Enea prefers to recruit talent from different countries. The group language is English, which means that speaking only English is not an issue at any of Enea's offices. Enea is a diverse company made up of many different nationalities, which is a strength in the pursuit of our vision.

Working at Enea Enea strives to be an attractive employer, where employees want to stay. The company actively seeks to create a healthy and inspiring working environment with a good work-life balance. Health-promoting activities are offered to employees, aimed at improving their long-term well-being. A friendly workplace with regular social activities is important to Enea. The welcoming process for new employees is vital. A well-planned induction program is important for new employees to feel at home, and quickly start achieving results in their new roles. New employees are offered Enea's interactive induction program, which provides information about the company's vision, mission, strategy, Enea's key business areas and policies. .

Values We view values as a fundamental platform for our everyday actions. Our values unite us, creating a sense of commitment and community. Our values should be visible in everything we do.
We focus on customers' success We provide trusted leadership We innovate for business reasons We are team players We bring passion and fun

EMPLOYEES BY COUNTRY, %

OTHER COUNTRIES 4%
SWEDEN 10% INDIA 7% UK 12%

ROMANIA 44% USA 12%
FRANCE 11%

EMPLOYEES BY FUNCTION

ADMINISTRATION 11%
SALES 13%

R&D 45%
SERVICE CONSULTANTS 31%

ANNUAL REPORT 2018 ENEA 11

THE SHARE AND SHAREHOLDERS

Shareholder information

Turnover 900 800 700 600 500 400 300 200 100 0
Dec
Dec

Enea AB had its initial public offering in 1989 and has been quoted on Nasdaq Stockholm's list of Swedish equities--Mid Cap (ENEA) since 1 July 2007.

THE SHARE 2014­2018
Share price 120
100
80

Turnover 1,200
1,000
800

60

600

40

400

20

200

0 2014

2015

2016

2017

0 2018

Enea OMX Stockholm PI

OMX Stockholm Technology PI Monthly share turnover, thousands

Källa:

&

Share price 2018 The share price fluctuated between a low of SEK 70.8 on 7 February and a high of SEK 114.5 on 4 October.
The closing price at year-end was SEK 101.5. Enea's share price increased by 24.9 percent in the year, which can be set against the broad SIX Generalindex, which increased by 6 percent and the IT index, which increased by 11 percent.
Trading volume A total of some four million shares turned over with a total value of SEK 330 million. An average of 15,047 shares were traded per trading day in the year.
Ownership structure The company had 6,983 shareholders as of 31 December 2018. The ten largest shareholders' holdings totaled 66.7 (65.3) percent of the equity and the votes. The largest shareholders are Per Lindberg and Försäkringsbolaget Avanza Pension. Foreign ownership amounts to 21.1 (19.7) percent. Source: Euroclear
Number of shares The number of shares was 19,650,231 as of 31 December 2018. Each share has a nominal value of SEK 1.13. As of 31 December 2018, Enea AB held a total of 314,760 treasury shares, or 1.6 percent of all shares. One share entitles its holder to voting rights at the AGM, of one vote per share. There are no limitations to the transferability of shares, or each shareholder's voting rights at share-holders' meetings due to stipulations in the Articles of Association.

Capital structure In order for Enea to continue to progress, which may also include acquisitions, the company may be in net debt from time to time. For a company of Enea's character, where the development and sale of software represents sizable portion of operating activities, the retention of a secure financial position is important. Accordingly, the Board of Directors will consider the company's long-term funding requirements on a regular basis.
Dividend Policy Enea seeks to create a larger and stronger company that delivers value growth to its customers, employees and shareholders.
Acquisitions that strengthen the company's market position, long-term earnings ability and investments in our product portfolio are all part of this pursuit. To enable and be prepared for this type of acquisitions, Enea needs a strong but flexible capital structure. This may mean that the company is in net debt from time to time. The Board needs to consider these long-term investment needs and financial position when considering dividend payments.
Accordingly, the Board has decided to adjust the company's long-term dividend policy as follows: "Enea's long-term dividend policy is that at least 30 percent of profit after tax will be transferred to shareholders. However, consideration should be given to the Company's financial position, cash flow, acquisition opportunities and future prospects." Given the acquisitions and prospects that the Board perceives over the coming years, no 2018 dividend will be proposed.

Authorization--purchase of treasury shares The AGM 2018 resolved to authorize the Board of Directors to decide on the purchase and transfer of treasury shares. The purchase of shares of the company is only permitted via Nasdaq Stockholm, or in a takeover bid to all the company's shareholders. The maximum permitted purchase is such that the holding of treasury shares at no time exceeds 10 percent of all the shares of the company. Transfer of shares in the company is also permitted by means other than via the stock exchange, including the right of transfer waiving shareholders' preferential rights, and with payment by means other than cash. A maximum of 10 percent of the total number of the shares of the company may be transferred. The above authorization may be utilized on one or more occasions and by no later than the AGM 2019. The purchase of shares on the stock exchanges only permitted within the price range quoted on the stock exchange from time to time. Transfer coincident with business combinations is permitted at the market value determined by the Board of Directors. The purpose of the purchase and transfer of treasury shares is to continuously adapt Enea's capital structure to its capital requirements, to enable full or part-funding of business combinations, and to ensure available shares in approved Share Savings Programs.
Authorization--new share issue The AGM 2018 authorized the Board to decide on new share issues on one or more occasions in the period until the AGM 2019, to finance continued growth and expansion, e.g. in connection with company acquisitions. This means that the Board is authorized to issue shares corresponding to a maximum of 1,965,023 shares, i.e. a maximum of 10 percent of the number of outstanding shares as of the date of notice to the AGM. The share issue may take place with or without waiving shareholders' preferential rights.
The share price of the new issue shall be on market terms. Payment for new shares shall be made in cash, via offset or contribution in kind or other terms stated in chap. 13 § 5. 1 point 6 of the Swedish Companies Act, and that the Board may otherwise determine the terms and conditions of the share issue. The authorization was not utilized in 2018. For more information, see www.enea.com.
Investor relations Enea's IR work features open, relevant and accurate information and the company provides information in the form of Interim Reports, Annual Reports, press releases and Enea's investor pages on its website. Stakeholders can subscribe to press releases and financial reports via e-mail.

12 ENEA ANNUAL REPORT 2018

THE SHARE AND SHAREHOLDERS

THE SHARE 2018
Share price 120 110 100 90 80 70 60 50 40 30
Jan Feb Mar Enea OMX Stockholm PI

Apr May Jun

Jul

Aug Sep

OMX Stockholm Technology PI Monthly share turnover, thousands

Turnover 900 800 700 600 500 400 300 200 100 0
Oct Nov Dec

Källa:

&

DIVIDEND PER SHARE SEK
Share p5rice 120 4

100 3 2
80 1

60 0 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018

40

DIVIDEND PER SHARE, SEK

20

SWEDISH AND FOREIGN OWNERSHIP,

0 BASED ON HOLDING, NO. OF SHARES

2014

2015

2016

2017

Enea OMX Stockholm PI

SWOMEDXISStHockholm Technology PI OWMoNnEthRlySsHhIaPre7t8ur.n9o%ver, thousands

DIVISION BY SIZE 31 DECEMBER 2018
Holding 1­500 501­1 000 1 001­5 000 5 001­10 000 10 001­15 000 15 00J1a­n20 00F0eb Mar 20 001­ Total

No. of shareholders

5,890

476

462

68

19

Apr

May Jun

10Jul

58

6,983

No. of shares

% of votes and capital

664,629

84.4

382,576

6.8

1,010,137

6.6

488,234

1.0

238,137

0.3

Aug Sep

1O75ct,497 Nov Dec

0.1

16,691,021

0.8

19,650,231

100.0

FOREIGN OWNERSHIP 21.1%
LEGAL ENTITIES AND PHYSICAL PERSONS, BASED ON HOLDING, NO. OF SHARES LEGAL ENTITIES 47%
PHYSICAL PERSONS 53%

THE TEN LARGEST SHAREHOLDERS, BY OWNERSHIP GROUP 31 DECEMBER 2018

Shareholder
Per Lindberg FÖRSÄKRINGSAKTIEBOLAGET, AVANZA PENSION Swedbank Robur fonder DnB Nor JP MORGAN BANK LUXEMBOURG S.A. Skandia fonder FJÄRDE AP FONDEN HSBC BANK PLC, W8IMY CACEIS BANK, LUXEMBOURG BRANCH, W8IMY AKTIA NORDIC MICRO CAP Total, 10 largest shareholders ENEA AB Other shareholders TOTAL

No. of shares
5,110,810 2,463,237 1751,474 1,031,729
795,741 599,488 545,603 535,090 519,027 245,000 13,597,199 314,760 5,738,272 19,650,231

% of votes and capital
26.0 12.5 8.9 5.2 4.0 3.0 2.8 2.7 2.6 1.6
69.3 1.6 29.1
100.0

OWNERSHIP BY GEOGRAPHICAL REGION

Region
Domiciled in Sweden
Rest of Nordics
Rest of Europe (excl. Sweden and Nordics)
USA
Rest of world
Total

Shareholders, % of votes % and capital

96.52 1.00

79.34 6.95

1.62 0.59 0.27 100.00

10.93 2.76 0.03 100.00

SHARE-RELATED KEY FIGURES SEK Net asset value per share, SEK Earnings per share, SEK Earnings per share after full dilution Cash flow from operating activities per share Dividend per share*
*Board of Directors' proposal to AGM 2019

2018
50.99 7.33 7.33 8.72 0

2017
39.0 4.69 4.69 6.63
0

2016
26.61 5.95 5.95 8.06 2.00

2015
25.06 5.49 5.49 6.53 4.20

2014
24.81 4.58 4.58 7.19 3.60

ANNUAL REPORT 2018 ENEA 13

SUSTAINABILITY REPORT

Sustainability Report

The Board of Directors and Chief Executive Officer of Enea AB (the parent company and the group) hereby present the Sustainability Report for 2018. The report is based on Swedish law (the Annual Accounts Act) governing sustainability reporting.

Introduction Business concept Our business concept is to deliver the software platforms and expert services required for network solutions in today's and tomorrow's connected society. Many of Enea's customers develop products that reduce environmental impact. Telecom provides several examples where applications improve communication and lessen the need for physical meetings. Enea also helps customers to build products that consume less power and utilize resources more efficiently. Creating innovative solutions that promote sustainable development is a key component of Enea's future product plans.
Business model Being a software company, Enea deploys a business model that combines product and service revenues. The gross margin on Enea's software is high, set against a fixed cost base. Overall, this results in a model that requires a threshold scale for the company to create good profitability. The leverage effect is substantial in either direction--if revenue increases or decreases, this has a great effect on earnings.
Developer licenses, including support and maintenance When a customer develops a product, it purchases a developer license from Enea. Developer licenses are typically priced per development engineer. The customer can decide whether to purchase a term-based or perpetual license. Revenue from term-based licenses is recognized during the license term, and revenue from perpetual licenses is recognized on delivery. Support and maintenance are included in the term-based developer license concept.

Production licenses (royalties) To enable delivery of a finished product embedding Enea's technology, the customer signs a production license. This may be term-based or perpetual, and often consists of royalties, that is to say revenue per sold unit. Some large customers report production volumes quarterly in arrears, which means that Enea invoices royalties with a one quarter delay.
Services For service sales, the customer is either invoiced an hourly rate, or on a fixed-fee basis. The revenue from services is recognized in the period services are rendered.
Expenses Enea's expenses largely consist of personnel and infrastructure, such as offices and IT support. This means that there is a threshold scale of operations to achieve good profitability. It also means that costs are fairly fixed and do not vary notably with revenues. Expenses can be divided into direct costs such as personnel costs for consulting assignments rendered and costs for third-party products, as well as indirect costs such as sales and marketing costs, product development costs and administrative expenses.

Environment Enea's software development and consultant services operate both from proprietary premises as well as at customer's premises. Although Enea does not conduct highrisk activities that are subject to permit or notification requirements under the Swedish Environmental Code, environmental practices are an integral part of our daily business. The environmental risks we perceive in our operations mainly relate to travel to and between our offices. Our Environmental Policy stipulates that we will:
· c omply with all applicable environmental
legislation and other environmental standards that apply on markets where the group operates and avoid wasting resources,
· d ispose of the waste that we generate, and
re-use and recycle materials,
· consider environmental issues in the
design and location of our offices,
· endeavor to continuously evaluate our
working practices and find alternatives to reduce our environmental impact.
Minimizing travel Enea's offices are located close to public transport in order to minimize negative impact on the environment. Enea is a global corporation active in several countries worldwide. To minimize business travel, Enea uses an internal chat and web conferencing system. This enables Enea to keep teams together and hold regular meetings regardless of geographical distance without any negative environmental impact.
Efficient distribution To optimize deliveries as far as possible, Enea mainly provides software downloads, which imply minimal environmental impact on delivery and distribution. Enea also sends invoices electronically.

14 ENEA ANNUAL REPORT 2018

SUSTAINABILITY REPORT

Corruption The risk of corruption could arise in business relationships with customers, and when Enea is procuring equipment. Enea's Code of Conduct summarizes the group's ethical guidelines for compliance with laws and ordinances, and rules for anti-corruption including ethical business practice and how to deal with any gifts in a business relationship. The aim of the Code of Conduct is to emphasize the fundamental principles that Enea operates by and manages relationships with its employees, business partners and other stakeholders. Executive management reviews and checks all major business deals and abnormal discounts.
Human resources and corporate social responsibility The risks we perceive in human resources, corporate social responsibility and human rights are discrimination or any form of special treatment. Enea manages these risks with its Code of Conduct and Equal Opportunities Policy. Enea's Code of Conduct includes guidelines stating individual rights and responsibilities. Enea's Equal Opportunities Policy also prohibits any special treatment of employees in terms of employment or duties based on their sex, religion, age, disability, sexual orientation, nationality, political opinion, or social or ethnic origin.
Diversity Enea encourages progress towards greater diversity. Employees that dare to think in new and diverse ways have made the company what it is today. Differing backgrounds and experience are positive factors that we

want to encourage. When communicating with customers and stakeholders in different countries, having access to members of staff with different backgrounds is a strength.
Human rights We support and respect internationally recognized human rights, and tolerate no abuses of them. Our Code of Conduct proceeds from the UN Global Compact, and we recognize the rights of each individual. We endeavor to be a responsible corporate citizen, and it is important that we conduct ourselves in a socially and ethically responsible manner.
The main risks we perceive in the segment relate to usage of our products. Enea's products and solutions in the communication segment can obviously be used for positive and negative purposes, an example of the latter could involve the abuse of information or surveillance that infringes on the rights of the individual.
To ensure that we conduct ourselves in accordance with our Code of Conduct, we have detailed procedures and guidelines internally, which govern how we approve and agree individual transactions, for example. All large transactions are reviewed by an internal committee which includes our whole executive management, and sensitive transactions, involving technology subject to export controls for example, are also reviewed regardless of the size of transaction. In the year, we actively refrained from doing business with countries or corporations, which for various reasons, we regard as unsuitable recipients of our products and solutions.

Social responsibility Enea contributes directly and indirectly to the communities where we operate. Millions of people use Enea's products in communication. Increased communication alleviates the need for unnecessary travel and provides greater security.
Enea's responsibility to stakeholders is to generate profitable growth. The long-term objective is to increase the value of the company and thus ensure sustainable development and long-term returns for shareholders. Enea contributes to socioeconomic development through product usage and by creating employment opportunities.
Enea's responsibility to employees is based on the company's core values that the corporate culture is built on. Every employee should feel valued and part of the company's success. Enea respects individual dignity and human rights, develops the skills of individuals, pays a fair salary, provides opportunities for advancement, promotes open and honest communication and provides a safe and healthy working environment.

Auditor's report on the Statutory Sustainability Report

To the Annual General Meeting of the shareholders in Enea AB (publ), Corp. ID no. 556209-7146
Assignment and division of responsibilities The Board of Directors are responsible for the statutory Sustainability Report for 2018 on pages 14-15, and for ensuring that it has been prepared in accordance with the Annual Accounts Act.
Scope and focus of the review Our review has been conducted in accordance with FAR's auditing standard RevR 12 The auditor's opinion regarding the statutory Sustainability Report. This means that our review of the statutory Sustainability Report is substantially different and more limited in scope and focus compared to an Audit conducted in accordance with

International Standards on Auditing and generally accepted auditing standards in Sweden. We believe that the review has provided us with sufficient basis for our opinion.
Opinion A statutory Sustainability Report has been prepared.
Stockholm. Sweden, 2 April 2019 Öhrlings PricewaterhouseCoopers AB
Niklas Renström Authorized Public Accountant

ANNUAL REPORT 2018 ENEA 15

DIRECTORS' REPORT

Directors' Report

The Board of Directors and Chief Executive Officer of Enea AB (publ) Corp. ID no. 5562097146 with registered office in Kista, Stockholm, Sweden, hereby present the accounts for the financial year 1 January­31 December 2018 for the parent company and the group.

Enea is a global provider of software for the connected society. We deliver solutions for mobile traffic management, network virtualization and traffic classification, combined with embedded operating systems and services. Network operators, system integrators and OEMs rely on Enea when creating world-leading solutions and services. Every day, 3 billion people communicate using products that have been provided by Enea. Enea is a global leader in producing software platforms for communication-intensive products with extreme availability and performance standards.
Revenue Enea's revenue increased by 41 (17) percent to SEK 830.3 (588.4) million in 2018, with SEK 228.9 million sourced from acquisitions. Currency adjusted, revenue increased by 38 (17) percent for the full year. Worldwide Software Sales increased significantly year over year, driven by the acquisition of Openwave Mobility. Sales to key accounts decreased year over year. Service sales increased compared to 2017.
Profit/loss Enea's operating profit excluding non-recurring items was SEK 192.5 (134.5) million, equivalent to an operating margin excluding non-recurring items of 23.2 (22.9) percent. Operating profit increased to SEK 188.9 (102.8) million, equivalent to an operating

margin of 22.7 (17.5) percent. Currency effects on the group's earnings are marginal. Gross margin for the full year was 73.2 (71.7) percent. The financial net for the full year was SEK -27.7 (-5.2) million. Profit after tax was SEK 141.7 (82.5) million for the full year. Earnings per share for the full year were SEK 7.33 (4.69). Without adjusting for holdings of treasury shares, and computed on the total number of shares at year-end, earnings per share were SEK 7.21 (4.20) for the full year.
Cash flow and financial position Cash flow from operating activities amounted to SEK 168.6 (116.6) million for the full year.
A SEK 24 million payment for a unilateral price reduction by one major customer was received in 2018.
Total cash flow was SEK -241.1 (87.2) million. Cash flow from changes in working capital vary between quarters due to factors including the timing of large payments.
Cash and cash equivalents and financial investments were SEK 74.7 (414.3) million at year-end. Total interest-bearing liabilities were SEK 634.2 (116.0) million at year-end, divided between long-term interest-bearing liabilities of SEK 539.8 (82.0) million, and short-term interest-bearing liabilities of SEK 94.3 (34.0) million. In 2018, Enea issued a senior unsecured bond loan of SEK 500 million with maturity in 2021, mainly related to the acquisition of Openwave

Mobility. Enea also arranged a SEK 70 million overdraft facility in the year, of which SEK 60 million had been utilized at year-end, mainly related to the initial purchase consideration for the acquisition of an operation from Atos (see also post balance sheet events). Total assets at year-end were SEK 1,919.7 (1,173.8) million, and net debt at year-end was SEK 567.0 million (2017 net cash of SEK 192.8 million). Enea still has a strong financial position with an equity ratio of 51.4 (64.3) percent.
Investments, depreciation and amortization The group's investments were SEK 816.3 (38.8) million. The increase relates mainly to the acquisition of Openwave Mobility Inc. Depreciation and amortization for the full year was SEK 40.5 (22.9) million. SEK 60.3 (34.5) million of product development expenses were capitalized for the full year. Amortization of capitalized development expenses for the year was SEK 19.7 (13.7) million.
Parent company The parent company's operations are mainly group-wide, involving the company's management, accounting and finance, administration and IT. Parent company revenue for the full year was SEK 53.1 (58.1) million, and profit (loss) before appropriations and tax was SEK -1.1 (36.6) million. The parent company's

BUSINESS HIGHLIGHTS IN 2018

· A rbitration of previous dispute with major customer.

· Year-end Report 2017 published.

· Enea enhances NFV Lab.

· Enea issues SEK 500 million bond loan to finance the upcoming acquisition of Openwave Mobility.

· Enea acquires Openwave Mobility for EUR 90 million.

· E nea publishes Annual Report for 2017.
· F irst-quarter Interim Report for 2018 published.
· Openwave Mobility launches Stratum Cloud Data Manager: a database for 5G networks.
· E nea is a finalist in the most innovative product strategy category for NFV .
· Zyxel partners with Enea to improve traffic information in Cyber Security solutions.

· Enea's AGM held on Tuesday 8 May in Kista, Sweden.
· New downloadable version of Enea OSE facilitates the evaluation of scalability of operating systems for real-time applications.
· Enea and Lanner Electronics partner to deliver a reliable combination of hardware and software platforms offering high performance for vCPE use cases.

· Enea signs SEK 10 million 5G deal with major customer.
· Enea announces an agreement for full payment on a unilateral price reduction by one of its major customers.
· Enea launches NFV Access 2.0 light uCPE virtualization software.

JANUARY

FEBRUARY

MARCH

APRIL

MAY

JUNE

16 ENEA ANNUAL REPORT 2018

DIRECTORS' REPORT

financial net was SEK -1.1 (36.6) million, and cash and cash equivalents and financial investments were SEK 17.7 (349.0) million at year-and. Parent company investments were SEK 1.9 (0.4) million. The parent company had 11 (11) employees at year-end. The parent company does not conduct any operations, and its risks mainly relate to the operations of subsidiaries.
Acquisition On 15 March, Enea Software AB acquired 100 percent of the capital and votes of US company Openwave Mobility Inc. and subsidiaries, with a purchase price of SEK 748,519,000. The acquisition price was adjusted by SEK 8,510,000 in the fourth quarter 2018 after definitive reconciliation of acquired working capital. Openwave Mobility has a leading position in traffic management in the fast-growing video traffic over the internet segment. The acquisition means that Enea is expanding its offering and addressable market, as well as moving upward in the value chain. The companies will be consolidated from 1 March, and operations will be integrated into the Network Solutions product group. Openwave Mobility reported revenue of USD 29.5 million and operating profit of USD 5.7 million on an annualized basis for the period January-December. The acquisition was funded through cash and a bond loan of SEK 500 million. The goodwill item is not tax deductible and is expected to relate to estimated profitability, additions to the product portfolio and expected synergy effects. The acquisition-related expenditure for 2018 is SEK 9,389,000 and is recognized in other comprehensive income as consulting expenses.

Events after the end of the reporting period Enea acquires a business unit from Atos On 20 December 2018, Enea made a bid to acquire a business unit from Atos Convergence Creators, which has leading positioning in policy management, authentication and managing subscriber information. The total purchase consideration is approx. EUR 18 million, which will be financed through cash and a bank loan. This business unit is headquartered in Austria, and has sales and development offices in Germany, Croatia and the US. The acquired operation will generate revenues of some EUR 12 million for the full year 2019. The acquired operation was consolidated effective 1 March 2019 and will be an independent business area within Enea. The purchase consideration for the acquired operation is some EUR 18 million. In December 2018, Enea paid EUR 10 million, and the remaining some EUR 5 million will be paid in December 2019. Enea will also take over liabilities, primarily relating to accrued income of some EUR 3 million, which means that the valuation of the acquired operation is around EUR 18 million on a debt free cash free basis (see note 30).
Appointment of new CEO In November 2018, Enea announced that Anders Lidbeck would be resigning as CEO, and assuming AGM approval in 2019, will become Chairman. On 8 January, Enea announced the appointment of Jan Häglund as Enea's new CEO. He will take up his position at Enea's AGM on 6 May 2019.
Sustainability Report Enea has prepared a Sustainability Report that has been audited by the company's auditors. The Sustainability Report is on pages 14-15 of this Annual Report.

Dividend Policy Enea's aim is to build a larger and stronger company, delivering increasing value for customers, employees and shareholders. Acquisitions that strengthen the company's market position and long-term earnings capacity, as well as continued investments in the product portfolio are important elements of this endeavor. In order to enable and be well-prepared for this type of acquisition, Enea needs a strong but also flexible capital structure. This may mean that the company could be in net debt from time to time. Therefore, the Board needs to take into account the company's long-term investment needs and financial position when considering dividends. Enea's long-term dividend policy is that at least 30 percent of profit after tax will be transferred to shareholders. However, consideration should be given to the company's financial position, cash flow, acquisition opportunities and future prospects." Given the Board's view of potential acquisitions and prospects over the coming years, no dividend has been proposed for 2018.

PROPOSED APPROPRIATION OF PROFITS

The following funds are at the disposal of the

parent company, SEK: 2018

Share premium reserve

298,159,046

Retained profits

233,532,695

Profit for the year

­300,040

Total531,391,702

The Board of Directors proposes that these funds are appropriated so that SEK 531,391,702 is carried forward.

· Björn Westberg appointed Enea's new CFO.
· S econd-quarter Interim Report for 2018 published.

· Enea celebrates 50th anniversary.

· Enea's Stratum, 5G Cloud Data Manager Nominated as the most innovative NFV solution at the TechXLR Awards.
· Enea and Advantech partner to create a more efficient NFVI Virtualization platform.

· Third-quarter Interim Report for 2018 published.
· Enea NFV Access recognized as the best NFVI software platform at the 2018 Network Transformation Awards.
· The Intel Network Builders Winners Circle upgrades Enea to a Solution Plus partner.
· Collaboration between Enea, Advantech and Fortinet on a simplified uCPE solution for SD-WAN .

· Enea presents "real-time OS and embedded Linux" at "Embedded Technology" in Japan.

· Enea makes a bid to acquire a global business unit from Atos France.
· E nea extends license on Enea OSE, worth USD 1.5 million.

JULY

AUGUST

SEPTEMBER

OCTOBER

NOVEMBER

DECEMBER

ANNUAL REPORT 2018 ENEA 17

RISKS AND RISK MANAGEMENT
Risks and risk management 2018
Enea is exposed to a number of risks that could affect the group's earnings. Enea identifies and manages the company's risks on a continuous basis. The risks deemed most significant are classified as operational, market and financial risks.

Business-related risks
Customer structure Enea is dependent on a small number of Key Accounts like Ericsson and Nokia, and major vendors of telecom equipment.
Contract structure A high share of revenues from software are of repeat nature in the form of long-term royalty and Maintenance contracts. Revenue from services is usually not repeat.

Comment
Enea is dependent on the long-term investment and product development plans of its major customers, because the development of new product generations may involve major decisions that impact which Enea's products and services that will be used.
Enea is unable to influence the progress of future royalty streams itself. The progress of customers' production volumes is largely decisive to the scale of royalty revenues. However, costs related to simultaneous revenue streams are limited.

Exposure
The total revenues from Ericsson and Nokia are just over 25 percent of the company's total, which is significantly lower than a few years ago. The risk of a sharp negative variation is limited through longterm contracts, and the difficulties these customers face in altering the scope of usage of Enea's products and services at short notice.
Revenue from Worldwide Software Sales and Key Accounts represent most of yearly software revenues.

Skills management Enea's success is very largely related to its ability to hire, develop, motivate and retain qualified people.
Product liability, intellectual property and legal disputes Enea's products are key components of customers' products, and faults could result in customer relationships deteriorating and damages claims. Enea's intellectual property is at risk of infringement. There is also a risk that Enea's products infringe on other parties' intellectual property.

There is intense competition over qualified staff in the IT sector. However, Enea's combination of a strong product offering and services does give the company an advantage because it offers more career opportunities. The launch of Enea's Linux product has also expanded the company's technological breadth, which is a factor that may be significant to hiring and retaining engineers.
Enea is insured against product-liability and its opinion is that the company has sufficient protection for this direct risk to be considered limited. Enea also have insurance cover for the company's products were to infringe on other parties' patents or copyright. Enea retains legal counsel to protect its intellectual property and reduce the risk of intellectual property infringements.

Enea's staff turnover in 2018 was approx. 20 percent.
In terms of legal disputes, court proceedings or arbitration, Enea AB or its subsidiaries are currently involved in a small number of small-scale disputes. Enea's opinion is that none of these disputes could have any material negative impact on its financial position. Differences of opinion on the application of contracts could result in disputes.

Market-related risks
Macroeconomic trends Enea is dependent on the growth and financial progress of its Key Accounts. Most of these revenues are sourced from customers in the telecom sector, which implies that the cyclical risks are associated with the general business cycle, but also with specific progress of the telecom sector.
Products and technology Enea's competitiveness and market positioning is largely dependent on the company's ability to manufacture innovative products, often in close partnership with customers and hardware producers. .
Competitors The market for software for embedded systems is fragmented, with a handful of players of Enea's size or larger. Like Enea, all these competitors operate globally, while niche enterprises may be competitors in adjacent segments.

Comment
A general economic deterioration would mainly have consequences for customers' willingness to invest, and the resulting downscaling of purchasing of Enea's products and services. A weaker economy could also impact customers' product sales, which in turn, would affect Enea's royalty revenues. Structural changes that affect the application of embedded systems in different contexts are more significant than variations in the business cycle.
Close product development partnerships with major customers are highly significant. The more widespread usage of open source involves a risk that customers select solutions that generate lower revenues for Enea instead of the company's products that are protected by copyright. Enea collaborates with a number of hardware manufacturers, enabling the adaptation of its product plans to future hardware solutions, and to pre-integrate its products into hardware vendors' solutions.
Enea has strong positioning in the telecom industry, and has positioned itself as a market leader in the sector. One form of competition consists of software solutions customers develop themselves. However, this is reducing as hardware environments and end-products become more complex. Developers outside commercial environments are also competitors of Enea's open source products.

Exposure

TELECOM 74 %

OTHER 13 %
SECURITY 8 % AEROSPACE/ DEFENSE 5 %

PRODUCT DEVELOPMENT EXPENDITURE

SEK 000

%

200,000

20

150,000

15

100,000

10

50,000

5

0

0

2016

2017

2018

CAPITALIZED PRODUCT DEVELOPMENT EXPENSES

RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT EXPENSES

RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT EXPENSES, % OF REVENUE

Enea is one of the world's leading players in realtime operating systems and video.

18 ENEA ANNUAL REPORT 2018

RISKS AND RISK MANAGEMENT

Financial risker
Market risks Currency risk Currency risk means the risk that the value of financial instruments varies due to fluctuations in rates of exchange.
Price risk Price risk relates to value changes that can arise from investments in financial instruments held by the group and classified as financial instruments held for sale (note 12).

Comment
Enea operates in an international environment with most of its sales in SEK, EUR and USD. Largely, currency exposure is limited by operations being conducted in subsidiaries whose revenues and expenses are denominated in local currency. A group structure with multiple currencies minimizes foreign exchange transactions and increases flexibility in terms of the timing of exchange transactions. According to the Finance Policy, major known foreign currency in and outflows are hedged through currency forwards.
Foreign subsidiaries are translated to Swedish kronor using the current method, which means that statements of comprehensive income are translated at an average rate of exchange for the period, and balance sheets are translated at closing day rates. Translation exposure is not hedged.
The investment of surplus liquidity is regulated by Enea's Finance Policy. Investment is only permitted in certificates of deposit, bonds or unit trusts that invest in fixed-income securities or corporate bonds with minimum ratings of BB- from Standard & Poor or equivalent. Investments in unrated companies require quantitative credit ratings at least compatible with corresponding companies with official ratings.

Exposure
A total of EUR 11 (19) million was currency hedged in 2018. There were two outstanding derivative instruments with a total value of EUR 4 million at an exchange rate of 9.75 at year-end 2018. If the Swedish krona had appreciated/depreciated by 5 percent on average in relation to the EUR with all other variables constant, year-2018 revenues would have been SEK 17 million lower/higher. The corresponding relationship against the USD is a revenue impact of SEK 19 million.
Enea's price risk is limited because its financial instruments consist of corporate bonds with high credit ratings. Enea has no equity holdings.

Liquidity risk Liquidity risk means the risk of not being able to satisfy payment commitments as a result of insufficient liquidity or difficulties in arranging external borrowings.
Asset management Risk management The group's goal in terms of asset management is to maintain a stable financial position that safeguards the group's ability to continue operations and generate returns to shareholders, to benefit other stakeholders and engender trust in what are often close and long-term customer relationships.
Dividends

Operational group companies prepare monthly cash flow forecasts that are consolidated centrally. Reporting and updating the group's liquidity is weekly. Enea's cash pool of cash equivalents, mainly in the Swedish entities, and financial investments, are administered by the parent company. Surplus liquidity is invested in fixed-income assets with terms of less than one year, and on occasion, up to a maximum of two years, with reputable financial institutions. These investments can be terminated during their term. These investments have limited risk level pursuant to the Finance Policy approved by Enea's Board of Directors.
To maintain or alter its capital structure, the group can pay dividends or repay capital to shareholders, issue new shares or sell assets to reduce its liabilities.

Interest risk Interest risk means the risk of the value of a financial instrument varying due to fluctuations in market interest rates.

The group has an external bank loan of SEK 82 million, a utilized overdraft facility of SEK 60 million and a bond loan of SEK 500 million. The interest risk in the group's cash and cash equivalents and loans relates mainly to progress on the Swedish bond market.

Credit risk Credit risk means that a party in a transaction with a financial instrument is unable to fulfil its obligations. The main credit risk is that Enea does not receive payment for its accounts receivable.

Most of the group's customers are large, well established corporations with good solvency, diversified over several geographical markets. To limit risks, the company's credit policy states guidelines and provisions for credit checking new customers, payment terms and procedures and processes for managing unpaid receivables.

Enea's liquidity risk is moderate. Cash and cash equivalents and financial investments were SEK 74.7 (414.3) million as of 31 December 2018. The SEK 82 million external bank loan was amortized at a rate of SEK 34 million per year with a remaining bullet of SEK 48 million that is re-negotiated at the end of its term. This loan is unsecured. The SEK 500 million bond loan matures in March 2021.

At year-end, the group had external finance in the form of bank borrowings of SEK 82 million, a SEK 500 million bond loan and a utilized overdraft facility of SEK 60 million. These loan agreements contain covenants on the group's equity ratio, net debt/EBITDA and debt service ratio. These covenants are satisfied as of 31 December 2018.

Enea paid no dividends to shareholders in 2018.

Enea's interest risk is moderate. A 1 percent increase/ decrease in interest rates related to the interest rate on cash and cash equivalents would result in an increase/ decrease of financial net of approx. SEK 1 million. A 1 percent increase/decrease in the interest on debt would impact financial net by approx. SEK 6 million.

In 2018, SEK 2.6 (1.0) million was reserved for doubtful debt. Change in doubtful debt in 2018:

Opening balance, 1 Jan. 2018

1.0

Repayment of doubtful debt

­0.7

Write-off of doubtful debt

­

Reserve for doubtful debt, 2018

2.6

Closing balance, 31 Dec. 2018

2.9

ANNUAL REPORT 2018 ENEA 19

CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT

Corporate Governance Report 2018

Enea AB is a Swedish public limited company listed on Nasdaq Stockholm, Sweden. The Enea group's corporate governance is based on Swedish legislation and the rules and recommendations issued by relevant organizations, including the Swedish Corporate Governance Board, Nasdaq Stockholm, the Swedish Securities Council and others. Enea's governance, management and control are divided between the shareholders at the Annual General Meeting, the Board of Directors and the CEO in compliance with the Swedish Companies Act and the Board of Directors' Rules of Procedure. The company's Auditor has completed a statutory review of this report.

Contents

Swedish Code of Corporate Governance

20

Shareholders

20

Annual General Meeting

20

Resolutions of the AGM 2018

20

Nomination Committee

21

Board of Directors

21

Board of Directors' independence

21

The work of the Board of Directors

22

Audit Committee

23

Remuneration Committee

24

Appraisal of the work of the Board of Directors 24

The CEO and group management

24

Auditors

24

Attendance at board meetings

24

Remuneration of senior executives

24

Internal controls and risk management

25

Internal controls over financial reporting

25

Risk assessment

26

Control activities

26

Information and communication

27

Follow-up

27

Swedish Code of Corporate Governance The following description of the Corporate Governance Report has been prepared 18 in accordance with the Swedish Code of Corporate Governance "the Code". During the financial year, Enea complied with the Code.
1 Shareholders Enea's ordinary shares are listed on Nasdaq Stockholm's Mid Cap list. According to the share register maintained by Euroclear Sweden, Enea had 19,650,231 shares as of 31 December 2018. On the same date, Enea AB's share capital amounted to 22,209,907. Enea holds 314,760 treasury shares, corresponding to 1.6 percent of total shares. On 31 December 2018, the largest shareholders were Per Lindberg with 26.0 percent and Försäkringsbolaget Avanza Pension, with 12.5 percent of the shares.
Annual General Meeting The Annual General Meeting, or where applicable, an Extraordinary General Meeting, is Enea's chief decision-making body. All shareholders are entitled to participate in the Annual General Meeting, either in person by proxy through power of attorney. All shareholders are entitled to request that a matter be addressed by the meeting. Enea AB's Annual General Meeting was held on 8 May 2018 in Kista, Sweden. The Annual General Meeting's responsibilities include adopting the Articles of Association, appointing the Board of Directors and Chairman, appointing the company's Auditors, adopting the Income Statement and Balance Sheet, adopting a resolution on the appropriation of earnings, discharging the Board of Directors and the CEO from liability, resolutions on

the Nomination Committee deciding the remuneration principles for the CEO and other senior executives, etc. A two-thirds majority is required to amend the Articles of Association.
Resolutions of the AGM 2018:
· adopting the company's and the group's
Income Statement and Balance Sheet,
· discharging the Board of Directors and
the CEO from liability, remuneration to the Board of Directors and the Auditors,
· guidelines for remuneration to senior
executives,
· Board authorization to pass resolutions on
acquisitions and transfers of treasury shares in accordance with the Board's proposal, Appendix 6,
· that no dividend would be paid, · Board authorization to reach resolutions
on new share issues to finance continued company growth and expansion, Appendix 8,
· adopting the Board's proposal in Appendix
10 regarding i) adoption of the long-term share-based incentive program 2018 and ii) transfer of repurchased shares to members of the incentive program,
· Anders Skarin was re-elected Chairman
of the Board. Kjell Duveblad, Mats Lindoff, Torbjörn Nilsson, Åsa Sundberg and Gunilla Fransson were re-elected as Board members. Öhrlings PricewaterhouseCoopers were re-elected as Auditor.
The complete minutes from the Annual General Meeting, together with the Meeting's supporting decision-making data, are on the company's website (www.enea. com), under Investors.

20 ENEA ANNUAL REPORT 2018

CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT

OVERVIEW OF CORPORATE GOVERNANCE

6 AUDITORS
INFORMATION

INFORMATION ELECTION

1 SHAREHOLDERS
ELECTION

NOMINATIONS ELECTION

2 NOMINATION COMMITTEE

3 BOARD OF DIRECTORS

INFORMATION

GOALS STRATEGIES
CONTROL INSTRUMENTS
POLICIES

REPORTS INTERNAL CONTROLS

5 CEO & EXECUTIVE MANAGEMENT

4 COMMITTEES

2 Nomination Committee The Annual General Meeting appoints Nomination Committee members or states how they are to be appointed. Enea's Nomination Committee will be appointed from two major shareholders and the Chairman of the Board. The Chairman of the Board is tasked with notifying the four largest shareholders in terms of votes at the end of September, requesting them to appoint one member each to the Nomination Committee. If more than two of these shareholders do not wish to appoint a member, the next shareholder in order of size is given the opportunity to appoint a representative. The names of the Nomination Committee's representatives are published in the company's Third-quarter Interim Report. The mandate period for the Nomination Committee runs until a new Nomination Committee has become effective. A shareholder representative should be appointed Chairman of the Nomination Committee.
In accordance with the above, the Chairman of the Board contacted the four largest shareholders, in terms of votes, at the end of September 2018, to request that they appoint one member each to the Nomination Committee. If any significant changes of control and occur after the appointment of the Nomination Committee, the composition of the Nomination Committee will be amended in accordance with the above principles. The Nomination Committee will consult on, and submit proposals to the Annual General Meeting for:
· the Chairman of the forthcoming Annual
General Meeting,
· the election of the Chairman and other
Board members,

· B oard remuneration divided between the
Chairman and other Board members, as well as guidelines for potential remuneration for committee work,
· the election and fees for Auditors and
Deputy Auditors (where applicable),
· resolution on guidelines for the composi-
tion of the Nomination Committee.
The members of the Nomination Committee for the Annual General Meeting 2019, are Per Lindberg, Karl G. Høgtun (DNB Asset Management AS), Annika Andersson (Swedbank Robur Fonder) and Anders Skarin (Chairman of the Board of Enea AB). The Nomination Committee appointed Per Lindberg as its Chairman.
The Nomination Committee's complete proposals for the AGM 2019, including its reasoning, are published in the notice convening the AGM 2019, which is available at www.enea.com.
3 Board of Directors According to the Articles of Association, Enea's Board of Directors shall consist of five to seven members with a maximum of seven deputies elected by the AGM. Enea's Board is composed in compliance with article 4.1 in the Swedish Code of Corporate Governance and with the company's diversity policy. Enea's diversity policy states that the Board should reflect the breadth, versatility, competence, experience and background required to contribute to Enea's future progress, and considering the requirement to achieve an even gender division. The Board members represent this, both in terms of their familiarity with, and long-term

experience of, sectors where the company operates. The Board satisfies the requirements of Board members' independence in relation to the company and management, and in relation to the company's major shareholders. Consideration has also been given to Board members' ability to allocate the time required for their assignments in the company, which has been confirmed.
In 2018, Enea's Board of Directors had six members elected by the AGM. The CEO and CFO participate at every Board meeting and reports on the company's business situation, prospects, financial position and events of material significance. Other company executives also participate in Board meetings and present reports when necessary. The CEO does not participate in the parts of Board meetings that deal with the relationship between the CEO and the company, and the work of the CEO and other senior executives is evaluated at least yearly. The Board members' shareholdings are provided in the presentation of the Board of Directors, see page 22.
Board of Directors' independence According to the Swedish Code of Corporate Governance, a majority of Board members elected by the AGM should be independent of the company and management. A minimum of two of these should also be independent of the company's major shareholders. All Board members were judged to be independent in respect of the company and group management and in respect of major shareholders. For information on Board members and the CEO, see above and pages 22-23.

ANNUAL REPORT 2018 ENEA 21

CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT
BOARD OF DIRECTORS 2018

Name Born in Elected Board position Education
Previous positions

Anders Skarin 1948 2005 Chairman

Kjell Duveblad 1954 2008 Board member

Mats Lindoff 1961 2010 Board member

Torbjörn Nilsson 1953 2012 Board member

Åsa Sundberg 1959 2015 Board member

Gunilla Fransson 1960 2016 Board member

Johan Carlsson 1989 2017 Employee representative, SI

B.Sc. (Econ. and IT)
President of Programator (listed) and Nordic Manager of Cap Gemini, directorships and management consulting.

MBA, Stockholm School of Economics
Sales Director of IBM Svenska AB and President of Oracle Sweden, Nordics and Baltics.

M.Sc. (Eng.) EE

M.Sc. (Eng.) and MBA M.Sc. (Eng.)

M.Sc. (Eng.) chemical engineering, licentiate nuclear chemistry, Royal Institute of Technology, Stockholm

Senior high school graduate, mechatronic engineering

Chief Technology Officer, Sony-Ericsson, President of C-Technologies AB.

Chairman/Director of listed and unlisted technology companies, COO of the Ericsson group.

Partner of Nordic venture capital firm focusing on early-stage technology enterprises. CEO of mobile operator Net1.

Business Area Manager, Security and Defence Solutions at Saab AB. Prior to that, various executive positions with Ericsson.

Other directorships

Chairman of Multisoft Consulting, PCG Solutions and Director of Acando.

Board member of a number of unlisted companies.

Board member Precise Biometrics AB, IMINT AB and a number of unlisted companies.

Director of unlisted companies.

Board member of Trelleborg AB, Nederman AB, Eltel AB and several unlisted companies. Chairman of NetInsight AB.

Personal and related party shareholdings 2018 (2017)

15,000 (15,000)

Main occupation

Management consulting and directorships

Attendance at Board meetings

11/11

Committee positions

Chairman of Remuneration Committee

Attendance 5/5 at Committee meetings

10,000 (10,000)

990 (990)

0 (0)

0 (0)

1000 (0)

0 (0)

Management consulting and directorships
11/11

Strategy consultant

Strategy consultant President & CEO of and company director Teracom Group AB

10/11

11/11

9/11

Management consultant and directorships

Software Engineer/ Field Application Engineer, Enea

11/11

11/11

Chairman of Audit Committee

Not a committee member

5/5

Audit Committee 5/5

Audit Committee 5/5

Remuneration Committee
5/5

Not a committee member

Åsa Sundberg Left the Board of Directors in February 2019
The work of the Board of Directors The Board of Directors' Rules of Procedure are determined annually at the Board meeting following election immediately in conjunction with the AGM and are revised when required. In addition to the aforementioned duties, the Rules of Procedure also includes the Board's responsibilities, segregation of duties, setting the Board's agenda, instructions to the CEO, and management of the Board meeting schedule, notices convening meetings, agenda and minutes.
In addition to the Board meeting following election, the Board of Directors should hold a minimum of five meetings annually. Prior to each Board meeting, documentation relating

to the meeting is distributed to the Directors, either in digital format or by mail if required.
The Board manages the company's affairs in the interests of the company and all shareholders. The Board's duties include adopting business objectives and strategy, appointing, evaluating and, where necessary, dismissing the CEO, ensuring that effective systems are in place for monitoring and reviewing the company's operations, ensuring that there is satisfactory control of the company's compliance with laws and other regulations applicable to the company's operations, ensuring that the requisite ethical guidelines are adopted regarding the company's conduct, evaluating strategic and complementary acquisitions continuously

and ensuring that the company's corporate communication features transparency and that it is accurate, relevant and reliable.
In 2018, the Board of Directors addressed matters including the Enea group's strategy and business operations, the CEO's progress report, the Remuneration Committee's Rules of Procedure, remuneration of senior executives, continuously monitored operations&& and forecasts, interim reports, budgets and the business plan for 2019. The work of the Board of Directors was appraised at year-end. In 2018, the Board of Directors held ten meetings as well as one meeting following election. In addition to regular Board work, some Board members are also members

22 ENEA ANNUAL REPORT 2018

EXECUTIVE MANAGEMENT TEAM 2018

CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT

Name
Born in
Employee since

Anders Lidbeck 1962 2011

Member of 2011 Management since

Björn Westberg 1962 2018
2018

Adrian Leufvén 1972 1998
2008

Bogdan Putinica 1977 2007

Daniel Forsgren 1973 2006

2011

2014

Erik Larsson 1960 Qosmos 2008, Enea 2016
2016

John Giere
1963
Openwave Mobility 2012, Enea 2018 2018

Jean-Philippe Lion 1966 Qosmos 2007, Enea 2017
2018

Position

President & CEO

CFO

Education

M.Sc. in Business Administration and Economics, University of Lund.

M.Sc. (Eng.) Industrial engineering & management, Linköping University.

Previous positions

President and CEO of Telelogic, sales and marketing positions at Nokia, ICL and Telia Megacom, including President of ICL Direct in Benelux and Vice President of Sales and Marketing for ICL Industry systems Europe.

CFO of Bonesupport AB, CFO & COO of Recipharm AB and CFO of Jeeves.

Personal 14,000 (through

0 (0)

and related endowment

party

insurance) (14,000)

sharehol-

dings 2018

(2017)

Senior Vice President, OS Business Unit

Senior Vice President ,Global Services

Senior Vice President, Product Strategy

M.Sc. (Eng.) mechatronic engineering, Royal Institute of Technology, Stockholm

International Finance and Banking, Academy of Economic Studies, Bucharest, Romania

SVP Operations & Quality at Enea, SVP Software Sales at Enea, SVP Global Delivery at Enea, VP Strategic Outsourcing at Enea, VP Support at Enea, VP Marketing at Enea, Director of Asian Sales at Enea.

CEO of Enea Romania, Global Sales Director Product Services at Enea Romania and President of IP Devel.

M.Sc. (Eng.) in Applied Physics and Electrical Engineering, Linköping Institute of Technology.
SVP Product Management at Enea, Principal Engineer at Enea's CTO office, System Architect at Enea. Software Engineer at Virtutech.

30,000 (20,000)

872 (5,372)

12,395 (12,395)

Senior Vice President, Marketing & Communication
M. Sc. Engineering Physics, Royal Institute of Technology, Stockholm. MBA, IU Kelley School of Business, USA

CEO ,Openwave Mobility
MBA University of Maryland BSBA Georgetown University

VP of Marketing at Netcentrex (now part of Mavenir), VP of Marketing at Integra (now Level 3), Marketing Director at Nortel, consultant at Business Sweden.

Alcatel-Lucent, Lucent Technologies, Ericsson.

0 (0)

0 (0)

Senior Vice President, DPI Business Unit
M.Sc. Telecommunication Engineering, Telecom ParisTech, (France) and MBA, INSEAD (France)
VP Sales Engineer & Apac at Qosmos, Local Loop BU General Manager and Business Development Director of SFR, Senior Associate at Booz Allen & Hamilton.
0 (0)

Thibaut Bechetoille served in Enea's management as SVP of the NFV BU until November 2018. Håkan Rippe served in Enea's management as Interim CFO from March to December. Anders Stensson was a member of Enea's management team as CFO until April 2018.

of the company's Audit Committee and Remuneration Committee. Attendance statistics for Board meetings in 2018 are in the table on page 24.
The Board received remuneration of SEK 1,785,000 to be divided as follows: SEK 480,000 to the Chairman of the Board and SEK 225,000 each to other Board members appointed by the Annual General Meeting, as well as SEK 180,000 related to committee work and to be divided as follows: SEK 60,000 to the Chairman of the Audit Committee, SEK 30,000 each to two committee members, SEK 40,000 to the Chairman of the Remuneration committee and SEK 20,000 to one committee member.

4 Audit Committee The Audit Committee consisted of Kjell Duveblad (Chairman), Torbjörn Nilsson and Åsa Sundberg. Enea's Chief Financial Officer and the company's Auditor are co-opted to the meetings, which are normally held once quarterly. Minutes are kept at Audit Committee meetings and presented to the Board of Directors. The Audit Committee is responsible for the preparation of the Board of Directors' quality assurance of the company's financial reporting, keeping informed of the focus and scope of the audit, discussing coordinating between external Auditors and the company's internal control functions, evaluating the company's risk exposure, adopting guidelines for services

other than those provided by the company Auditor, evaluating the audit and informing the company's Nomination Committee of the evaluation, as well as assisting the Nomination Committee with its proposals for Auditors and remuneration.
In 2018, the Audit Committee held four meetings in connection with the quarterly financial statements, and while meeting related to the implementation of GDPR. The main topics addressed included presentations of the company's Interim Reports, product profitability, goodwill and other intangible assets, accounts receivable, risk management, finance-related issues and internal controls.
The company's Auditors report their findings to the Board of Directors annually

ANNUAL REPORT 2018 ENEA 23

CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT

in connection with the annual financial statement. In addition, the Board of Directors meets the company Auditor at least yearly-- without the presence of group management--to learn about the audit's focus and scope, and to discuss the coordination between external Auditors and the internal control and evaluation of the company's risk exposure.
4 Remuneration Committee The overall responsibilities of the Board of Directors cannot be delegated, although the Board of Directors has established a Remuneration Committee tasked with consulting on issues relating to salaries, other remuneration and other employment terms for the CEO and other members of group management.
In 2018, the Committee comprised Board members Anders Skarin (Chairman) and Gunilla Fransson. The Remuneration Committee is convened as required and reports to the Board of Directors. The Remuneration Committee held five meetings where minutes were taken in 2018.
Appraisal of the work of the Board of Directors Anders Skarin, Chairman of the Board of Directors, is responsible for preparing a review of the Board of Directors' work which he presents to the Nomination Committee. The review is completed in two parts, a written review where individual Board members complete a relatively extensive survey. The results are compiled and the anonymous data discussed at a Board meeting. The second part takes the form of an oral review where the Nomination Committee, excluding the Chairman of the Board, interviews

two Board members each. The Nomination Committee is then presented with three written reports to use as a basis for appraising the Board of Directors.
5 The CEO and group management Anders Lidbeck has been Enea's CEO since 2011. The CEO's other significant assignments and previous experience are detailed in the presentation of senior executives on page 23. Anders Lidbeck has no significant shareholdings in companies that Enea has a business relationship with.
In 2018, Enea's group management consisted of Enea's CEO, CFO and six division and line managers representing the organization's functions and business areas. For more information about the group management, see page 23. Group management meets monthly to present progress reports on business conditions for each function and business area, and to discuss other current, relevant issues. In addition to these meetings, group management also meets several times a year to discuss strategy and planning, which is then reported to the Board of Directors in September and December. The CEO and CFO produce a business plan for the coming year that is then presented at a Board meeting in December.
6 Auditors The AGM 2018 re-elected public accounting firm Öhrlings PricewaterhouseCoopers AB, with Authorized Public Accountant Niklas Renström as Auditor in Charge until the end of the next AGM in 2019. Each year, the company's Auditor presents a report to the Board of Directors based on observations made during the review and assessment of the company's internal controls. The guidelines

for the Board of Directors' work are based on the Rules of Procedure that regulate the division of responsibilities within the Board of Directors and between the Board of Directors and management.
In 2018, Enea's Auditors conducted a review of the Annual Financial Statements, whereupon the Auditors presented their Auditors' Report in the company's Annual Report 2018. A review was also conducted in connection with the third quarter Interim Report and the company's Auditors presented their Audit Review in the Interim Report 1 January­30 September 2018. The review of the Third-quarter Interim Report focuses on the company's internal controls.
Remuneration of senior executives Remuneration is paid to the Chairman and Board members in accordance with the resolution of the Annual General Meeting. Employee representatives do not receive Directors' fees.
Principles In order to hire and retain senior executives, the company offers competitive terms and conditions with remuneration at market levels. Overall remuneration to senior executives comprises basic and variable salary, pension provisions and share-based payment. Basic and variable salary is determined annually on the basis of individual conditions. Variable salary is subject to a pre-determined ceiling. With the exception of the CEO and certain other senior executives, variable salary may not exceed basic salary. Variable salary is based on individual performance in relation to annually set goals, mainly relating to the company's sales and operating profit, as well as specific goals for

ATTENDANCE AT BOARD MEETINGS

Member Anders Skarin (Chairman) Kjell Duveblad Mats Lindoff Torbjörn Nilsson Åsa Sundberg Gunilla Fransson Johan Carlsson

1

2

3

x

x

x

x

x

x

x

x

x

x

x

x

x

x

x

x

x

x

x

x

x

4

5

6

7

8

9

10

11

x

x

x

x

x

x

x

x

x

x

x

x

x

x

x

x

x

x

­

x

x

x

x

x

x

x

x

x

x

x

x

x

x

x

x

x

x

x

­

­

x

x

x

x

x

x

x

x

x

x

x

x

x

x

x

x

24 ENEA ANNUAL REPORT 2018

CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT

individual executives. If the goals are met, 50 percent of maximum variable salary is payable, potentially rising to 100 percent if the goals are exceeded.
Senior executives are invited to participate in share-based incentive programs authorized by shareholders' meetings and, accordingly, remuneration may also be share-based provided that the goals and other terms of the share-based incentive program are met.
The model for variable salary and determining actual variable salary for senior executives is decided by the Board pursuant to a proposal from the Remuneration Committee.
Remuneration to the CEO is decided by the Board of Directors based on a proposal from the Remuneration Committee.
Pensions The pension terms for the CEO are decided by the Board of Directors following a proposal from the Remuneration Committee and are 35 percent of basic and variable salary. Other senior executives in Sweden are subject to pension agreements within the framework of the ITP plan (Supplementary Pensions for Salaried Employees) with pensionable age of 65 and pension provisions are related to employee salaries. Pension contributions are paid progressively.

Severance pay On termination of the Chief Executive Officer's employment, the company will observe a notice period of six months, and the Chief Executive Officer has a notice period of nine months to the company. In addition, severance pay corresponding to 12 months' basic salary is payable should employment be terminated by the company. If a change of control results in a new majority shareholder, the CEO is entitled to severance pay of six months' salary. All dismissal and severance pay are deducted from any other income. For other senior executives, a notice period of three to twelve months applies. The Board of Directors reserves the right to depart from the proposed guidelines in and individual cases if there are specific circumstances applying.
Internal controls and risk management The Board is responsible for internal control and risk management in accordance with the Swedish Companies Act, the Swedish Annual Accounts Act and the Swedish Code of Corporate Governance. The Audit Committee monitors Enea's internal control, which does not affect the Board of Directors' responsibilities and work otherwise. The purpose is for operations to be pursued in an expedient and efficient manner, and that external reporting complies with legislation and internal regulations that govern the company. For this work to be successful, the

Board works in a structured manner where work is delegated to group management, the Audit Committee and other staff. Enea described the methods for delegating and monitoring this work in the company's internal policies, such as the Finance Policy and Authorization Policy.
Internal controls over financial reporting Control environment Enea's control environment forms the basis of the company's internal control over financial reporting, and clear communication of decision paths, authorization and responsibilities throughout the organization is a key component of Enea's control environment.
Enea's objective is to fulfil the requirements for ongoing work pertaining to internal control and risk management as part of Enea's compliance with the Swedish Code of Corporate Governance. At Enea, internal control over financial reporting is an integral part of corporate governance. It includes procedures and methods to secure the group's assets and the accuracy of financial reporting, and this aims to protect shareholders' investments in the company
The Board monitors the quality of the financial reporting in a number of ways. The Board approves the rules of procedure each year, which include regulating the duties of the Chairman and CEO.

THE WORK OF THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS IN 2018

Business plan, budget, appraisal of management

Business conditions, Interim Report

Q4

Dec Jan

Q1

Nov

Feb

Oct

Mar

Business conditions, Year-end Report Annual Report, preparation for AGM

Strategy, organization Business conditions, Interim Report

Sep

Apr

Business conditions, Interim Report

Aug

Q3

Jul

May

Jun

Q2

AGM Business conditions, strategy

ANNUAL REPORT 2018 ENEA 25

CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT

According to these instructions, the CEO is responsible for the control environment and for reviewing and ensuring the quality of financial reporting, and for ensuring that the Board of Directors receives the reports required to evaluate the group's financial position on a continuous basis. The instructions to the CEO include matters on which the CEO requires authorization or approval from the Board of Directors.
At the statutory Board meeting following the Annual General Meeting, Enea's Board of Directors adopts the Rules of Procedure for the Board of Directors, the Audit Committee and the Remuneration Committee. In addition, the instruction to the CEO, approvals list, Finance Policy and instruction for trading in the company's shares are approved.
Enea's CEO and group management bear operational responsibility for internal control. Based on the Board of Directors' guidelines alongside legislation and regulations governing financial reporting, such as the Swedish Companies Act, the Annual Accounts Act and the Swedish Code of Corporate Governance, group management has established the segregation of roles and duties for staff working on financial reporting in the group. The group is divided into units, with each unit manager responsible for meeting objectives and budgets, as well as compliance with governance issues relating to the unit. Enea's organizational structure is presented on the group's intranet so that roles and responsibilities are made clear to everyone working on financial information.
Enea has issued instructions, such as approvals and authorization policies for group staff indicating the relevant authorization of various employees to take specific actions.
Enea also presents a number of policies on the intranet, which govern work at Enea and create a basis for internal control, including a Finance Policy, Authorization Policy, IT Policy, Sustainability Policy, Communications Policy and insider policy according to the EU's Market Abuse Regulation.
The group also has an accounting and reporting manual with instructions on the group's accounting policies, reporting instructions and a schedule that ensure that consistent and accurate accounting information is provided in a timely manner. These guidelines are followed up and up-dated regularly and presented to employees who work directly or indirectly on financial reporting.
In order to improve internal controls, all important documents such as policies, regulatory documents etc., are available on Enea's intranet and uploaded to Enea's document

management system. This gives all staff access to relevant documents and policies.
Documents are also classified according to authorization levels depending on the relevant staff member's role in the organization. The Board of Directors is presented with monthly progress reports. The reports are analyzed and evaluated by the Board of Directors and in the event that further measures are required, these are discussed at the next Board meeting or, alternatively, in urgent cases the Chairman convenes a Board meeting to address the issue.
Internal Controls are followed up through various channels, including through the ongoing activities of Enea's finance and quality, operations, Enea's Legal Counsel, the delivery operations, internal quality meetings and at the Audit Committee's quarterly meetings. Each operational function proceeds from different goals and regulatory documents in order to assure the quality of the company's processes and decisions.
Risk assessment The objective of Enea's risk assessment is to secure the group's earnings progress and financial position. Enea AB's Board of Directors approves Enea's risk management policies and guidelines, and the CEO and group management have operational responsibility.

Regular risk assessments are conducted within the scope of Enea's monthly financial follow-ups by unit managers, group management and the controller, and measures are implemented as required. The preceding review describes how Enea's organization is structured to manage, review and evaluate the internal control. Furthermore, internal controls also include the company's planning and budget process, where the risks of operations are reviewed annually. The Audit Committee and the Board of Directors are responsible for analyzing and assessing these risks.
Control activities Enea's control structure is designed to manage the risks the Board judges to be significant for the internal control of financial reporting.
The control structure is based on the company's clear segregation of organizational responsibilities which enables the effective division of responsibilities and ensures that control activities discover and prevent the risk of misstatements in the financial reporting in a timely manner.
Examples of control activities include the control and continuous monitoring of the company's financial reporting, financial and legal policies, quarterly updates of the

26 ENEA ANNUAL REPORT 2018

CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT

company's forecasts, the continuous monitoring and review of specific areas, auditing the Board of Directors' quarterly reviews of business conditions in terms of planning and budget, financial progress of individual business units and products, major transactions, cash flow, Balance Sheet and prospects.
Enea's business segments are monitored monthly by the relevant manager and controller, results are compared to previous figures and budgets. Enea's group management met every second week in 2018 to monitor operations and business progress, the financial performance against budget and preceding periods, to establish forward-looking sales and earnings forecasts, as well as deter-mining necessary measures for ensuring good internal control. The CEO presents an aggregated monthly report to the Board of Directors. When necessary, more detailed follow-ups are conducted, for example, in the form of reviews of subsidiaries by controllers.
Enea's product operations are ISOcertified since 2006. Certification (ISO

9001:2008) encompasses management, marketing, sales, development and support of software products. Re-certification takes place every three years and interim audits are conducted in intervening years.
Information and communication Regulatory documents in the form of policies, guidelines, manuals etc. relating to financial reporting are communicated on Enea's intranet and document management system. Each division amends the regulatory documents the division assumes responsibility for. Most communication takes place in digital form, and divisional managers hold meetings to communicate information, follow-up and evaluation when required. For more information about the Board of Directors' and group management's communication, see pages 22 and 24.
Enea's policies provide guidelines for handling communication of information with internal and external parties. Internal and external corporate communication policies have been prepared to ensure compliance with disclosure requirements.

Follow-up Enea's finance division uses an integrated finance and accounting system and groupwide reporting instructions. The company's marketing and sales division manages customers and potential customers in Enea's business system and ensures that relevant sales staff receive the information required.
The company continuously updates the Board of Directors and Audit Committee on compliance with the company's Code of Conduct and continuously provides information on export legislation that affects Enea and updates on compliance with such legislation.
Given the scope and nature of operations, combined with existing reporting to the Board of Directors and Audit Committee, the Board does not consider the establishment of a dedicated internal audit function to be financially justifiable. The internal control described above is deemed sufficient to assure the quality of financial reporting.

ANNUAL REPORT 2018 ENEA 27

INCOME STATEMENT group

CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF COMPREHENSIVE INCOME
SEK 000 (1 January­31 December) Revenue Reversed additional purchase price Total revenue Operating expenses Cost of sold products and services Gross profit Sales and marketing expenses Product development expenses Administrative expenses Operating profit * Financial income Financial expenses Financial net Profit before tax Tax Profit after tax
Other comprehensive income re-classifiable to profit or loss Exchange rate differences Cash flow hedges, profit before tax Cash flow hedges, tax effect Other comprehensive income not re-classifiable to profit or loss Pension obligations Total comprehensive income for the year, net of tax
Net profit attributable to shareholders of the parent Comprehensive income for the period attributable to shareholders of the parent
* Non-recurring items included in operating profit Operating profit, including non-recurring items Reversed additional purchase price Restructuring costs Transaction costs for major acquisitions Costs for legal consulting Operating profit, excluding non-recurring items
Earnings per share, SEK The company has no potentially dilutive instruments outstanding.

Note 2,18
3,4,5,6,7,10,11,22 8 9
17

2018 830,329
11,662 841,991
­222,627 619,364 ­182,697 ­136,272 ­111,539 188,855
24,866 ­52,574 ­27,708 161,147 ­19,497 141,650
84,095 ­391 86
185 225,625
141,650 225,625

2017 588,371
­ 588,371
­166,346 422,025 ­125,583
­97,070 ­96,586 102,786
17,005 ­22,187 ­5,182 97,604 ­15,111 82,493
5,524 ­68 15
739 88,702
82,493 88,702

188,855 ­11,662
5,302 9,633
406 192,534
7.33

102,786 ­
4,982 ­
26,717 134,485
4.69

28 ENEA ANNUAL REPORT 2018

STATEMENT OF FINANCIAL POSITION group

CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF FINANCIAL POSITION
SEK 000 (31 December) Assets Intangible assets Equipment, tools, fixtures and fittings Financial assets measured at fair value through profit or loss Deferred tax assets* Other long-term receivables Total fixed assets
Accounts receivable Tax receivables Prepaid expenses and accrued income Other receivables Financial assets measured at fair value through profit or loss Cash and cash equivalents Total current assets Total assets
Equity Share capital Other paid-up capital Reserves Retained profits including profit for the year* Total equity
Provisions Other provisions Total provisions
Long-term liabilities Deferred tax liabilities Long-term liabilities, interest-bearing Long-term liabilities, non-interest-bearing Obligation for employee benefits Total long-term liabilities
Current liabilities Current liabilities, interest-bearing Accounts payable Tax liabilities Other liabilities Derivative instruments Accrued expenses and deferred income* Total current liabilities Total equity and liabilities
* Year-2017 Balance Sheet restated pursuant to IFRS 15, see relevant note.

Note 10 11 12 9
13 14 12 20
16, 27
9 25 25,26 26
25
25 15 18

2018
1,381,382 16,194 ­ 17,485 3,134
1,418,195
174,671 41,100 101,570 109,484
­ 74,673 501,498 1,919,693
22,210 727,939 73,275 162,411 985,835
10,870 10,870
68,417 539,822
­ 7,501 615,740
93,342 21,441 1,098 16,080
1,937 173,350 307,248 1,919,693

2017*
522,221 9,592
62,061 21,368 2,694 617,936
142,949 27,730 18,246 14,689 40,208 312,028
555,850 1,173,786
22,210 727,939 ­10,515 14,533 754,167
2,575 2,575
41,779 82,000 110,434
6,983 241,196
34,000 11,098
971 19,784
840 109,155 175,848 1,173,786

ANNUAL REPORT 2018 ENEA 29

STATEMENT OF CHANGES IN EQUITY group

CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF CHANGES IN EQUITY

SEK 000 (1 January­31 December) Opening equity, 1 Jan. 2017 Restatement of opening balance for changed accounting policy, IFRS 15 Comprehensive income Profit for the year Other comprehensive income Cash flow hedges, profit before tax Cash flow hedges, tax effect Translation difference Pension obligations Total other comprehensive income Total comprehensive income Transactions with equity holders Dividend New share issue* Bonus issue Share savings plan Repurchase of treasury shares Total transactions with equity holders Closing equity, 31 Dec. 2017 Opening equity, 1 Jan. 2018 Comprehensive income Profit for the year Other comprehensive income Cash flow hedges, profit before tax Cash flow hedges, tax effect Translation difference Pension obligations Total other comprehensive income Total comprehensive income Transactions with equity holders Share savings plan Total transactions with equity holders Closing equity, 31 Dec. 2018
* New share issue New share issue, cash Transaction expenses, new share issue Tax on transaction expenses recognized directly in equity New share issue, net

Share capital
18,356

Other paid-up capital
433,382

­10,096 3,854 10,096

294,557

3,854 22,210 22,210

294,557 727,939 727,939

­ 22,210

­ 727,939

303,494 ­6,516
1,433
298,411

Reserves

Cash flow hedges
­368

Translation reserve
­15,619

Retained profits including profit
for the year
­12,806
­5,408

Total equity 422,945 ­5,408

­68 15 5,525

­53

5,525

­53

5,525

­ ­421 ­421

­ ­10,094 ­10,094

­391 86
­305 ­305

84,095
84,095 84,095

­726

74,001

82,493
739 739 83,232 ­25,003 ­10,096 5,856 ­21,242 ­50,485 14,533 14,533 141,650
185 185 141,835 6,043 6,043 162,411

82,493
­68 15
5,525 739
6,211 88,704
­35,099 298,411
­ 5,856 ­21,242 247,926 754,167 754,167
141,650
­391 86
84,095 185
83,975 225,625
6,043 6,043 985,835

30 ENEA ANNUAL REPORT 2018

STATEMENT OF CASH FLOWS group

CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF CASH FLOWS

SEK 000 (1 January­31 December) Operating activities Profit before tax Adjustment for non-cash items
Tax paid Cash flow from operating activities before change in working capital Cash flow from change in working capital Change in operating receivables Change in operating liabilities Cash flow from change in working capital Cash flow from operating activities Investing activities Purchase of intangible assets Purchase of property, plant and equipment Purchase/sale of financial assets Acquisition of operation, less acquired cash and cash equivalents* Cash flow from investing activities Financing activities ** Borrowings Amortization of loans New share issue Redemption program Repurchase of treasury shares Cash flow from financing activities Cash flow for the year Cash and cash equivalents at beginning of year Exchange rate difference in cash and cash equivalents Cash and cash equivalents at end of year

Note 20
10 11

2018
161,147 54,506 215,653 ­17,639 198,014
­24,583 ­4,789 ­29,372 168,642
­64,748 ­7,046 102,273
­954,399 ­923,920
548,690 ­34,510
­ ­ ­ 514,180 ­241,098 312,028 3,743 74,673

* Payment for acquisition of operation consisted of consideration for Qosmos SA, Openwave Mobility and the net assets acquisition from Atos Convergence Creators.
** Financing activities do not include any translation affects impacting cash flow.

2017
97,604 24,436 122,040 ­26,126 95,914
30,439 ­9,748 20,691 116,605
­37,304 ­4,176 ­98,244 ­96,298 ­236,022
­ ­34,000 296,978 ­35,099 ­21,242 206,637 87,220 223,486
1,322 312,028

ANNUAL REPORT 2018 ENEA 31

INCOME STATEMENT parent company

PARENT COMPANY STATEMENT OF COMPREHENSIVE INCOME
SEK 000 (1 January­31 December) Net sales Operating expenses Administrative expenses Operating profit Profit (loss) from participations in group companies Interest income and similar profit (loss) items Interest expenses and similar profit (loss) items Financial net Profit (loss) after financial net Appropriations Profit before tax Tax Profit for the year

Note 3,4,5,6,7,10,11,22
8 9

2018 53,113
­53,113 ­ ­
27,962 ­29,094 ­1,132 ­1,132
1,216 84
­384 ­300

2017 58,074
­58,074 ­
35,400 3,935 ­2,819
36,516 36,516
3,667 40,183 ­1,434 38,749

32 ENEA ANNUAL REPORT 2018

PARENT COMPANY BALANCE SHEET
SEK 000 (31 December) Assets Intangible assets Equipment, tools, fixtures and fittings Participations in group companies Financial assets measured at fair value through profit or loss Total fixed assets Receivables from group companies Tax receivables Prepaid expenses and accrued income Other receivables Financial assets measured at fair value through profit or loss Cash and cash equivalents Total current assets Total assets
Equity Restricted equity Share capital Non-restricted equity Share premium reserve Accumulated profit or loss Profit for the year Total equity Provisions Untaxed reserves Total provisions Long-term liabilities Long-term liabilities, interest-bearing Total long-term liabilities Current liabilities Current liabilities, interest-bearing Accounts payable Tax liability Liabilities to group companies Other liabilities Accrued expenses and deferred income Total current liabilities Total equity and liabilities

BALANCE SHEET parent company

Note 10 11 19 12 21 14 12 20
16
25 25 21 18

2018
870 1,966 172,034
174,870 1,021,527
1,202 5,481
75 -
17,712 1,045,997 1,220,867

2017
377 1,389 172,034 62,061 235,861 152,472 1,202 5,882 3,424 40,208 246,728 449,916 685,777

22,210
298,159 233,533
-300 553,602
4,529 4,529
539,822 539,822
94,013 5,411 384 3,247 2,158 17,701
122,914 1,220,867

22,210
298,159 188,741 38,749 547,859
5,746 5,746
82,000 82,000
34,000 2,896 3,248 692 9,336
50,172 685,777

ANNUAL REPORT 2018 ENEA 33

STATEMENT OF CHANGES IN EQUITY parent company

PARENT COMPANY STATEMENT OF CHANGES IN EQUITY

Restricted equity

SEK 000 (1 January­31 December) Share capital

Opening equity, 1 Jan. 2017

18,356

Redemption program

­10,096

New share issue*

3,854

Bonus issue

10,096

Share savings plan

Repurchase of treasury shares

Profit for the year

Closing equity, 31 Dec. 2017

22,210

Opening equity, 1 Jan. 2018

22,210

Share savings plan

Profit for the year

Closing equity, 31 Dec. 2018

22,210

Statutory reserve ­
­ ­ ­

* New share issue
New share issue, cash Transaction expenses, new share issue Tax on transaction expenses recognized directly in equity
New share issue, net

303,494 -6,516
1,433 298,411

Non-restricted equity

Share premium
reserve

Accumulated profit or loss Profit for the year

3,602

239,226

­25,003

294,557

­10,096

5,856

­21,242

38,749

298,159

188,741

38,749

298,159

227,490

6,043

­300

298,159

233,533

­300

Total equity 261,184 ­35,099 298,411 ­ 5,856 ­21,242 38,749 547,859 547,859 6,043 ­300 553,602

34 ENEA ANNUAL REPORT 2018

CASH FLOW STATEMENT parent company

PARENT COMPANY CASH FLOW STATEMENT
SEK 000 (1 January-31 December) Operating activities Profit before tax Adjustment for non-cash items
Tax paid Cash flow from operating activities before change in working capital Cash flow from change in working capital Change in operating receivables Change in operating liabilities Cash flow from change in working capital Cash flow from operating activities Investing activities Purchase of intangible assets Purchase of property, plant and equipment Purchase/sale of financial assets Cash flow from investing activities Financing activities Borrowings Amortization of loans New share issue Redemption program Group contributions paid/received Repurchase of treasury shares Cash flow from financing activities Cash flow for the year Cash and cash equivalents at beginning of year Cash and cash equivalents at end of year

Note 20
11 11

2018
84 8,842 8,926
­ 8,926
­865,305 12,345
­852,960 ­844,034
­779 ­1,161 102,268 100,328
548,690 ­34,000
­ ­ ­ ­ 514,690 ­229,016 246,728 17,712

2017
40,183 2,926 43,109 ­684 42,425
60,052 ­9,871 50,181 92,606
­ ­410 ­102,061 ­102,471
­ ­34,000 296,978 ­35,099
892 ­21,242 207,529 197,664 49,064 246,728

ANNUAL REPORT 2018 ENEA 35

ACCOUNTING POLICIES

NOTE 1--Accounting policies
Amounts in SEK 000 unless otherwise stated.
Compliance with standards and legislation
The consolidated accounts have been prepared in accordance with the Swedish Annual Accounts Act, International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS) published by the International Accounting Standards Board (IASB), and interpretation pronouncements from the International Financial Reporting Interpretations Committee (IFRIC) as endorsed by the EU. The Swedish Financial Reporting Board's recommendation RFR 1 Supplementary Accounting Rules for Groups has also been applied.
The parent company applies the same accounting policies as the group except in the cases stated below in the section on "parent company accounting policies". The inconsistencies between the parent company's and the group's policies stem from the limited potential for applying IFRS to the parent company as a consequence of the Swedish Annual Accounts Act, and in some instances, for tax reasons.
Basis of preparation of parent company's and the group's financial statements
The parent company's functional currency is Swedish kronor (SEK) which is also the presentation currency of the parent company and the group. This means that the financial statements are presented in SEK. Assets and liabilities are recognized at historical cost, except certain financial assets and liabilities, which are measured at fair value.
In order to prepare financial statements in accordance with IFRS, management is required to make accounting judgements and estimates as well as assumptions that affect the application of the accounting policies and the carrying amounts of assets, liabilities, revenue and expenses. These estimates and assumptions are based on historical experience and other factors that are deemed reasonable in prevailing circumstances. The result of these estimates and assumptions are then used to assess the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities that are not otherwise clear from other sources. Actual outcomes may differ from these estimates and judgements.
The estimates and assumptions are reviewed regularly. Changes to estimates are recognized in the period in which the change is made if the change has only affected that period, or in the period in which the change is made and future periods if the change affects both the current period and future periods. When applying IFRS, assessments made by executive management that have a significant impact on the financial statements and the estimates and which could result in material restatements of the financial statements of subsequent years are described in more detail in Note 24.
The accounting policies stated below for the group have been applied consistently to all periods presented in the consolidated accounts unless otherwise stated. The group's accounting policies have been applied consistently for the recognition and consolidation of subsidiaries.
Changes in accounting policies and disclosures New and revised standards and interpretations of existing standards applied by the group
The following standards have been applied by the group for the first time for the financial year beginning 1 January 2018:
IFRS 9 Financial Instruments and IFRS 15 Revenue from Contracts with Customers.
New standards, amendments and interpretations of existing standards that have not been applied prospectively by the group A number of new standards and amendments to existing standards and interpretations come into effect for financial years beginning after 1 January 2018 and have not been applied prospectively by the group. The following is a description of new and amended standards that are regarded as relevant to, and could impact the group's future financial statements:
IFRS 16 Leases The standard replaces IAS 17 Leases and IFRIC 4 Determining whether an Arrangement Contains a Lease and related regulations. The new standard implies that lessees must recognize all arrangements that satisfy the Standard's definition of a leasing arrangement (with the exception of arrangements of a maximum duration of 12 months and individual arrangements of low value)

as an asset and liability in the Balance Sheet, with recognition of amortization and interest expenses in the Income Statement. Accordingly, as stated above, expenses are reclassified from rental charges. Where they satisfy the Standard's definition, arrangements that are currently designated as operating leases will be capitalized in the Balance Sheet. IFRS 16 becomes effective on 1 January 2019, and is being applied prospectively. Enea has reviewed all operating lease arrangements, and computed a right-of-lease asset and lease liability for each arrangement, based on their terms and conditions. This change means that total assets and operating profit will increase, which will impact various key indicators. The transition effect on the year-2018 Balance Sheet to the new standard will mean assets increasing by SEK 44 million, liabilities increasing by SEK 45 million, and equity decreasing by SEK 1 million. The transition effect on the Consolidated Balance Sheet is quantified in the following summary:

SEK million
Amount in accordance with current accounting policies, 1 Jan. 2019
Restatement resulting from IFRS 16
Amount according to new accounting policy, 1 Jan. 2019

Assets Equity Liabilities

1,920

986

934

44

­1

45

1,964

985

979

Segment reporting
The operating segments are reported in a manner consistent with internal reporting provided to the chief operating decision maker (CODM). The CODM is that function responsible for allocating resources and evaluating the performance of segments. For the group, this function has been identified as the CEO.
The group has applied IFRS 8 Operating segments effective 1 January 2009.
Classification, etc.
Non-current assets and non-current liabilities in the parent company and group essentially consist only of amounts expected to be recovered or paid after more than 12 months of the reporting date. Current assets and current liabilities in the parent company and group essentially consist only of amounts expected to be recovered or paid within 12 months of the reporting date.
Consolidation policies Subsidiaries
Subsidiaries are companies that Enea AB exercises a controlling influence over. Controlling influence entails a direct or indirect right to determine a company's financial and operational strategies with the purpose of generating economic benefits. When assessing whether controlling influence exists, shares conferring entitlement to vote that can be exercised or converted without delay are taken into account. The financial statements of subsidiaries are included in the consolidated accounts effective the date the controlling influence transfers to the group until the time the controlling influence ceases.
The purchase method is used to recognize the group's business combinations. The purchase consideration for the acquisition of a subsidiary comprises the fair value of transferred assets, liabilities and the shares issued by the group. The consideration also includes the fair value of all assets or liabilities resulting from an agreement concerning a contingent consideration. Acquisition-related costs are expensed as they arise. Identifiable acquired assets and assumed liabilities in a business acquisition are initially measured at fair value on the date of acquisition. For each acquisition, the group determines whether all non-controlling interests in the acquired entity are recognized at fair value or at the proportionate share of net assets of the acquired entity.
The amount by which the transferred consideration, any non-controlling interests and the fair value of previous shareholdings on the date of transfer exceeds the fair value of the group's share of identifiable acquired net assets, is recognized as goodwill.
When the difference is negative, it is recognized directly in profit or loss. Intra-group receivables, liabilities, income or expenses and unrealized gains or losses attributable to intra-group transactions are eliminated when the consolidated accounts are prepared.
Unrealized losses are eliminated in the same way as unrealized gains..
Foreign currency Transactions in foreign currency
Assets and liabilities in foreign operations including goodwill and other consolidated surplus values and deficits, are translated to Swedish kronor at closing

36 ENEA ANNUAL REPORT 2018

ACCOUNTING POLICIES

day rates. The revenues and expenses of a foreign operation are translated to Swedish kronor at an average rate of exchange that is an approximation of the rates at each transaction date. Translation differences arising on currency conversion of foreign operations are recognized in other comprehensive income. When selling a foreign operation, the accumulated translation differences attributable to the operation are realized. Accumulated translation differences are presented as a separate category and the `reserves' item and contain translation differences accumulated from 1 January 2004 onwards. Accumulated translation differences prior to 1 January 2004 are allocated between other equity categories and are not disclosed separately.
Financial statements of foreign operations Assets and liabilities in foreign operations including goodwill and other consolidated surplus values and deficits, are translated to Swedish kronor at closing day rates. The revenues and expenses of a foreign operation are translated to Swedish kronor at an average rate of exchange that is an approximation of the rates at each transaction date.
Translation differences arising on currency conversion of foreign operations are recognized in other comprehensive income. When selling a foreign operation, the accumulated translation differences attributable to the operation are realized. Accumulated translation differences are presented as a separate category and the `reserves' item and contain translation differences accumulated from 1 January 2004 onwards. Accumulated translation differences prior to 1 January 2004 are allocated between other equity categories and are not disclosed separately.
Revenue
The group generates revenue from sales of software and services, and applied IFRS 15 Revenue from Contracts with Customers effective 1 January 2018. Pursuant to the transition provisions of IFRS 15, the group has applied the new regulations retroactively, restating its comparative figures for 2017. The group has applied the following practical expedients:
· F or terminated contracts, the entity does not need to restate that contracts
begin and end within the same annual reporting period, or end prior to the earliest period reported.
· For contracts amended prior to the earliest period reported, the entity does
not need to retroactively restate the contract for these contract amendments.
· F or reporting periods accounted prior to the date of initial application (DOIA),
the entity does not need to submit disclosures regarding the amount of the transaction price allocated to remaining performance obligations, and an explanation of when the entity anticipates recognizing these amounts as revenues.
The following are the criteria for recognizing the revenue from licenses and, wherever appropriate, the revenue from services:
· A written contract signed by both parties, · D elivery has occurred, · The license fee must be a fixed amount or calculated using a reliable method,
and no withdrawal options are available, or the credit period is less than 12 months,
· It is probable that payment will be received.
Software sales
Sales of software generate revenue in the form of license fees, buyouts (the customer purchases the product for an unlimited time), royalties and revenue for support and maintenance.
When Enea is entitled to recognize revenue, a contract asset/accrued income arises. The contract assets transfer to a receivable from a customer when all the criteria regarding the rights to invoice the customer are satisfied.
Developer licenses and buyouts A license is a performance obligation. When the customer develops a product, a developer license is paid to Enea. Developer licenses are normally priced per development engineer. The customer can decide to purchase a time-based or perpetual license.

For both developer licenses and buyouts, income is recognized when delivery of the software has been completed, and the customer has control over the good. Income from time-based license fees is accrued over the contract period on a straight-line basis, because during the contract term, the customer is dependent on continuous upgrades and modifications in order to use the license, while the revenue from perpetual license fees and buyouts is recognized at delivery when no performance obligations remain.
Support and maintenance are sold in part separately from, and in part together with, the licenses. Separate maintenance contracts normally have a term of 12 months and the income is allocated on a straight-line basis over the contract term.
In the sale of perpetual developer licenses, support and maintenance is included in the license fee, as is entitlement to continuous upgrades. In respect of such multi-component contracts, revenue from license sales is recognized in the amount representing the independent sales price of the license in relation to the total sales price pursuant to the contract on delivery of the license. Revenue from the service component, which corresponds to the independent sales price of the service component in relation to the total contracted sales price, is allocated over the service period. The independent sales price of each component is measured on the basis of current market prices of these components when sold separately. Discounts are allocated proportionally to each separate performance obligation (license and support/maintenance).
Production licenses (royalties) In order to deliver a finished product containing Enea's technology, the customer signs a production license. This may be time-based or perpetual and often consists of royalties, i.e. a revenue item per sold unit. In turn, royalties may consist either of fixed or variable compensation. Royalty revenues are recognized in accordance with the economic substance of the relevant agreement when full delivery has occurred, and all performance obligations are satisfied. Revenues from customers with sales-based royalties are always recognized quarterly in arrears.
Services The revenue from service assignments rendered on open account is recognized as work is completed. The revenue from services that are based on a functional undertaking are recognized on a straight-line basis over the contract term during which the services are rendered. A functional undertaking involves a service function with an indefinite number of services that are to be maintained over a specific period. Revenue from projects that are executed on a fixed-fee basis is recognized by degree of completion, which is determined based on contract costs incurred in relation to estimated contract costs for the whole contract in accordance with the percentage of completion method. If a loss risk is deemed to exist, individual provisions are posted continuously.
Operating expenses and financial income and expenses Cost of operating leases
The cost of operating lease arrangements is recognized on a straight-line basis in profit or loss over the lease term. Benefits accrued on signing an agreement are recognized as a part of the total lease expense in profit or loss.
Financial income and expenses Financial income and expenses may consist of interest income on bank deposits and receivables and interest-bearing securities, interest expenses on loans, dividend income, exchange rate differences, unrealized and realized gains on financial investments and derivative instruments used in the financial operations.
Interest income on receivables and interest expenses on liabilities are calculated using the effective interest method. The effective interest rate is the interest rate which means that the present value of all future deposits and payments during the fixed interest period will be equal to the carrying amount of the receivable or liability. Interest income includes accrued amounts of transaction costs and any discounts, premiums and other differences between the original value of the receivable and the amount received at maturity. The Group does not capitalize interest on the acquisition value of assets as the Group's development projects do not have a time to maturity exceeding one year.

ANNUAL REPORT 2018 ENEA 37

ACCOUNTING POLICIES

Financial instruments
Financial instruments recognized in the Balance Sheet include, on the assets side, financial assets held for sale, other long-term receivables, cash and cash equivalents and accounts receivable, and, on the liabilities and equity side, accounts payable and other current and non-current liabilities. A financial asset or financial liability is recognized in the Balance Sheet when the company becomes a party to the contractual terms of the instrument. Accounts receivable are recognized in the Balance Sheet when the invoice has been sent. Accounts payable are recognized in the Balance Sheet when the invoice has been received. A financial asset is derecognized from the Balance Sheet when the contractual rights have been realized, expire or the company loses control over them. Spot purchases and sales of financial assets are recognized on the transaction date, which is the date on which the company delivers the asset. A financial liability is derecognized from the Balance Sheet when the contractual obligation has been fulfilled or is in some other way extinguished.
The fair value of quoted financial assets corresponds to the highest price paid quoted for the asset on the reporting date. Should no such price be available, valuation takes place through generally acceptable methods, such as discounting of future cash flows to the market interest rate for the relevant maturity.
For short-term loans and investments, the fair value is assumed to correspond to book value since a change in market interest rates would not have a material effect on market value.
Financial assets and liabilities are offset and recognized in a net amount in the Balance Sheet only when a legal right exists to offset the items and there is an intention to settle the amount net, or to simultaneously realize the asset and settle the liability. Financial assets and liabilities are divided into the following categories according to IAS 39.
Loans and accounts receivable This category includes financial assets that are not derivative instruments, with fixed or determinable payments, and that are not listed on an active market. These receivables arise when money, goods or services are provided directly to another party without an intention to trade in the receivables. The assets in this category are measured at amortized cost, less any provision for value depletion. The category includes accounts receivable and cash and cash equivalents.
Accounts receivable When the estimated maturity of accounts receivable is short, recognition occurs in the amount expected to flow in based on an individual assessment of doubtful receivables and without discounting, according to the method for recognizing amortized cost. Any impairment losses on accounts receivable are recognized in operating profit. According to IFRS 9, a credit loss reserve based on expected credit losses should be recognized. The group has recognized the transition prospectively, considering historical credit losses over a business cycle, and concludes that there is no reason to create an impairment reserve.

Financial assets held for sale Financial assets held for sale are assets that are not derivatives and where the assets have been identified as being held for sale or have not been classified in any other category. The assets form part of non-current assets unless management intends to sell the asset within 12 months of the end of the reporting period.
Financial assets measured at fair value through profit or loss This category includes derivative instruments with a negative market value if they are not subject to hedge accounting. Similarly, it includes financial liabilities held for sale. The liabilities in this category are measured continuously at fair value and the changes in value are recognized in profit or loss. During the year, no financial derivatives were classified in this category.
Recognition of derivatives used in hedge accounting All derivatives are measured initially and then continuously at fair value in the Balance Sheet. Gains or losses arising from the re-measurement of derivatives are used for hedging purposes as follows. Changes in value pertaining to cash flow hedges are recognized in other comprehensive income and entered in profit or loss at the pace at which the hedged cash flow impacts profit or loss. Any ineffective component is recognized directly in profit or loss. Gains losses arising from the re-measurement of derivatives intended as fair value hedges are recognized in profit or loss together with changes in the fair value of the receivable or liability that is exposed to the hedged risk. To qualify for hedge accounting, certain documentation is required concerning the hedging instrument and its relationship to the hedged item. The group also documents objectives and strategies for risk management and hedging measures together with an assessment of how effective the hedging relationship is in terms of evening out changes in fair value or cash flow for hedged items, both when the hedge is initiated and in continuous recognition.
Financial liabilities measured at amortized cost This category includes financial liabilities that are not held for trading, such as accounts payable and loan liabilities. These are initially recognized at fair value, net, after transaction costs and subsequently at amortized cost, applying the effective-interest rate method.
Loans and accounts payable The measurement policy used for loans and accounts payable is amortized cost. Since the expected maturity of loans and accounts payable is short, such liabilities are recognized at a nominal amount without discounting. Liabilities that fall due within 12 months are classified as current liabilities.

Cash and cash equivalents Cash and cash equivalents consist of cash at financial institutions and shortterm investments with an original maturity of less than three months. Cash and cash equivalents are recognized at nominal amount.

38 ENEA ANNUAL REPORT 2018

ACCOUNTING POLICIES

FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS BY CATEGORY
31 December 2018 Assets in the Balance Sheet Financial assets measured at fair value through profit or loss Accounts receivable and other receivables excluding interim receivables Cash and cash equivalents
31 December 2017 Assets in the Balance Sheet Financial assets held for sale Accounts receivable and other receivables excluding interim receivables Cash and cash equivalents

Loan receivables and accounts receivable

Financial assets

Derivative

measured at fair instruments used

value through

for hedging

profit or loss

purposes

Financial assets held for sale

­ 335,815
74,673 410,488

­

­

­

­

­

­

­

­

­

­

­

­

­ 165,106
312,028 477,134

­

­

102,269

­

­

­

­

­

­

­

­

102,269

31 December 2018 Liabilities in the Balance Sheet Liabilities to credit institutions Purchase consideration posted to liabilities, long term Purchase consideration posted to liabilities, short term Derivative instruments Accounts payable and other liabilities excluding financial liabilities
31 December 2017 Liabilities in the Balance Sheet Liabilities to credit institutions Purchase consideration posted to liabilities, long term Purchase consideration posted to liabilities, short term Derivative instruments Accounts payable and other liabilities excluding financial liabilities

Financial assets

Derivative

measured at fair instruments used

value through

for hedging

profit or loss

purposes

Liabilities measured at amortized cost

­ ­ 1,346 ­ ­
1,346

­ ­ ­ 1,937 ­
1,937

633,164 ­ ­ ­
36,175
669,339

­ 110,434
3,704 ­ ­
114,138

­

116,000

­

­

­

­

840

­

­

27,179

840

143,179

ALLOCATION BY LEVEL IN FAIR VALUE MEASUREMENT AS OF 31 DECEMBER 2018

SEK 000 Derivative instruments used for hedging purposes Liability, currency derivatives Financial liabilities measured at fair value through profit and loss Liability, contingent consideration, short term Total 2018

Level 1
­
­ ­

Level 2
1,937
­ 1,937

The contingent consideration is based on estimated sales of licenses and services relating to Centered Logic. The carrying amounts of all liabilities are judged to correspond to fair value.

Level 3
­
1,346 1,346

Total
­ 335,815 74,673 410,488
102,269 165,106 312,028 579,403
Total
633,164 ­
1,346 1,937 36,175 672,622
116,000 110,434
3,704 840
27,179 258,157
Total 1,937 1,346 3,283

ANNUAL REPORT 2018 ENEA 39

ACCOUNTING POLICIES

FINANCIAL ASSETS MEASURED AT FAIR VALUE THROUGH PROFIT OR LOSS
The subcomponents included in financial assets measured at fair value through profit or loss are listed corporate bonds and a corporate bond fund. On transition to IFRS 9, this item was reclassified from financial assets held for sale to financial assets measured at fair value through profit or loss.

Financial assets Corporate bonds Corporate bond fund Total

2018 ­ ­ ­

2017 62,061 40,208 102,269

CASH AND CASH EQUIVALENTS
The subcomponents included in cash and cash equivalents are cash, bank and special deposits or commercial paper with an insignificant risk of fluctuations in value and that can easily be converted into cash and cash equivalents, and which have a maturity of no more than three months from the time of acquisition.

Cash and cash equivalents Cash and bank balances Investments in securities, etc. Total

2018 74,673
­ 74,673

2017 231,195 80,833 312,028

ACCOUNTS PAYABLE AND OTHER LIABILITIES
Accounts payable are unsecured are normally paid within 30 days. The fair value of Accounts Payable and other liabilities is considered equal to their carrying amounts, because they are inherently short term.

Current liabilities Accounts payable Other liabilities Total

2018 21,441 14,734 36,175

2017 11,098 16,081 27,179

BORROWING
Loans without pledged collateral Overdraft facility Bond loans Bank loans Total
Loans without pledged collateral Overdraft facility Bond loans Bank loans Total

Short-term 60,013
33,329 93,342
Short-term -
34,000 34,000

2018 Long-term
491,822 48,000 539,822
2017 Long-term 82,000 82,000

Total 60,013 491,822 81,329 633,164
Total -
116,000 116,000

40 ENEA ANNUAL REPORT 2018

ACCOUNTING POLICIES

Intangible assets Goodwill
Goodwill represents the difference between the cost of a business combination and the fair value of the acquired assets, assumed liabilities and contingent liabilities. Goodwill is measured at cost less any accumulated impairment. Goodwill is divided between cash-generating units and is impairment tested at least annually.
Research and development Research expenses aimed at obtaining new scientific or technical knowledge are recognized as an expense when they arise. Development expenditure, where the research results are aimed at achieving new or improved products or processes, is recognized as an asset in the Balance Sheet when the following criteria have been fulfilled:
· it is technically feasible to complete the asset, · the company intends to complete the asset and use or sell it, · the company has sufficient resources to complete development, · the asset is expected to generate future financial benefits, · it is possible to measure the expenditure required to complete the asset
reliably.
The carrying amount includes expenditure for materials, direct expenditure for salaries and indirect expenditure attributable to the asset in a reasonable and consistent manner. Other development costs are recognized as expense in profit or loss when they arise. The development expenditure recognized in the Balance Sheet is booked at cost, less accumulated amortization and impairment losses.
Other intangible assets These consist mainly of trademarks and brands, licenses and contractual customer relations arising through business combinations. The assets are recognized at fair value on the acquisition date less accumulated amortization.
Amortization policies Amortization is recognized on a straight-line basis in profit or loss over the estimated useful life of the intangible assets, assuming that useful life is not indeterminable. Goodwill is impairment tested on a quarterly basis or as soon as there are indications that the asset in question has declined in value. Amortizable intangible assets are amortized as of the date on which they become available for use. The estimated useful life of capitalized development expenditure is between three and five years. Acquired product rights are amortized over 5-10 years, while acquired contractual customer relations are amortized over seven years.
Property, plant and equipment Owned assets Property, plant and equipment are recognized as assets in the Balance Sheet when it is probable that the future economic benefits associated with the holding will flow to the company and that the cost of the asset can be measured reliably. Property, plant and equipment are recognized at cost in the group less accumulated depreciation and any impairment losses. Cost includes the purchase price and expenses directly attributable to bringing the asset to the site and condition required for it to be used in accordance with the aim of the purchase. Examples of directly attributable expenses included in cost are expenses for delivery and handling, installation, consultancy services and legal services.
Leased assets IAS 17 is applied in respect of leased assets. In the consolidated accounts, leases are classified either as finance or operating leases. With no significant exceptions, all leases are operating and relate mainly to cars and rent for premises. For operating leases, the lease fee is expensed over the duration of the lease based on useful life, which can differ from the actual payment made to cover lease payments during the year. The cost of leasing is recognized on a straight-line basis over the useful life.

Impairment
The carrying amounts of the group's assets, with the exception of deferred tax assets and financial assets, are impairment tested at each reporting date. If there is any indication of impairment, the recoverable amount of the asset is calculated. For the exempted assets as stated above, the carrying amounts are tested in accordance with the relevant standard. For goodwill and intangible assets, which are not yet ready for use, the recoverable amount is measured annually.
If it is not possible to determine essentially independent cash flows for an individual asset, the assets are grouped at the lowest level at which it is possible to identify essentially independent cash flows (known as a cash-generating unit). An impairment loss is recognized when the carrying amount of an asset or cash-generating unit exceeds the recoverable amount. Impairment is recognized as an expense in profit or loss.
Impairment of assets identified for a cash-generating unit (group of units) is allocated initially to goodwill. Subsequently, proportional impairment of other assets included in the unit (group of units) is conducted.
Measurement of recoverable amounts The recoverable amount is the greater of the fair value less selling expenses and value in use. When calculating the value in use, future cash flow is measured using a discount rate that takes into account risk-free interest and the risk associated with the specific asset. For an asset that does not generate cash flows that are significantly independent of other assets, the recoverable amount is calculated for the cash-generating unit to which the asset belongs.
Reversal of impairment losses Impairment of goodwill is not reversed. Impairment losses on other assets are reversed if a change occurs in the assumptions that formed the basis for the measurement of the recoverable amount. A reversal is only conducted to the extent that the asset's carrying amount after reversal does not exceed the carrying amount that would have been recognized, less the depreciation that would then have been applied, if no impairment loss had been recognized.
Employee benefits Pensions Obligations regarding fees for defined-contribution plans are recognized as expenses in profit or loss when they arise. All pension solutions in foreign subsidiaries, with the exception of Qosmos in France, are classified and recognized as defined-contribution plans, which means that the group's profit (loss) is charged with pension expenses in pace with the vesting of benefits.
Salaried employees in Sweden are covered by the ITP plan, which is recognized as a defined-contribution pension plan. Commitments for retirement pensions and survivors' pensions for salaried employees in Sweden are assured through an insurance policy with Alecta. According to a statement from the Swedish Financial Reporting Board, UFR 10, this is a multi-employer defined-benefit plan. Alecta is unable to provide Enea or other Swedish companies with sufficient information to determine an individual company's share of the total commitment and its plan assets. Accordingly, ITP pension plans covered by insurance with Alecta are recognized as defined-contribution. This plan is being financed on an ongoing basis through pension insurance policies. Alecta's surplus can be distributed to the policyholders and/or the insured. The collective consolidation ratio consists of the market value of Alecta's assets as a percentage of its insurance obligations, calculated in accordance with Alecta's actuarial accounting assumptions, which do not comply with IAS 19. Salaried employees in Qosmos France are covered by a defined-benefit pension plan. The group's net obligation for defined-benefit plans is calculated by estimating future remuneration earned by employees in the current and earlier periods. This remuneration is discounted to present value. The liability for defined-benefit pension plans posted to the Balance Sheet corresponds to the present value of the defined-benefit obligation. Revaluation gains (loss)es resulting from experience-based restatements and changes in actuarial assumptions are reported in other comprehensive income in the period in which they arise. Costs relating to employment in earlier periods are recognized directly in the Income Statement.

Depreciation policies Depreciation is conducted on a straight-line basis over the asset's estimated useful life. The estimated useful life of property, plant and equipment such as equipment, tools and installations is five years. The useful life and residual value of assets are tested annually.

ANNUAL REPORT 2018 ENEA 41

ACCOUNTING POLICIES

Severance pay In conjunction with notice of employment termination, a provision is recognized only if the company is contractually obligated to terminate an employment position before the normal time, or when payments are made as an offering to encourage voluntary termination. For cases in which the company implements personnel cutbacks, a detailed plan is prepared that covers at least the workplace concerned, positions, and the approximate number of affected employees and disbursements for every personnel category or position, as well as a time schedule for the plan's implementation.
Remuneration of senior executives The guidelines for remuneration of senior executives are adopted by the Annual General Meeting. For group management, salaries and other employment conditions are applied based on market conditions. In addition to basic annual salaries, members of the group's Executive Management Team receive variable remuneration based on earnings performance in relation to predetermined targets. Remuneration of certain senior executives within the Enea group can also be paid in the form of share-based payment.
Share-based payment The group has one outstanding incentive program from which payments are made in the form of shares, with the company receiving services from employees as payment for the group's equity instruments (shares). The fair value of the service that provides the employees with entitlement to an allotment of equity instruments is expensed over the vesting period. The Share Savings Program is measured using conventional models. For more information on the incentive program, also refer to Note 22.
Provisions
A provision is recognized in the Balance Sheet when the group has an existing legally enforceable or constructive obligation resulting from an event that has occurred, and it is probable that an outflow of resources will be required to fulfil the obligation and the amount concerned can be reliably estimated. If the effect of when payment is made is significant, the provision is measured by means of discounting of the anticipated future cash flow at a pre-tax interest rate that reflects current market assessments of the time value of money and, where applicable, the risks associated with the liability.
Restructuring A provision for restructuring is recognized when the group has established a detailed and formal restructuring plan, and restructuring has either been commenced or announced publicly. No provisions are made for future operating expenses.

.Financial risks
The greatest financial risks are liquidity risk, currency risk and interest rate risk. Enea has a financial policy established by the Board, which forms a framework of guidelines for managing financial risks. A detailed description of the financial risks is presented in the Directors' Report.
Earnings per share
The measurement of earnings per share is based on consolidated profit for the year attributable to equity holders of the parents and on the weighted average number of shares outstanding during the year. When measuring earnings per share after dilution, earnings and the average number of shares is restated to take into account the dilutive effects of potential ordinary shares, which arise during reported periods from convertible debentures and warrants issued to employees. Dilution occurs only when the exercise price is lower than the share price. The exercise price is adjusted by means of a supplement for the value of future services linked to the equity-settled stock option programs recognized as share-based payments pursuant to IFRS 2..
Contingent liabilities
A contingent liability is recognized when there is a possible obligation deriving from events that have occurred whose existence can only be confirmed if one or more uncertain future events occur or when there is a commitment that has not been recognized as a liability or entered as a provision because it is not likely that an outflow of resources will be required.
Parent company's accounting policies
The parent company has prepared its annual accounts in accordance with the Swedish Annual Accounts Act (1995:1554) and the Swedish Financial Accounting Standards Council's recommendation RFR 2 Accounting for Legal Entities. According to RFR 2, the parent company, as the legal entity, must apply all of the EU-approved IFRS and statements insofar as this is possible within the framework of the Swedish Annual Accounts Act and taking into account the relationship between accounting and taxation. The recommendation indicates the exceptions and supplements that are to be made compared with IFRS. The differences between the group's and parent company's accounting policies are described below.
Differences between the group's and parent company's accounting policies The differences between the group's and parent company's accounting policies are described below. The accounting policies stated below for the parent company were applied consistently in all periods presented in the parent company's financial statements.

Onerous contracts A provision for onerous contracts is recognized when the expected benefits that the group is expecting to obtain from a contract are lower than the unavoidable costs for fulfilling the terms of the contract.
Taxes
Income taxes comprise current tax and deferred tax. Income tax is recognized in profit or loss, except when the underlying transaction is recognized directly against equity, in which case the related tax effect is recognized in equity. Current tax is tax to be paid or recovered for the current year using the tax rates already enacted or substantively enacted at the reporting date, including restatements of current tax attributable to earlier periods.
Deferred tax is computed in accordance with the balance sheet method, based on temporary differences between carrying amounts and tax bases of assets and liabilities. The following temporary differences are not taken into account: temporary differences arising upon initial recognition of goodwill; initial recognition of assets and liabilities that are not business combinations and which at the time of the transaction did not affect either recognized or taxable gains. Temporary differences attributable to participations in subsidiaries that are not expected to be reversed in the foreseeable future are not taken into account. Measurement of deferred tax is based on how the carrying amount of underlying assets or liabilities is expected to be recovered or settled. Deferred tax is measured using the tax rates and regulations enacted or substantively enacted at the reporting date.
Deferred tax assets pertaining to deductible temporary differences and tax loss carry-forwards are only recognized insofar as they are likely to be utilized in the future. The value of deferred tax assets is reduced when it is no longer probable that the assets can be utilized. Any additional income tax relating to dividends is recognized at the same date as the dividend is recognized as a liability.

Subsidiaries Participations in subsidiaries are recognized in the parent company in accordance with the cost method. Dividends received are only recognized as revenue if they are derived from profits earned after acquisition. Dividends in excess of such earnings are regarded as repayment of the investment and reduce the carrying amount of the participating interest.
Dividends Dividends to the parent company's shareholders are recognized as liabilities in the consolidated financial statements for the period in which the dividend is approved by the parent company's shareholders. Anticipated dividends from subsidiaries are recognized if the parent company has sole entitlement to decide on the size of the dividend and the parent company has made a decision on the size of the dividend before the parent company has published its financial statements.
Taxes The parent company recognizes untaxed reserves including deferred tax liabilities. In the consolidated financial statements, however, untaxed reserves are divided into deferred tax liabilities and equity.
Group contributions and shareholder contributions for legal entities Shareholder contributions are entered directly in the equity of the recipient and are capitalized in shares and participations by the donor, to the extent that impairment is not required. Due to the correlation between recognition and taxation, group contributions paid by the parent company to subsidiaries are recognized as a financial cost in profit or loss. Group contributions received are recognized as appropriations. The tax effect is recognized in accordance with IAS 12.

42 ENEA ANNUAL REPORT 2018

NOTES

NOTE 2--Nature of income and operating segment reporting
Operating segments are reported in accordance with how financial information is presented internally to the chief operating decision maker (CODM). The CODM is the function responsible for allocating resources and evaluating the performance of segments. In the group, this function has been identified as the CEO, and Enea reports the whole operation as a single segment.

Revenue by business unit Key Accounts World Wide Software Sales Global Services

2018 226,331 458,784 145,214 830,329

2017 249,644 206,353 132,374 588,371

Revenue by market segment Telecom/OEMs Telecom/operators Security Aerospace/defense Other

2018 359,446 259,532 66,234
41,123 103,994 830,329

2017 363,080
29,532 64,673 54,173 76,913 588,371

Revenue by product group Operating Systems Solutions Network Solutions Services Other

2018 258,714 417,156 145,212
9,247 830,329

2017 269,381 179,498 132,373
7,119 588,371

Revenue by geographical market Sweden Americas EMEA excluding Sweden Asia

2018 174,255 302,997 262,068 91,009 830,329

2017 168,773 165,363 204,622
49,613 588,371

Fixed assets by geographical market Sweden Americas France Rest of Europe and Asia

2018 107,977 867,732 382,971 38,896 1,397,576

2017 101,047
37,374 361,742 31,650 531,813

Enea has a few major customers that account for a material portion of the company's sales. Two of the company's customers each account for 10 percent or more of the company's sales, with a share of 16 (25) percent and 11 (17) percent respectively of the company's sales. 

ANNUAL REPORT 2018 ENEA 43

NOTES
NOTE 3--Exchange gains and losses
GROUP Exchange gains on operating receivables/liabilities Exchange losses on operating receivables/liabilities
PARENT COMPANY Exchange gains on operating receivables/liabilities Exchange losses on operating receivables/liabilities
NOTE 4--Employees and other senior executives
Average number of employees Parent company Subsidiaries Group total Of which: Sweden US Romania China Japan France Germany UK Singapore Spain Canada India Group total
Gender division, group management Board of Directors Other senior executives
Salary, other benefits and social security expenses GROUP Salary and benefits* Share-based payment *
* of which to the Board, CEO and other senior executives1 Pension expenses 2
of which defined-benefit pension plans of which defined-contribution pension plans Other social security expenses Total

Total 10 553
563

2018 Of which men, %
48 76 76

61

76

76

78

265

68

5

79

4

100

63

85

2

50

46

91

2

100

5

83

2

79

31

86

563

76

7

71

9

100

2018

358,005 8,715 39,941 18,182 287 17,895 61,496
446,398

2018
5,274 ­4,025
2018
­ ­

2017
3,618 ­5,630
2017
­ ­

Total 12
455 467

2017 Of which men, %
48 74 74

70

77

56

80

256

66

5

80

5

100

67

90

2

50

4

100

2

96

­

­

­

­

­

­

467

74

7

71

9

100

2017

216,956 7,951
37,239 15,999
665 15,334 65,298 306,204

44 ENEA ANNUAL REPORT 2018

NOTES

Salary, other benefits and social security expenses PARENT COMPANY Salary and benefits * Share-based payment *
* of which to the Board, CEO and other senior executives 3 Pension expenses 4
of which defined contribution pension plans Other social security expenses Total

2018
14,710 776
11,483 5,079 5,079 5,250 25,815

2017
12,437 2,233 9,593 4,739 4,739 4,238 23,647

1 Of the group's salary and benefits, SEK 4,661,000 (2,618,000) is variable remuneration for the group comprising the Board and CEO (including the CEO and Boards of subsidiaries).

2 Of the group's pension expenses, SEK 3,614,000 (2,492,000) is for the group comprising the Board and CEO.

3 Of the parent company's salary and benefits, SEK 4,000,000 (1,693,000) is variable remuneration for the group comprising the Board and CEO.

4 Of the parent company's pension expenses, SEK 3,559,000 (2,492,000) is for the group comprising the Board and CEO.





In accordance with the resolution of the Annual General Meeting, Board members appointed by the AGM who are not employed by the company received the following remuneration in 2018

Anders Skarin (Chairman) Kjell Duveblad Åsa Sundberg Gunilla Fransson Mats Lindoff Torbjörn Nilsson Total 2018

Directors' fees 480 225 225 225 225 225
1,605

Audit Committee fees
­ 60 30 ­ ­ 30 120

Remuneration Committee fees
40 ­ ­ 20 ­ ­ 60

Total 520 285 255 245 225 255
1,785

In accordance with the resolution by the Annual General Meeting, Board members appointed by the AGM who are not employed by the company received the following remuneration in 2017

Directors' fees

Audit Committee fees

Remuneration Committee fees

Total

Anders Skarin (Chairman)

470

­

40

510

Kjell Duveblad

220

60

­

280

Åsa Sundberg

220

30

­

250

Gunilla Fransson

220

­

20

240

Mats Lindoff

220

­

­

220

Torbjörn Nilsson

220

30

­

250

Total 2017

1,570

120

60

1,750

Summary of remuneration and other benefits in 2018

CEO Anders Lidbeck Other senior executives (11)* Total 2018

Fixed salary 3,519
15,664 19,183

Variable remuneration Other benefits

4,000

­

6,240

1,333

10,240

1,333

Share-based payment
1,051
3,104
4,155

Total 8,570 26,341 34,911

Pension expense
3,559
1,164
4,723

Summary of remuneration and other benefits in 2017

CEO Anders Lidbeck Other senior executives (11)* Total 2017

Fixed salary 3,347 13,704
17,051

Variable remuneration Other benefits

1,693

­

5,536

1,024

7,229

1,024

* The number of senior executives varied in the year.

Share-based payment
1,335
3,755
5,090

Total 6,375 24,019 30,394

Pension expense
2,492
2,803
5,295

ANNUAL REPORT 2018 ENEA 45

NOTES

Remuneration of senior executives Principles
The Chairman of the Board and Board members receive remuneration in accordance with the Annual General Meeting resolution. Employee representatives do not receive Directors' fees. Remuneration to the CEO is decided by the Chairman of the Board and Board members appointed by the Annual General Meeting following a proposal by the Remuneration Committee. The guidelines for remuneration to senior executives are adopted by the Annual General Meeting. For group management, salaries and other employment terms are on market terms. Apart from basic annual salary, group management also receives variable remuneration. The variable remuneration is based on earnings performance compared with predetermined targets and is capped at amounts fixed annually on an individual basis.
Remuneration to certain senior executives within the Enea group can also take the form of share-based payment. For more information, see Note 22.
Pension agreements The pension agreement with the Chief Executive Officer is decided by the Board of Directors, after receiving a proposal from the Remuneration Committee, and consists of 35 percent of fixed salary and variable remuneration. Other senior executives in Sweden have Alternativ ITP' (`alternative supplementary pensions for salaried employees'), within the framework of the ITP scheme. This is a defined contribution plan, based on the company's adopted contribution staircase. Pension contributions are made progressively.
Severance pay On termination of the CEO, the company will observe a notice period of six months, and the CEO will observe a notice period of nine months to the company. In addition, severance pay will be paid corresponding to 12 months' fixed salary if employment is terminated by the company. Should the ownership structure change in such a manner that results in a new majority shareholder in the company, the CEO is entitled to severance pay of six months' salary. All dismissal and severance pay are deducted from any other earned income. For other senior executives, a period of notice of three to 12 months applies.

NOTE 5--Fees and reimbursement to Auditors
Auditing assignments are defined as examinations of the Annual Report and financial statements, as well as of the administration of the Board of Directors and CEO, other duties that the company's Auditors are obliged to conduct and advice or other assistance required due to observations made during such reviews or during the performance of such other duties. All other work is defined as other assignments. Of Audit assignments, SEK 1.1 (0.9) million relates to PwC Sweden, and of other assignments, SEK 0.1 (0.5) million relates to PwC Sweden.

GROUP PricewaterhouseCoopers Auditing Other statutory assignments Tax consultancy Other

2018
1,124 ­ ­ 52

2017
890 100 202 523

Ernst & Young Auditing Other statutory assignments Tax consultancy Other

584 ­ ­ ­
1,760

511 ­ ­ ­
2,226

PARENT COMPANY PricewaterhouseCoopers Auditing Other statutory assignments Tax consultancy Other

2018
1,004 ­ ­ 52
1,056

2017
674 100
­ 148 922

46 ENEA ANNUAL REPORT 2018

NOTES

NOTE 6--Operating costs divided by type

Consumables and subcontracting consultants Other external costs Personnel costs Depreciation/amortization and impairment losses

2018 18,786 117,694 476,191 40,465 653,136

2017 14,311 102,798 345,590 22,886 485,585

Depreciation/amortization and impairment losses for the year are allocated between cost of sold products and services totaling SEK 34.0 (19.0) million, sales and marketing expenses totaling SEK 0.5 (1.1) million, product development costs totaling SEK 0.6 (1.5) million and administrative costs totaling SEK 5.4 (1.2) million.

NOTE 7--Lease payments for operating leases
Operating leasing are mainly rent for premises.
GROUP Lease payments, current year Contractual future minimum lease payments within 1 year Contractual future minimum lease payments within 2­5 years The group has no contractual future lease payments with a term that exceeds five years.
PARENT COMPANY Lease payments, current year Contractual future minimum lease payments within 1 year Contractual future minimum lease payments within 2­5 years The parent company has no contractual future lease payments with a term that exceeds five years.

2018
20,401 19,641 35,385
2018
4,676 4,302 12,537

2017
15,757 16,416 32,656
2017
3,861 4,008 15,693

NOTE 8--Financial net
GROUP Profit (loss) on liquidation of subsidiary Interest income Other financial income Exchange gains Financial income
Interest expenses Other financial expenses Exchange losses Financial expenses
Financial net

2018
236 337
­ 24,293 24,866
­23,504 ­3,947 ­25,123
­52,574 ­27,708

2017
­ 999 373 15,633 17,005
­1,847 ­
­20,340 ­22,187
­5,182

ANNUAL REPORT 2018 ENEA 47

NOTES
PARENT COMPANY Dividend, shares and participations in subsidiaries Profit (loss) from participations in group companies
Interest income, other Interest income, group companies Other financial income Exchange gains Interest income and similar profit (loss) items
Interest income, other Interest income, group companies Other financial income Exchange gains Interest income and similar profit (loss) items Financial net
NOTE 9--Tax
GROUP Current tax expense Tax expense for the period
Deferred tax ­ tax expense in loss carry-forwards utilized in the year ­ tax expense/income pertaining to temporary differences ­ change in deferred tax due to changed tax rate
Total tax expense recognized, group
Reconciliation of effective tax GROUP Profit before tax Standard rate tax, 22.0%
Tax effect of ­ other tax rates in foreign subsidiaries ­ utilization of previously capitalized loss carry-forwards ­ utilization of previously non-capitalized loss carry-forwards ­ non-deductible costs ­ non-taxable revenues ­ changed future tax rate ­ research and development
Other taxes Adjustment of tax for previous years Total tax expense recognized, group
48 ENEA ANNUAL REPORT 2018

2018
­ ­
210 26,346
­ 1,406 27,962
­23,221 ­
­3,145 ­2,728 ­29,094 ­1,132
2018
­11,731 ­11,731
­5,559 ­2,975
768 ­7,766 ­19,497
2018
161,147 ­35,452
­1,803 ­123 9,790
­3,011 3,517
791 11,647 ­4,315
­538 ­19,497
12%

2017
35,400 35,400
383 1,922
373 1,257 3,935
­1,732 ­8
­1,079 ­2,819 36,516
2017
­4,556 ­4,556
­3,892 ­6,424
­239 ­10,555 ­15,111
2017
97,604 ­21,473
­1,379 ­106 55 ­431 494 ­265 9,006
­1,452 440
­15,111 15%

NOTES

PARENT COMPANY Current tax Tax for the period
Reconciliation of effective tax PARENT COMPANY Profit before tax Tax, 22.0%
Tax effect of - non-deductible costs - non-taxable revenues
Other taxes Total tax recognized, parent company
Deferred tax assets and liabilities GROUP The following components are included in deferred tax assets and tax liabilities Deferred tax assets:
­ loss carry-forwards ­ other temporary differences Total deferred tax assets
Deferred tax liabilities: ­ temporary differences
Total deferred tax liabilities

2018
­384 ­384 2018
84 ­18
­361 ­ ­5
­384 458% 2018
10,532 6,953 17,485
68,417 68,417

2017
­1,434 ­1,434
2019 40,183 ­8,840
­375 7,788
­7 ­1,434
4% 2017
15,513 5,855 21,368
41,779 41,779

Change in deferred tax 2018 GROUP Deferred tax assets Loss carry-forwards Other temporary differences Total deferred tax assets
Deferred tax liabilities Appropriations Intangible assets Other temporary differences Total deferred tax liabilities

Recognized in

other

Opening Recognized in comprehensi- Exchange rate Acquisitions of

balance profit or loss

ve income differences subsidiaries

Closing balance

15,513 5,855 21,368

­5,559 681
-4,878

­

578

86

331

86

909

­

10,532

­

6,953

0

17,485

28,992 7,811 4,976
41,779

­1,575 ­3,384
7,847 2,888

­

­

­

27,417

­

261

23,199

27,887

­

290

­

13,113

0

551

23,199

68,417

ANNUAL REPORT 2018 ENEA 49

NOTES

Change in deferred tax 2017 GROUP Deferred tax assets Loss carry-forwards Other temporary differences Total deferred tax assets

Recognized in

other

Changed

Opening Recognized in comprehensi- Exchange rate accounting

balance profit or loss

ve income differences policy, IFRS 15

Closing balance

18,931 4,600 23,531

-3,892 -354
-4,246

­

474

­

15,513

15

-28

1,622

5,855

15

446

1,622

21,368

Deferred tax liabilities Appropriations Intangible assets Other temporary differences Total deferred tax liabilities

25,680 8,563 717
34,960

3,312 ­983 4,171 6,500

­

­

­

231

­

88

0

319

­

28,992

­

7,811

­

4,976

0

41,779

Deferred tax assets for loss carry-forwards pertain to subsidiaries in Germany and France. Management's opinion is that the capitalized loss carry-forwards will be utilized in the coming years based on profit forecasts and that the loss carry-forwards have indefinite useful lives. Non-capitalized deferred tax assets for unutilized deficits total SEK 101.5 (0.3) million and relate to the US and UK.

NOTE 10--Intangible assets
2018 GROUP Accumulated cost Opening balance, 1 Jan. 2018 Purchased in the year Sales/retirements in the year Translation difference for the year Closing balance, 31 Dec. 2018
Accumulated amortization and impairment losses Opening balance 1 Jan. 2018 Sales/retirements in the year Amortization and impairment for the year Translation difference for the year Closing balance, 31 Dec. 2018
Carrying amount, 31 Dec. 2018

Capitalized development Goodwill expenditure

Product rights

Customer contracts

Brands

Other intangible
assets

Total

424,246 654,674
­ 72,261 1,151,182

237,442 60,254
­ 1,631 299,326

22,897 27,774
­ 3,282 53,953

10,604 54,499
­ 5,052 70,155

9,446 11,315
­ 1,365 22,126

12,947 779
­1,651 241
12,316

717,582 809,295
­1,651 83,832 1,609,058

­

­178,587

­

­

­

­19,717

­

­85

­ ­198,389

1,151,182

100,937

­2,868 ­
­5,555 ­203
­8,626
45,327

­1,946 ­
­7,450 ­261
­9,657
60,498

­ ­ ­ ­ ­
22,126

­11,960 1,733 ­563 ­215
­11,004

­195,361 1,733
­33,285 ­764
­227,676

1,312 1,381,382

50 ENEA ANNUAL REPORT 2018

NOTES

2017 GROUP Accumulated cost Opening balance, 1 Jan. 2017 Purchased in the year Translation difference for the year Closing balance, 31 Dec. 2017
Accumulated amortization and impairment Opening balance, 1 Jan. 2017 Amortization and impairment for the year Translation difference for the year Closing balance, 31 Dec. 2017
Carrying amount, 31 Dec. 2017

Capitalized development Goodwill expenditure

Product rights

Customer contracts

Brands

Other intangible
assets

Total

419,230 ­
5,016 424,246

202,563 34,467
412 237,442

22,278 ­
619 22,897

10,311 ­
293 10,604

9,175 ­
271 9,446

12,700 125 122
12,947

676,257 34,592 6,733 717,582

­

­164,894

­

­13,661

­

­32

­ ­178,587

424,246

58,855

­439 ­2,377
­52 ­2,868
20,029

­514 ­1,397
­35 ­1,946
8,658

­ ­ ­ ­
9,446

­11,186 ­672 ­102
­11,960

­177,033 ­18,107
­221 ­195,361

987

522,221

PARENT COMPANY ACCUMULATED COST Opening balance, 1 Jan. Purchased in the year Closing balance, 31 Dec.

2018
7,356 779
8,135

2017
7,356 ­
7,356

Opening balance 1 Jan. Amortization for the year Closing balance, 31 Dec.

­6,979 ­286
­7,265

­6,760 ­219
­6,979

Carrying amount, 31 Dec.

870

377

Capitalized development expenditure within Enea relates mainly to internal work on the development of new products. The amortization term for capitalized development expenditure is five years, ten years for product rights, seven years for customer contracts and five years for other intangible assets. The remaining amortization term for intangible assets amounts to one to nine years.

Impairment testing of capitalized development expenses Enea routinely conducts impairment tests on significant assets regardless of whether there is any indication of impairment. The measurement is reviewed quarterly. Impairment tests of capitalized development expenses have the same assumptions as for goodwill. Management's opinion is that there is no impairment in 2018.. 
Impairment testing of goodwill Goodwill as of 31 December 2018 amounted to a book value of SEK 1,151.2 (424.2) million. Assets with indefinite useful lives are tested annually for impairment. Individual assets may be subject to more frequent testing if there are indications of impairment. The group's measurement is based on three cash-generating units, Enea group excluding Qosmos and Openwave Mobility, and Qosmos and the Openwave Mobility groups. The impairment tests are based on measurement of value in use. Value in use is measured on the basis of discounted cash flows and are based on group management's financial forecasts over a five-year period. The Gordon model has been used for computing the terminal value of cash flows. Cash flows beyond the five-year period have been forecast using a 2 (2) percent growth rate. Forecast cash flows are based on annual earnings growth for the group excluding Qosmos of 4 (4) percent, for Qosmos an average of 5 (5.5) percent, and for Openwave Mobility, an average of 8 percent based on estimated growth of existing customers and underlying markets. The cost trend for the group excluding Qosmos is forecast at 5 (5) percent, 3 (3) percent for Qosmos, and 3 percent for Openwave. The present value of forecast cash flows was measured by applying a discount rate of 9 (9) percent before tax. The discount rate is judged as consistent with market required returns. Sensitivity analyses have been conducted that consider the discount rate (risk) and long-term growth rate, implying a general reduction in the growth rate after five years by two percentage points and a general increase in the weighted cost of capital by three percentage points. The sensitivity analyses did not indicate any impairment. Accordingly, management's opinion is that a reasonable potential change in assumptions would not reduce the recoverable amount below book value. Important assumptions for impairment testing are outlined below:

Assumption Enea

Assumption Qosmos

Assumption Openwave

Variable

2018

2017

2018

2017

2018

2017

Revenue growth

4%

(4%)

5%

(5.5%)

8%

N/A

Cost trend

4%

(5%)

3%

(3%)

3%

N/A

Discount rate

9%

(9%)

9%

(9%)

9%

N/A

Long-term stable growth

2%

(2%)

2%

(2%)

2%

N/A

ANNUAL REPORT 2018 ENEA 51

NOTES

NOTE 11--Equipment, tools, fixtures and fittings
Accumulated cost At beginning of year Purchased in the year Purchased in the year via acquisition of operation Sales/retirements Translation differences for the year
Accumulated depreciation and impairment At beginning of year Sales/retirements Depreciation and impairment losses for the year Depreciation via acquisition of operations for the year Translation differences for the year
Carrying amount at end of year

2018

Group

2017

58,245 7,046 44,728 ­2,612
942 108,350

78,184 4,176 ­
­23,445 ­670
58,245

­48,653 2,375 ­7,190
­38,024 ­664
­92,156 16,194

­67,295 22,808 ­4,778
­ 612 ­48,653 9,592

Parent company

2018

2017

10,981 1,161 ­ ­341 ­
11,801

15,547 410 ­
­4,976 ­
10,981

­9,592 341
­584 ­ ­
­9,835 1,966

­13,842 4,976 ­726 ­ ­
­9,592 1,389

Depreciation relates to cost of sold products and services, sales and marketing expenses, product development expenses and administrative expenses.

NOTE 12--Financial assets measured at fair value through profit or loss
Financial assets GROUP Corporate bonds Corporate bond fund Total
Financial assets PARENT COMPANY Corporate bonds Corporate bond fund Total
All financial assets measured at fair value through profit or loss are expressed in SEK. None of these financial assets are due for payment or subject to impairment.

2018
­ ­ ­
2018
­ ­ ­

2017
62,061 40,208 102,269
2017
62,061 40,208 102,269

52 ENEA ANNUAL REPORT 2018

NOTES

NOTE 13--Accounts receivable
Non-overdue accounts receivable are from customers with good solvency and payment history. Accounts receivable usually become due for payment within 30-90 days. Accounts receivable that are impaired are consistent with the provision for doubtful debt. A reserve is made when the company has taken measures to collect the receivable without success, and judges that the likelihood of the customer paying is low. The reserve for doubtful debt amounts to SEK 2.9 (1.0) million. The reserve for doubtful debt is recognized as a selling expense in the Income Statement. The fair value of accounts receivable corresponds to the carrying amount. Accounts receivable are predominantly denominated in SEK, EUR and USD. The age analysis of accounts receivable follows:

Age analysis of accounts receivable GROUP Not overdue Overdue 1­60 days Overdue 1­60 days Overdue 90 days Total

2018
143,953 23,801
629 6,288 174,671

2017
119,846 8,728 6,668 7,707
142,949

Change in doubtful debt GROUP Opening balance Repayment Written off Reserve for the year Total

2018
1,038 ­765
­ 2,617 2,890

2017
300 ­
­300 1,038 1,038

NOTE 14--Prepaid expenses, contract assets and accrued income
GROUP Prepaid insurance Prepaid rents Accrued income Other prepaid expenses

2018
573 2,399 77,726 20,872 101,570

PARENT COMPANY Prepaid insurance Prepaid rents Accrued income Other prepaid expenses

2018
501 1,037
­ 3,943 5,481

Contract assets
The group is reporting the following revenue-related contract assets
Contract assets relating to fulfilled performance obligations, where entitlement to payment is conditional on factors other than time

2018 30,474

Contract assets have not been subject to impairment, and accordingly, carrying amounts are recognized net.

2017 2,890

2017
330 2,780 6,445 8,691 18,246
2017
307 950 698 3,927 5,882
2016 3,262

Material changes to contract assets
In 2018, contract assets increased due to the acquisition of Openwave Mobility. 

ANNUAL REPORT 2018 ENEA 53

NOTES

NOTE 15--Derivative instruments
Long-term Currency forwards--cash flow hedges Short-term Currency forwards--cash flow hedges

Assets

2018 Liabilities

­

­

­

1 937

Assets

2017 Liabilities

­

­

­

840

NOTE 16--Equity

Group Share capital
As of 31 December 2018, the registered share capital comprised 19,650,231 ordinary shares with a quotient value of SEK 1.13 per share. Holders of ordinary shares are entitled to dividends at amounts specified in arrears, and shareholdings carry voting rights at Annual General Meetings of one vote per share. In the year, the company purchased 0 (0) treasury shares and sold 0 (0) treasury shares.

Other paid-up capital Equity contributed by owners. This includes share premium reserves transferred to the statutory reserve as at 31 December 2005. Provisions to the share premium reserve from 1 January 2006 onwards are also recognized as paid-up capital.

Number of shares
Opening no. of shares New share issue Cancelled shares Closing no. of shares

2018 19,650,231
­ ­ 19,650,231

2017 16,240,231 3,410,000
­ 19,650,231

Reserves Hedging reserve Opening hedging reserve Cash flow hedges: - fair value gain (loss) in the year - tax on fair value gain (loss) - transfers to profit or loss - tax on transfers to profit or loss Closing hedging reserve

2018 ­421
­1,096 241 705 ­155
­726

2017 ­367
208 ­46 ­277
61 ­421

Translation reserve The translation reserve includes all exchange rate differences that arise when translating net assets from foreign operations that have prepared their financial statements in currencies other than the currency in which the group's financial reports are presented. The parent company and group present their financial reports in Swedish kronor.

2018

2017

Opening translation reserve

­10,094

­15,619

Translation differences for the year

84,095

5,525

Closing translation reserve

74,001

­10,094

Retained earnings including profit (loss) for the year Profit brought forward, including profit (loss) for the year, includes earned profits in the parent company and its subsidiaries. Earlier provisions to the statutory reserve, excluding transferred share premium reserves, are included in this equity item.
The total holding of treasury shares as at 31 December 2018 was 314,760. The shares are held as treasury shares and were fully paid up on 31 December 2018. 
NON-RESTRICTED EQUITY Share premium reserve
When shares are issued at a premium, so the price paid for the shares is higher than their quotient value, an amount corresponding to the amount received over and above the quotient value of the share is transferred to the share premium reserve.

Retained earnings This consists of the preceding year's non-restricted equity following any statutory reserve provision and dividends paid. With the profit (loss) for the year, this is total non-restricted equity, i.e. the amount available as dividends to shareholders. See also the Consolidated Statement of Change in Equity and Parent Company Statement of Change in Equity.

54 ENEA ANNUAL REPORT 2018

NOTES

NOTE 17--Earnings per share
Earnings per share before dilution Profit for the year after tax Average number of shares, 000 Earnings per share before dilution, SEK

2018
141,650 19,335
7,33

Earnings per share after dilution Profit for the year after tax Average number of shares, 000 Earnings per share after dilution, SEK

141,650 19,335
7,33

Earnings per share is measured by dividing earnings for the period attributable to equity holders of the parents by the average number of shares.

2017
82,493 17,601
4,69
82,493 17,601
4,69

NOTE 18--Accrued expenses, contracts liabilities, deferred income and performance obligations

GROUP Deferred support income* Accrued personnel expenses Other deferred income* Other

2018
41,609 71,514 34,516 25,711 173,350

2017
26,814 31,600 20,103 30,638 109,155

PARENT COMPANY Accrued personnel expenses Other

2018
14,039 3,662 17,701

2017
7,444 1,892 9,336

ANNUAL REPORT 2018 ENEA 55

NOTES

CONTRACT LIABILITIES
* When Enea receives a payment but has not fulfilled a performance obligation, a contract liability arises, which consist of the deferred income relating to support contracts and licenses. A contract liability is recognized until the performance obligations is fulfilled, or become due for the customer to utilize, when it is recognized as revenue.

The group recognizes the following-revenue-related contract liabilities
Contract liabilities relating to unfulfilled performance obligations

2018 76,125

2017 46,917

2016 53,242

Opening contract liabilities recognized as revenue in the year GROUP
Material changes to contract liabilities : The group's contract liabilities increased in 2018 due to the acquisition of Openwave Mobility
Performance obligations
Revenue from performance obligations satisfied in previous periods GROUP

2018 44,340
2018 52,988

2017 46,955
2017 46,712

Unfulfilled long-term performance obligations* GROUP

2018 153,197

* Revenue from performance obligations for long-term, irrevocable contracts that will be recognized as revenue in future periods.  Management expects that 65 percent of the transaction price that has been allocated to unfulfilled agreements as of 31 December 2018 will be recognized as revenue in the following financial year (SEK 99,658,000). The remaining 35 percent will be recognized in the years 2020-2023. 
Pursuant to the transitional provisions of IFRS 15, no disclosures have been made on the transaction price allocated to (partly) unfulfilled performance obligations as of 31 December 2017.

NOTE 19--Parent company holdings in group companies
Parent company holdings in group companies Enea Software AB
Enea Zealcore AB Enea Software & Services, Inc Enea GmbH Enea KK Enea Polyhedra Ltd Enea Romania SRL Qosmos SA Openwave Mobility Inc
Accumulated cost At beginning of year Closing balance 31 December
Accumulated impairment losses At beginning of year Closing balance 31 December
Carrying amount at end of year

Country Sweden Sweden
US Germany
Japan UK
Romania France US
2018
330,630 330,630
­158,596 ­158,596
172 034

Specification of the parent company's holdings in subsidiaries Subsidiary/Corp. ID. no./Reg. office Enea Software AB, 556183­3012, Kista

No. of participations
5,900

Participating interest, %
100

56 ENEA ANNUAL REPORT 2018

Participating interest, % 100 100 100 100 100 100 100 100 100
2017
330,630 330,630

­158,596 ­158,596

172 034

Carrying amount

2018

2017

172,034 172,034

172,034 172,034

NOTES

NOTE 20--Cash Flow Statement

Cash and cash equivalents The subcomponents included in cash and cash equivalents are cash at bank and special deposits or commercial paper with an insignificant risk of fluctuations in value and that can readily be converted into cash and cash equivalents, and which have a maturity of no more than three months from the time of acquisition.

Cash and cash equivalents Cash and cash equivalents Investments in securities, etc. Total 
Information on interest Interest received in the period amounted to Interest paid in the period amounted to

2018 74,673
­ 74,673

Group 2017
231,195 80,833 312,028

2018 236
­27,176

Group

2017 1,372 ­1,847

Parent company

2018

2017

17,712

165,895

­

80,833

17,712

246,728

Parent company

2018

2017

26,287

2,678

­26,366

­1,740

Adjustment for items not included in cash flow Depreciation/amortization and impairment losses Gain (loss) on retirement of non-current assets Share savings program Appropriations Actuarial changes in pension liability Provisions Transaction costs, loans Value change on financial assets Exchange rates differences, net Total

2018 40,475
111 6,043
­ 185 4,033 3,145
­ 514 54,506

Group

2017 22,884
649 5,856
­ 723 ­4,681

­208 ­787 24,436

Parent,company

2018

2017

870

945

­

­

6,043

5,856

­1,216

­3,667

­

­

­

­

3,145

­

­208

­

­

8,842

2,926

NOTE 21--Related parties

Summary of transactions with related parties GROUP There were no transactions with related parties
PARENT COMPANY Related party relationship Subsidiaries Subsidiaries

Sale of goods

and services to

Year

related party

2018

53,113

2017

58,074

Purchase of goods and services from related party
­
­

Liability to related party as
of 31 Dec.
3,247
3,248

Receivable from related
party as of 31 Dec.
1,021,527
152,472

Transactions with related parties are on arm's length basis. For information on remuneration of key personnel in executive positions, see Note 4, Employees and personnel expenses, and Note 22, Pensions, share-based
payment, benefits to senior executives. The parent company has a close relationship with its subsidiaries (see Note 19). 

ANNUAL REPORT 2018 ENEA 57

NOTES

NOTE 22--Pensions and share-based payment

Defined-contribution plans The methods for measuring pension expenses and pension liabilities differ from country to country. Companies report according to local regulations and the reported figures are consolidated in the consolidated financial statements. All pension solutions in foreign subsidiaries, with the exception of Qosmos France, are defined-contribution plans, which means that the group's profit (loss) is charged with pension expenses as benefits are vested. Salaried employees in Sweden are covered by the ITP plan, which is reported as a defined-contribution pension plan. Obligations for retirement pension and survivors' pension for salaried employees in Sweden are secured through an insurance policy with Alecta. According to a statement from the Swedish Financial Reporting Board, UFR 10, this is a multi-employer defined-benefit plan. Alecta, which is a mutual insurance company that also administers benefits under the pension plan, is unable to provide Enea or other Swedish companies with sufficient information to determine an individual company's share of the total obligation and its assets. Accordingly, ITP pension plans that are vested through an insurance policy with Alecta are reported as defined-contribution. The cost for 2018 amounts to SEK 4,453,000 (5,891,000). The cost for 2019 is estimated to amount to an equivalent figure. Alecta's surplus can be distributed to policyholders and/or the insured.
At the end of 2018, Alecta's surplus in the form of its collective consolidation ratio amounted to 142 (154) percent. The collective consolidation ratio consists of the market value of Alecta's assets as a percentage of its insurance obligations, calculated in accordance with Alecta's actuarial accounting assumptions, which do not comply with IAS 19. 

Defined-benefit plans A number of salaried employees of Qosmos France are covered by a defined-benefit pension plan. The group's net obligation for defined-benefit plans is measured by estimating future benefits accrued from employment in current and previous periods. These benefits are discounted to present value and recognized as a liability in the Balance Sheet.

Group

Parent company

2018

2017

2018

2017

Cost of defined-contribution plans

17,895

15,334

5,079

4,739

Cost of defined-benefit plans

287

665

­

­

Share-based payment LTIP 2017 In May 2017, the AGM resolved to offer key employees the opportunity to participate in a Long Term Incentive Program (LTIP). The principal objective of the program is to align the interests of shareholders, management and other key individuals in order to maximize long-term value creation. LTIP 2017 is also expected to facilitate the recruitment and retention of management and other key individuals.
The program involves 32 senior executives, key individuals and certain other employees. Participants are allocated performance-based warrants that entitle the holder the right to subscribe for shares. After the end of the fixed vesting period, on condition that specific performance requirements are met, participants are entitled to receive shares in the company free of charge. The allocation of shares requires continued employment with the Enea group during the vesting period. The granting of shares is conditional on specific performance requirements linked to Enea's sales growth, operating profit and earnings per share for the financial years 2017­2019. Threshold values for accumulated sales in 2017-2019 are SEK 1,890 million, accumulated operating profit for 2017-2019 of SEK 425 million, and average earnings per share of SEK 6.89. The maximum value participants receive per warrant (including any compensation for extraordinary dividends) has been capped at SEK 415. In the event that the value of the Enea share exceeds the maximum value at the time of allocation, the number of shares each warrant entitles the holder to reduces proportionally. The fair value of services rendered is based on the share price of the shares expected to be granted. The share price is determined at the time of the participants' investment, adjusted for the dividends that do not accrue to the employee during the vesting period. The program entails a financial exposure for the company as a result of fluctuations in Enea's share price and the anticipated allocation of shares. To secure the Program, a decision was made to transfer already acquired treasury shares under the Program. The number of shares that can be transferred to participants under the Program, free of charge, has been capped at 441,000, including compensation relating to extraordinary dividends.

LTIP 2018 In May 2018, the AGM resolved to offer key employees the opportunity to participate in a Long Term Incentive Program (LTIP). The principal objective of the program is to align the interests of shareholders, management and other key individuals in order to maximize long-term value creation. LTIP 2018 is also expected to facilitate the recruitment and retention of management and other key individuals. The specific purpose of LTIP 2018 is to offer the management of Openwave Mobility and selected members of management that did not participate in LTIP 2017, a long-term incentive. LTIP 2018 involves a total of seven employees, consisting of senior executives and other key individuals.
Participants are allocated performance-based warrants that entitle the holder the right to subscribe for shares. After the end of the fixed vesting period, on condition that specific performance requirements are met, participants are entitled to receive shares in the company free of charge. The allocation of shares requires continued employment with the Enea group during the vesting period. The granting of shares is conditional on specific performance requirements linked to Enea's yearly growth of earnings per share for the financial years 2018-2020. The maximum value conferring full entitlement is Enea's accumulated earnings per share in 2018-2020 being a minimum of SEK 18.89. The minimum level for granting is that accumulated earnings per share are a minimum of SEK 15.66 in 2018-2020. The maximum value participants can receive per warrant (including any compensation for extraordinary dividends) has been capped at SEK 312. In the event that the value of the Enea share exceeds the maximum value at the time of allocation, the number of shares each warrant entitles the holder to reduces proportionally.
The fair value of services rendered is based on the share price of the shares expected to be granted. The share price is determined at the time of the participants' investment, adjusted for the dividends that do not accrue to the employee during the vesting period.
The program entails a financial exposure for the company as a result of fluctuations in Enea's share price and the anticipated allocation of shares. To secure the Program, a decision was made to transfer already acquired treasury shares under the Program. The number of shares that can be transferred to participants under the Program, free of charge, has been capped at 180,000, including compensation relating to extraordinary dividends.

58 ENEA ANNUAL REPORT 2018

NOTES

LTIP 2017 No. of warrants allocated Forfeited in the period Expired in the period Outstanding at end of period Number of participants as at 31 Dec.
LTIP 2018 No. of warrants allocated Forfeited in the period Expired in the period Outstanding at end of period Number of participants as at 31 Dec.
Personnel expenses for share-based payment Group Incentive programs

2018 450,000 -93,000
­ 357,000
26
2018 156,000
­ ­ 156,000 6
2018 8,715

2017 441,000
­ ­ 441,000 32
2017 ­ ­ ­ ­ ­
2017 7,951

NOTE 23--Translation exposure

Enea's foreign subsidiaries are translated into Swedish kronor in accordance with the current method. This means that Balance Sheets are translated at closing day rates and Income Statements at average rates of exchange for the period.

The rates used for the group's significant currencies are stated in the table below. 

Closing day rate

Currency

2018

2017

EUR

10.2753

9.8497

USD

8.9710

8.2322

GBP

11.3482

11.1045

JPY

0.0812

0.0731

RON

2.2008

2.1057

SGD

6.5605

6.1561

INR

0.1282

N/A

CAD

6.5922

N/A

Average rate

2018

2017

10.2567

9.6326

8.6921

8.5380

11.5928

10.9896

0.0787

0.0761

2.2047

2.1093

6.4397

6.1807

0.1271

N/A

6.7103

N/A

When translating foreign subsidiaries' balance sheets to Swedish kronor, the group is exposed to exchange rate fluctuations. The effect on equity in 2018 for the translation of foreign subsidiaries' accounts to Swedish kronor was SEK 84,136,000 (5,184,000). The group's exposure in equity for exchange rate fluctuations on the reporting date was as follows:

2018

2017

Currency

Translated to SEK at Amount closing date rate

Translated to SEK at Amount closing date rate

EUR

16,590

170,467

10,926

107,618

USD

3,513

31,515

2,647

21,791

GBP

15,587

176,884

393

4,364

JPY

63,945

5,192

59,759

4,367

RON

12,993

28,595

9,812

20,661

SGD

219

1,437

203

1,250

INR

19,067

2,444

N/A

N/A

CAD

200

1,318

N/A

N/A

ANNUAL REPORT 2018 ENEA 59

NOTES
NOTE 24--Critical estimates and judgements
Estimates and judgements, which are reviewed continuously, are based on historical experience and other factors, including expectations of future events that are considered reasonable in prevailing circumstances.
Critical judgements regarding application of the group's accounting policies
Management has discussed the progress, choice and disclosures regarding the group's most important accounting policies and estimates, and the application of these policies and estimates with the Audit Committee. The estimates and judgements mainly include revenue recognition, the measurement of deferred tax assets on loss carry-forwards, the financial effect of acquisitions of operations e.g. acquisition analysis and the estimated outcome of contingent considerations, and any impairment. Some important accounting estimates made on application of the group's accounting policies are described below. 
Key sources of estimation uncertainty Impairment testing of goodwill
When measuring the recoverable amount of cash-generating units for judging goodwill impairment, a number of assumptions have been made regarding future conditions and estimates of parameters. Enea has conducted a sensitivity analysis of key assumptions in which management found that no reasonable changes to these assumptions would result in any impairment as at 31 December 2018. They are reviewed in Note 10.  Impairment testing of capitalized development expenditure When measuring the recoverable amount of cash-generating units for judging impairment of capitalized development expenditure, a number of assumptions have been made regarding future conditions and estimates of parameters. Enea has conducted a sensitivity analysis of key assumptions in which management found that no reasonable changes to these assumptions would result in any impairment as at 31 December 2018. They are reviewed in Note 10. Measurement of loss carry-forwards The group's loss carry-forwards are valued on an ongoing basis and when it is likely that taxable profit can be offset against loss carry-forwards in a reasonable time frame, a deferred tax asset is recognized. Future profit is forecast and set in relation to the loss carry-forwards, which forms the basis of decision-making data for capitalization. 

60 ENEA ANNUAL REPORT 2018

NOTES

NOTE 25--Maturity analysis, financial liabilities and interest FINANCIAL LIABILITIES
Long-term liabilities, interest bearing Liabilities to credit institutions Total long-term liabilities, interest bearing

2018 548,000 548,000

Group 2017
82,000 82,000

Long-term liabilities, non-interest-bearing Purchase consideration entered as a liability Total long-term liabilities, non-interest-bearing

­

110,434

­

110,434

Current liabilities, interest-bearing Liabilities to credit institutions Total current liabilities, interest-bearing

94,342 94,342

34,000 34,000

Current liabilities, non-interest-bearing Purchase consideration entered as a liability Accounts payable Other liabilities Accrued expenses, supplier-related Total current liabilities, non-interest-bearing Total financial liabilities

1,346 21,441 14,734 11,676 49,197 691,539

3,704 11,098 16,081
7,741 38,624 265,058

MATURITY ANALYSIS
Long and short-term liabilities, interest-bearing Within 1 year of the reporting date Later than 1 year but within 3 years of the reporting date Later than 3 years but within 5 years of the reporting date
Interest Within 1 year of the reporting date Later than 1 year but within 3 years of the reporting date Later than 3 years but within 5 years of the reporting date
Non-interest-bearing liabilities Within 1 year of the reporting date Later than 1 year but within 3 years of the reporting date Later than 3 years but within 5 years of the reporting date
Total principal and interest Within 1 year of the reporting date Later than 1 year but within 3 years of the reporting date Later than 3 years but within 5 years of the reporting date

2018 94,342 548,000
­

Group

2017 34,000 82,000
­

27,757 31,833
­

1,458 1,287
­

49,197 ­ ­

38,624 110,434
­

171,296 579,833
­

74,082 193,721
­

Parent company

2018

2017

548,000

82,000

548,000

82,000

­

­

­

­

94,013 94,013

34,000 34,000

­ 5,411 2,158 3,662 11,231 653,244

­ 2,896
692 1,090 4,678 120,678

Parent company

2018

2017

94,013

34,000

548,000

82,000

­

­

27,757 31,833
­

1,458 1,287
­

11,231 ­ ­

4,678 ­ ­

133,001 579,833
­

40,136 83,287
­

ANNUAL REPORT 2018 ENEA 61

NOTES

NOTE 26-- Obligations relating to employee benefits, etc.
The group has defined-benefit pension plans for employees in Qosmos in France. The pension plans are based on the employees' pensionable compensation and period of service. The defined-benefit obligation amounted to SEK 7.5 (7.0) million as of 31 December 2018. Costs for defined-benefit pensions totaled SEK 287,000 (665,000), of which SEK 287,000 (665,000) was charged to Enea's profit. The costs for 2019 are estimated at approx. EUR 40,000.

2018 GROUP Accumulated cost Opening balance 1 Jan. 2017 Payment of debt Value change/currency translation/reallocation Closing balance 31 Dec. 2018

Purchase consideration

Defined-benefit for acquired operation

pension plans

entered as liability

6,983
518 7,501

110,434 ­110,434
­

Total
117,417 ­110,434
518 7,501

Defined benefit pension plans are judged to be payable after more than 5 years and other liabilities are judged to be payable in 1­3 years.

Defined-benefit obligations Present value of unfunded defined-benefit obligations, France Liabilities unfunded obligations, France
Actuarial assumptions, % Discount rate Future salary increases

2018 7,501 7,501
2018 1.70 3.75

Group Group

2017 6,983 6,983
2017 1.55 3.50

NOTE 27--Proposed appropriation of profits

Parent company Share premium reserve Retained earnings Profit for the year Total

2018
298,159,046 233,532,695
­300,040 531,391,702

The Board of Directors proposes that these funds are appropriated so that SEK 531,391,702 is carried forward.

NOTE 28--Pledged assets
GROUP Bank guarantee Rent deposits

2018
4,700 2,109 6,809

2017
­ 2,707 2,707

62 ENEA ANNUAL REPORT 2018

NOTES

NOTE 29-- Business combinations
Purchase of Openwave Mobility On 15 March, Enea Software AB acquired 100 percent of the capital and votes of US company Openwave Mobility Inc. and subsidiaries, with a purchase price of SEK 748,519,000. The acquisition price was adjusted by SEK 8,510,000 in the fourth quarter 2018 after definitive reconciliation of acquired working capital. Openwave Mobility has a leading position in traffic management in the fast-growing video traffic over the internet segment. The acquisition means that Enea is expanding its offering and addressable market, as well as moving upward in the value chain. The companies are consolidated from 1 March, and operations are integrated into the Network Solutions product group. Openwave Mobility reported revenue of USD 26.3 million and operating profit of USD 6.6 million for the period MarchDecember 2018, and revenue of USD 29.5 million and operating profit of USD 5.7 million on an annualized basis for the period January-December. The acquisition was funded through cash and a bond loan of SEK 500 million. The goodwill item is not tax deductible and is expected to relate to estimated profitability, additions to the product portfolio and expected synergy effects. The financial impact of this transaction is indicated below. The acquisition analysis of fair value adjustment of product rights, current receivables and current liabilities is preliminary until twelve months after the acquisition date.

PURCHASE CONSIDERATION

Summary of purchase consideration paid:

Cash and cash equivalents

757,029

Total purchase consideration paid

757,029



In the fourth quarter 2018, the value of current receivables was restated by SEK -4.1 million, current liabilities by SEK -4.3 million, and goodwill by SEK 8.3 million.

The carrying amounts (fair values) of the identifiable assets and liabilities of Openwave Mobility Inc. and subsidiaries taken over as of the acquisition date:

Trademark Product rights Customer contracts Tangible fixed assets Other long-term receivables Current receivables Cash and cash equivalents Other provisions Deferred tax liability Long-term liabilities, interest-bearing Long-term liabilities, non-interest-bearing Current liabilities, non-interest-bearing Net identifiable assets and liabilities Group Goodwill Consolidated acquisition value

Fair value recognized, group 11,315 27,775 54,499 6,642 306 104,564 9,198 ­4,458 ­21,391 ­174 -662 ­85,259 102,355 654,674
757,029

Acquisition-related expenses Acquisition-related expenses of SEK 9,389,000 are included in administrative costs in the Consolidated Income Statement for 2018.

ANNUAL REPORT 2018 ENEA 63

NOTES

NOTE 30--Post balance sheet events

Acquisition of global software business On 1 March 2019, Enea Software AB acquired a business unit from Atos Convergence Creators, which is a leader in policy management, authentication and management of subscriber information. The total purchase consideration is approximately EUR 18 million, which has been financed through cash and bank borrowings. Enea paid EUR 10 million in December 2018, while the remainder of approximately EUR 5 million will be paid in December 2019. Enea will also assume liabilities, primarily relating to deferred revenues, of some EUR 3 million. The financial effects of this transaction, apart from the purchase consideration paid of EUR 10 million, have not been reported as of 31 December 2018. Operating profit, assets and liabilities associated with the acquired operation will be recognized effective the acquisition date. The acquired operation is expected to generate revenue of some EUR 12 million in 2019. 

PURCHASE CONSIDERATION (PRELIMINARY)

Summary of purchase consideration:

Purchase consideration paid as of 31 Dec. 2018

103,136

Purchase consideration entered as liability after the reporting date

51,377

Total purchase consideration

154,513

Carrying amounts (preliminary fair values) of identifiable assets and liabilities taken over as of the acquisition date: 

Accrued expenses Deferred income Goodwill Total

0 ­30,826 185,338 154,513

The goodwill arising in the acquisition relates to the acquired operation's position on the market, and expected synergies from the merger. The acquired goodwill arising from the purchase of the net assets of the business is expected to be tax deductible. 
Acquisition-related expenses Acquisition-related expenses of SEK 244,000 are included in administrative costs in the Consolidated Income Statement for 2018. 
Information not presented At the time of authorization of the publication of the financial statements, the group had not yet completed reporting the Business combination. The fair value of the above acquired assets and liabilities is preliminary in anticipation of definitive measurement. Nor is it possible to provide more detailed information about each class of acquired receivable, and any contingent liabilities of the acquired operation. 

64 ENEA ANNUAL REPORT 2018

THE BOARD'S DECLARATION
The Board and CEO declare that the consolidated accounts have been prepared in accordance with the International Financial Reporting Standards, IFRS, as endorsed by the EU, and the Swedish Annual Accounts Act, and give a true and fair view of the group's results of operations and financial position. The Directors' Report for the group and parent company give a true and fair view of the progress of the group and parent company's operating activities, financial position and results of operations, and covers significant risks and safety factors affecting the parent company and companies within the group. As stated above, the annual accounts and consolidated accounts were approved for issue by the Board of Directors on 28 March 2019. The Consolidated Income Statement and Consolidated Balance Sheet, and the Parent Company Income Statement and Parent Company Balance Sheet will be subject to adoption by the Annual General Meeting on 6 May 2019.
Stockholm, Sweden, 28 March 2019 Enea AB (556209-7146)

Anders Skarin Chairman

Kjell Duveblad Board member

Mats Lindoff Board member

Torbjörn Nilsson Board member

Gunilla Fransson Board member

Johan Carlsson Employee representative

Anders Lidbeck President & CEO
Our Audit Report was presented on 2 April 2019 Öhrlings PricewaterhouseCoopers AB
Niklas Renström Authorized Public Accountant

ANNUAL REPORT 2018 ENEA 65

AUDIT REPORT

Audit Report

To the Annual General Meeting of Enea AB (publ.), Corp. Reg. No 556209-7146
REPORT ON THE ANNUAL ACCOUNTS AND CONSOLIDATED ACCOUNTS Opinions We have audited the annual accounts and consolidated accounts of Enea AB (publ) for the year 2018 except for the corporate governance statement on pages 20-27. The annual accounts and consolidated accounts of the company are included in the printed version of this document on pages 16-65.
In our opinion, the annual accounts have been prepared in accordance with the Annual Accounts Act and present fairly, in all material respects, the financial position of the parent company as of December 31, 2018 and of its financial performance and its cash flows for the year then ended in accordance with the Annual Accounts Act. The consolidated accounts have been prepared in accordance with the Annual Accounts Act and present fairly, in all material respects, the financial position of the group as of December 31, 2018 and of its financial performance and cash flows for the year then ended in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards, as adopted by the EU, and the Annual Accounts Act. Our opinions do not cover the corporate governance statement on pages 20-27. The statutory administration report is consistent with the other parts of the annual accounts and consolidated accounts.
We therefore recommend that the Annual General Meeting adopt the Income Statement and Balance Sheet for the parent company, and the Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive income and the Consolidated Statement of Financial Position.
Our opinions in this report on the annual accounts and consolidated accounts are consistent with the content of the additional report that has been submitted to the parent company's and group's audit committee in accordance with the Audit Regulation (537/2014) Article 11.
Basis for opinions We have conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards on Auditing (ISA) and generally accepted auditing standards in Sweden. Our responsibilities under those standards are further described in the Auditor's Responsibilities section. We are independent of the parent company and the group in accordance with professional ethics for accountants in Sweden and have otherwise fulfilled our ethical responsibilities in accordance with these requirements. This includes that, based on the best of our knowledge and belief, no prohibited services referred to in the Audit Regulation (537/2014) Article 5.1 have been provided to the audited company or, where applicable, its parent company or its controlled companies within the EU.
We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our audit opinions.

Our audit approach
Scope and focus of audit Enea is a software company that sells both products and services. The customers are mainly active in the telecom sector, but also in aerospace and defense. For software operations, corresponding to some 83 percent of group sales, revenue recognition is dependent on contractual terms regarding the timing of transfer of risks and benefits to customers and their ability to meet payment commitments. Service operations provide around 17 percent of group sales, and are focused on the US market. Services are generally delivered on account where hours spent are invoiced to customers in arrears.
Software operations consist of sales of software licenses and maintenance and product-related services. Sales of licenses comprises production licenses and developer licenses. Customer contracts for sales of developer licenses often include a combination of licenses and services, which implies that the risks and benefits for the relevant part of an agreement are transferred to the customer at different times. Accordingly, revenue is recognized for the respective part at different times, and invoicing and payment occur at a different time to revenue recognition. Overall, this means that revenue recognition of developer licenses is dependent on management's assessment of the distribution of revenue over components and contractual agreements with customers. Enea has conducted two major acquisitions in recent years, French company Qosmos in late-2016, and recently, US company Openwave in early-2018. These acquisitions resulted in a significant increase in book values of intangible assets in the consolidated accounts. The value of these assets is tested for impairment annually or when there is an indication that impairment may become necessary. We prepared our audit by defining materiality and evaluating the risk of material misstatement in financial reporting. We focused on areas where the Managing Director and Board of Directors have made subjective judgments, such as key accounting estimates on the basis of assumptions and forecasts, which are by their nature uncertain. Like for all audits, we also considered the risk of the Board of Directors and the Managing Director overriding internal control, and factors such as whether there is any evidence for systematic departures that have given rise to material misstatement resulting from fraud.
In addition to parent company Enea AB, the consolidated accounts include subsidiaries in Sweden, the US including the Openwave group, Romania and Qosmos in France. This corresponds to a significant proportion of the group's external sales and total assets. We have also completed a summary review of the third quarter.
We adjusted our audit to conduct an expedient examination in order to comment on the financial statements as a whole, with consideration given to the group structure, accounting procedures and controls, and the sector in which the group is active.

66 ENEA ANNUAL REPORT 2018

AUDIT REPORT

Key audit matters Key audit matters of the audit are those matters that, in our professional judgment, were of most significance in our audit of the annual accounts and consolidated accounts of the current period. These matters

were addressed in the context of our audit of, and in forming our opinion thereon, the annual accounts and consolidated accounts as a whole, but we do not provide a separate opinion on these matters.

Key audit matters

Audit approach

Sales of developer licenses In addition to the license itself, customer agreements for developer licenses, which are either term-based or perpetual, include the right to services in the form of support and maintenance during the contract term.
This means that agreements broken down into individual components where the timing of revenue recognition for each respective component is dependent on the contractual terms. Revenue for each respective component is recognized when the risks and benefits have been transferred to the customer. Accordingly, the time of revenue recognition does not usually correspond to invoicing and payment by the customer.
This implies that management is required to make estimates and judgments relating to the price of the components of customer contracts.
As a result of the inherent complexity of revenue recognition and the element of estimates and judgments by management, we assess that revenue from systems sales constitutes a key audit matter.
For more information about the aforementioned accounting policies, please see page 37 and Notes 2, 14 & 18 of the Annual report for 2018.

We have focused a significant part of our audit on evaluating Enea's principles and underlying assumptions in order to break down revenue from developer licenses into various components, for example by reviewing and checking selected assumptions. We have done this by implementing audit measures that include:
· Evaluating the terms of Enea's customer contracts from an accounting perspective.
· Evaluating assumptions of revenue recognition principles by comparing prices of components in contracts to the independent selling prices of products and services.
· Conducting an analytical review of revenue in the year.
· Reviewing a selection of new customer agreements to ensure that revenue recognition follows Enea's principles, and that license rights have been transferred to customers at the time of revenue recognition.
· Cross-checking a selection of new customer agreements spanning multiple years to determine the correct estimated amortization in the accounts.
· Verifying that revenue has been recognized in the correct period and at the right amount by checking a selection of licenses that have been delivered to customers at the end of the financial year.
This review has not resulted in any material observations reported in the Audit.

ANNUAL REPORT 2018 ENEA 67

AUDIT REPORT

Impairment testing of acquisition-related surplus values and goodwill Acquisition-related surplus values and goodwill of SEK 1,279 million were included in the consolidated Balance Sheet.
Goodwill and acquisition-related surplus values correspond to the difference between the value of net assets and the purchase consideration paid in connection with an acquisition. In contrast with other non-current assets there is no amortization of goodwill, and goodwill and brands are tested annually for impairment or when there is an indication that impairment may be necessary. Other acquisition-related non-current assets are depreciated over the estimated useful life.
The impairment testing, and thereby the recognized value, is dependent on the Board's and management's estimates and assumptions regarding factors such as growth and future profitability and discount rates. Future events may come to change these judgments and estimates, and it is therefore particularly important that management continuously evaluates whether the value of acquisition-related intangible assets can be justified considering these assumptions. Management's calculation of the value in use of assets is based on next year's budget and forecasts for the ensuing four-year period. For a more detailed description of these assumptions, see Note 10.
Impairment testing naturally includes a significant element of estimates and judgments by management, which explains why we have designated it a key audit matter.
For more information about the aforementioned Accounting policies, see page 38 and Note 10 in the Annual Report for 2018.
Our audit focused on management's impairment testing and the surplus values identified:
· Evaluated Enea's process for impairment testing of goodwill and
acquisition-related assets.
· Reviewed how management identifies cash-generating units and
compared this with how Enea monitors goodwill and acquisitionrelated assets internally.
· E valuated the reasonableness of the assumptions made and
conducted sensitivity analyses for changed assumptions.
· C ompared the estimated value in use with the market capitalization
as of 31 December 2018.
· E valuated management's forecasting ability by comparing earlier
forecasts with actual outturns.
· V erified that sufficient information has been presented in the Notes
to the Annual Report from a materiality perspective.
This review has not resulted in any material observations reported in the Audit.

Other information than the annual accounts and consolidated accounts This document also contains other information than the annual accounts and consolidated accounts and is found on pages 1­15 and 70­75. The Board of Directors and the Managing Director are responsible for this other information.
Our opinion on the annual accounts and consolidated accounts does not cover this other information and we do not express any form of assurance conclusion regarding this other information.
In connection with our audit of the annual accounts and consolidated accounts, our responsibility is to read the information identified above and consider whether the information is materially inconsistent with the annual accounts and consolidated accounts. In this procedure we also take into account our knowledge otherwise obtained in the audit and assess whether the information otherwise appears to be materially misstated.
If we, based on the work performed concerning this information, conclude that there is a material misstatement of this other information, we are required to report that fact. We have nothing to report in this regard.
Responsibilities of the Board of Directors and the Managing Director The Board of Directors and the Managing Director are responsible for the preparation of the annual accounts and consolidated accounts and that they give a fair presentation in accordance with the Annual Accounts Act and, concerning the consolidated accounts, in accordance with IFRS as adopted by the EU and the Annual Accounts Act. The Board of Directors and the Managing Director are also responsible for such internal control as they determine is necessary to enable the preparation of annual accounts and consolidated accounts that are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error.
In preparing the annual accounts and consolidated accounts, The Board of Directors and the Managing Director are responsible for the assessment of the company's and the group's ability to continue as a going concern. They disclose, as applicable, matters related to going concern and using the going concern basis of accounting. The going concern basis of accounting is however not applied if the Board of Directors and the Managing Director intends to liquidate the company, to cease operations, or has no realistic alternative but to do so.
The Audit Committee shall, without prejudice to the Board of Director's responsibilities and tasks in general, among other things oversee the company's financial reporting process.
Auditor's responsibility Our objectives are to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the annual accounts and consolidated accounts as a whole are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error, and to issue an auditor's report that includes our opinions. Reasonable assurance is a high level of assurance, but is not a guarantee that an audit conducted in accordance with ISAs and generally accepted auditing standards in Sweden will always detect a material misstatement when it exists. Misstatements can arise from fraud or error and are considered material if, individually or in the aggregate, they could reasonably be expected to influence the economic decisions of users taken on the basis of these annual accounts and consolidated accounts.
For more information about our Audit responsibility for the Annual Report and Consolidated Financial Statements, see the Supervisory Board of Public Accountants' www.revisorsinspektionen.se/revisornsansvar This description is part of the Audit Report.

68 ENEA ANNUAL REPORT 2018

AUDIT REPORT

REPORT ON OTHER LEGAL AND REGULATORY REQUIREMENTS Opinions In addition to our audit of the annual accounts and consolidated accounts, we have also audited the administration of the Board of Directors and the Managing Director of Enea AB (publ) for the year 2018 and the proposed appropriations of the company's profit or loss.
We recommend to the general meeting of shareholders that the profit (loss) be appropriated in accordance with the proposal in the statutory administration report and that the members of the Board of Directors and the Managing Director be discharged from liability for the financial year.
Basis for opinions We conducted the audit in accordance with generally accepted auditing standards in Sweden. Our responsibilities under those standards are further described in the Auditor's Responsibilities section. We are independent of the parent company and the group in accordance with professional ethics for accountants in Sweden and have otherwise fulfilled our ethical responsibilities in accordance with these requirements.
We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our opinions.
Responsibilities of the Board of Directors and the Managing Director The Board of Directors is responsible for the proposal for appropriations of the company's profit or loss. At the proposal of a dividend, this includes an assessment of whether the dividend is justifiable considering the requirements which the company's and the group's type of operations, size and risks place on the size of the parent company's and the group's equity, consolidation requirements, liquidity and position in general.
The Board of Directors is responsible for the company's organization and the administration of the company's affairs. This includes continuous assessment of the company's and the group's financial situation and ensuring that the company's organization is designed so that the accounting, management of assets and the company's financial affairs otherwise are controlled in a reassuring manner. The Managing Director shall manage the ongoing administration according to the Board of Directors' guidelines and instructions and among other matters take measures that are necessary to fulfill the company's accounting in accordance with law and handle the management of assets in a reassuring manner.

Our objective concerning the audit of the proposed appropriations of the company's profit or loss, and thereby our opinion about this, is to assess with reasonable degree of assurance whether the proposal is in accordance with the Companies Act.
Reasonable assurance is a high level of assurance, but is not a guarantee that an audit conducted in accordance with generally accepted auditing standards in Sweden will always detect actions or omissions that can give rise to liability to the company, or that the proposed appropriations of the company's profit or loss are not in accordance with the Companies Act. For more information about our responsibility for the audit of the administration, see the Swedish Inspectorate of Auditors' website: www.revisorsinspektionen.se/en/English This description is part of the Audit Report.
The Auditor's examination of the Corporate Governance Statement The Board of Directors is responsible for ensuring that the Corporate Governance Statement on pages 20-27 has been prepared in accordance with the Annual Accounts Act.
Our examination of the Corporate Governance Statement is conducted in accordance with FAR's auditing standards RevU 16 The auditor's examination of the Corporate Governance Statement. This means that our examination of the Corporate Governance Statement is different and substantially less in scope than an audit conducted in accordance with International Standards on Auditing and generally accepted accounting practice in Sweden. We believe that the examination has provided us with a satisfactory basis for our opinions.
A corporate governance statement has been prepared. Disclosures in accordance with chapter 6 section 6 the second paragraph points 2­6 of the Annual Accounts Act and chapter 7 section 31 the second paragraph the same law are consistent with the other parts of the annual accounts and consolidated accounts and are in accordance with the Annual Accounts Act.
The AGM on 8 May 2018 appointed Öhrlings PricewaterhouseCoopers AB, Torsgatan 21, Stockholm, Sweden, as Enea AB's (publ) Auditor, who have served as the company's Auditor since 15 May 2007.
Stockholm, Sweden 2 April 2019
Öhrlings PricewaterhouseCoopers AB

Auditor's responsibility Our objective concerning the audit of the administration, and thereby our opinion about discharge from liability, is to obtain audit evidence to assess with a reasonable degree of assurance whether any member of the Board of Directors or the Managing Director in any material respect:
· has undertaken any action or been guilty of any omission which can
give rise to liability to the company, or
· in any other way has acted in contravention of the Companies Act,
the Annual Accounts Act or the Articles of Association.

Niklas Renström Authorized Public Accountant Auditor in Charge

ANNUAL REPORT 2018 ENEA 69

Enea is a global provider of software for the connected society. We deliver solutions for mobile traffic management, network virtualization and traffic classification, combined with embedded operating systems and services. Network operators, system integrators and OEMs rely on Enea when creating world-leading solutions and services. Every day, 3 billion people communicate using products that have been provided by Enea. Enea is a global leader in producing software platforms for communication-intensive products with extreme availability and performance standards. Enea is listed on Nasdaq Stockholm. Find out more at www.enea.com, and talk to us via info@enea.com
70 ENEA ANNUAL REPORT 2018

FIVE-YEAR SUMMARY

All amounts in SEK million INCOME STATEMENT Net sales Reversed additional purchase price Operating expenses Operating profit Financial net Profit before tax Net profit Total
BALANCE SHEET Intangible assets Other fixed assets Other financial assets Financial assets held for sale, non-current Current receivables Financial assets held for sale, current Cash and cash equivalents Total assets
Equity Long-term liabilities, interest-bearing Long-term liabilities, non-interest-bearing Current liabilities, interest-bearing Current liabilities, non-interest-bearing Total equity and liabilities
CASH FLOW From operating activities From investing activities From investing activities - sale of operation From investing activities - acquisition of operation From financing activities Cash flow for the period
KEY DATA Revenue growth, % Operating margin, % Profit margin, % Return on capital employed, % Return on equity, % Return on total capital, % Interest coverage ratio, multiple Equity ratio, % Liquidity, % Average number of employees Revenue per employee, SEK million Net asset value per share, SEK Earnings per share, SEK Transfer to shareholders per share, SEK 1
The figures for2014-2016 have not been restated pursuant to IFRS 15. 1 Transfer to shareholders proposed to the Annual General Meeting 2019.

2018 830.3
11.7 ­653.1 188.9
­27.7 161.1 141.7 141.7

2017 588.4
­ ­485.6
102.8 ­5.2 97.6 82.5 82.5

1,381.4 33.7 3.1 ­ 426.8 ­ 74.7
1,919.7
985.8 539.8 86.8 94.3 212.9 1919.7

522.2 31.0 2.7 62.1
203.6 40.2 312.0 1173.8
754.2 82.0 161.8 34.0 141.8 1173.8

168.6 30.5
­ ­954.4
514.2 ­241.1

116.6 ­139.7
­ ­96.3 206.6 87.2

41 22.7 19.4 18.2 16.3 13.8
4.1 51.4 163.2 563 1.45 50.99 7.33
­

17 17.5 16.6 16.3 14.0 11.1 5.4 64.3 316.1 467 1.26 39.00 4.69
­

2016 501.3
­ ­382.5
118.8 5.2
124.0 94.6 94.6
499.2 34.4 6.5
­ 219.4
­ 223.5 983.0
422.9 116.0 161.9 34.0 248.2 983.0
128.1 49.6
­ ­139.6
56.2 94.3
4 23.7 24.7 27.8 23.0 18.1 10.2
43 156.9
410 1.22 26.61 5.95 2.00

2015 481.5
­ ­371.4 110.0
2.5 112.5 88.0 88.0
128.4 8.5 2.0 70.7
196.2 ­
132.8 538.6
398.9 ­
21.5 ­
118.2 538.6
104.6 ­52.8
­ ­ ­100.1 ­48.3
12 22.9 23.4 29.7 22.0 22.9 16.2 74.1 278.3 400 1.20 25.06 5.49 4.20

2014 429.3
­ ­335.5
93.8 1.5 95.3 74.5 74.5
128.1 9.5 0.5 14.3
150.6 20.6 180.4 504.0
400.3 ­
16.2 ­
87.5 504.0
116.2 ­48.9
10.4 ­
­64.6 13.1
5 21.9 22.2 25.7 19.3 21.1 24.5 79.4 401.8 392 1.10 24.81 4.58 3.60

ANNUAL REPORT 2018 ENEA 71

DEFINITIONS

FINANCIAL DEFINITIONS AND ALTERNATIVE KEY FIGURES

CAPITAL EMPLOYED Total assets less non-interest-bearing liabilities including deferred tax liabilities. Average capital employed has been calculated as opening capital employed plus closing capital employed divided by two.
EQUITY PER SHARE Equity in relation to the total number of shares.
CASH FLOW FROM OPERATING ACTIVITIES Cash flow from operating activities in relation to the average number of shares.
DEBT SERVICE RATIO Cash flow from operating activities--ongoing investments + total financial expenses in relation to amortization and total financial expenses during a reference period of twelve months.
DIVIDEND YIELD The dividend as a percentage of the market price at year-end.
EARNINGS PER SHARE Profit after tax in relation to the average number of shares.
EBITDA Profit before financial items plus depreciation and amortization.
EQUITY RATIO Equity including minority interests in relation to total assets.
GROSS MARGIN Gross profit less reverse additional purchase price in relation to revenue.
INTEREST COVERAGE RATIO Profit after financial net plus financial costs in relation to financial costs.

LIQUIDITY Cash and cash equivalents, including current investments and receivables, in relation to current liabilities.
NET ASSET VALUE PER SHARE Net asset value, equivalent to equity, in relation to the total number of shares outstanding.
NET DEBT Interest-bearing liabilities and unconditional acquisition-related liabilities less cash and cash equivalents and financial investments, i.e. negative net cash.
NET CASH POSITION Cash and cash equivalents and financial investments less interest-bearing liabilities and unconditional acquisition-related liabilities.
NON-RECURRING ITEMS Items of a non-repeat nature in normal operations. Non-recurring items include restructuring expenses, expenses for legal advice in major disputes, and transaction expenses relating to major acquisitions. Transaction expenses include expenses for legal and financial advice, but exclude financing costs. Reversed additional purchase prices are also included in non-recurring items. The purpose of specifying these items is to clarify the progress of underlying operations.
OPERATING MARGIN Operating profit in relation to net sales.
OPERATING PROFIT EXC. NON-RECURRENT ITEMS Operating profit before financial items and tax, restated for any non-recurring items.
PROFIT MARGIN Profit after financial items in relation to net sales.

RETURN ON CAPITAL EMPLOYED Operating profit plus financial income in relation to average capital employed.
RETURN ON EQUITY Profit (loss) after tax in relation to average equity.
RETURN ON TOTAL CAPITAL Profit after financial items plus financial costs in relation to average total assets.
REVENUE GROWTH Revenue for the period in relation to revenue in the previous period.
REVENUE PER EMPLOYEE Revenue in relation to the average number of employees.
SHARE OF RISK-BEARING CAPITAL Total of equity and deferred tax liabilities as a percentage of total assets.
TRANSFERS TO SHAREHOLDERS PER SHARE Dividend for the current financial year divided by the number of shares on the reporting date.

FINANCIAL DEFINITIONS AND ALTERNATIVE KEY FIGURES The Annual Report for 2018 refers to the non-IFRS indicators used by Enea and other parties when evaluating Enea's results of operations. These indicators provide management and investors with valuable information required to analyze trends in the company's business operations. These non-IFRS indicators are intended to complement, not replace, financial indicators presented in accordance with IFRS.

72 ENEA ANNUAL REPORT 2018

ALTERNATIVE KEY FIGURES

RECONCILIATION AV REVENUE GROWTH
Revenue, SEK million Revenue growth, % Revenue growth currency adjusted, % SEK million Revenue growth based on unchanged exchange rates compared to previous year Currency-adjusted revenue growth Reported revenue growth % Revenue growth based on unchanged exchange rates compared to previous year Currency-adjusted revenue Reported revenue growth

Full year

2018

2017

830.3

588.4

41

17

38

17

222.7

85.5

19.2

1.5

242.0

87.1

38

17

3

0

41

17

RECONCILIATION OF FINANCIAL NET
Financial income, SEK million Financial expense, SEK million Reported financial net, SEK million

2018 24.9 -52.6
-27.7

Full year 2017 17.0 -22.2 -5.2

ANNUAL REPORT 2018 ENEA 73

INFORMATION FOR SHAREHOLDERS

Annual General Meeting 2019
Enea's Annual General Meeting 2019 will be held at 4:30 p.m. CET on Monday, 6 May 2019 at Kista Science Tower, Färögatan 33, Kista, Sweden. Shareholders who wish to participate in the Annual General Meeting must be included in the share register maintained by Euroclear Sweden AB (name changed from VPC AB) by no later than 29 April 2019.
Participants must also register with Enea AB by no later than Monday, 29 April 2019, at 5:00 p.m. CET.
Registrations can be mailed to
Enea AB (publ), P.O. Box 1033, SE-164 21 Kista, Sweden, by tele-phone: +46 (0)8 507 14000 or via e-mail: agm@enea.com
Registrations must include name, personal or corporate identity number, shareholding, address, telephone numbers and details of any assistants.
Follow Enea
www.enea.com/embeddedhub Visit Enea's hub for news and information about Enea and other industry players. Follow interesting topics on our blog, participate in a webinar or access the latest industry news.
www.linkedin.com/company/enea-software-ab LinkedIn is our primary social media channel where we provide information on Enea. We publish information about the products and technology we are working on as well as the latest deals and business events. LinkedIn is also our channel for advertising vacant positions.
www.twitter.com/EneaAB Our Twitter account is the right medium if you want to follow what's happening at Enea. We publish press releases, information about new blog entries and other activities.
www.youtube.com/EneaSoftware We publish videos that showcase and demo our product range on YouTube. Features of varying length are mixed with seminars and training programs.

All financial information is published on Enea's website: www.enea.com Financial reports can also be ordered from Enea AB, Box 1033, SE-164 21 Kista, Sweden or by e-mail: ir@enea.com

Reporting dates 2019
Interim Report January­March Annual General Meeting Interim Report April­June Interim Report July­September Annual Financial Statement 2019

24 April 2019 6 May 2019 18 July 2019
23 October 2019 30 January 2020

Investor relations
Enea strives for investor relations that are transparent, relevant and provide accurate information to shareholders, investors and financial analysts to increase knowledge of the group's operations and share. Enea announces information in the form of interim reports, annual reports, press releases, and provides detailed information on the company's IR pages on the Internet. Shareholders and other stakeholders can subscribe to press releases and financial reports via e-mail.
In 2018, press releases were issued in connection with major product news, key strategic transactions and contracts of significant value. General information is uploaded to the IR pages of our website, such as shareholder lists in connection with quarterly reports. In the event of major changes, the website is updated immediately. In the three weeks prior to the publication of a financial report, Enea issues no communications with the financial markets.

Enea AB is a public limited company, corp. ID. no. 556209-7146, registered office: Kista, Sweden. This Annual Report is also available in Swedish. All values are denominated in Swedish kronor. Swedish kronor is abbreviated SEK, thousands of SEK is SEK 000 and millions of SEK is SEK million. Figures in brackets relate to 2017 unless otherwise stated. All figures pertain to continuing operations unless otherwise stated. Data on market conditions and competition are Enea's own judgements, unless a specific source is stated. These judgements are based on the most accurate and recent factual data. The audited annual accounts are on pages 16-65.
This Annual Report was produced by Enea in partnership with Box IR, Stockholm. Images: Alexander Ruas, Anders Sjölund, Vani Dwivedi, Dragos Iorgulescu, Cedric Blin, Sebastien Synold and Romain Edin.
74 ENEA ANNUAL REPORT 2018

OVER 50 YEARS OF
COMMUNICATION-DRIVEN
PRODUCTS

1968

Four students at the Royal Institute of Technology in Stockholm design a data storage system for air traffic control systems, marking the birth of Enea. The group creates software history in the 1960s with its real-time programming and operating system development this lays the foundation of Enea's engineering skills and outstanding expertise.

1970s

The core of Enea's evolution is the Simula project for the Swedish Defence Research Agency. In this project, Enea paves the way for the first object-oriented language. Other customers include Stansaab, ASEA, LM Ericsson and Facit. The employee headcount grows from 5 to 75.

1980s

Enea OSE launched in 1985, and is now the world's most widely used operating system. Enea's biggest customer is ASEA. Enea secures a multi-year assignment developing software and hardware for police communication systems. Enea is the base node of Swedish USENET, the predecessor of the Internet. The first email in Sweden was sent on the Internet to Enea in 1983. Enea's employee headcount grows from 75 to 153.

1990s 2010s

Ericsson launches its GSM project, which embeds the Enea OSE operating system. The Ericsson group becomes Enea's biggest customer. Intensive work on Enea OSE takes the company onward and upward. Internationalization begins. Enea's employee headcount grows from 153 to 493.

2000s

Enea sells its Swedish consulting operation, creating a new business focus on telecom and networks. Enea's Linux distribution emerges, and it enters intensified strategic alliances with ARM and other keynote hardware producers. Enea invests increasingly in open source partnerships (Linaro, Linux Foundation, Yocto Project and OPNFV), and acquires Centered Logic, Qosmos and Openwave Mobility. Employee headcount approx. 600.

Enea consolidates positioning as a world-leading vendor of solutions for communication-intensive products. Its consulting arm grows robustly, and a major acquisition in Romania expands its outsourcing capacity. It intensifies its focus on telecom, and enhances its product portfolio through intensive development and acquisitions. Enea's software offering is tailored for the telecom industry's stringent availability and reliability standards. Geographical expansion on three continents. Employee headcount approx. 650.
ÅRSREDOVISNING 2018 ENEA 75

SWEDEN Head office STOCKHOLM Box 1033 Jan Stenbecks Torg 17 164 21 Kista, Sweden Tel. +46 8 507 140 00
ROMANIA BUCHAREST 319 Splaiul Independentei OB403A District 6 Bucharest 060044, Romania Tel. +40 21 311 43 00
IASI United Business Center 3 Unit C1, 8th floor 7B-7C, Palas Street, Iasi 700032, Romania Tel.: +40 21 311 43 00
CRAIOVA Malmo Building, 9th floor 30 Stirbei Voda Dolj 200423, Romania Tel.: +40 21 311 43 00
GERMANY MUNICH Konrad-Zuse-Platz 8 81829 Munich, Germany Tel.: +49 89 207042-700

UK SHEPTON MALLET Charlton Barn Lower Charlton Trading Estate Shepton Mallet Somerset, BA4 5QE, UK Tel. +44 1749 346784
BELFAST Charles House 103/111 Donegall Street, Belfast, BT1 2FJ Northern Ireland, UK Tel.: +44 28 9041 6200
JAPAN TOKYO The Gate Ichigaya, 3F 3-6 Ichigaya Tamachi Shinjuku-ku,Tokyo 162-0843 Japan Tel. +81 3 5207 2610
CHINA SHANGHAI Room 1203, Silver Tower No.218 South XiZang Road Shanghai 20002, China Tel. +86 21 6334 3406
USA BOSTON 402 Amherst Street Suite 300 Nashua, NH 03063, USA Tel. +1 480 753 9200

PHOENIX 2555 East Camelback Road, Suite 280 Phoenix, AZ 85016, USA Tel. +1 480 753 9200
REDWOOD CITY 400 Seaport Court, Suite 104 Redwood City, CA 94063, USA Tel.: +1 650 480 7200
INDIA PUNE 201/202, Supreme Headquarters Baner, Mumbai-Bangalore Highway Pune - 411045 Maharashtra, India Tel.: +91 (020) 65232300
FRANCE PARIS Immeuble Le Cardinet 8 rue Bernard Buffet 75017 Paris, France Tel.: +33 1 70 81 19 00
REPUBLIC OF SINGAPORE SINGAPORE 51 Goldhill Plaza No. 22-01/02 Singapore 308900, Republic of Singapore Tel.: +33 1 70 81 19 00

Enea®, Enea OSE®, Netbricks®, Polyhedra®, Zealcore®, Enea® Element, Enea® Optima, Enea® LINX, Enea® Accelerator, Enea® dSPEED Platform and COSNOS® are registered trademarks of Enea AB and its subsidiaries. Enea OSE®ck, Enea OSE® Epsilon, Enea® Optima Log Analyzer, Enea® Black Box Recorder, Polyhedra® Lite, Enea® System Manager, Enea® ElementCenter NMS, Enea® On-device Management and Embedded for LeadersTM are unregistered trademarks of Enea AB. All rights reserved. © 2019 Enea AB.
www.enea.com

