welcome to the networked society
Ericsson Annual Report 2014

contents
The business
Ericsson in brief ................................................................................. 1 2014 in review ................................................................................... 2 Letter from the CEO ........................................................................ 4 This is Ericsson.................................................................................. 8 The strategic direction................................................................... 12 Core business.................................................................................. 14 Targeted areas................................................................................. 20 Resource allocation ....................................................................... 26 The IPR portfolio.............................................................................. 27 Business structure.......................................................................... 28 The people ........................................................................................ 36 Sustainability and Corporate Responsibility ...........................38 Letter from the Chairman ............................................................ 41
Section "The business" aims to provide insight into Ericsson's transformation journey and its strategic direction (p.1­13), building on the core business (p. 14­19) and aiming to transform targeted areas into core business (p.20­26). IPR portfolio and business structure (p.27­29) lead over to the current offering and the regional perspective (p.30­35). People and Sustainability & CR (p.36­39) end the section.

Results
Board of Directors' report* .......................................................... 42 Consolidated financial statements* ......................................... 55 Notes to the consolidated financial statements* ................. 63 Parent Company financial statements* ................................ 102 Notes to the Parent Company financial statements*........ 108 Risk factors* ................................................................................... 121 Auditors' report ............................................................................. 129 Forward-looking statements .................................................... 130
Corporate Governance
Corporate Governance report 2014 ...................................... 132 Remuneration report ................................................................... 160
Shareholders
Ericsson and the capital market .............................................. 164 Share information ......................................................................... 168
Other information
Ten-year summary ....................................................................... 172 Glossary .......................................................................................... 174 Financial terminology and Exchange rates .......................... 175 Shareholder information ............................................................ 176
* Chapters covered by the Auditors' report.

MORE INFORMATION

The Annual Report describes Ericsson's financial and operational performance during 2014. A Corporate Governance Report is attached to the Annual Report.
Find this Annual Report online: www.ericsson.com/annualreport2014

Ericsson issues a separate Sustainability and Corporate Responsibility Report. www.ericsson.com/thecompany/ sustainability_corporateresponsibility
There is further information on sustainability and corporate responsibility on pages 38­39 and pages 50­51.

ericsson in brief

Ericsson is a driving force behind the Networked Society ­ a world leader in communications technology and services. The Company's long-term relationships with every major telecom operator in the world allow people, businesses and societies to fulfill their potential and create a more sustainable future. Ericsson's services, software and infrastructure ­ especially in mobility, broadband and the cloud ­ are enabling the telecom industry and other sectors to do better business, increase efficiency, improve the user experience and capture new opportunities. With more than 115,000 professionals and customers in more than 180 countries, Ericsson c ombines global scale with techn ology and services leadership. Investments in research and development ensure that Ericsson's solutions ­ and its customers ­ stay in the forefront. The Company provides support for networks with more than 2.5 billion subscribers. Approximately 40% of the world's mobile traffic is carried through networks delivered by Ericsson.
Founded in 1876, Ericsson has its headquarters in Stockholm, Sweden. The Ericsson share is listed on Nasdaq Stockholm and NASDAQ New York.

Net sales
SEK billion
228.0
(2013: 227.4)

Operating income
SEK billion
16.8
(2013: 17.8)

Operating margin
Percent
7.4
(2013: 7.8)

Cash flow from operating activities
SEK billion
18.7
(2013: 17.4)

Net sales per segment
6% 51%
43%
Networks SEK 117.5 (117.7) billion Global Services SEK 97.7 (97.4) billion Support Solutions SEK 12.7 (12.2) billion Modems ­ no material revenues
THE BUSINESS ­ Ericsson in brief

Global presence
Ericsson is a global company supporting more than 500 operator customers and an increasing number of non-operator customers. The Company has been present in many countries, such as China, Brazil and India, for more than 100 years. The ten largest customers, half of which are multinational, account for 47% of Ericsson's net sales.

Ericsson | Annual Report 2014

1

THE BUSINESS ­ 2014 in review
2014 in review
Examples of what Ericsson has achieved, and of business highlights from around the world during 2014.

JANUARY ­ MARCH

APRIL ­ JUNE

 Ericsson and Samsung reached crosslicense agreement. The agreement includes global cross licensing of patents relating to GSM, UMTS and LTE standards for networks and handsets. (Jan. 27)
 Ericsson announced the acquisition of Azuki Systems. The acquisition helps Ericsson to deliver on the Networked Society's demand for TV Anywhere services ­ on any screen, any time, across any network. (Feb. 6)
 Ericsson announced the industry's first coordinated network-wide software launch. A software-driven network evolution enables operators to respond to quickly changing network requirements. (Feb.12)
 Century Link, a large US operator, signed a contract with Ericsson for operations and business support systems (OSS & BSS) software suite Service Agility. The solution enables quick delivery of new applications to customers. (Feb. 24)
 Ericsson and Royal Philips jointly launched an innovative connected LED street lighting solution which integrates telecom equipment into light poles. The Zero Site provides energy- efficient public lighting and improved network p erformance in dense urban areas. (Feb. 24)
 Ericsson announced several operator trials of the Radio Dot System. Radio Dot System is a small-cell architecture for enterprise buildings and public venues. (Feb. 24)
 At the Mobile World Congress in Barcelona, Ericsson showed innovations and its technology and service capabilities . Ericsson leads the way with solutions that drive the development in mobility, broadband and the cloud, creating the foundation for eco-systems and transformation across industries. (Feb. 24)
 Ericsson was awarded a five-year network transformation contract by Vodafone. The contract includes products and services and is a part of Vodafone's growth plan, called Spring. (Feb. 26)

The legend indicates which part of the business strategy the event is related to:
 Core business  Targeted areas  Group
Read more on page 12.

2

Ericsson | Annual Report 2014

 Ericsson completed the acquisition of Red Bee Media, a media services company in the UK. The acquisition, announced in 2013, strengthens Ericsson's broadcast services business and expands the customer list. (May 12)
 New Ericsson Campus in Silicon Valley to drive innovation. Ericsson will bring together approximately 2,000 R&D staff to accelerate the development of IP, TV and media innovation. (May 28)
 Ericsson announced OSS and BSS software suite Cloud Manager 2.0. It supports operators in the transformation to virtualized network infrastructure. (June 2)
 Ericsson won a long-term managed services agreement with T-Mobile for Service Agility, the pre-integrated OSS and BSS software suite. The solution allows T-Mobile to create, launch, deliver and manage services efficiently while at the same time reduce overall operational costs. (June 2)
 Taiwanese operator Far EasTone selected Ericsson as the major supplier for its LTE radio and core network. The contract also includes network optimization and 4G Cell Broadcast System for disaster warning services. (June 5)

JULY ­ SEPTEMBER

OCTOBER ­ DECEMBER

Through a seven-year contract for managed services with operators in Romania, Ericsson is responsible for operations of networks and OSS systems and network maintenance. Ericsson helps Romtelecom (extended contract) and Cosmote (new contract) to improve network quality and quality of service. (July 1)
 Live, over-the-air demonstration of pre-standard 5G technology achieves 5 Gbps speeds in the 15 GHz frequency band. Faster speeds, lower latency and better performance in urban areas address the mobile data growth and next-generation machine-to- machine applications. (July 1)
 Ericsson prepared Telefonica network for the 2014 FIFA World Cup in Brazil. Ericsson's Key Event Experience solution for events with high mobile traffic when network capacity is key, was used for the first time. (July 17)
 Ericsson acquired MetraTech to accelerate cloud and enterprise billing capabilities. The acquisition broadens Ericsson's software portfolio with billing-platform based on metadata architecture. (July 29)
 MTV, a Finnish media company, selected Ericsson for broadcast and media services, including media management and playout. The fiveyear agreement and establishment of a purpose-built media hub in Helsinki strengthens Ericsson's broadcast and media services business. (Aug.13)

 Ericsson was awarded its Fifth Emmy® award for its JPEG2000 interoperability technology. JPEG2000 is a compression standard for broadcast applications for IP networks, distributing high picture quality content for live events. (Aug.18)
 Australian operator Telstra selected Ericsson for its next generation optical transport equipment and services. The agreement supports the introduction of software defined networking (SDN) and network functions virtualization (NFV) functionality. (Aug.18)
 Ericsson opened its first of three Global ICT Centers. The Swedish center houses the com pany's complete portfolio and enables Ericsson's cross-functional teams to work more efficiently, using the latest cloud technology. (Sept. 8)
 Ericsson completed the small-cell portfolio with launch of RBS 6402 Indoor Picocell to address approximately 10 million commercial buildings worldwide. This is the first indoor p icocell to deliver 300 Mbps LTE speeds with c arrier aggregation. (Sept. 9)
 Ericsson introduced MediaFirst, an end-toend cloud-based TV platform. MediaFirst is offered as software as a service for creation, management and delivery of Pay TV. (Sept. 11)
 Ericsson announced the discontinuation of modems development and the shift of parts of Modems' workforce to radio network R&D. Ericsson took over the LTE thin modems operations when the ST-Ericsson JV was broken up in 2013. (Sept. 18)
 Ericsson was selected by T-Mobile to provide equipment and services to expand its nationwide 4G LTE network, improve in-building, highway and rural performance. The contract includes LTE-Advanced and seamless service continuity for voice calls between LTE and Wi-Fi on select T-Mobile smartphones. (Sept. 23)
 Ericsson announced Software 15A , introducing a new software model for networks, similar to the software model in the IT industry. The software model includes predefined software value packages and a software subscription component. (Sept. 23)

 Ericsson completed the acquisition of the business of Ambient, a US-based smart grid communications provider. The Ambient platform enables multiple smart grid applications and technologies on a single infrastructure. (Oct.1)
 Network functions virtualization (NFV) successfully demonstrated with Japanese operator NTT DOCOMO. NFV enhances network flexibility, speeds up service introduction and increases resilience. (Oct.14)
 Ericsson strengthened its position in the cloud market. Ericsson announced the acquisition of Fabrix Systems (Sept.12), Sentilla (Oct.16) and the majority stake in Apcera (Sept. 22) as well as a partnership with Guardtime (Sept. 3). (Sept­Oct.)
 Ericsson signed a five-year global framework agreement with international operator Telenor. The agreement covers hardware, professional services, support and maintenance for 2G, 3G and 4G networks. (Oct. 27)
 Ericsson reports on ICT use in cities. The reports show that cities with low ICT maturity are improving their ICT maturity faster than high performing cities and that the internet facilitates smart choices in city life. (Nov.10)
 Ericsson's Capital Markets Day provided an update on the progress on its Networked Society strategy. With a clear strategic agenda, Ericsson is transforming, with the aim to becoming a leading ICT company. (Nov.13)
 Reliance Communications and Ericsson signed a seven-year nationwide managed services contract. This expansion contract covers operation and management of wireline and wireless networks and field maintenance and operational planning of mobile networks. (Dec. 5)
 Vodafone, Netherlands, was the first operator in the world to commercially deploy Ericsson Radio Dot System at Dutch Radboud University. Ericsson Radio Dot System allows quick indoor deployment and efficient integration into macro-network. (Dec.10)
 Ericsson signed a framework agreement with Ethio Telecom for network transformation regarding 2G/3G mobile communication equipment and related services. Products and services (such as design, planning, deployment, tuning, and optimization) will be used to transform the network and add capacity. (Dec.16).

THE BUSINESS ­ 2014 in review

Ericsson | Annual Report 2014

3

THE BUSINESS ­ Letter from the CEO
lETTER FROM THE CEO
We are on a journey of transformation. Our industry is changing and we are changing to stay relevant to our customers and to capture opportunities both in our core business and in our targeted growth areas.

Dear reader
Value creation Our sales of SEK 228 b. was stable for the full year 2014, with an operating margin of 7.4%. Growth in the Middle East, Europe and Asia compensated for a sales decline in North America and the operating margin improved in our core business. We improved cash flow from operating activities during the year and generated a full-year cash flow of SEK 18.7 b., exceeding our cash conversion target of more than 70%. Our strong financial position has over the years secured our financial flexibility and enabled us to implement our strategy and to deliver consistent returns to our shareholders.
Going into 2015, we aim to continue to grow faster than the market combined with best-in-class margins and strong operating cash flow. In doing so, we will not only drive shareholder value creation but also

Ericsson's ambition
Customer Leading ICT transformation partner

Shareholder
Shareholder value creator

Employees
Attract, develop and retain best talent

Society
Responsible and relevant driver of positive change

Grow faster than the market with best-in-class margins.

4

Ericsson | Annual Report 2014

The transformation journey accelerated during 2014 and will continue throughout 2015, and beyond."

Earnings per share, diluted
sek 3.54
(2013: 3.69)

generate value for our customers, employees and for society at large.
The pace of change in the market is increasing as the telecom, IT and media industries converge into a broader ICT industry. At the same time, ICT is starting to transform other industries. Both operators and vendors are deciding on different strategic routes depending on the assets they have. We are now at an inflection point where the Networked Society, is starting to take shape around us. The transformation to the Networked Society, where anything that benefits from being connected will be connected, is driven by broadband, mobility and cloud.
The pace of change within the Company is also increasing as we take action to secure continued leadership in this transforming market. We are investing not only in our core areas of mobile infrastructure and telecom services, but also in targeted growth areas. We are stream lining our portfolio, with an increased focus on software and professional services. We are also investing in new competence to make sure that we can keep our technology and services leadership and be a trusted business partner to our customers.
Let me give you a few examples from recent years. We have reduced the number of hardware platforms, reduced the number of software stacks, made strategic investments and acqui sitions in our targeted growth areas, divested our handset operations and discontinued our modem development. This streamlining of o perations has made us stronger as a company and improved earnings in our core business.
However, our profit is not yet on the level where we want it to be. Current company transformation uncovers opportunities to leverage global skills and scale to increase efficiencies and reduce cost further. Therefore a global cost and efficiency program was presented at our Capital Markets Day in November. The ambition

with the program is to achieve savings of approximately SEK 9 b., including SEK 4.5 billion in operating expense savings, with full effect during 2017.
We aim to improve operating income by monetizing our footprint, building success in targeted growth areas and by efficiency improvements.
Excel in core and establish leadership in targeted areas Our strategy builds on a combination of excelling in our core business and establishing leadership in targeted growth areas. We are market leaders in both mobile infrastructure and telecom services with a large installed base to build on. We continue to invest in R&D and services capabilities, relentlessly innovating and shaping the market as we move towards 5G.
At the same time, we invest in five targeted growth areas that are adjacent to our core business: IP Networks, Cloud, OSS and BSS, TV and Media and Industry and Society. They all have a high share of software and professional services, a high degree of recurring business and a higher growth rate than the core business.
We made good progress in these targeted areas during 2014, with sales growth above 10%. and we continued to invest both in our own R&D and in selected acquisitions and partnerships: >> The partnership with Ciena will support our
Service Provider-SDN and IP Optical convergence ambitions. >> The acquisition of a majority stake in Apcera strengthens our position in enterprise cloud. >> The acquisition of MetraTech improves our cloud and enterprise billing capabilities within BSS. >> Our acquisitions of Azuki Systems, Red Bee Media and Fabrix Systems extend our leadership in TV and media.

THE BUSINESS ­ Letter from the CEO

Ericsson | Annual Report 2014

5

THE BUSINESS ­ Letter from the CEO

Investing in the future During 2014, we invested SEK 36 b. in R&D ­ which adds up to a total investment of SEK 166 b. over the past five years. Our technology leadership is built on our investments in R&D and e videnced by more than 37,000 granted patents, one of the strongest patent portfolios in the ind ustry. Our expanding licensing business is based on our continued ambition to generate value from our intellectual property (IPR) portfolio.
We have a holistic approach to capital and resource allocation across the Company, where investments in services capabilities go hand in hand with investments in R&D, product development, sales capabilities as well as in acquisitions and partnering.
Sustainability and corporate responsibility Sustainability and corporate responsibility remained important during 2014, and we continue to lead the industry in working with sustainable development and responsible business practices to ensure positive triple-bottomline (economic, environmental and social) growth in society. We focus our efforts where we can make the biggest difference. This involves improving the accessibility and affordability of mobile communication and improving energy performance and optimizing the use of materials in our products, solutions and in our own activities.
We are helping to address and minimize c limate change and we are also tackling challenges and opportunities provided by urbanization for example through the Ericsson Industry & Society product portfolio. We are also emphasizing the importance of responsible business practice and employee engagement. We address growing challenges in areas such as responsible sourcing, health and safety, privacy and human rights with transparency and seek to build trust among our stakeholders. We have made visible progress during 2014, and will continue to ensure that technology is a force for positive, lasting change.

Long-term fundamentals The long-term fundamentals in the industry remain attractive and the transformation journey that accelerated during 2014 will continue throughout 2015, and beyond. Going forward, I am convinced Ericsson has what it takes to generate sustainable value for shareholders and customers, and to continue to lead and shape the industry.
Hans Vestberg President and CEO

6

Ericsson | Annual Report 2014

managing day-to-day operations

The media industry is undergoing dramatic changes. By 2020, Ericson predicts that there will be 50 billion connected devices ­ 15 billion of which will be video enabled. Most broadcasters do not have the time, scale or infrastructure to adapt effectively to the new technical challenges such as media asset management, multiplatform multi-screen delivery, archive and disaster recovery. The combination of global services expertise and the industry-leading position in managed services enables Ericsson to enhance the efficiency of the busi-

ness operations of global and regional content owners and broadcasters. Every day, people on all continents watch television programs prepared, managed and broadcast by Ericsson staff. Ericsson has broadcast and media services agreements with customers such as the BBC, BSkyB, BT Sport, Canal Digital, Channel 4, Channel 5, Virgin Media, and many others. Ericsson manages the day-to-day operations, so that the customer can devote attention to users, program and c ontent acquisition as well as strategic planning.

THE BUSINESS ­ This is Ericsson
This is Ericsson
Technology and services leadership, combined with business expertise, global scale and skills, allows Ericsson to generate customer and shareholder value. The ability to transform is critical in the ICT industry (information and communication technology) and Ericsson strives to become a leader in this industry.

3-5%
Market CAGR 2013­2017

Over the past 100 years, Ericsson has continuously evolved its business portfolio, entered into new and adjacent markets, developed new products and solutions and adapted to new ways of working.
Ericsson reported four business segments in 2014: Networks, Global Services, Support Solutions and Modems1), each of which is responsible for a full profit & loss statement and for the development and maintenance of its specific portfolio of products, solutions and services.
The core assets of the Company are tech nology and services leadership and global scale and skills. Long-term customer relationships and the fact that Ericsson has remained in the forefront in a competitive, fast-moving market for more than 100 years, shows the ability to deliver customer value. Approximately 40% of the world's mobile traffic goes through networks delivered by Ericsson. The progress of the strategy implementation to extend the business to adjacent customer segments is visible in an increasing share of sales to non-operator customers.
1) Development of modems was discontinued in 2014 .

The ambition is to grow faster than the market Ericsson's ambition is to grow faster than the market, which is estimated, by the Company, to grow at a compound annual growth rate (CAGR) of 3­5% from 2013 to 2017.
A growth faster than the market is based on excelling in the core business ("Radio, Core and Transmission" and "Telecom Services") and establishing leadership in the targeted areas of IP Networks, Cloud, OSS and BSS, TV and Media as well as Industry and Society, while at the same time increasing the share of recurring revenues and intellectual property rights (IPR) revenues.
Best-in-class margins and strong cash flow A market-leading position, global presence, regional and local competence as well as close customer relationships provide a solid foundation for profitable growth. A market-leading p osition is an enabler of the aim to create shareholder value by growing sales faster than the market and generating industry best-in-class margins and generating strong cash flows.

Ericsson's current position

Mobile infrastructure OSS and BSS Telecom Services TV platforms

Technology leadership
37,000

Patents

25,700 36 billion

R&D Employees
Annual investments in R&D (SEK)

Services leadership

1 billion

Subscribers managed
by Ericsson

2.5 billion Subscribers supported by Ericsson

65,000

Services professionals

Scale and skills

228.0 b. Net sales (SEK)

#1

LTE market share in the world's 100 largest cities

180 118,000

Countries with customers
Employees

8

Ericsson | Annual Report 2014

A strong financial position, focus on profitable growth and operational efficiencies and the ambition to improve earnings in the core business remain the cornerstones of Ericsson's financial ambitions, while continuously mone tizing the footprint and making cost efficiency improvements. By industrializing, centralizing and automating, as well as leveraging a less capital intensive business mix, the ambition is to have strong operating cash flow development. A strong cash flow generation has enabled increased dividends, and also

p rovided the financial strength to invest. Over the last five years, the annualized total shareholder return has averaged 10%.
The financial strategy includes unlocking additional values through a global cost and efficiency program, reaching an annual run-rate saving of SEK 9 billion during 2017, compared to 2014. E fficiency measures include structural enhancements, supply efficiencies and an accelerating transformation of the service d elivery organization.

Transformation

Ericsson has always been at the forefront of transformation driven by ever-changing market conditions and major technological disruptions. This technological and financial capability to adapt and the will to change are major compe titive strengths.
The ongoing market transformation is reflected in Ericsson's business mix. Over the past 15 years, the business has evolved from being hardware-centric to becoming softwareand services-centric. In 2014, 66% of Ericsson's business was related to services and software, compared with 34% in 1999. With the share of software and services likely to continue to increase, Ericsson's competitive hardware will still remain important as a performance differentiator.

Operator segmentation drives change in strategy A clear customer segmentation is taking place, as operators take different roles in the transforming ICT market. Ericsson works closely with operators to support their different strategic ambitions, providing solutions and services that grow their business and meet their operational priorities.
In simple terms, network infrastructure consists of three layers: the network forms the base; the platforms represented by IT platforms and operations and business support systems (OSS and BSS) is the second layer, and the applications and services are at the top. Network performance, efficient processes and structured OSS and BSS implementations ­ which enable

Operator and industry roles

There are three strategic operator segments. The largest share of total network investments is in the Service creator segment.
THE BUSINESS ­ This is Ericsson

Applications & Services Platforms & IT Systems Connectivity & Infrastructure

Users, Content & Devices

Service platform developer

Service producer

Network developer
 Operator

Service enabler
 Other

Service creator

Ericsson | Annual Report 2014

9

THE BUSINESS ­ This is Ericsson

the proactivity, flexibility and performance that the business portfolio requires ­ have moved into focus, driven by high data volumes, demanding applications and new service offerings for consumers.
Operator segmentation will have a significant impact on Ericsson's ambitions and strategies. The ambition is to identify where value can be created and growth can be captured. The transformation drives new requirements on the networks. This is a major reason as to why Ericsson has chosen a strategy to invest in the targeted areas of IP Networks, Cloud, OSS and BSS, TV and Media, as well as Industry and Society.
Ericsson sees three strategic operator segments emerging: >> Network developer >> Service enabler >> Service creator For all three operator segments, connectivity is, and will continue to be, the foundation for their businesses and the key factor for differentiation as user demand for performance of applications and app coverage, increases.
Network developer; Network performance The operators who have chosen to address user demands through network performance and efficiency are the Network developers. They concentrate on the broadband experience through internet connectivity and communication services.
For these customers, the network performance is key, and Ericsson addresses operators' demands with solutions for high performance network architecture. The Network developers use external service platforms to address the increased demand of applications and services, but their own ambitions are focused on high quality connectivity, cost-efficiency and on operating the network as a utility service with a good return on capital investment.
Service enabler; Capable network platforms The operator segment, represented by the service enablers, focuses on establishing systems and platforms that enable new enterprise practices such as IT cloud services and business processes, as well as services to enrich the consumer experience. In terms of applications and services they use external service producers.
Their focus, on top of a well-performing network, is on billing, customer care and service assurance. Service enablers provide functional-

ity on capable platforms that are easy for other industries to integrate into their respective business processes. They are capitalizing on mobile broadband growth by introducing new pricing and revenue models such as targeted offerings based on usage patterns, capacity, service bundles, multi-device plans and real-time features such as top-up plans. Ericsson addresses these needs with its OSS and BSS platforms and professional services offering which cater for the control and management of the operations and the identification of new revenue streams.
The large majority of the operators are thus represented by Network developers and Service enablers, but they only represent a smaller share of current total network investments.
Service creator; New services The largest share of current investments can be related to the group of operators representing the Service creators, who have the ambition to create intelligent networks to allow the creation of new services. In addition to network performance and consumer experience, these operators take the lead in providing innovative new services.
They are active participants in the establishment of new ecosystems in adjacent markets, such as utilities, transport and public safety. Their strategic focus is broader than that of the other two roles as, in addition to connectivity and customer experience, they focus on expanding business in applications and services to increase the share of profits from other industries.
Service creators are increasing their investments in the development of new businesses in media and entertainment, cloud and IT services, machine-to-machine (M2M) communications and enterprise offerings, as well as in specific industry solutions. Still, they would not compromise on the IT systems part, such as the OSS and BSS platforms, to orchestrate the traffic flows.
The user experience is increasingly determined by the actual performance of applications or app coverage, and the network needs not only to provide access but to also safeguard and optimize the actual performance of the applications used. Ericsson's strategy is to offer solutions that fit the demands of the Service creators and to develop these offerings to enable an expansion of market position and value creation, and to capture growth.

10

Ericsson | Annual Report 2014

Efficient RESPONSE

By equipping police, firemen and paramedics with real time information, connectivity helps to keep both civilians and emergency services away from harm. When all information is at hand, danger is minimized and safety is optimized. The combination of technology, processes and people can help save lives and property by enabling rapid and correct information sharing. An application especially developed for firemen, such as the "Firefighter Log" gives them information more rapidly than through the conventional

communication channels. The app displays the address, map and water supply and the floor plans of burning buildings. Improved situation-awareness empowers efficient decisions, secures assets and may even save lives. Stable communication networks enable critical processes and services to be enhanced by the collective knowledge and experience stored in the cloud. First responders are now better prepared and supported while saving lives.

THE BUSINESS ­ The strategic direction
THE strategic direction
As a market leader, Ericsson strives to lead industry transformation through mobility. In order to stay relevant in the future, and to generate further shareholder and c ustomer value, Ericsson continues to implement the Networked Society strategy.

3-5%
Market CAGR 2013­2017

Ericsson's ambition is to grow faster than the market which the Company estimates to increase by CAGR 3­5% (2013­2017). Growth is expected to be achieved primarily through organic growth, but also in combination with acquisitions and partnerships. The Company believes that the track record of moving into new areas and markets is reflected in the current market position and global scale. The strategy is to excel in the core business, establish leadership in targeted areas and expand business in new areas.
Excel in Core business Ericsson's two core businesses are "Radio, Core and Transmission" and "Telecom Services"
The Networked Society is Ericsson's vision of a society where everything that benefits from being connected will be connected. The demand for increased mobility, better broad-

band and secure access to cloud-based services are the enablers of the Networked Society and thus the network infrastructure forms the foundation for business with operator customers.
Radio, Core and Transmission networks are based on industry standards which ensures global interoperability across all devices and all subscriptions. To enable value creation, the network is, and will be, based on a high-per formance common infrastructure that offers s eamless connectivity and delivers relevant services and content.
The rising number of smartphone subscriptions and changing user behavior, drives the demand for better coverage, speed and capacity. Operators are responding by differentiating their services and adapting them to new business models.
Initially, Telecom Services business was highly dependent on the network infrastructure

Strategic direction 2014

Future/ Emerging

Present/ Large

IP Networks

Cloud

OSS & BSS

Radio, Core & Transmission

Telecom Services

TV & Media
Industry & Society

In order to be relevant in the future, Ericsson's strategy is to excel in its core business, establish leadership in targeted areas, and expand business in new areas.

12

Ericsson | Annual Report 2014

Excel in core business
Establish leadership in targeted areas
Expand business in new areas

business and was dominated by the installation of network equipment. As competition in the operator market intensified and operators needed to focus on their core skills, Ericsson identified an expanded market opportunity in services. An evolution of capabilities was initiated, in order to match the market demand. Ericsson developed new business models, more independent of the network infrastructure business, and acquired small and medium-sized local service and consulting companies. The success ful implementation of this business strategy resulted in a significant shift in business mix. In 2014, 42% of sales was derived from services.
Establish leadership in targeted areas To capture growth, Ericsson will continue to reallocate capital and resources to areas beyond its core business. The targeted areas where the strategy is to establish leadership positions include IP Networks, Cloud, OSS and BSS, TV and Media as well as Industry and Society.
Ericsson is expanding into targeted areas because they: >> address markets that are expected to grow
faster than the core business >> are adjacent to the core business >> have a significant share of software and
services >> have a larger share of recurring sales and
tie up less working capital. Through solutions, network competence as well as service and business capabilities, Ericsson offers tools for its customers to differentiate themselves.
The Company will also expand its market exposure to new customers by re-using products, solutions and services skills in selected industries. Ericsson believes it can generate value by targeting customers in new industries, either because they have similar business models to telecom operators, or gain from mobile broadband and the larger opportunity for connectivity. Ericsson believes mobility is helping industries reinvent the way they create value and today, the Company engages directly with c ustomers in three selected industry verticals ­

utilities, transport and public safety. The ambition is to address these adjacent industry verticals in a focused manner, using the existing product offering, core technology expertise, network competence and skills.
Expand business in new areas In order to stay in the forefront, the long-term strategy also includes expanding into new areas. The ambition is to develop new areas into value creative businesses with cutting-edge offerings that are competitive and profitable.
Ericsson selectively invests in, explores, expands, and may also discontinue, business in new areas. In line with the strategy, the modems development was discontinued in 2014, and the capital was reallocated to areas which are expected to have stronger growth potential.
Managing the transition In the transformation process, Ericsson will remain true to its core values of professionalism, respect and perseverance. The ability to implement the strategy depends on the Company's ability to leverage on its current assets namely the technology and services leadership and its global scale and skills.
Ericsson believes that the strategy to become a leader in the ICT industry allows the Company to be in the midst of the market transformation as telecom, IT and media come together and form the foundation for the Networked Society.
The strategy implies that the Company needs to make progress on the present and the future at the same time, thus both in the core business and in the targeted areas.
The ability to implement the strategy is key to staying relevant and will be reflected in future earnings development and in the ability to create shareholder value.

THE BUSINESS ­ The strategic direction

Ericsson | Annual Report 2014

13

THE BUSINESS ­ Core business
Core BUSINESS
Ericsson is a market leader in its core business areas. The strategy is to excel in the core business, to improve earnings and to continue to lead and innovate. The ambition is to leverage on its installed base and make further investments in R&D to maintain a strong position. The core business areas are called "Radio, Core and Transmission" and "Telecom Services".

Core business
>> Radio, Core & Transmission >> Telecom Services
2-4%
Market CAGR 2013­2017

CORE BUSINESS
Radio, core & transmission

In Radio, Core and Transmission, Ericsson supports its customers in the new ICT landscape by leveraging the advantages of technology leadership, a position which has resulted in a competitive portfolio of radio networks and core networks. Ericsson continues to invest in new capabilities to support customers in the transformation of their networks.
The offering includes high-performance networks that meet demanding customer requirements. The network equipment market which Ericsson is exposed to is estimated by the Company to increase by CAGR 2­4% (2013­2017).
The strategy is to excel with a leading portfolio for high-performance networks, by building on scale and operational efficiency to >> contribute to the best user experience for
consumers >> maximize business innovation and business
efficiency for customers >> maximize earnings for Ericsson.
Ericsson wants to remain number one in solutions for operator networks and lead the transition to the network architecture that will enable the Networked Society.

Maintain performance leadership By the end of 2020, Ericsson estimates that the number of mobile subscriptions will increase to 9.5 billion (from 7.1 billion in 2014) and that around 55% of the traffic that users will generate will be video. High network performance is a key competitive advantage when offering solutions to operators in their transition from circuitswitched to IP-based networks.
The capability to provide high-performance networks enables Ericsson to compete on quality and value, which is often reflected in a price premium. The Company believes that, with a user-centric approach, it can meet operator expectations on network performance, regarding speed, quality, personalization, simplicity and fast response time.
Radio Over time, Ericsson believes that, even if the strategy implies that the business will comprise large infrastructure projects, capacity upgrades and the number of small-cell projects, which are an effect of network densification and indoor coverage build, are expected to increase as a share of total revenues.

End-to-end leadership in mobile infrastructure
Transmission Microwave and optical

Ericsson can deliver end-to-end solutions for mobile infrastructure, including radio, transmission and core.

14

Ericsson | Annual Report 2014

Radio, based on RBS 6000 Multi-standard radio base station for GSM, WCDMA/ HSPA, LTE and CDMA

Core network

Internet

The increasing demand for small-cell solutions is based on arguments such as spectrum efficiency, reduced total cost of ownership (TCO) and improved user experience.
The key priority is that the software solutions and the functionality in the small-cell environment is the same as in the macro network, to allow for a viable business case for the operator. To meet this demand, Ericsson offers integrated solutions that enable the operator to implement an intelligent heterogeneous network that uses the available spectrum efficiently. This network combines small-cell networks and operator Wi-Fi networks with a densified and improved macro network. The result is a dense multi-layered network, where traffic flows seamlessly. Capacity is where the user needs it, especially indoors where an estimated 70% of mobile traffic is generated.
Transmission Ericsson also offers backhaul solutions that match operators' demands on cost-efficiency, scalability with low complexity, and that are resilient to failures with fast recovery times. Ericsson's backhaul solutions use technologies such as microwave and optical fiber transmission, which are the major transmission solutions available to meet the capacity requirements set by the increased LTE and video traffic. Currently, microwave is the dominating transmission technology for mobile backhaul worldwide, with major arguments being that it enables cost- efficient and fast roll out of mobile broadband. The Company expects the share of microwave backhaul to remain high in the future, connecting around 50% of all radio sites in 2020.

Core network The IP-based core network portfolio allows operators to use their complete network as a single business resource as opposed to the fragmentation and complexity of most legacy networks. Operators continue to evolve their communication services, by implementing solutions such as IMS, which is also used for providing voice over LTE (VoLTE).
Preparing for the next generation; 5G The 5G mobile network is an evolution of the LTE networks, but with new frequencies, technologies and expanded business opportunities. 5G implementation in commercial mobile networks is expected in 2020, but Ericsson has already achieved speeds of 5 Gbps in live, over-the-air demonstrations. The next-generation network, 5G, addresses the relentless growth in mobile data demand, and is an efficient enabler of tailored mobile accesses to multiple industries.
With 5G, the network performance will be further enhanced to support demands on low latency in real time applications .
Ericsson is at the forefront of the development of this global standard.
An important aspect of the next-generation mobile technology, is that it is also an enabler of increased sustainability and improved efficiency in industry and society. The new global standard will be flexible and reliable for multiple industries and use cases.

4-6%
Market CAGR 2013­2017

CORE BUSINESS
Telecom services

Ericsson wants to be an end-to-end business partner for network operators and other customers as the Networked Society becomes a reality. The global scale, skilled workforce, business understanding and extensive experience of managing carrier-class projects and multi-vendor networks make Ericsson the largest telecom services provider in the world, supporting operators in creating competitive, attractive and appealing offerings, while providing managed services to networks that serve more than 1 billion subscriptions worldwide. Ericsson addresses a telecom services market that is estimated by the Company to show a CAGR of 4­6% (2013­2017).

Ericsson pioneered managed services. The Company had a first mover advantage and the possibility to build scale, and continues to be the undisputed leader. The significant experience gained through 15 years in the managed services business has enabled the buildup of a best-practices pool. This is a significant com petitive advantage enabling the Company to provide sophisticated methods, tools and processes as competitive capabilities for operators. Multivendor capability means that services can be provided to customers regardless of which vendor network they have as an installed base. The Company has different sets of skills covering everything from network equipment to

THE BUSINESS ­ Core business

Ericsson | Annual Report 2014

15

THE BUSINESS ­ Core business

software-support processes and the expertise required to design and manage end-to-end solutions ranging from mobile access networks and OSS, to service deployment platforms and BSS. Ericsson wants to further strengthen the number one position in telecom services and be a leading provider of professional services in ICT. The strength of the services business also proves the value of combining local capabilities with global scale.
Telecom services evolution The current core offerings are directed to network operators. It includes professional services and network rollout. Professional services include: consulting and system integration (CSI), managed services, network design and optimization services and customer support. IT managed services are also included in the portfolio. Ericsson's ambition is to simplify the management of every element in the operator network. This includes not only access and core, but also IT systems and the applications and services layer. The Company believes that any area in the operator network is addressa ble, but the business opportunity depends on the maturity of the network and the operations, the geographical location and the competitive situation of the operator.
Services-led transformation With everything being connected, the demand for professional services increases.

The Ericsson transformation is expected to be led through these types of services. The strategy is to reuse telecom services capabilities and scale to grow in other industry domains and in new areas. This implies industrializing, globalizing and introducing new processes, methods and tools, so that Ericsson's customers can deliver high performance services to their users.
Ericsson is also strengthening its CSI competences further. CSI specialists focus on helping operators transform their business strategy and processes to improve efficiency, thereby creating a competitive advantage. Analysis, integration design, product customization and solution management are usually part of the offered scope of CSI services.
The demand for consulting and integration is rapidly advancing as the Company builds skills and scale to expand the offering to become a trusted transformation partner in every part of the operator's network.
As the network transforms, its complexity increases. With the increased complexity, the need and demand for professional services offerings ­ including consulting and systems integration, network design and optimization as well as managed services ­ has evolved. N etwork design and optimization is currently one of the fastest growing segments within professional services because of this complexity.

Telecom services strategy ­ the way forward

Build and leverage
Industry & Society, Broadcast & Media Services

Grow and scale
Consulting, Systems Integration, IT Managed Services

Ericsson's ability to implement the strategy to excel in core business Telecom Services depends on its ability to leverage on its service leadership. The strength of the service business proves the value of combining local capabilities with global scale.

Extend and excel in core business
Network Design &Optimization, Network Rollout, Customer Support, Network Managed Services

16

Ericsson | Annual Report 2014

CORE BUSINESS
business mix and cycles

This section describes the business mix and business cycles of the core business.
Business mix in mobile infrastructure The profitability in Radio, Core and Transmission depends on scale and the sustainability of the market leadership but also on the existing business mix. The combination of high quality hardware and software-based functionality as well as services offerings is Ericsson's main competitive advantage in enabling high network performance.
Despite a decreasing share of total revenue, hardware remains a core element of the strategy. The Company strives to gradually increase software sales as the core business evolves and this, in combination with continuous operational efficiency improvements, will also affect the profitability development. In 2014, software sales account for around 40% of total software and hardware sales.
Software is an important link to new functionality and to high-performance networks both of which are key to capturing future growth opportunities, and enabling profitability improvements. Ericsson is leading the transformation of pricing models in the telecom industry by adapting the software pricing model to standard ICT and having an evolved transparent business model for infrastructure software sales. The Company believes that the way software is priced is critical

to profitability, and the model will also facilitate c ustomers' cost predictability through improved transparency.
Business cycles in mobile infrastructure The most traditional business model is in network infrastructure with its embedded software; delivering and rolling out physical networks including all necessary hardware and software. When Ericsson builds coverage there is a large share of hardware, and the project often includes network rollout services. The initial buildout or rollout phase is capital-intensive and has a lower-than-average gross margin. However, when the network is up and running and demands for capacity expansions arise, profitability increases, driven by an increased share of software sales and higher-margin hardware through network densification. In the expansion phase, the network rollout services, which were essential in the rollout phase, make way for professional services.
Business mix in telecom services Large network-infrastructure projects were, and will continue to be, a key element of Ericsson's business. When building network coverage across one or more geographical areas, the offering often includes network rollout services. A larger share of network rollout, as a share of total services sales, is usually dilutive to

Business cycles ­ mobile infrastructure
Coverage (initial phase) >> Break-in and green field >> Open bidding >> More hardware and rollout services >> Negative effect on company gross margin >> More capital tied up
THE BUSINESS ­ Core business

Capacity (expansion phase)
>> Upgrade, capacity increase >> Small-cell deployments >> Shorter order cycles >> Positive effect on company gross margin

The profitability in Radio, Core and Transmission depends on the sustainability of the market leadership but also on the existing business mix. Currently software sales as a proportion of software and hardware sales is around 40%.

Ericsson | Annual Report 2014

17

THE BUSINESS ­ Core business

profitability. Thus, balancing the business mix between network rollout and professional services ­ customer support, network design and optimization, consulting and systems integration (CSI), network managed services ­ is central to the profitability.
Business cycles in managed services The managed services business model is different from the other services offerings as Ericsson takes over aspects of a customer's business operation as a long-term commitment, over several years. The business model includes three phases of which the initial phase, the transition, is coupled with lower profitability, as it involves significant costs up front when staff and expertise are transferred from the customer to Ericsson. In the second phase, the transforma-

tion, Ericsson introduces its global processes, methods and tools and implements a global delivery model. In the third phase, Ericsson focuses on optimization and industrialization by simplifying, implementing and consolidating resources, processes, methods and tools to allow for improved profitability.
The Company has reached a good balance of contracts in the transition, transformation and optimization phases ­ with currently about 70% in the optimization phase ­ which have a beneficial effect on earnings and cash flow. Over time, the Company has advanced on the learning curve, which means that global synergies can be obtained, and thereby the initial phases can be shortened. This limits the negative impact on cash flow in the transition phase when going into new contracts.

Business model ­ managed services

Profitability

~30%

Current contract mix

~70%

TRANSITION

TRANSFORMATION

O P T I M I Z AT I O N

Optimize and shorten transition and transformation

Industrialize and evolve contract

Ericsson has a good balance of contracts in the transition, transformation and optimization phases. Over time Ericson has advanced on the learning curve which implies that it can now leverage global synergies and reduce the transition phase.

18

Ericsson | Annual Report 2014

Antenna Integrated Radio

Ericsson's AIR product combines antenna and radio in one elegant package. This enables the delivery of high network performance and enables the operator to deploy new technology in a swift and simple way, eliminating the vast majority of site components and in that way reduce site acquisition or leasing costs but also improve site estethics. By deploying AIR, the operator can roll out new technology or upgrade network coverage and capacity more efficiently and faster than by using conventional solutions. AIR also reduces the energy consumption of radio base

stations and is therefore a key enabler for on-site energy solutions. With radio units mounted inside the antenna, Ericsson's Antenna Integrated Radio (AIR) solution eliminates feeder losses and uses a simplified cooling system, resulting in a significant reduction in energy consumption and costs compared to conventional macro base stations using passive antennas. The AIR solution clearly increases operational efficiency in the network, and through increased energy efficiency.It also reduces the e nvironmental footprint of the network.

THE BUSINESS ­ Targeted areas
targeted areas
Global presence, software skills as well as the heritage of end-to-end and multi-technology expertise form a sound foundation for Ericsson's business in targeted areas. The ability to implement the strategy depends on the capabilities to transform the targeted areas to value creative core businesses in the long term.

Targeted areas
>> IP Networks >> Cloud >> OSS and BSS >> TV and Media >> Industry and Society

To remain relevant in the future market, Ericsson is investing in five targeted areas: IP Networks, Cloud, OSS and BSS, TV and Media as well as Industry and Society.
The Company intends to implement the strategy by building on existing capabilities in the core business and leveraging its technology and services leadership combined with global scale and skills.
The objective is to establish top three leadership positions in these targeted areas.
Ericsson already has a number one position in some of these areas, such as in OSS and BSS and in IPTV and media delivery, and intends to further strengthen the offering.
The targeted areas combined represented a market of USD 110­130 billion in 2013, with an estimated CAGR of about 10% (2013­2017).
The targeted areas thus have a higher growth rate than the core business. They also have some characteristics that are important ­ a high degree of software and professional services, more recurring revenues and less working capital. Since the target areas are adjacent to the core business, Ericsson believes that its global services expertise and software skills form a

sound foundation for the business in these areas.
The introduction of new pricing models for software sales, with an up-front payment of a permanent license, usually supplemented by a support and maintenance contract is expected by Ericsson to imply a higher degree of recurring revenues.
The targeted areas play a significant role in the evolution of customers' networks to match the demands of the Networked Society. As the targeted areas require a high degree of services and have a high degree of software, they also support the development of the business mix to one where services and software clearly dominate.
Currently, a majority of the total business in targeted areas relates to services. Approximately half of the sales growth up until 2020 is estimated to be derived from the targeted areas. Income from these areas is expected to be accretive to operating margin over time.
Ericsson believes the combined strength of the product and professional services portfolio will be a competitive advantage.

Criteria for targeted areas

Growth potential

High degree of software and professional services

High degree of recurring revenues

Adjacency ­ leveraging Ericsson core business areas

20

Ericsson | Annual Report 2014

3-5%
Market CAGR 2013­2017
IP Edge, Metro Aggregation, Systems integration
Definition Alcatel-Lucent, Cisco, Huawei, Juniper
Competition Market 2017: USD 14­16 billion (includes SDN)
Market outlook

TARGETED AREA
IP Networks

Ericsson believes it can build on a leading position in mobile backhaul and packet core networks to grow the footprint in IP Networking for operators, where the Company wants to take a top three position. The market for IP Networks is expe cted to grow by GACR 3­5% (2013­2017).
The market for IP Networks is driven by technology disruption and the prevailing IT p aradigm. An evolved network architecture has become a critical enabler of the fast introduction of new services and of the efficient handling of the increasing amount of data traffic. The legacy telecom networks were designed to deliver a limited number of services, such as voice and text messages, while the new IP-based multi-service networks create opportunities for operators to unlock the full potential of mobility, video and the cloud. It allows for increasingly virtualized network features, adding flexibility and paving the way for cooperation with new partners.

The network needs to be aware of cons umers, services, devices, location in order to scale bandwidth and connections, while being much simpler to operate and maintain. This is enabled through unified management and orchestration including capabilities such as service provider software defined networking (SDN) and service awareness. With the support of Service Provider SDN, operators can orchestrate network resources on different layers for different purposes under the same management system.
IP networking solutions and Service Provider SDN are the key enablers to building a future network that is smart, simple, scalable and capable of delivering superior performance.

Platform initially for network functions virtualization (operator telecom cloud)
Definition
Telecom vendors, IT vendors and Niche vendors
Competition
Early market for network function virtualization. Driven by need for speed, efficiency and innovation
Market outlook

TARGETED AREA
Cloud

Ericsson intends to use its network experience and competence to create compelling cloud solutions and strives to be number 1 in operator telecom cloud. The strategy includes the development of a broad range of offerings.
The IT paradigm and technology disruption drives the demand for cloud solutions to enable more flexible access to real time services. Ericsson strives to ensure that products are ready for deployment in any type of cloud environment, and that applications are suitable for moving to virtualized environments.
Network functions virtualization (NFV) offers a way to rationalize and simplify operations as well as speed up innovation, primarily for parts of the core and transport networks. The technology enables the network to allocate resources to IP-based services and applications according to capacity demand. Through NFV, combined with software defined networking (SDN), the hardware and software are decoupled and the functionality is virtualized.

An architecture built on cloud allows the o perator to instantly deploy, modify and scale services and applications, and it enables an easier adaption of network characteristics and resources to serve the dynamic and real-time nature of new services. The virtual infrastructure is thus extended beyond the traditional computing and storage resources.
NFV and SDN together open up the opportunity for operators to implement services more quickly and flexibly and to reduce opex and to some extent capex.
Ericson recently added telecom cloud transformation as a CSI (consulting and systems integration) offering to enable operators to provide high-performance services in the virtualized network.
In 2014, Ericsson acquired a majority stake in Apcera to strengthen the cloud offering for the Enterprise IT market and entered into partnership with Guardtime to deliver secure clouds.

THE BUSINESS ­ Targeted areas

Ericsson | Annual Report 2014

21

THE BUSINESS ­ Targeted areas

5-7%
Market CAGR 2013­2017
Operations and Business Support Systems
Definition Accenture, Huawei, IBM, Amdocs, Netcracker, Comverse
Competition Market size 2013: USD 51 billion
Market outlook

TARGETED AREA
OPERATIONS AND BUSINESS SUPPORT SystEMS (OSS AND BSS)

Ericsson has a complete end-to-end OSS and BSS software offering and consulting, systems integration and IT managed services capabilities. OSS and BSS systems allow operators to manage the network, provide high-quality user experience and quickly introduce new services and charge for them.
The fragmented OSS and BSS market is expected by the Company to increase by CAGR 5­7% (2013­2017). Ericsson believes that its software expertise and real-time network experience are competitive advantages in this market.
The ambition is to extend the installed OSS and BSS base while also expanding the service offerings for transformation.
The OSS and BSS software offerings are based on a modular architecture, which means that the products are configurable and easily integrated and thereby also less expensive to maintain. Focus is on process-oriented, pre-integrated software suites to differentiate the offering and to speed up time to market.
Ericsson supports the transformation of OSS and BSS through these software suites combined with consulting and systems integration services, so that operators can adapt to rapidly changing and competitive markets. Through simplified processes and better business efficiency, Ericsson helps operators reduce total cost of ownership.
Most importantly though, OSS and BSS transformations can provide competitive advantages for operators through better targeted

offerings to their customers, better user experience and improved customer service.
In Ericsson's role as a consolidator of operators' OSS and BSS systems, scale is an important foundation for generating profitability.
As the number of connected devices increases, so does the number of individualized subscriptions and price plans, and this increase will require real-time processing. Based on Ericsson's real-time data expertise, its charging and billing software suite allow for quick introduction of new pricing models and offerings that enable value creation.
The software suite allows operators to pro vision, and charge for, the user services in an efficient way. It also offers operational efficiency through efficient data monetization including charging and billing, policy management and actionable insight via telecom analytics.
The OSS system provides the foundation for an integrated solution for network services and over-the-top (OTT) services, as well as big data and analytics. This means that the OSS and BSS solutions enable the operators to manage user interactions and capitalize on the revenue streams that data generates, through offering efficient management of the operators' customers as well as of their networks.
The software suite and related services match the key operator success factors of user experience, business efficiency and innovation.

This is BSS and OSS
Business Support Systems help with customer care, in areas such as ordering, billing and collecting payments. Operations Support Systems ensure the technical aspects of network quality, such as performance and capacity.

22

Ericsson | Annual Report 2014

Customer Business Support Systems (BSS) Operations Support Systems (OSS)
Network

11-13%
Market CAGR 2013­2017
TV and video solutions for content owners, broadcasters, TV service providers and network operators
Definition CISCO, Huawei, Arris, Harmonic, Alcatel-Lucent, Arqiva, Encompass
Competition Market size 2013: USD 13 billion
Market outlook

TARGETED AREA
TV and Media

Ericsson's ambition is to be the transformation partner of choice as the TV and Media industry undergoes change. The connectivity and capability of broadband is redefining the user, business and technology aspects of digital entertainment.
Ericsson has over 20 years of experience of content creation, exchange, distribution and delivery of TV. Ericsson expects the TV and Media market to have a CAGR of 11­13% ( 2013­2017).
Ericsson aims to enable the evolution of TV by creating innovative solutions that enable content owners, broadcasters, TV service providers, and network operators to efficiently deliver, manage and monetize new TV experiences. The Company does this by combining a product portfolio that spans the TV value chain, complemented by systems integration and broadcast managed services.
The offering includes a software portfolio of TV platforms, end-to-end video delivery network solutions for video compression that enable new consumer services such as digital TV, High Definition (HD) and 3D.
Ericsson launched the Ericsson MediaFirst TV Platform in 2014, a software-defined platform for the creation, management and delivery of next generation Pay TV. It is an end-to-end cloud-based platform for TV service providers.
Ericsson's media delivery network (MDN) solution empowers IP network owners with a suite of tools to efficiently manage video traffic, and ensure user experience while enabling new revenues. With network control and efficiency

from content to consumer, it positions operators for fast time-to-market and monetization.
The broadcast market is in the midst of a technology disruption, caused by the overthe-top (OTT) companies, and the need for operational efficiency, which drives demand for outsourcing of broadcast services and for IP transformation. Ericsson has expanded its established model for network and IT managed services to deliver broadcast services. These services capabilities enable broadcasters to make significant capex and opex savings through automating processes and standardization in processes, methods and tools, while applying Ericsson's global delivery model and services capabilities. Ericsson assumes responsibility for technical platforms, which means that the broadcaster can reduce time to market and minimize business continuity risks.
Ericsson's solutions address the demands of the traditional broadcasters, as well as those of new entrants. Both customer segments face the challenge of adapting to a fast-changing and complex technological landscape. The combination of products and consulting, systems integration, training, and broadcast managed services allow Ericsson to advise, guide, support, implement and manage its customers' transformation in the evolution of TV.

TV & Media Industry overview

Content production

Global TV delivery industry

Content management

Playout

Service provisioning

Distribution

Consumption on devices

Ericsson provides solutions and services to those managing, distributing, aggregating and delivering content to consumer screens and devices. Customers include: content owners, broadcasters, TV service providers and network operators.

THE BUSINESS ­ Targeted areas

Ericsson | Annual Report 2014

23

THE BUSINESS ­ Targeted areas

Focus on Utilities, Transport and Public safety
Definition
IT and telecom vendors as well as industry specific vendors
Competition
Large, fragmented market with good growth
Market outlook

TARGETED AREA
Industry and society

There is a high demand for connectivity and intelligent systems in markets such as utilities, transport and public safety. Ericsson believes that many of the demands in these market segments, which it refers to collectively as "Industry & Society", can be met with the Company's existing portfolio.
Ericsson's capabilities, combined with its proven record of commercializing advanced ICT solutions, provides a solid foundation for bringing innovative capabilities into industry verticals while providing efficiencies of scale.
The ambition is to strengthen the number one position in solutions for operators to become a leading professional services provider in three adjacent selected industry verticals; initially utilities, transport and public safety.
The rapid uptake of connected devices and self-service applications is changing the way companies do business. The mobile network is fundamental to this development. Under the designation of Industry and Society, the industry verticals of utilities, transport and public safety play an important role in Ericsson's strategy to grow in adjacent industries, reusing and extending the current portfolio of both products and services.
These selected industries are rapidly transforming driven by mobility and evolving technologies entering the market, such as smart grids, intelligent transport systems and multimedia services. The technology shifts offer new business opportunities for Ericsson.
Ericsson's technology and services leadership form the foundation on which to expand the business by addressing new customers across the selected industry-vertical industries. The Company brings innovative thinking, a deep

understanding of a wide variety of communications technologies and experience in designing, deploying and managing services globally for the Networked Society.
One of the innovative offerings is the Connected Vehicle Cloud which targets the global automotive industry's existing and future demands for scalability, security and flexibility in the provisioning of connected car services to drivers and passengers.
The selected industries are also facing increased demand on sustainability and efficiency ­ demands that Ericsson can address by leveraging its technology leadership in its core business.
The telecom network and related services that Ericsson offers, including network infrastructure and professional services, meet communication needs that the industry verticals require, and helps to fulfill requirements of high reliability and high speed. The need for broadband connectivity is becoming critical, and, in Ericsson's view, proprietary networks are no longer necessary to cater for the vast needs in specific industries.
The resources in technology, consulting, systems integration and managed services on a global scale enables Ericsson to address adjacent industries. The selected industries can benefit from Ericsson's mobility expertise and services innovation, while the Company expands its footprint into new high-growth markets and brings disruptive change into the rapidly transforming industries.

Three focus industries Utilities

Transport

Public safety

24

Ericsson | Annual Report 2014

A smart pole

Ericsson "Zero Site", developed in cooperation with Philips, is a transmitter of both light and mobile connectivity. The "Zero Site", a connected lighting solution integrating telecom equipment into light poles, enables telecom operators to improve mobile network performance while reducing urban clutter. Citizens will benefit from improved mobile network coverage for data communications and enhanced safety with brighter, well-lit streets. The solution enables telecom operators to improve the mobile

network, cities to save space and energy, and consumers to have a better user experience. Thus, the combination of wireless connectivity and energy- efficient lighting makes streets safer and communication easier.Increasing mobile network density through the light pole and turning it into real estate is a sustainable way of improving network connectivity. By optimizing the use of power resources in real time, efficiency is increased and the environmental footprint is reduced.

THE BUSINESS ­ Resource allocation
RESOURCE ALLOCATION

Ericsson reallocates capital and resources to support the strategy. Investments in services capabilities goes hand in hand with investment in product development, sales capabilities and in acquisitions and partnering.

Ericsson has always been a company driven by innovation ­ in technology and business. The Company's long-term leadership in technology and services is a result of continuous efforts to invest in the ability to deliver customer value and to be relevant in the future.
R&D investment R&D investments are the foundation for maintaining a technology leadership position. Investments in R&D keep the product portfolio and customers in front of a rapidly transforming market and to safeguard, secure and improve technology leadership. Ericsson will continue to invest a substantial part of R&D in the core area of Radio, Core and Transmission, to further enhance the capabilities in areas such as small cells and 5G. R&D investments in software are significant, as mobile networks are increasingly software-centric.
Ericsson will prioritize R&D investments in targeted areas to win technology leadership positions in these areas. R&D investments in the targeted areas will help the company expand the positions in areas such as IP Networks and Cloud.
Continuous focus will also be on finding better ways to do things internally, including how to further improve R&D agility. Lean and agile workflows in R&D has enabled Ericsson to bring innovations faster to the market and to increase oper ational efficiency.
During 2014, Ericsson opened its first ICT center in Sweden where R&D engineers can work beyond borders more

e asily and efficiently, bringing innovation and providing industry-leading cloud- enabled technology faster to the market. Two additional ICT centers are expected to be opened in 2015 ­ one in Canada and another in Sweden.
Investment in services capabilities In Telecom Services, the global knowledge base enables Ericsson to develop new solutions that can be reused to offer benefits to customers. Locally, in each region, Ericsson professionals work with customers to develop innovative, scalable solutions. Best practices are shared across regions, boosting quality and efficiency. When a successful customer solution is proven in one region, it can be rolled out globally. Ericsson has invested in common global processes, methods and tools to enable synergies and efficiency gains to safeguard the global scale advantage.
Acquisitions and partnering Ericsson has made specific acquisitions to strengthen the offerings in the targeted areas. In core areas, especially in Radio, Core and Transmission, the acquisition activities have mainly been related to consolidation activities and to create synergies

to extend the leadership position. The strategy to establish leadership in targeted areas includes investing to accelerate growth and to improve Ericsson's competitive position through small bolt-on acquisitions and strategic partnering agreements.
The ambitions of M&A and partnering activities are to fill portfolio gaps, to improve scale and skills and, above all, to strengthen the ability to create value. The activities address both product and services companies. In 2014, Ericsson invested in companies like Red Bee Media, MetraTech and Apcera and also partnered with Guardtime in the area of secure cloud.
Investment in sales competence Investment in new competence is required for new solutions in the targeted areas, not only for R&D but also in sales resources as well as in service delivery resources to allow for economies of scale.
In 2014, Ericsson increased investments in sales capabilities particularly for Cloud and IP. Industry and Society customers were first addressed in three regions to learn how to sell and deliver in this customer segment. After the initial phase, sales processes and ways of working are reused in other regions to get scale.

Resource allocation to secure strategy implementation

Radio

Cloud & IP

Global Services

Support Solutions

R&D investments

Services delivery investments

Selling investments

Incentives

M&A and partnering

26

Ericsson | Annual Report 2014

THE IPR portfolio

Licensing of intellectual property rights (IPR) contributes to a fair return on R&D investments and is a key element in Ericsson's growth strategy.

The royalty-based IPR (Intellectual Property Rights) licensing business is a key element in the strategy to capture growth. Higher IPR revenues have an accretive impact on profitability. Aligning with the strategic direction and ambition to grow faster than the market, these revenues are expected to continue to increase. The IPR strategy is to enlarge IPR licensing revenues by expanding the technology licensing portfolio to cover other products and by broadening Ericsson's customer base beyond handset m anufacturers and into new industries.
The Company has created a licensing port folio, representing the value of technology knowhow and R&D. The portfolio includes both technology and patent licensing. The defensive value of the IPR portfolio protects the sales of E ricsson's products and services as cross- licensing agreements are signed with other major IPR holders. The offensive value allows Ericsson to commercialize and obtain a fair return on the IPR portfolio. Both these values are direct returns of the investments made in R&D. Over the past five years, annual R&D investments have been around SEK 31­33 billion and revenues from the IPR licensing business is increasing over time and were SEK 9.9 billion in 2014.
In technology licensing, Ericsson provides specifications to proprietary technologies such as different interfaces, while the patent licensing

includes giving access to essential patents for different technology standards. 
Ericsson complies with its commitment, to standardization bodies, to license essential p atents on fair, reasonable and non-discrimi natory (FRAND) terms, which implies that accumulated costs are kept at a reasonable level. Ericsson's view is that owners of essential patents should be compensated proportionally to their technology contribution to the standard. An example of a cross-licensing agreement is the multi-year license agreement between Samsung and Ericsson. The agreement covers patents for 2G, 3G, and 4G standards for networks and handsets.
Ericsson's innovative portfolio is the result of the work of 25,000 R&D engineers. Most of the patents developed within the R&D organization are in wireless technology. Ericsson is involved in industry-wide standardization processes regarding mobile technologies and standards. By addressing the issue of spectrum by improving spectral efficiency with new technologies or features, and taking part in the industry decision-making regarding new suitable frequency bands, Ericsson has helped to render the development of many new technologies and patents. With more than 37,000 patents granted, the Company has one of the industry's strongest patent portfolios.

IPR strategy

THE BUSINESS ­ The IPR portfolio

Offensive value

>> Generating revenue by commercializing Ericsson's IPR portfolio
>> Increased revenue from cross-licensing, divestments, structured deals and partnering

Today

Defensive value
Tomorrow

>> Protecting Ericsson by signing cross-license  agreements with major IPR holders
>> Ensuring market access and reduced IPR-cost in E ricsson products' cost-base

Ericsson | Annual Report 2014

27

THE BUSINESS ­ Business structure
business structure

Strategic structure
 OSS & BSS  TV and Media  Industry & Society  IP Networks Cloud

CORE BUSINESS

TARGETED AREAS

Reporting structure Segments and share of sales from targeted areas

NETWORKS

GLOBAL SERVICES

The strategic direction is to:
Excel in core business Radio, Core and Transmission and Telecom Services. Establish leadership in targeted areas IP Networks, Cloud, OSS & BSS, TV and Media and Industry & Society. Expand in new areas with future possibilities and growth.
Read more on pages 12­24

Share of sales from targeted areas

Share of sales from targeted areas

To best reflect the business focus, Ericsson reported four business segments 1) in 2014
Radio, Core and Transmission, as well as IP Networks and Cloud report into Networks, while Telecom Services report into Global Services. The product and software deliveries of OSS and BSS, TV & Media, report into Support Solutions, while services related to these areas report into Global Services. Industry and Society reports into Global Services. Many of the areas therefore have elements of both product and services.
Each business segment contains various shares of sales from the targeted areas. Sales in targeted areas showed a growth of more than 10% in 2014.
1) Segment Modems did not contribute material revenues, as development of modems was discontinued in 2014. Read more in the Board of Directors' Report on page 46.
Read more on pages 30­32

28

Ericsson | Annual Report 2014

Regions

SUPPORT SOLUTIONS
Share of sales from targeted areas

Sales per region and segment 2014 and percent change from 2013

SEK billion North America Latin America Northern Europe and Central Asia Western and Central Europe Mediterranean Middle East Sub-Saharan Africa India North East Asia South East Asia and Oceania Other 1) Total Share of total

Networks

2014 Change

26.1

­9%

10.7

­5%

8.0 8.1 9.6 11.6 3.9 4.1 18.0 8.4 9.1 117.5 51%

10% 6%
­11% 36% ­21% 32%
8% ­6% ­10% 0%

Global Services

2014 Change

25.0 ­12%

10.8

14%

4.1 11.0 12.6
8.5 4.3 3.1 8.9 7.0 2.3 97.7 43%

­1% 8% 0% 12% 3% 15% ­14% 10% 61% 0%

Support Solutions

2014 Change

3.5

34%

1.0 ­10%

0.3

10%

0.6

1%

0.8

12%

1.2 ­11%

0.6 ­39%

0.5

55%

0.7

82%

0.5

­4%

3.1 ­12%

12.7

3%

6%

Total

2014 Change

54.5

­8%

22.6

3%

12.4 19.7 23.0 21.3
8.7 7.7 27.6 15.9 14.7 2) 228.0 100%

6% 7% ­5% 22% ­13% 25% 1% 0% ­2% 0%

1) Region "Other" includes licensing revenues, broadcast services, power modules, Ericsson-LG Enterprise and other businesses. The power cable business was divested in 2013.
2) Total sales for region "Other" includes SEK 0.2 billion for Modems.

Net sales per segment
6%
51%
43%
Networks SEK 117.5 (117.7) billion Global Services SEK 97.7 (97.4) billion Support Solutions SEK 12.7 (12.2) billion Modems ­ no material revenues

The go-to-market organization is divided into 10 geographical regions. Together, they represent worldwide presence with customers in more than 180 countries. The three largest markets are North America, North East Asia and the Mediterranean region. Revenues for the different business segments are reported for each region.
Read more on pages 33­35

THE BUSINESS ­ Business structure

Ericsson | Annual Report 2014

29

THE BUSINESS ­ Business structure

SEGMENT
networks

Ericsson provides the network infrastructure needed for mobile and fixed communication, including 2G, 3G and 4G radio networks, and IP core and transport networks.

Market position
#1
in radio access
Market share estimate
23% in network equipment,
key segments*
* Key segments include Radio, IP and Transmission as well as Core.
Sales
SEK 117.5 billion
(2013: 117.7 billion)
Operating margin
12%
(2013: 10%)

Sales and operating margin

SEK billion 150 120
90

%
15
12.0 12
117.5
9

60

6

30

3

0 2011

2012

2013

Sales  Operating margin

0 2014

Within segment Networks, the strategy is to lead the radio evolution, grow IP networking and transform to cloud core.
Networks delivers products and solutions needed for mobile and fixed communication, including 2G, 3G and 4G radio networks, IP and transmission networks, core networks and cloud.
The main offerings include: >> The multi-standard RBS 6000 radio base
s tation supports all the major mobile tech nologies including GSM/EDGE, CDMA, WCDMA/HSPA and LTE in a single cabinet. >> The IP and transmission solutions are based on the SSR 8000 portfolio. The SSR 8000 is a high-capacity platform that improves network performance and supports service differentiation in fixed and mobile networks. The momentum for the multi-application router, has continued with 146 contracts signed since its launch in December 2011. >> The Ericsson Blade Server platform includes functionality for handling network control in fixed and mobile core networks. The IP Multimedia Subsystem (IMS) solutions enable operators to offer communication in new ways, such as Voice over LTE (VoLTE), high-definition video calling and conferencing, multi-party chat with presence information, and screen sharing, while reducing costs. IMS enables Voice over LTE (VoLTE), High Definition Video and the Ericsson Cloud System. >> The Ericsson Cloud System is a platform for providing cloud services and to enable virtualization of network functions according to NFV, and where Service Provider SDN enables the distribution of the virtualized functionality. >> Optimized transmission/backhaul products includes microwave and optical transmission solutions for mobile and fixed networks. The transmission network constitutes the links between the core network and access nodes.
Obs! Gjord med column design. Prata med Eva/Catta/Sanna om ev frågor.
Gör så här: Färglägg inte från paletten. Markera staplar med vita pilen. Välj Object­Graph­Column. Där väljer man färg och ev tint. Kolla särskilt att "Sliding" är valt på "Column type".

Networks' major business models have so far been based on network coverage and network capacity expansions and upgrades. The revenue mix consists mainly of hardware and software. Gross margins are affected by the business mix between sales of upgrades and expansions and coverage or new build-outs. Network coverage build-out, which is mainly hardware related, is to a large extent done on site, supported by Ericsson's network rollout services, while upgrades and expansions usually involve software and professional services, and are often delivered remotely. The Company is transforming its business model to be more software based, with an increasing share of royalty and license-based revenues.
GSM/EDGE technology has by far the widest reach today, covering more than 85% of the global population. The areas yet to be reached by GSM/EDGE are in some countries that are sparsely populated. Demand for WCDMA/HSPA is driven by increased user demand for internet access, the growing affordability of smartphones and regulatory requirements to connect the unconnected. In terms of capacity and demand for superior network performance, mobile data traffic continued to grow rapidly in 2014. The rising number of smartphone subscriptions is a key driver for mobile data traffic growth, together with the fact that users are consuming more data per subscription ­ mainly driven by video. Total smartphone subscriptions reached 2.7 b illion during 2014, and the number of subscriptions for mobile PCs, tablets and mobile routers reached 300 million. The majority of mobile broadband subscribers are connected using 3G/WCDMA networks, but increasing numbers are gaining 4G/LTE access. Ericsson expects LTE to keep expanding from 400 million subscriptions in 2014, reaching around 3.5 billion in 2020. 2G/GSM/EDGE networks are still an important part of the ecosystem and a comp lement to 3G/WCDMA/HSPA and 4G/LTE coverage.

30

Ericsson | Annual Report 2014

SEGMENT
Global Services

Ericsson's approximately 65,000 services professionals around the world deploy, operate and evolve networks and related support systems. Global Services includes professional services and network rollout.
Market position
#1
in telecom services Market share estimate
13%
in telecom services

The business strategy within Global Services is to extend and excel in the core business: network roll-out, customer support and managed services, while growing the business in consulting and systems integration as well as in IT managed services and broadcast services.
The Company's global set of processes, methods and tools are major competitive advantages and support the strategy to benefit from the global scale in targeted areas and especially in broadcast services and media services and in the selected industry verticals of transport, public safety and utility industries. The telecom services business, represented 43% of net sales in 2014 (43% in 2013). Within Global Services, Managed Services and Consulting & Systems Integration continue to drive growth.
Through approximately 65,000 services professionals and four global service centers, which offer a universal approach to managed services based on years of innovation and global best practice, Ericsson deploys, operates and evolves networks and related support systems. The Company delivers managed services, product-related services, consulting and systems integration services and broadcast services.
The ambition is to support operators to improve their revenues, increase their operational efficiency and to transform their networks. Ericsson strives to create value by combining technical, services and customer experience expertise.

Sales
SEK 97.7 billion
(2013: 97.4 billion)
Operating margin
6%
(2013: 6%)

Sales and operating margin

SEK billion 100

% 97.7 10

80

8

6.0

60

6

40

4

20

2

0 2011

2012

2013

0 2014

Sales  Operating margin

The offerings include:

>> Network managed services for designing,

building, operating and managing the day-to-

day operations of the customer's network or

solution; maintenance; network sharing solu-

tions; plus shared solutions such as hosting

of platforms and applications. Complex

issues are handled, such as convergence,

quality and capacity management, so that

operator resources can focus on strategy,

marketing and customer care.

>> IT managed services, whereby Ericsson

assumes responsibility for aspects such as

application life-cycle management, applica-

Obs! Gtjioornd mdeevdecloolpummnendte,sqiguna. lity assurance and Prata md eady-Etvoa-/dCaatytao/pSaenrnaatioomns and maintenance for ev frågboor.th applications and infrastructure.

>> Broadcast services for TV and media com

Gör vita

spåilehnäp.r:VaäMnljaOirekbesjera.ctsS­kGiekrtarapvdhei­cdCeeolalsurmminnec.dlude

responsibility

for

Där väljetremcanhfnärigcsaolmpsklaatvfaorarpmå dsenand operational services ö"Svleidrsintag"rruäenr dvlaaaldtteepådde"Clteoonlu. KTmonVllatycspäoers".nkDilttåeabtnltirt management, play out

alla delaramnedd rsunedravditcoeppp­rinotevbisraio;).ning of a TV broadcastDCoelunmednreevämrlj'aesrrkmberaaunss"dniånomneee"sdosvcih.tafEäprriglielcängsogscehor in has the capability to

som vancligot fnråsnuplatl,etitnenteswgartcahtees. and manage business

operations for TV and media, reusing skills,

methods and tools from network managed

services. Broadcast services help to enhance the efficiency of the business operations of content owners and broadcasters, providing significant operational and capital savings through assuming responsibility for technical platforms, enabling speeding time to market and minimizing business continuity risks. The investment in Red Bee Media in 2014 further enhanced the broadcast services capabilities. >> Product-related services: Services to expand, upgrade, restructure, or migrate networks; network-rollout services; customer support; and network optimization services. Network design and optimization services ensure that networks can handle high levels of data traffic while maintaining service quality and user experience. >> Consulting and systems integration (CSI): technology and operational consulting; integration of multi-vendor equipment; design and integration of new solutions and transformation projects. CSI services assist operators in driving business transformation and ensuring competitiveness while facing the challenges of this new environment. Ericsson is expanding the established model for network and IT managed services to adjacent areas such as cloud services, TV and media, and selected industry verticals. The Company also offers services related to the planning, building and optimizing of OSS including service fulfillment and service assurance. >> Services for Industry and Society; reusing existing portfolio for non-telecom customers in the areas of utilities, transport and public safety. The product mix is divided between network rollout services and professional services of which managed services is a significant part. The proportion of network build outs as well as managed services deals in the transition phase affects the gross margin of Global Services. As sales are based on various services offerings the challenge is to manage and optimize cost of sales. R&D investments are limited. Unlike the professional services business, rollout services of extensive networks are working-capital intensive. Each year, Ericsson manages more than 1,400 major projects for network build, expansion or migration for all major standards of mobile and fixed networks worldwide. On average, 100 of these are large, complex turnkey projects. The Company provides managed s ervices to networks that serve more than 1 billion subscribers in approximately 100 countries. These networks are typically multi-vendor, multi-technology environments, with more than half the equipment from non-Ericsson sources.

THE BUSINESS ­ Business structure

Ericsson | Annual Report 2014

31

THE BUSINESS ­ Business structure
SEGMENT
support solutions

The Support Solutions segment focuses on software for operations and business support systems (OSS and BSS), as well as TV and media management, and m-commerce.
Market position
#1
in OSS and BSS Market share estimate
>20%
in IPTV Sales
SEK 12.7 billion
(2013: 12.2 billion)

The portfolio is designed around measurable performance improvement in an operator's b usiness processes, with software that is scal able, configurable and provides end-to-end capabilities.
The offerings includes: >> Operations support systems (OSS) and
business support systems (BSS) solutions for telecom operators. The growth of mobile broadband is leading operators to develop their OSS and BSS solutions in order to monetize the increasing amount of data traffic that flows in the networks, while at the same time managing the increasing complexity of networks and services. OSS software solutions; support operators' management of existing networks and the introduction of new technologies and services, through software products for service enablement, fulfillment and assurance as well as telco analytics, orchestration and cloud management. Business Support Systems (BSS) handle revenue management (prepaid, post-paid, convergent charging and billing), mediation and customer care solutions. BSS manages how services are delivered and paid for. Products for revenue assurance and billing and revenue management help maintain customer relationship and keep track of revenues >> TV & Media solutions: a suite of standards- based products for the creation, management and delivery of evolved TV experiences on any device over any network. Ericsson's

TV platforms ­ enabling TV service providers to deliver on the TV Anywhere future ­ are powering more than 110 TV services for over 18 million subscribers. Through the acquisition of Tandberg Television in 2007 and Microsoft's Mediaroom in 2013, Ericsson is now the leader in the video compression IPTV and business, with multi-screen solutions for TV >> M-Commerce; solutions to enable mobile financial services for domestic and international money transfer, payment transactions and services between mobile subscribers and operators and other service providers. >> Industry and Society; solutions for the industry and society market, Ericsson adapts existing solutions for new applications. The service enablement platform has been used to create the Connected Vehicle Cloud and billing-as-a-service products are reused for connected devices applications.
Sales are dominated by software and the business is R&D-intensive, with limited working capital. In order to be profitable, continuous centralization and harmonization of R&D is important in order to keep the product portfolio together. Ericsson is executing on recent acquisitions, while transforming the business model from one that is based on a revenue intake from traditional telecom software licenses to one that puts emphasis on recurring software sales based on subscription-base software as a service (SaaS) offerings.

Operating margin
0%
(2013: 12%)

Sales and operating margin

SEK billion 15
10

%
15
12.7
10

Obs! Gjord med column design. Prata med Eva/Catta/Sanna om ev frågor.

5

5

0

00

­5 2011

2012

2013

­5 2014

Gör så här: Färglägg inte från paletten. Markera staplar med vita pilen. Välj Object­Graph­Column. Där väljer man färg och ev tint. Kolla särskilt att "Sliding" är valt på "Column type".

Sales  Operating margin
32

-5 9 12 Ericsson | Annual Report 20104 1)

REGIONAL DEVELOPMENT

Ericsson is a global company, with customers in more than 180 countries. The Company has been present in many countries, such as China, Brazil and India, for more than 100 years.
The expertise and local knowledge gained through working closely with customers create global scale, which is an important pillar of the business success.
It is important to find a beneficial mix between different businesses and regions in order to secure a good balance between growth and profitability. The differing nature of the businesses as well as regions reflects Ericsson's global position and the ambition to be regionally diversified is part of the overall strategy to mitigate the impact from imbalances and dependencies.
Ericsson has ten geographical regions which vary in size and where the maturity of the operators and the markets differ. The solutions-based go-to-market approach is built on close cooperation between business units and regions. Each region is organized the same way. The relationship between the regions and the business units is such that the business units develop the products and the regions cultivate relationship with its customers and address customers' needs. This also spurs innovation, as it allows the regions to identify local needs and when these are translated into solutions, the innovations can be spread globally.
To manage the extensive managed services business in an efficient way, services are delivered locally from the ten regions and globally from four Global Service Centers where largescale activities are concentrated. The Global Service Centers are located in India, China, Mexico and Romania.
Over the past five years, the North American region has increased the share of total Group sales, driven by intense operator activity.
Ericsson is a market leader both in telecom services and mobile broadband infrastructure In

the North American market. After a couple of years with major LTE network buildouts, the business in North America was driven by network quality and capacity expansion business in 2014. This was a consequence of the increase in user demand for mobile data. Business slowed down during the latter part of 2014 as operators focused on cash flow optimization. The overall market fundamentals are strong with continued need for capacity investments and densification, driven by video and the introduction of new services such as VoLTE. This market is in the forefront when it comes to network development and LTE usage, and several of the targeted areas, such as OSS and BSS, IP, Cloud as well as TV and Media, have a strong potential.
Ericsson has established a position in 4G in China, as mainland China has started a large scale roll out of LTE and over 1.2 billion LTE- subscriptions are expected by the end of 2020. Sales in 2014 were driven by delivery of 4G/LTE coverage type of contracts, primarily to one Chinese customer. Future capacity sales will be dependent on subscriber uptake in the LTE networks.
Ericsson has a strong installed base in Europe, partly as a result of the modernization projects of European networks in 2011­2013, which was a prerequisite for the transformation. In 2014, business in Europe was driven by investments in network quality and capacity combined with managed services. Vodafone started to invest in a multi-year "project Spring" to increase coverage and capacity in several European countries. Operator consolidations continued to be on the agenda partly driven by an increasing need for network investments. Business in Russia developed favorably during the year driven by mobile broadband infrastructure investments.

THE BUSINESS ­ Business structure

Ericsson | Annual Report 2014

33

THE BUSINESS ­ Business structure
ericsson 24/7 ­ global presence
Ericsson is a global player, with customers in more than 180 countries. The Company has been present in many countries, such as China, Brazil and India, for more than 100 years. The go-to-market organization is based in 10 geographical regions.

KEY
Ericsson Global Service Center
±XX%The figure indicates percentage revenue increase or decrease

NORTH AMERICA
Sales declined, driven by lower network sales as a result of large mobile network coverage projects coming to an end, and increased operator focus on cash flow in the second half of the year. Sales in Support Solutions and Professional Services continued to grow, driven by OSS and BSS modernization.
­8%

MEDITERRANEAN
Sales decreased as the European modernization projects came to an end while managed services contributed positively to sales.
­5%

OTHER
Includes revenues generated across all regions through licensing, broadcast services, power modules, Ericsson-LG Enterprise and other businesses. Sales declined somewhat due to exit of the telecom and power cable businesses in 2013 as well as lower IPR revenues. Broadcast services grew, driven by the acquired Red Bee Media business that was fully consolidated in 2014.
­2%

LATIN AMERICA
Sales increased, driven by mobile broadband coverage projects and network quality investments, partly offset by currency restrictions.
+3%

34

Ericsson | Annual Report 2014

WESTERN AND CENTRAL EUROPE
The European modernization projects came to an end in 2014. Sales growth was increasingly driven by investments in network quality and capacity during the year.
+7%

NORTHERN EUROPE AND CENTRAL ASIA
Sales increased, driven primarily by mobile broadband deployments in Russia with sales of SEK 6.7 (5.6) billion. Professional Services sales grew, driven by network design and optimization services. TV & Media business showed positive development.
+6%

NORTH EAST ASIA
Sales increased in mainland China and Taiwan as a result of delivering on previously awarded 4G/LTE contracts. The increase was partly o ffset by reduced network investment levels in Korea and Japan.
+1%

MIDDLE EAST
Sales growth was driven by mobile broadband investments related to new licenses and growth in data traffic in both advanced and developing markets.
+22%

SUB-SAHARAN AFRICA
Sales declined but recovered in the second half of the year, mainly driven by operator focus on network traffic and quality management. This resulted in a continued demand for managed services.
­13%

INDIA
Sales growth was driven by mobile broadband infrastructure investments. Increased smartphone penetration drove growth in mobile data usage.
+25%

SOUTH EAST ASIA AND OCEANIA
Sales remained flat. Growth in major rollout projects in Australia compensated for a decline in Indonesia where major 3G projects peaked in 2013.
±0%

THE BUSINESS ­ Business structure

Ericsson | Annual Report 2014

35

THE BUSINESS ­ The people
the PEOPLE
Ericsson's People Strategy is clear ­ to attract the best, to develop the best, and to establish a high performing organization of engaged employees.

Right from the start, the ingenuity and professionalism of the people have taken Ericsson forward in a world of continuous technical and societal developments. The Company and the employees share the vision of a sustainable N etworked Society, and the continuous transformation of the business builds a culture of c reativity and innovation.
Ericsson's future success largely depends on the ability to attract, develop, motivate and retain the talent needed to uphold and develop the business. Competition for skilled professionals in the ICT industry remains intense. To help Ericsson reach its full potential and maintain its leading position, the People Strategy has three objectives: attract the best talent, develop the best talent, and to establish a high performing organization of engaged employees.
Attracting the best talent The Ericsson brand is well known in the ICT space. To attract the talent and skills needed to transform the business, strong efforts are being made to reach out even further. Ericsson is active in the global social media with the

"You + Ericsson" concept, telling powerful people stories and presenting global opportunities. Through the employee referral program, the Company engages its top talent to attract other top talent from the marketplace. Ericsson is continuously working with universities all over the world to increase the exposure to new talent in the different markets in which the Company operates. To attract exceptional talent, Ericsson takes a holistic approach to becoming an employer of choice across the world, with the consistent Ericsson values, but the Company also brings local nuances to meet local needs. Ericsson wants to be recognized as the Company that fulfills both the personal and career ambitions of a potential employee.
Continuous focus on competence In order to stay relevant and remain a pioneer and a thought leader in the Networked Society, Ericsson needs to keep continuous focus on competence. The Company has a strategic approach to learning, using a two-tier framework. Top-down, the process identifies gaps for strategic competences in relation to a specific

Ericsson's strategic foundation

VISION A Networked Society where every person and every
industry is empowered to reach their full potential MISSION
We lead transformation through mobility
VALUES Professionalism, Respect & Perseverance (culture)
ASSETS Technology & Services leadership
Global scale & skills

36

Ericsson | Annual Report 2014

position or geography. These targeted gaps are being closed through development and deployment of global learning programs. Ericsson has structured formal and on the job training programs to build competences in emerging technology areas and in best practices with a special focus on sales, services and product development teams. Bottom-up, each employee together with his or her manager identifies competence gaps and develop an annual development plan so that they continue to grow and advance.
Ericsson invests in impactful and innovative ways of learning that can be accessed by everyone at all times, such as collaborative learning through a new virtual campus with live experts sharing knowledge or through Ericsson Play, a new mobile video sharing and learning platform. Certifications and assessments support the learning program to ensure that competence is obtained. The comprehensive career and competence model, supported by online and classroom training from Ericsson Academy and on-the-job development, helps employees to build their careers and develop capabilities that contribute to the Company's continued success.

companies included in this benchmark. One of the contributing factors to the high score was leadership. Strong leaders are essential for Ericsson to keep the technology and services leadership amid evolving business conditions. Therefore, the Company applies a rigorous talent planning process and run structured leadership programs at all levels. The leadership pipeline is under continual review to ensure that the right leadership capabilities are developed to take the business forward.
Diversity of thought With customers in more than 180 countries around the world, Ericsson strives for the leadership teams and employee base to be as diverse as the world around. The Company's definition of diversity extends beyond gender, race, religion, ethnicity, age and other established categories to focus on diversity of thought, the prime driver of the innovative culture.
In Ericsson's experience, diverse teams are the most productive and stable. The diversity is supported by a truly inclusive workplace, in which people are valued for the different perspectives, ideas and experiences that they bring.

Engagement and leadership The level of engagement from the people remains very high. The last employee survey had a 93% response rate. The Employee Engagement Index measures employees' overall motivation and commitment to the Company's success. Ericsson's score for 2014 is 78% which puts the Company amongst the top-scoring ICT

A learning organization ­ 2014 facts and numbers

Share of employees that took formal t raining

78%

Average learning hours per active employee

26.7
HOURS

2.7 Total
learning hours:

million

13,000 No. of
different courses:

THE BUSINESS ­ The people

Ericsson | Annual Report 2014

37

THE BUSINESS ­ Sustainability and Corporate Responsibility
sustainability and corporate responsibility
By advocating Technology for Good, Ericsson aims to lead the industry in prov iding significant and measurable contributions to a sustainable Networked Society.

In the Networked Society, Ericsson is the leading advocate of Technology for Good, the transformative power of mobility, broadband and cloud solutions to help tackle global sustainable development challenges. In the Company's sustainability and corporate responsibility work, Ericsson has two main focus areas: to reduce risks, and to create positive impacts for people, business and society. The below areas are integrated in the Ericsson business: >> Conducting business responsibly >> Environment, energy and climate change >> Creating positive socio-economic impacts
Conducting business responsibly Embedding responsible business practices into the Ericsson operations ensures that the Company is running the business responsibly and capable of managing risks on a global scale. No matter what country or environment Ericsson operates in, global policies apply in terms of sound business practices, social responsibility and environmental protection.
Ericsson is committed to upholding the ten UN Global Compact Principles in the areas of human rights, labor standards, the environment and anti-corruption as well as to the UN Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights (UNGP).
Ericsson's key areas of commitment and actions are the respect for human rights in the ICT field, fostering anti-corruption, applying responsible sourcing practices, improving e nvironmental performance and upholding high standards for labor rights as well as occupational health and safety.
The Company has a strong global governance process through the Ericsson Group Management System (EGMS) that supports efforts to create business value and minimize negative impacts. The robustness of the processes have systematically been improved over time.
In 2014, Ericsson updated its Code of Business Ethics to align it with the UNGP, with par ticular focus on human rights. Ericsson's most salient human rights issues are the right to privacy and freedom of expression. Human rights

focus is growing in many of the Company operations. One example is through Ericsson's Sales Compliance Board, which provides a cross- functional forum for handling, for example, human rights risks as part of the sales process. In 2014, more than 300 cases were reviewed and 6% of the cases reviewed by the Sales Compliance Board were rejected.
In 2014, at the request of the Sales Compliance Board, Human Rights Impact Assessments of Iran and Myanmar were conducted and still ongoing in Iran, in accordance with the UNGP.
In the area of Occupational Health and Safety, 22 workplace fatalities were reported. Of these 1 was an Ericsson employee while suppliers reported 21, including 1 public fatality.
Environment, energy and climate change Substantial greenhouse gas reductions can be achieved in a wide variety of ways by using ICT in different sectors. During 2014, Ericsson reduced societal carbon emission by implementing ICT-enabled solutions such as smart meters and smart transport solutions.
Ericsson's second Energy and Carbon report, published in 2014, analyzes the ICT sector's own environmental impact in terms of energy use and greenhouse gas emissions. The report shows that, while the expansion of ICT is stimulating economic growth and development, the resulting increase in carbon emissions is expected to be marginal, compared to the substantial reduction of greenhouse gases that can be achieved.
Ericsson and UN-Habitat produced a report in 2014,"The Role of ICT in the New Urban Agenda," describing how ICT supports the sustainable cities of the future and offered recommendations to policymakers on the creation of an ICT-enabling environment to bridge digital divides.
The Company's latest generation of network infrastructure equipment provides better per formance than previous generations, while c onsuming less energy. The work on improving energy efficiency continues across the entire portfolio, to enable an increased connectivity of cities, industries and societies. The carbon

38

Ericsson | Annual Report 2014

Read more about Ericsson's approach and initiatives in the Sustainability and Corporate Resp onsibility Report available at: www.ericsson.com.

footprint of Ericsson's own activities has steadily decreased. Progress is on track towards the five-year target of reducing CO2 emissions per employee by 30% and keeping absolute CO2 emissions at 2011 levels, despite forecast growth in sales and number of employees.
Creating positive socio-economic impacts Mobility, broadband and the cloud can greatly enable socio-economic development. But for people to benefit, affordability and accessibility are key. Ericsson has been actively involved in advocating the role of ICT in the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) for the post-2015 agenda that seek to address such challenges.
In 2014, the Task Force on Sustainable Development for the Broadband Commission on Digital Development, chaired by Ericsson President and CEO Hans Vestberg, produced a report, "Means of Transformation," offering practical guidance for governments on leveraging ICT in support of the SDGs.
Ericsson's objective to positively impact 2.5 million people directly through Technology for Good initiatives by 2016 was achieved in 2014. The bar has now been raised even higher, a iming to positively impact 4.8 million by the end of 2015.
In 2014, Ericsson focused on using ICT to transform humanitarian response and scaling solutions for greater impact. Ericsson and the International Rescue Committee announced a partnership using mobile technology to improve the frontline response of humanitarian workers in health, natural disasters and conflict-driven humanitarian crisis.
Ericsson Response is the global Ericsson employee volunteer initiative formed in the year 2000 to provide communications expertise, equipment and resources to assist humanitarian relief organizations.
In 2014, active missions assisting the Emergency Telecommunications Cluster focused on: continuing support to the Philippines in the aftermath of the 2013 typhoon; collaborating with the World Food Programme in war-torn South Sudan to provide communications and expertise to support long-term humanitarian efforts in

refugee and Internally Displaced Persons (IDP) camps; and in Iraq, by deploying volunteers to facilitate communications for humanitarian workers in IDP camps.
Ericsson and operators in the Middle East launched the Refugees United service for the nearly 1.4 million Syrian refugees residing in Iraq, Jordan and Turkey at the launch of service. Another key focus was Ebola infection-prevention in Guinea, Liberia and Sierra Leone. E ricsson worked with multiple partners to support community health workers with about 1,400 mobile devices, with specific health apps, and provided UN and humanitarian workers with emergency telecoms support through Ericsson Response.
The Company also seeks to scale its impact in other key focus areas, including: >> Education ­ as lead technology partner in
Connect to Learn, a global education initiative with the Earth Institute at Columbia University and Millennium Promise. The program is now in 16 countries, engaging 12 mobile operators, benefiting about 45,000 students. In 2014, the program was launched in Myanmar in partnership with the UK Department for International Development, through the Girls' Education Challenge with the aim of reaching 14,000 marginalized girls over the next two years. >> Financial inclusion ­ Ericsson's m-commerce solutions can enable many of the approximately 2.5 billion people who are unbanked globally to access financial services. In 2014, ASBANC, Peru's National Bank Association, recognized Ericsson's global scale and integrated solution as well as its commitment to Technology for Good, and selected Ericsson as a partner to design and implement its Mobile Money project, the country's largest private initiative for financial inclusion.

THE BUSINESS ­ Sustainability and Corporate Responsibility

Ericsson | Annual Report 2014

39

Addressing connectivity barriers with internet.org

There are still many regions where connectivity is not taken for granted and where slow networks with insufficient capacity are a common issue. Ericsson is founding member of a Facebook initiative, internet. org, and together we have launched an Innovation Lab that enables developers to test their apps in a real-world environment and under conditions which are typical for growth markets. This enables the

developers to develop apps that are optimized for customers who are commonly exposed to network capacity and accessibility issues. The ambition of the project is to make the internet more accessible, affordable and less data-consuming and remove the connectivity barriers, thereby enabling access to the two-thirds of the world not yet connected.

Dividend per share
SEK

3.50

3.40

3.00

2.50

2.00

1.50

1.00

0.50

0.00 2010 2011 2012 2013 20141)

1) For 2014 as proposed by the Board of Directors.

LETTER FROM

THE Chairman

Dear shareholders

For the fourth time, it is my pleasure, as Chair-

man of the Board of Ericsson, to reflect on

another year of performance and progress. As

a Board, we are deeply involved both in helping

develop a long-term strategic vision and

responding to more immediate opportunities

and challenges.

The ability to balance today's reality with a

rapidly evolving future has always been part of

Ericsson's culture, and has sustained its suc-

cess for more than a century. Never before has

this culture been more important. Customers

face numerous challenges, and by adapting

the product and services portfolio to meet their

needs, Ericsson can take advantage of the many

business opportunities that are emerging. In a

sense, business has always been this way, but

the rate and scale of change in today's macro

environment are exceptional.

The task of ensuring long-term development

in this environment is both exciting and challeng-

ing. As a Board, we must consider what this

industry will look like 10 or perhaps 20 years from

Odebsansi!lgolGonwjc.o,Parsrdtaoetmdathemrdaeetscdoipnlouvmenssntibmlye.nEtsricasnsdorne'ssoaumrcbeitsiocnains

be to

Evale/Caadttfau/tSuarnenadoemveelovpments and it is satisfying to

fråsgeore. Ericsson positioning itself effectively as a

leader in the transformative Networked Society.

GpaölresttåehnIä.nrM: Fa2ärkr0gel1räag4sgt,ainEptlaerrifcmråsnedsvoitna and the Board concentra

piletne. VdäljoOnbjetcht­rGereaphm­Caojloumrna. reas: strategy, governance

KDoälrlaavänsläjdersrkmtilataanlettfän"Srgtlidomicnhga"enävrtavinagtl.tepmå ent.

"ColumnIntypites". strategic work, the Board always invests

considerable time evaluating several strategic

alternatives. In 2014, this led to an important

decision: that Ericsson should exit the modem

business ­ a long journey is now completed. To strengthen Ericsson's position in its targeted areas, the Board decided on several strategic acquisitions.
The Board is committed to maintaining Ericsson's high standards of corporate governance, sustainability and responsible business practice. Ericsson is a large global company and it is essential that high standards are met across markets. Ericsson aims high: every part of the company is required to meet demanding financial, social and environmental standards. E ricsson works constantly to uphold these standards, and as a result has won and retains the trust of its stakeholders.
Companies are only as good as the people they hire. The Board is appreciative of CEO and President Hans Vestberg and his leadership team for their dedication in attracting and developing some of the best talent in our industry, a vital component in securing Ericsson's leading position. The Company is naturally interested in succession planning, particularly at executive levels but also in technology and commercial management. Ericsson's values of respect, professionalism and perseverance require good talent management.
Ericsson's capital structure is another of the Board's major responsibilities and an area of great interest to shareholders and the capital market. In approaching this responsibility, the Board carefully considers the previous year's earnings and balance sheet, coming years' business plans, and projections of economic development. Maintaining industry leadership requires significant R&D investment as well as continued focus on developing our core business, and expanding into new and targeted areas. With all this taken into account, the Board's proposal is to increase the dividend from SEK 3.00 in 2013 to SEK 3.40 per share for 2014.
As a leader in an industry that is leading change across all industries, Ericsson is an extraordinary company. It is a privilege to be part of Ericsson's journey and a pleasure to serve as the Chairman.

Leif Johansson Chairman of the Board of Directors

Ericsson | Annual Report 2014

41

FINANCIALS
Board of Directors' report

Contents
Business in 2014 Financial highlights Business results-Segments Business results-Regions Corporate Governance Material contracts Risk management Sourcing and supply Sustainability and Corporate Responsibility Legal proceedings Parent Company Post-closing events Board assurance

Full-year highlights 1)

>> Sales were SEK 228.0 (227.4) billion, flat compared with 2013.

Sales, adjusted for comparable units and currency, decreased

42

by ­2%.

43

>> Operating income was SEK 16.8 (17.8) billion. with an operating

46

margin of 7.4% (7.8%). Gross margin improved due to a higher

47

share of capacity business, offset by increased operating

48

expenses and currency hedge losses.

49

>> Segment Networks showed an operating margin of 12% (10%)

49

driven by improved business mix and earlier actions to improve

49

commercial and operational efficiency.

50

>> Cash flow from operating activities was SEK 18.7 (17.4) billion.

51

Cash conversion was 84%, above the target of 70%.

52

>> The Board of Directors proposes a dividend for 2014 of

53

SEK 3.40 (3.00) per share.

53

Net sales

SEK billion 250 200

228.0

150

100

50

0 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014

Operating income and operating margin

SEK billion 20
15

Percent
16
16.8
12

10

7.4 8

5

4

0

0

2010 2011 2012 2013 2014

Operating income  Operating margin

Business in 2014 1)
In 2014, Ericsson showed stable sales development with a solid operating margin. A sales cOoblusd!meSctnalidpneeesl igignjnoN.rdPormartteahdAmerica of ­8% was compenmesdaEtvead/Cbayttag/rSoawnntha oinmthe Middle East, Europe and ev fAråsgiao.r.Operating margin improved in the core business, driven by a higher share of capacity Gpaölressttåeahnlä.erM:sFaärakrgenlräadgsgteainpftlfaeircfmråienednvcitya enhancements. This was pilenp. VaärljtOlybjeocft­fsGreatphb­yCocluumrnr.ency hedge losses, investDKoälrlavmäsläjeersrnkmilttasantitfnä"Srgltidaoicnrhgg"eeävrttevinadtl.t paåreas as well as losses related "Colutomnthtyepem". odems operations.
The more than 100 IPR licensing agreements signed to date show the value of Ericsson's R&D investments and enable industry players to continue to innovate and bring exciting products to the market. In 2014, IPR revenues showed a steady positive development. Ericsson remains committed to licensing its standard-essential patents on fair, reasonable and non-discriminatory (FRAND) terms. Obs! StaAptetlhgejoCrdampeitdal Markets Day (CMD) in NovemecmovelfudrwbmåEgeovnorar,drk/.ECeesardiitcgtSans/.soSPoacrnnaietnaotayuostmltinraetdegthy,ewpirtohgforecsussoonnitms aNrekte-t development, growth agenda, transformation pGaölresttåaehnnä. rdM: Faäprkrgreloräagfsigttaainpbtlaeriflmriåtneyd. vIintaline with the strategy, the pilen.CVäolj Ombjpecat­nGyraphha­Csoilunmvne. sted into the targeted areas: DKoälrlaväsIPläjersrknmiletaanttwtfä"Sroglidrokicnhsg"e,ävCrtvinlaotl.tupåd, TV & Media, Industry & "ColumSnotcypiee".ty and OSS & BSS. Sales in targeted areas showed a growth of more than 10% in 2014.

Ericsson continues to proactively identify efficiency opportunities in the Company. The cost and efficiency program presented at the CMD, with the ambition to achieve savings of approximately SEK 9 billion, with full effect during 2017, is progressing. Activities for the discontinuation of the modems business are included in the program and are ahead of plan.
Ericsson improved the cash flow from operating activities, and generated a cash flow of SEK 18.7 (17.4) billion. For the third consecutive year, the Company exceeded its cash conversion target of more than 70%. This resulted in a solid balance sheet, enabling Ericsson to continue to implement its strategy and to deliver consistent returns to its shareholders.
The Board of Directors proposes a dividend for 2014 of SEK 3.40 (3.00) per share, an increase of 13%.
1) Comments based on non-IFRS figures. See Financial results of operations on page 43.

42

Ericsson | Annual Report 2014

IPR revenues (net)

SEK billion

12

10

9.9

8

6

4

2

0 2010 20111) 2012 2013 2014
1) One-off patent sales included

Software, hardware and services: share of total sales

Percent 100
24
80
34
60

40

42

20

0 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014
Software Hardware Services

Financial highlights

Financial results of operations
Obs!InGjtohridsmreepdocrotl,uumnnless otherwise indicated, comdesigmne. Pnrtartyaomnesdales, gross margin, operating income Eva/aCnatdtan/Seatninacommevreflects adjustments made on full frågoyre. ar 2013 for the initial payment from Samsung

following the January 2014 licensing agreement with Samsung. The table below presents the reconciliation between reported IFRS figures and the non-IFRS figures upon which the comments are based.

Gör så här: Färglägg inte från
palettRene. cMoarnkcerialisatatipolanr mIFeRd Svit­a Non-IFRS measures
pilen. Välj Object­Graph­Column. Där väljer man färg och ev tint. Kolla särskilt att "Sliding" är valt på "Column type".

IFRS 2014

2013

Adjustment initial Samsung IPR payment 1)

2014

2013

Type­NOepttisoansle: s 1 stapCelo: 7s6t%of7s0a%les
2 stapGlarr:o8s0s%in80c%ome

228.0 ­145.6
82.4

227.4 ­151.0
76.4

­2.1

0.0

­2.1

Operating expenses

­63.4

­58.5

Other operating income and expenses

­2.2

0.1

Share in earnings of associated companies

­0.1

­0.1

Operating income

16.8

17.8

0.0

­2.1

Financial items

­1.0

­0.7

Taxes

­4.7

­4.9

0.5

ObsN!eGtjionrcdommeed column design.

11.1

12.2

0.0

­1.6

Pra1t)aTmheeinditiEavl paa/yCmaetnttaf/rSomanSnaamsoumng in Q4 2013 was SEK 4.2 billion of which SEK 2.1 billion relates to 2013. ev fråTghoera. djustment impacts segments Networks and Support Solutions.

Non-IFRS

2014

2013

228.0

225.3

­145.6 ­151.0

82.4

74.3

­63.4

­58.5

­2.2

0.1

­0.1

­0.1

16.8

15.7

­1.0

­0.7

­4.7

­4.4

11.1

10.6

Gör så här: Markera skiktade delar med vita pilen. Välj Object­Graph­Column.
Där vSälajelremsa,nafädrgjusosmteskda vfaorarpcåodemn parable units and ö"Svleidrcsintuag"rruärnredvnaaldtcepyåd,e"Cdleonelu. cKmornlelatyaspäsers"e.kDidltåabbtltiyr ­2%. alla delarRmeedprounrdtaeddtosppa­leinstewbrea ;r).e flat and amounted to DCoelunSmedEnrevKämlja2errk2me8raan.s0"dnåo(2mne2e"d7ovc.ih4taf)äpbrigleilälnlgioogcenhr.i Strong sales growth somivnanClight ifnråan p, atlhetetenMswidatdchlees.East and India was offset
by lower sales in North America and Japan, where several larger mobile broadband coverage projects were completed.
During the year, the SEK has weakened towards a number of currencies, including the USD, which has had a gradual positive impact on sales.
Segments Networks and Global Services sales were flat compared with 2013, while S upport Solutions sales grew by 3%.
IPR and licensing revenues amounted to SEK 9.9 (10.6) billion. For 2013, IPR revenues included an initial payment of SEK 4.2 billion from Samsung for patent licensing.
The mix of sales by commodity was: Software 24% (24%), hardware 34% (34%) and s ervices 42% (42%).
Restructuring charges amounted to SEK 1.5 (4.5) billion and were mainly related to the continued implementation of the service delivery strategy. Implementation started on the cost and efficiency program announced in November 2014. As part of the continuous business transformation, annual restructuring

n ormally generates charges of approximately SEK 2 billion. In addition, the cost and efficiency program is expected to generate approximately SEK 3­4 billion in restructuring charges in 2015­2017.
With current visibility, total restructuring charges for 2015 are estimated at approximately SEK 3­4 billion.
Gross margin increased to 36.2%, due to a business mix with a higher share of capacity sales, lower restructuring charges and efficiency enhancements. The Global Services share of Group sales was flat at 43%, where the share of Network Rollout sales declined to 12% (14%) as a result of fewer large coverage projects.
Total operating expenses increased to SEK 63.4 (58.5) billion due to increased organic expenses in targeted areas and acquisitions such as Microsoft Mediaroom as well as inclusion of the modems operations.
In line with the strategy to establish leadership in targeted areas, the Company has increased its R&D activities, primarily in IP and Cloud. In addition the modems operations were taken over from the ST-Ericsson joint venture. This resulted in total R&D expenses of SEK 36.3 (32.2) billion in 2014.
Other operating income and expenses decreased to SEK ­2.2 (0.1) billion of which

Financials ­ Board of Directors' report

Ericsson | Annual Report 2014

43

FINANCIALS ­ Board of Directors' report

Working capital
Days 120
105
100

80

9.0

64
60
56

40 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014

 Days sales outstanding (Target is less than 90 days)  Inventory days (Target is less than 65 days)  Payable days (Target is more than 60 days)

Net cash

SEK billion 60

50

40

30

27.6

20

10

0 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014

SEK ­2.8 (0.5) billion relates to negative currency hedge effects. They derive from the hedge contract balance in USD, which has further decreased in value. The SEK has weakened towards the USD between December 31, 2013 (SEK/USD rate 6.46) and December 31, 2014 (7.79).
Operating income increased slightly to SEK 16.8 billion, positively impacted by an improved gross margin. Operating income was negatively impacted by higher operating expenses, and negative effects from hedge c ontracts. Operating margin was 7.4%.
Financial net amounted to SEK ­1.0 (­0.7) billion. The difference is mainly attributable to foreign currency revaluation effects.
The tax rate for 2014 was 30% compared with 29% in 2013. Tax costs were SEK ­4.7 (­4.9) billion.
Net income increased to SEK 11.1 billion, for the same reasons as for the increase in operating income.
EPS diluted was SEK 3.54. EPS, Non-IFRS, was SEK 4.80.
Cash flow Obs!CGajosrhdfmloewd cfroolummonperating activities was positive desigant .SPEraKta1m8e.7d (17.4) billion. Eva/CatTtao/tSaalninnaveosmtienvg activities amounted to frågoSrE. K 7.5 (11.1) billion. Investments in property, Gör såphläar:nFätraglnägdg ientqe furåinpment were SEK 5.3 (4.5) billion, palettreen.pMraerkseeransttaipnlagr m2e%d viotaf sales. Acquisitions and
pilen. Välj Object­Graph­Column.
Där vädljeivr emsantmfärgeoncthse,vntinet.t, were SEK 4.4 (2.7) billion. Kolla sTärhsk ailtcatqt "uSliisdiintgio"änr svalat preå strategic investments made
"Column type".
to strengthen the position in targeted areas.

In 2014, approximately SEK 8 billion of debt o utstanding was repaid: >> A SEK 4 billion EIB loan, with original maturity
in 2015, was repaid. >> A USD 300 million bond, with original maturity
in 2016, was repaid. >> A EUR 219 million bond matured and was
repaid in full.
Working capital Days sales outstanding (DSO) increased to 105 (97) days mainly due to geographical mix and negative currency effects. Inventory turnover days increased to 64 (62) days due to a larger share of projects and negative currency effects.
Accounts payable days increased to 56 (53) days.
Provisions amounted to SEK 4.4 (5.4) billion at year end, reflecting implementation of previous years' efficiency programs and headcount reductions.
Financial position The average maturity of long-term borrowings as of December 31, 2014, was 5.7 years, compared with 5.1 years at the end of 2013.
The net cash decreased from SEK 37.8 billion to SEK 27.6 billion as a result of increased post-employment benefits of SEK 10.6 billion due to lower discount rates.
Ericsson has an unutilized Revolving Credit Facility of USD 2.0 billion.

Debt maturity, Parent Company

SEK billion

8

7.7

7

1.3

6

5 4.7

5.3

4

3

2

1

0.8

0.8

0 2017 2018 2019 2020 2021 2022

 Notes & bonds  Nordic Investment Bank  European Investment bank Swedish Export Credit Corporation MTN Bond

Change in gross cash

SEK billion Obs! Gjord med column

design. Prata med

Eva/Catta/Sanna om ev

frågor.
100

22.3

Gör så här: Färglägg inte från paletten9. 5Markera staplar med vita Dpiälernv.äVljäe9lrj0mObajnecfät­rgGoracphhe­vCtoinlutm. n. Kolla sär8sk5ilt att "Sliding" är valt på "Column type".

80

77.1

75

Operating cash flow 18.7
­2.4 ­1.2

Investing activities* ­11.3
­5.3 ­6.0

Financing activities ­18.2
­8.4 ­9.8

70

65

60 Gross cash opening  balance

Net income reconciled
to cash

Change net operating assets excl. restructuring

Change in gross cash ­4.9

Restructuring

CAPEX

Acquisitions, divestments
and other

Other financing activities

Dividend

FX on cash 5.9
5.9
FX on cash

72.2
Gross cash closing balance

*As disclosed under Financial Terminology, Gross Cash is defined as cash, cash equivalents and short-term investments. Cash as presented in the balance sheet and related notes includes cash, cash equivalents and short-term investments of a maturity less than three months. Due to different treatment of cash in the above table and related foreign currency impact, the amounts differ from those in other presentations of cash flows.

44

Ericsson | Annual Report 2014

Employees In 2014, the net number of employees increased by 3,715. At the end of 2014, the total number of employees was 118,055 (114,340) of which 19,251 joined Ericsson during the year. 15,536 employees left Ericsson, reflecting the natural attrition rate and ongoing Company transfor mation.

Research and development, patents and licensing In line with the strategy to establish leadership in targeted areas, the Company has increased its R&D activities, primarily in IP and Cloud. In addition, the modems operations were taken over from the ST-Ericsson joint venture. This resulted in total R&D expenses of SEK 36.3 (32.2) billion.

Research and development, patents and licensing

Expenses (SEK billion)
As percent of Net sales
Employees within R&D as of December 31 1)
Patents 1)
IPR revenues, net (SEK billion)

2014 36.3 15.9%

2013 32.2 14.2%

2012 32.8 14.4%

25,700 25,300 24,100 37,000 35,000 33,000

9.9

10.6

6.6

1) The number of employees and patents are approximate.

Seasonality The Company's sales, income and cash flow from operations vary between quarters, and are generally lowest in the first quarter of the year and highest in the fourth quarter. This is mainly a result of the seasonal purchase patterns of network operators.

Most recent five-year average seasonality

First Second Third q uarter quarter q uarter

Sequential change

­22%

8%

0

Share of annual sales

22% 24% 24%

Fourth quarter
23%
30%

Off-balance sheet arrangements There are currently no material off-balance sheet arrangements that have, or would be reasonably likely to have, a current or anticipated material effect on the Company's financial condition, revenues, expenses, result of operations, liquidity, capital expenditures or capital resources.

Capital expenditures For 2014, capital expenditures were SEK 5.3 (4.5) billion, representing 2% of sales. Expenditures are largely related to test sites and equipment for R&D and network operation centers as well as manufacturing and repair operations.
Investments are being made in three new global ICT centers. The centers will support R&D and services in developing and verifying solutions more efficiently and bringing innovation faster to the market. The first center, in Linköping, Sweden, was opened in 2014.
Apart from these investments, Ericsson believes that the Company's property, plant and equipment and the facilities the Company occupies are suitable for its present needs in most locations.
Annual capital expenditures are normally around 2% of sales. This corresponds to the needs for keeping and maintaining the current capacity level. The Board of Directors reviews the Company's investment plans and proposals.
As of December 31, 2014, no material land, buildings, machinery or equipment were pledged as collateral for outstanding indebtedness.
The Company believes it has sufficient cash and cash generation capacity to fund expected capital expenditures without external borrowings in 2015.

Capital expenditures 2010­2014

SEK billion

2014 2013

Capital expenditures

5.3 4.5

Of which in Sweden

2.4 1.9

Share of annual sales

2.3% 2.0%

2012 5.4 1.3
2.4%

2011 5.0 1.7
2.2%

2010 3.7 1.4
1.8%

Financials ­ Board of Directors' report

Ericsson | Annual Report 2014

45

FINANCIALS ­ Board of Directors' report

Networks sales

SEK billion 150

120

117.5

90

60

30

0 2011

2012

2013

2014

Global Services sales

SEK billion

100

26.8

80

60

70.8

40

20

0 2011

2012

2013

2014

 Professional services  Network Rollout

Support Solutions sales

SEK billion
15
12.7
12

9

6

3

0 2011

2012

2013

2014

Business results ­ Segments
Networks 1) ObsS! aGljeosrd, amdejdusctoeludmfonr comparable units and curdesriegnn.cPyr,adtaemcreedased by ­3%, primarily due to lower Evas/Caalettsa/inSaNnnoartohmAemv erica, where two large LTE frågcoor.verage projects were completed. In addition, Gör osåphäer:rFaätrgolärgsgiinntethfråen US increased their focus on palectteans. Mhafrkloerwa stoapplatrimmeidzvaittaion during the second half of Dpiälernvt.ähVljeäelrj ymOebajnaecfrät,­rgGworaicpthhhe­vrCetoinldutm.unc. ed network investments as a Kollacsoärnsksilteaqttu"Selidnincge"ä.r Tvahltepådecline in the North American "Colubmunstiynpee".ss was partly offset by increased mobile
broadband sales in the Middle East. Large LTE network deployments continued in mainland China.
In 2014, operators increased their focus on improving network performance as a key differentiator. This, in combination with continued data traffic increase, and introduction of new services such as VoLTE, led to increased c apa city business in Radio, IMS and IP.
Operating income improved significantly compared with last year due to increased capacity business, earlier actions to improve Obsc!oGmjomrdemrcediacl oalnudmnopdeesriagtnio. nal efficiency and lower PrartaesmtreudcEtvuar/iCnagttcah/Saarngneaso.mThis was partly offset ev fbråygaorn. egative effect from currency hedges of Gör SsåEhäKr: M­2ar.k1era(0sk.i5kt)adbeidlleiolanr maednd higher operating vita epixlepn.eVänljsOebjsec,t­mGraapinh­lyCoilnumIPn. and Cloud. Restructuring Döväerrvcsäthaljeraur nrmgdaaendfseädragelsmeonm.oKsuoklanlavtsaeärradskpiåtltodaetStn EK ­0.4 (­2.2) billion.
"Sliding" är valt på "Column type". Då blir
aDlelandGeedllaroer mmbeaadrklreurSnasdedardåvmtoiepcdpev­istiantpeilbernao;)c.h i ColuSman lveälsjerfmoarnG"nloonbe"aoclhSfäergrlvägicgeer s were flat compared somwvaintlhigt2fr0ån1p3a.leStteanlsewsa,tcaheds.justed for comparable units
and currency, declined by ­2% despite strong development in Managed Services and in Network Design and Optimization.
There was continued momentum for Professional Services with double-digit sales growth during the second half of the year. Sales in targeted areas developed positively and in line with plan. Network Rollout sales declined, primarily due to a lower share of coverage projects.
Global Services operating income was flat compared with 2013. The Network Rollout m argin gradually improved during the year due to the declining dilutive effect from the European Odebssi!gnGnej.toPwrrdaotmrakemmdecododluemrnnization projects. Eva/Catta/Sanna om ev frågor.
Gör så här: Färglägg inte från paletten. Markera staplar med vita pilen. Välj Object­Graph­Column. Där väljer man färg och ev tint. Kolla särskilt att "Sliding" är valt på "Column type".

Professional Services operating margin declined to 12% (14%), partly due to negative currency hedge effects and partly due to the high share of managed services contracts in the trans formation phase.
Restructuring charges declined to SEK ­0.8 (­2.0) billion. Implementation of the service delivery strategy, to move local service delivery resources to global centers continued, but at a slower pace during the first half of the year.
Support Solutions 1) Sales adjusted for comparable units and currency declined by ­2% due to lower sales for legacy systems. Reported sales grew by 3%, driven by growth in OSS and in TV & Media through the Mediaroom acquisition. Regions North America and North East Asia showed strong growth while Latin America and Sub- Saharan Africa declined, primarily due to lower BSS sales.
Operating income declined slightly, partly due to lower sales in legacy systems and partly due to acquired operating expenses.
Modems Ericsson took over the LTE thin-modem operations as part of the breakup of the joint venture with STMicroelectronics in 2013. Since the integration, the modems market developed in a direction that reduced the addressable market for thin modems. In addition, there is strong competition, price erosion and an accelerating pace of technology innovation. Success in this evolved market requires significant R&D investments. In 2014, Ericsson announced the discontinuation of further development of modems and the shift of approximately 500 R&D resources to Networks to pursue growth opportunities in the radio business.
Operating income was SEK ­2.0 billion. The discontinuation of the modems business will lead to a significant reduction in costs. Good progress has been made in 2014, and activities are ahead of plan. End-of-life agreements have been signed with existing customers.
1) Comments based on non-IFRS figures. See Financial results of operations on page 43.

46

Ericsson | Annual Report 2014

Business results ­ Regions

>> North America: Sales declined, driven by lower network sales as a result of large mobile network coverage projects coming to an end, and increased operator focus on cash flow in the second half of the year. Sales in Support Solutions and Professional Services continued to grow, driven by OSS and BSS modernization.
>> Latin America: Sales increased, driven by mobile broadband coverage projects and network quality investments, partly offset by currency restrictions.
>> Northern Europe and Central Asia: Sales increased, driven primarily by mobile broadband deployments in Russia with sales of SEK 6.7 (5.6) billion. Professional Services sales grew, driven by network design and optimization services. TV & Media business showed positive development.
>> Western and Central Europe: The European modernization projects came to an end in 2014. Sales growth was increasingly driven by investments in network quality and capacity during the year.
>> Mediterranean: Sales decreased as the European modernization projects came to an end, while managed services contributed positively to sales.
>> Middle East: Sales growth was driven by mobile broadband investments related to new licenses and growth in data traffic in both advanced and developing markets.

>> Sub-Saharan Africa: Sales declined but recovered in the second half of the year, mainly driven by operator focus on network traffic and quality management. This resulted in a continued demand for managed services.
>> India: Sales growth was driven by mobile broadband infrastructure investments. Increased smartphone penetration drove growth in mobile data usage.
>> North East Asia: Sales increased in mainland China and Taiwan as a result of delivering on previously awarded 4G / LTE contracts. The increase was partly offset by reduced network investment levels in Korea and Japan.
>> South East Asia and Oceania: Sales remained flat in 2014. Growth in major roll out projects in Australia compensated for a decline in Indonesia where major 3G projects peaked in 2013.
>> Other: Sales declined somewhat due to exit of the telecom and power cable businesses in 2013 and lower IPR revenues. Broadcast services grew, driven by the acquired Red Bee Media business that was fully consolidated in 2014.

Sales per region and segment 2014 and percent change from 2013

SEK billion North America Latin America Northern Europe and Central Asia Western and Central Europe Mediterranean Middle East Sub-Saharan Africa India North East Asia South East Asia and Oceania Other 1) Total Share of total

Networks

2014

Change

26.1

­9%

10.7

­5%

8.0

10%

8.1

6%

9.6

­11%

11.6

36%

3.9

­21%

4.1

32%

18.0

8%

8.4

­6%

9.1

­10%

117.5

0%

51%

Global Services

2014

Change

25.0

­12%

10.8

14%

4.1

­1%

11.0

8%

12.6

0%

8.5

12%

4.3

3%

3.1

15%

8.9

­14%

7.0

10%

2.3

61%

97. 7

0%

43%

Support Solutions

2014

Change

3.5

34%

1.0

­10%

0.3

10%

0.6

1%

0.8

12%

1.2

­11%

0.6

­39%

0.5

55%

0.7

82%

0.5

­4%

3.1

­12%

12.7

3%

6%

1) Region "Other" includes licensing revenues, broadcast services, power modules, mobile broadband modules, Ericsson-LG Enterprise and other businesses. The power cable business was divested in 2013.
2) Total sales for Region "Other" includes SEK 0.2 billion for Modems.

Total 2014 54.5 22.6 12.4 19.7 23.0 21.3
8.7 7.7 27.6 15.9 14.7 2) 228.0 100%

Change ­8% 3% 6% 7% ­5% 22%
­13% 25%
1% 0% ­2% 0%

Financials ­ Board of Directors' report

Ericsson | Annual Report 2014

47

FINANCIALS ­ Board of Directors' report

Corporate Governance
In accordance with the Annual Accounts Act ((SFS 1995:1554), Chapter 6, Sections 6 and 8) and the Swedish Corporate Governance Code (the "Code"), a separate Corporate Governance Report, including an Internal Control section, has been prepared and attached to this Annual Report.

A global management system is in place to ensure that Ericsson's business is well controlled and has the ability to fulfill the objectives of major stakeholders within established risk limits. The management system also monitors internal control and compliance with applicable laws, listing requirements and governance codes.

Continued compliance with the Swedish Corporate Governance Code Ericsson is committed to complying with best- practice corporate governance standards on a global level wherever possible. For 2014, Ericsson does not report any deviations from the Code.
Business integrity Ericsson's Code of Business Ethics summarizes the Group's basic policies and directives governing its relationships internally, with its stakeholders and with others. It also sets out how the Group works to secure that business activities are conducted with a strong sense of integrity.
Board of Directors At the Annual General Meeting, held on April 11, 2014, Leif Johansson was re-elected Chairman of the Board and Roxanne S. Austin, Sir Peter L. Bonfield, Nora Denzel, Börje Ekholm, Alexander Izosimov, Ulf J. Johansson, Sverker Martin-Löf, Kristin Skogen Lund, Hans Vestberg, Jacob Wallenberg and Pär Östberg were re-elected members of the Board. Pehr Claesson, Kristina Davidsson and Karin Åberg were appointed employee representatives by the unions, with Rickard Fredriksson, Karin Lennartsson and Roger Svensson as deputies.
Management Hans Vestberg has been President and CEO of the Group since January 1, 2010. The President and CEO is supported by the Group management, consisting of the Executive Leadership Team (ELT).

Remuneration Remuneration to the members of the Board of Directors and to Group management, as well as the Guidelines for remuneration to Group Management resolved by the Annual General Meeting 2014, are reported in Notes to the consolidated financial statements ­ Note C28, "Information regarding members of the Board of Directors, the Group management and employees".
The Board of Directors' proposal for guidelines for remuneration to Group management The Board of Directors proposes no material changes to the current guidelines for remuner ation to Group management for the period up to the 2016 Annual General Meeting.
Executive Performance Stock Plan The Company has a Long-Term Variable Compensation program (LTV). It builds on a common platform of investment in, and matching of, Ericsson shares. It consists of three separate plans: one targeting all employees, one targeting key contributors and one targeting senior managers. The program is designed to encourage long-term value creation in alignment with shareholders' interests. The aim of the plan for senior managers is to attract, retain and motivate executives in a competitive market through performance-based share-related incentives and to encourage the build-up of significant equity stakes. The performance criteria for senior m anagers under the Executive Performance Stock Plan are approved by the Annual General

48

Shareholder value creation
Executive Performance Stock Plan 2012 targets for 2012­2014 Base year 2011
Net sales growth 2­8% CAGR

Executive Performance Stock Plan 2013 targets for 2013­2015 Base year 2012
Net sales growth 2­8% CAGR

Executive Performance Stock Plan 2014 targets for 2014­2016 Base year 2013
Net sales growth 2­8% CAGR 2)

Operating income growth 5­15% CAGR including JV(s) and restructuring

Operating income growth 5­15% CAGR including JV(s) and restructuring 1)

Operating income growth 5­15% CAGR including JV(s) and restructuring 2)

Cash conversion  70% annually

Cash conversion  70% annually

Cash conversion  70% annually

1) Base year 2012 excludes non-cash charge for ST-Ericsson. 2) Base year 2013 has been adjusted for the impact of the Samsung IPR agreement.

Ericsson | Annual Report 2014

Meeting. Performance criteria for the 2015 Executive Performance Stock Plan will be communicated in the notice to the Annual General Meeting.
The targets for the 2012, 2013 and 2014 Executive Performance Stock Plans are shown in the illustration on page 48. The performance criteria are: >> Up to one-third of the award will vest if the
target for compound annual growth rate of consolidated net sales is achieved. For the 2014 plan, net sales for base year 2013 has been adjusted by SEK 2.1 billion for the impact of the Samsung IPR agreement. >> Up to one-third of the award will vest if the target for compound annual growth rate of consolidated operating income, including earnings in joint ventures and restructuring, is achieved. For the 2013 plan, base year 2012 excludes a non-cash charge of SEK 8.0 billion for ST-Ericsson. For the 2014 plan, operating income for the base year 2013 has been adjusted by SEK 2.1 billion for the impact of the Samsung IPR agreement. >> Up to one-third of the award will vest if cash conversion is at or above 70% during each of the years and vesting one-ninth of the award for each year the target is achieved. The cash conversion target was reached in 2014, 2013 and 2012.
Before the number of performance shares to be matched are finally determined, the Board of Directors shall examine whether the performance matching is reasonable considering the Company's financial results and position, con ditions on the stock market and other circumstances, and if not, reduce the number of per formance shares.
Material contracts
Material contractual obligations are outlined in Note C31, "Contractual obligations." These were entered into in the ordinary course of business and were primarily related to operating leases for office and production facilities, purchase contracts for outsourced manufacturing, R&D and IT operations, and the purchase of components for the Company's own manufacturing.
Ericsson is party to certain agreements, which include provisions that may take effect or be altered or invalidated by a change in control of the Company as a result of a public takeover offer. Such provisions are not unusual for certain types of agreements, such as financing agreements and certain license agreements. However, considering among other things the Company's strong financial position, none of the agreements currently in effect would entail any material consequence to Ericsson due to a change in control of the Company.

Risk management
Risks are defined in both short-term and longterm perspective. They are categorized into industry and market risks, commercial risks, operational risks and compliance risks. Ericsson's risk management is based on the following p rinciples, which apply universally across all business activities and risk types: >> Risk management is an integrated part of
the Ericsson Group Management System. >> Each operational unit is accountable for own-
ing and managing its risks according to policies, directives and process tools. Decisions are made or escalated according to defined delegation of authority. Financial risks are coordinated through Group Function Finance. >> Risks are dealt with during the strategy process, annual planning and target setting, continuous monitoring through monthly and quarterly steering group meetings and during operational processes (customer projects, customer bid/contract, acquisition, investment and product development projects). They are subject to various controls such as decision tollgates and approvals.
At least twice a year, in connection with the approval of strategy and targets, risks are reviewed by the Board of Directors.
A central security unit coordinates management of certain risks, such as business interruption, information security and physical security. The Crisis Management Council deals with events of a serious nature.
For information on risks that could impact the fulfillment of targets and form the basis for mitigating activities, see the other sections of the Board of Directors' report, Notes C2, "Critical accounting estimates and judgments," C14, "Trade receivables and customer finance," C19, "Interest-bearing liabilities," C20, "Financial risk management and financial instruments" and the chapter Risk factors.
Sourcing and supply
Ericsson's hardware largely consists of electronics. For manufacturing, the Company purchases customized and standardized components and services from several global providers as well as from local and regional suppliers. Certain types of components, such as power modules, are produced in-house.
The production of electronic modules and sub-assemblies is mostly outsourced to manufacturing services companies, of which the vast majority are in low-cost countries. Final configuration of products is largely done in-house and on-demand. This consists of assembling and testing modules and integrating them into

Financials ­ Board of Directors' report

Ericsson | Annual Report 2014

49

FINANCIALS ­ Board of Directors' report

complete units. Final assembly and testing are concentrated to a few sites. Ericsson has 12 manufacturing sites in Brazil, China, Estonia, India, Italy, Mexico and Sweden.
A number of suppliers design and manufacture highly specialized and customized components. The Company generally negotiates global supply agreements with its primary suppliers. Ericsson's suppliers are required to comply with the requirements of Ericsson's Code of Conduct.
In general, Ericsson has alternative supply sources and seeks to avoid single source supply situations.
Variations in market prices for raw materials generally have a limited effect on total cost of goods sold. For more information, see the chapter Risk factors.

Supplier Code of Conduct

Audits and assessments

600

500
444
400

300

200

197

151

100

0 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014

 Number of auditors  Number of audits  Number of assessments

Sustainability and Corporate Responsibility
The Company has a strong focus on social, enviObsro! Gnjmordenmtaedl acnodlumrensponsible business standards. desTighnis. Psrautpapmoerdts Ericsson's ambition to be a releEfrvåagv/oCaran. tttaa/nSadnrneasopmonesvible driver of positive change.
The Company aims to create positive impacts Gör asånhdär: mFärignläigmg iinztee frråisn ks.
paletten. Markera staplar med vita
pilen. VälEj Orbicjescts­Gornap'hs­Caoplupmrno. ach to Sustainability and Där vCälojerrpmaonrfaärtgeocRheevstpinot. nsibility (CR) is integrated into
Kolla särskilt att "Sliding" är valt på
"Coluitmsnctyopree". business operations throughout its value chain and performance is regularly measured and assessed. The Board of Directors is apprised of Sustainability and CR issues twice per year, or as needed on an ad hoc basis. Group policies and directives are implemented to ensure consistency across global operations. Ericsson publishes an annual Sustainability and Corporate Responsibility Report, which provides additional information.

Ericsson life-cycle assessment ­ carbon footprint 2014
Mtonnes CO2e

35

~ 35

30

25

20

15

10

5 ~3 0

~ 0.8

~5

­5

~ ­0.3

Activities in 2014 Supply chain  Own activities

Future (lifetime) operation of products delivered in 2014
Operator activities Products in operation  End-of-life treatment
~Approximately

Responsible business practices Since 2000, Ericsson has supported the UN Global Compact, and endorses its ten principles Obs!reStgaapredl ginjogrdhummedan rights and labor standards, coluamnntid-cesoigrrnu.pPrtaiotan and environmental protection. med EvaS/iCnacttea/2S0a1n2n,aEormicsson has reported its ev frCågoomr. munication on Progress at the Global Gör såC hoär:mFäprgaläcggtinAtedfvråannced level. The Ericsson Group palettMen.aMnaarkgerea smtapelanr tmSedyvsittaem (EGMS) includes a Code
pilen. Välj Object­Graph­Column.
Där väoljferBmuansfiänrgeoscsh eEv ttihnti.cs, a Code of Conduct and a Kolla sSärusksilttaatitn"Salidbinilgit"yärPvaolt lpicå y which reflect responsible
"Column type".
business practices. These practices are reinforced by employee awareness training, workshops and monitoring, including a global assessment plan run by an external assurance provider.
The Code of Conduct was updated in 2014 to include stronger human rights language in accordance with the UN Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights as well as stronger labor standards.

Ericsson has an anti-corruption program which focuses on prevention but also accountability. The program is reviewed and evaluated by the Audit Committee of the Board of Directors annually. In 2014, a new anti-corruption e-learning was launched for suppliers.
Human rights The Code of Business Ethics reflects the Company's ongoing commitment to respect human rights. Ericsson has actively worked to integrate United Nations Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights into its governance framework since 2011. A Sales Compliance Board evaluates risk to human rights impacts with respect to four criteria: country, customer, p roduct and purpose. Ericsson joined the Shift Business Learning Program in 2012 to further strengthen its framework on Human Rights. The learning included conducting Human Rights Impact Assessments in Myanmar and ongoing in Iran, in accordance with the UN Guiding Principles.
Responsible sourcing All suppliers must comply with the requirements of Ericsson's Code of Conduct. The Company has 197 employees, covering all regions, who are trained as Code of Conduct auditors. The Company uses a risk-based approach to ensure that the high risk portfolio areas, and highest risk markets, are targeted first. For prioritized areas, Ericsson performs regular audits and works with suppliers to ensure measurable and continuous improvements. Findings are followed up to ensure that improvements are made.
Ericsson addresses the issue of conflict minerals, including compliance with the US Dodd-Frank Act and the disclosure rule adopted by the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) through measures in its sourcing and product management processes. The Company also actively works with suppliers on this issue and engages in industry initiatives such as the Conflict-Free Sourcing Initiative (CFSI), driven by the Global e-Sustainability Initiative (GeSI), and the Electronic Industry Citizenship Coalition (EICC).
Reducing environmental impact Continuously improving sustainability performance is fundamental to Ericsson's strategy and a priority remains improving the life-cycle carbon footprint. The Company works to reduce negative environmental impacts while delivering solutions that enable a low-carbon economy. As energy use of products in operation remains the Company's most significant environmental impact, Ericsson works proactively with mobile operators to encourage network and site energy optimization, through innovative products, soft-

50

Ericsson | Annual Report 2014

Ericsson own activities Carbon footprint intensity target

Tonnes CO2e/Employee 10

Mtonnes 1.0

8

0.8

0.63

6

0.6

5.43

4

0.4

2

0.2

0 2011

2012

2013

0.0 2014

Carbon footprint intensity Tonnes CO2e/ Employee
Carbon footprint absolute emission, Mtonnes

ware, solutions and advisory services. Processes and controls are in place to ensure compliance with relevant product-related environmental, customer and regulatory requirements. An important aspect of Ericsson's Design for E nvironment is materials management and efficiency.
In 2014, Ericsson strengthened its focus on providing solutions to help other sectors of the economy, primarily utilities and transport, to o ffset carbon emissions. In line with this focus area, Ericsson set a target for 2015; to reduce societal carbon emissions by a factor of 2 in relation to carbon emissions from Ericsson's own activities in 2014, by implementing ICT- enabled solutions, such as smart meters and smart transport solutions.
Ericsson has a long-term objective to maintain absolute CO2e emissions from its own activities for business travel, product transportation and facilities energy use in 2017 at the same level as in 2011. To achieve this long-term objective, the Company aims to reduce CO2e emissions per employee by 30% over five years. The Company achieved a 10% reduction of CO2e emissions per employee in 2014.
Ericsson Ecology Management is a program to take responsibility for products at the end of their life and to treat them in an environmentally preferable way. The program also ensures that Ericsson fulfills its producer responsibility and is offered to all customers globally free of charge, not only in markets where it is required by law.
When taking back the Company's products, more than 98% of the materials is recycled.
Occupational health and safety Providing a safe and healthy workplace is of fundamental importance to Ericsson. The ambition is zero fatalities and the long-term objective is based on continuous improvements in order to reduce the number and severity of Occupational Health and Safety (OHS) incidents. The OHS system helps to protect Ericsson's employees and others engaged in company business.
Certain operations undergo internal audits as well as regular third-party assurance audits according to the OHSAS 18001 standard. E ricsson has taken a comprehensive approach by not only reporting its own fatalities but also addressing partners and suppliers working with high-risk activities. This includes providing requirements and controls but also guidance and training. Competence and awareness is key to reducing major incidents and must be based on trust and transparency, in which reporting of incidents is encouraged. Key performance indicators are published in the Sustainability and Corporate Responsibility report.
A program "Zero Incidents in High-Risk E nvironments" was established 2014 to reduce

severe incidents internally and in the supply chain by further enhancing sub-contractor management, assessment criteria, inspections and c onsequence management. Occupational health and safety was significantly strengthened and prioritized by integrating it into the Sustainability and Corporate responsibility organization.
Radio waves and health Ericsson employs rigid product testing and installation procedures with the goal of ensuring that radio wave exposure levels from products and network solutions are below established safety limits. The Company also provides public information on radio waves and health, and supports independent research to further increase knowledge in this area. Since 1996, Ericsson has co-sponsored over 100 studies related to electromagnetic fields and health, primarily through the Mobile Manufacturers Forum.
To assure scientific independence, firewalls were in place between the industrial sponsors and the researchers conducting these studies. Independent expert groups and public health authorities, including the World Health Organization, have reviewed the total amount of research and have consistently concluded that the balance of evidence does not demonstrate any health effects associated with radio wave exposure from either mobile phones or radio base stations.
Reporting according to GRI 3.0 Ericsson publishes an annual Sustainability and Corporate Responsibility report and full key performance data is made available on the Ericsson website according to the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI). The performance data is assured by a third party.
Legal proceedings
In 2013, Adaptix Inc. ("Adaptix") filed two lawsuits against Ericsson, AT&T, AT&T Mobility and MetroPCS Communications in the US District Court for Eastern District of Texas alleging that certain Ericsson products infringe five US patents purportedly assigned to Adaptix. The trial is currently anticipated to take place in May 2015 and Adaptix seeks damages and an injunction.
On May 20, 2014, Adaptix filed three more patent infringement lawsuits against Ericsson in the same court regarding three US patents, all of which are also included in the 2013 lawsuit. One of the 2014 lawsuits accuses Ericsson's LTE products and Sprint's use thereof of infringement, one accuses Ericsson's LTE products and Verizon's use thereof of infringement, and one accuses Ericsson's LTE products and T-Mobile's use thereof of infringement.

Financials ­ Board of Directors' report

Ericsson | Annual Report 2014

51

FINANCIALS ­ Board of Directors' report

In January 2015, Adaptix filed one more lawsuit in the same court alleging that Ericsson's LTE products, and Sprint and Verizon's use thereof, infringe one U.S. Patent.
In addition to its complaint filed in 2013 with the Tokyo District Court, Adaptix filed another lawsuit in Japan in September 2014 alleging that Ericsson's LTE products infringe another Japanese patent. In the lawsuits in Japan, Adaptix is also seeking damages and an injunction.
In 2013, Ericsson filed a patent infringement lawsuit in the Delhi High Court against Indian handset company Micromax, seeking damages and an injunction. As part of its defense, Micromax filed a complaint with the Competition Commission of India (CCI) and the CCI has decided to refer the case to the Director General's Office for an in-depth investigation.
In January 2014, the CCI opened another investigation against Ericsson based on claims made by Intex Technologies (India) Limited. Ericsson has made numerous attempts to sign a license agreement with both Micromax and Intex on Fair, Reasonable and Non-discriminatory (FRAND) terms.
In 2012, Wi-LAN Inc., a Canadian patent licensing company, filed a complaint against Ericsson in the US District Court for the Southern District of Florida alleging that Ericsson's LTE products infringe three of Wi-LAN's US patents.
In June 2013, Ericsson's motion for summary judgment was granted and in August 2014, the decision was reversed by the United States Court of Appeals for the Federal Circuit. As a result, the case is back before the Florida court. Trial is currently scheduled for May 2015.
In 2011, TruePosition sued Ericsson, Qualcomm, Alcatel-Lucent, the European Telecommunications Standards Institute (ETSI) and the Third Generation Partnership Project (3GPP) in the US District Court for the Eastern District of Pennsylvania for purported federal antitrust violations. The complaint alleged that Ericsson, Qualcomm and Alcatel-Lucent illegally conspired to block the adoption of TruePosition's proprietary technology into the new mobile positioning standards for LTE, while at the same time ensuring that their own technology was included into the new standards. In July 2014, Ericsson and TruePosition reached an amicable settlement. As part of the settlement, Ericsson did not pay TruePosition any money to settle the case and TruePosition withdrew its allegations of wrongdoing against Ericsson.

Parent Company
The Parent Company business consists mainly of corporate management, holding company functions and internal banking activities. It also handles customer credit management, performed on a commission basis by Ericsson Credit AB.
The Parent Company has 5 (5) branch offices. In total, the Group has 81 (81) branch and representative offices.
Financial information Income after financial items was SEK 25.6 (7.2) billion. The Parent Company had no sales in 2014 or 2013 to subsidiaries, while 54% (30%) of total purchases of goods and services were from such companies.
Major changes in the Parent Company's financial position for the year included: >> In 2012, a provision of SEK 3.3 billion was
recognized, which provides for Ericsson's share of obligations for the wind-down of ST-Ericsson. In 2013 and 2014, SEK 2.6 billion has been utilized or reversed, which resulted in a net liability of SEK 0.7 billion. >> Increased current and non-current receivables from subsidiaries of SEK 9.6 billion. >> Decreased other current receivables of SEK 0.2 billion. >> Decreased cash, cash equivalents and s hort-term investments of SEK 3.5 billion. >> Decreased current and non-current liabilities to subsidiaries of SEK 3.8 billion. >> Increased other current liabilities of SEK 3.0 billion. At year-end, cash, cash equivalents and shortterm investments amounted to SEK 55.0 (58.5) billion.
Share information As of December 31, 2014, the total number of shares in issue was 3,305,051,735, of which 261,755,983 were Class A shares, each carrying one vote, and 3,043,295,752 were Class B shares, each carrying one tenth of one vote. Both classes of shares have the same rights of participation in the net assets and earnings. The two largest shareholders at year-end were Investor AB and AB Industrivärden holding 21.50% and 15.20% respectively of the voting rights in the Parent Company.
In accordance with the conditions of the Long- Term Variable Compensation Program (LTV) for Ericsson employees, 10,517,620 treasury shares were sold or distributed to employees in 2014. The quotient value of these shares was SEK 5.00, totaling SEK 52.6 million, representing less than 1% of capital stock, and compensation received for shares sold and distributed shares amounted to SEK 129.2 million.
The holding of treasury stock at December 31, 2014 was 63,450,558 Class B shares.

52

Ericsson | Annual Report 2014

The quotient value of these shares is SEK 5.00, totaling SEK 317.3 million, representing 1.9% of capital stock, and the purchase price amounts to SEK 490.3 million.

Proposed disposition of earnings The Board of Directors propose s that a dividend of SEK 3.40 (3.00) per share be paid to shareholders duly registered on the record date April 16, 2015, and that the Parent Company shall retain the remaining part of non-restricted equity.
The Class B treasury shares held by the P arent Company are not entitled to receive dividend. Assuming that no treasury shares remain on the record date, the Board of Directors proposes that earnings be distributed as follows:

Amount to be paid to the shareholders
Amount to be retained by the Parent Company
Total non-restricted equity of the Parent Company

SEK 11,237,175,899 SEK 26,633,889,879 SEK 37,871,065,778

As a basis for its dividend proposal, the Board of Directors has made an assessment in accordance with Chapter 18, Section 4 of the Swedish Companies Act of the Parent Company's and the Group's need for financial resources as well as the Parent Company's and the Group's liquidity, financial position in other respects and longterm ability to meet their commitments. The Group reports an equity ratio of 49.5% (53%) and a net cash amount of SEK 27.6 (37.8) billion.
The Board of Directors has also considered the Parent Company's result and financial position and the Group's position in general. In this respect, the Board of Directors has taken into account known commitments that may have an impact on the financial positions of the Parent Company and its subsidiaries.
The proposed dividend does not limit the Group's ability to make investments or raise funds, and it is the Board of Directors' assessment that the proposed dividend is well-balanced considering the nature, scope and risks of the business activities as well as he capital requirements for the Parent Company and the Group in addition to coming years' business plans and economic development.

Post-closing events
On January 12, 2015, Apple filed a lawsuit a sking the United States District Court for the Northern District of California to find that it does not infringe a small subset of Ericsson's patents. On January 14, 2015, following Apple's legal action, Ericsson filed a complaint in the United States District Court for the Eastern District of Texas requesting a ruling on Ericsson's proposed global licensing fees with Apple. During

the past two years of negotiations, the companies have not been able to reach an agreement on licensing of Ericsson's patents that enable Apple's mobile devices to connect with the world and power many of their applications. Ericsson filed the suit in order to receive an independent assessment on whether Ericsson's global licensing offer complies with Ericsson's FRAND commitment.
The global license agreement for mobile technology between Ericsson and Apple has expired and Apple has declined to take a new license on offered FRAND terms.
On January 15, 2015, Ericsson announced that Johan Wibergh, Executive Vice President and Head of Segment Networks, will leave his position to take on a role outside of Ericsson. Wibergh joined Ericsson in 1996 and has since held a number of executive positions within the company. Since 2008, Wibergh has also been part of Ericsson's Executive Leadership Team. Although stepping down from his position immediately, Johan Wibergh will remain available to Ericsson until April 30, 2015 when he formally leaves the company. Effective January 15, 2015, Hans Vestberg will, in addition to his role as President and CEO, assume the role as Head of Segment Networks.
Rockstar Consortium LLC (Rockstar) is a company that was formed in 2011 by Apple, Blackberry, Ericsson, Microsoft, and Sony to purchase approximately 4,000 patent assets out of the original about 6000 from the Nortel bankruptcy estate. On December 23, 2014, it was agreed between the owners of Rockstar and RPX Corporation (RPXC) that RPX should purchase the remaining patents of Rockstar. The transaction occured in 2015 and the impact on income will not be material in 2015.
Board assurance
The Board of Directors and the President declare that the consolidated financial statements have been prepared in accordance with IFRS, as issued by the IASB and adopted by the EU, and give a fair view of the Group's financial position and results of operations. The financial statements of the Parent Company have been prepared in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles in Sweden and give a fair view of the Parent Company's financial position and results of operations.
The Board of Directors' Report for the Ericsson Group and the Parent Company provides a fair view of the development of the Group's and the Parent Company's operations, financial position and results of operations and describes material risks and uncertainties facing the Parent Company and the companies included in the Group.

Financials ­ Board of Directors' report

Ericsson | Annual Report 2014

53

FINANCIALS ­ Board of Directors' report

Stockholm, February 20, 2015
Telefonaktiebolaget LM Ericsson (publ) Org. no. 556016-0680

Leif Johansson Chairman

Sverker Martin-Löf Deputy Chairman

Jacob Wallenberg Deputy Chairman

Roxanne S. Austin Member of the Board

Sir Peter L. Bonfield Member of the Board

Nora Denzel Member of the Board

Börje Ekholm Member of the Board

Alexander Izosimov Member of the Board

Ulf J. Johansson Member of the Board

Kristin Skogen Lund Member of the Board

Hans Vestberg President, CEO and Member of the Board

Pär Östberg Member of the Board

Pehr Claesson Member of the Board

Kristina Davidsson Member of the Board

Karin Åberg Member of the Board

54

Ericsson | Annual Report 2014

FINANCIALS
CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS with NOTES

Contents

Consolidated financial statements

Consolidated income statement

56

Consolidated statement of comprehensive income

57

Consolidated balance sheet

58

Consolidated statement of cash flows

59

Consolidated statement of changes in equity

60

Notes to the consolidated financial statements

C1 Significant accounting policies

63

C2 Critical accounting estimates and judgments

69

C3 Segment information

70

C4 Net sales

74

C5 Expenses by nature

74

C6 Other operating income and expenses

74

C7 Financial income and expenses

74

C8 Taxes

75

C9 Earnings per share

76

C10 Intangible assets

76

C11 Property, plant and equipment

78

C12 Financial assets, non-current

79

C13 Inventories

80

C14 Trade receivables and customer finance

80

C15 Other current receivables

82

C16 Equity and other comprehensive income

82

C17 Post-employment benefits

83

C18 Provisions

87

C19 Interest-bearing liabilities

88

C20 Financial risk management and financial instruments 89

C21 Other current liabilities

92

C22 Trade payables

92

C23 Assets pledged as collateral

92

C24 Contingent liabilities

92

C25 Statement of cash flows

92

C26 Business combinations

93

C27 Leasing

95

C28Information regarding members of the Board of Directors, the Group management and employees 96

C29 Related party transactions

101

C30 Fees to auditors

101

C31 Contractual obligations

101

C32 Events after the reporting period

101

Financials ­ Consolidated financial statements

Ericsson | Annual Report 2014

55

FINANCIALS ­ Consolidated financial statements
CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

Consolidated income statement
January­December, SEK million Net sales Cost of sales Gross income Gross margin (%)
Research and development expenses Selling and administrative expenses Operating expenses
Other operating income and expenses Operating income before shares in earnings of joint ventures and associated companies Operating margin before shares in earnings of joint ventures and associated companies (%)
Share in earnings of joint ventures and associated companies Operating income
Financial income Financial expenses Income after financial items
Taxes Net income
Net income attributable to: Stockholders of the Parent Company Non-controlling interest
Other information Average number of shares, basic (million) Earnings per share attributable to stockholders of the Parent Company, basic (SEK) 2) Earnings per share attributable to stockholders of the Parent Company, diluted (SEK) 2)
1) Includes gain on sale of Sony Ericsson of SEK 7.7 billion. 2) Based on Net income attributable to stockholders of the Parent Company.

Notes C3, C4
C6
C3, C12 C3 C7 C7 C8
C9 C9 C9

2014 227,983 ­145,556
82,427 36.2%
­36,308 ­27,100 ­63,408
­2,156 16,863
7.4%
­56 16,807
1,277 ­2,273 15,811
­4,668 11,143
11,568 ­425
3,237 3.57 3.54

2013 227,376 ­151,005
76,371 33.6%
­32,236 ­26,273 ­58,509
113 17,975
7.9%
­130 17,845
1,346 ­2,093 17,098
­4,924 12,174
12,005 169
3,226 3.72 3.69

2012 227,779 ­155,699
72,080 31.6%
­32,833 ­26,023 ­58,856
8,965 1) 22,189
9.7%
­11,731 10,458
1,708 ­1,984 10,182
­4,244 5,938
5,775 163
3,216 1.80 1.78

56

Ericsson | Annual Report 2014

Consolidated statement of comprehensive income
January­December, SEK million Net income
Other comprehensive income Items that will not be reclassified to profit or loss Remeasurements of defined benefits pension plans including asset ceiling Tax on items that will not be reclassified to profit or loss
Items that may be reclassified to profit or loss Cash flow hedges
Gains/losses arising during the period Reclassification adjustments for gains/losses included in profit or loss Adjustments for amounts transferred to initial carrying amount of hedged items Revaluation of other investments in shares and participations Fair value remeasurement Changes in cumulative translation adjustments Share of other comprehensive income of joint ventures and associated companies Tax on items that may be reclassified to profit or loss Total other comprehensive income, net of tax Total comprehensive income
Total comprehensive income attributable to: Stockholders of the Parent Company Non-controlling interests

2014 11,143

2013 12,174

2012 5,938

­10,017 2,218

3,214 ­1,235

­451 ­59

­ ­ ­
47 8,734
579 5
1,566 12,709
12,981 ­272

251 ­1,072
­
71 ­1,687
­14 179 ­293 11,881
11,712 169

1,668 ­568
92
6 ­3,947
­486 ­363 ­4,108 1,830
1,716 114

Financials ­ Consolidated financial statements

Ericsson | Annual Report 2014

57

FINANCIALS ­ Consolidated financial statements

Consolidated balance sheet
December 31, SEK million Assets Non-current assets Intangible assets
Capitalized development expenses Goodwill Intellectual property rights, brands and other intangible assets
Property, plant and equipment
Financial assets Equity in joint ventures and associated companies Other investments in shares and participations Customer finance, non-current Other financial assets, non-current
Deferred tax assets
Current assets Inventories
Trade receivables Customer finance, current Other current receivables
Short-term investments Cash and cash equivalents
Total assets
Equity and liabilities Equity Stockholders' equity Non-controlling interest in equity of subsidiaries
Non-current liabilities Post-employment benefits Provisions, non-current Deferred tax liabilities Borrowings, non-current Other non-current liabilities
Current liabilities Provisions, current Borrowings, current Trade payables Other current liabilities
Total equity and liabilities 1) 1) Of which interest-bearing liabilities and post-employment benefits SEK 44,530 (39,280) million.

Notes
C10, C26
C11, C26, C27
C12 C12 C12 C12 C8
C13 C14 C14 C15 C20 C25
C16
C17 C18 C8 C19, C20
C18 C19, C20 C22 C21

2014

2013

3,570 38,330 12,534
13,341
2,793 591
1,932 5,900 12,778 91,769
28,175
77,893 2,289
21,273
31,171 40,988 201,789 293,558

3,348 31,544 12,815
11,433
2,568 505
1,294 5,684 9,103 78,294
22,759
71,013 2,094
17,941
34,994 42,095 190,896 269,190

144,306 1,003
145,309
20,385 202
3,177 21,864
1,797 47,425
4,225 2,281 24,473 69,845 100,824 293,558

140,204 1,419
141,623
9,825 222
2,650 22,067
1,459 36,223
5,140 7,388 20,502 58,314 91,344 269,190

58

Ericsson | Annual Report 2014

Consolidated statement of cash flows
January­December, SEK million Operating activities Net income Adjustments to reconcile net income to cash
Changes in operating net assets Inventories Customer finance, current and non-current Trade receivables Trade payables Provisions and post-employment benefits Other operating assets and liabilities, net
Cash flow from operating activities
Investing activities Investments in property, plant and equipment Sales of property, plant and equipment Acquisitions of subsidiaries and other operations Divestments of subsidiaries and other operations Product development Other investing activities Short-term investments Cash flow from investing activities
Cash flow before financing activities
Financing activities Proceeds from issuance of borrowings Repayment of borrowings Proceeds from stock issue Sale/repurchase of own shares Dividends paid Other financing activities Cash flow from financing activities
Effect of exchange rate changes on cash Net change in cash
Cash and cash equivalents, beginning of period Cash and cash equivalents, end of period 1) Includes payment of external loan of SEK ­6.2 billion attributable to the acquisition of Telcordia.

Notes C25
C11 C25, C26 C25, C26 C10
C25

2014
11,143 11,200 22,343
­2,924 ­710 1,182 1,265 ­859
­1,595 ­3,641 18,702
­5,322 522
­4,442 48
­1,523 ­3,392 6,596 ­7,513
11,189
1,282 ­9,384
­ ­ ­9,846 ­277 ­18,225
5,929 ­1,107
42,095 40,988

2013
12,174 9,828
22,002
4,868 1,809 ­8,504 ­2,158 ­3,298 2,670 ­4,613 17,389
­4,503 378
­3,147 465
­915 ­1,330 ­2,057 ­11,109
6,280
5,956 ­5,094
­ 90 ­9,153 ­1,307 ­9,508
641 ­2,587
44,682 42,095

2012
5,938 13,077 19,015
2,752 ­1,259 ­1,103 ­1,311 ­1,920 5,857 3,016 22,031
­5,429 568
­11,529 1) 9,452
­1,641 1,540 2,151 ­4,888
17,143
8,969 ­9,670
159 ­93 ­8,632 ­118 ­9,385
­1,752 6,006
38,676 44,682

Financials ­ Consolidated financial statements

Ericsson | Annual Report 2014

59

FINANCIALS ­ Consolidated financial statements

Consolidated statement of changes in equity

Equity and Other comprehensive income 2014
SEK million January 1, 2014

Capital stock 16,526

Additional paid in capital
24,731

Retained earnings
98,947

Stockholders' equity
140,204

Non-controll ing interest
1,419

Total equity 141,623

Net income Group Joint ventures and associated companies

­

­

11,624

11,624

­425

11,199

­

­

­56

­56

­

­56

Other comprehensive income

Items that will not be reclassified to profit or loss Remeasurements related to post-employment benefits
Group Tax on items that will not be reclassified to profit or loss

­

­

­10,014

­10,014

­

­

2,218

2,218

­3

­10,017

­

2,218

Items that may be reclassified to profit or loss

Cash flow hedges

Gains/losses arising during the year

Group

­

Reclassification adjustments for gains/losses included in profit

or loss

­

Revaluation of other investments in shares and participations

Group

­

Changes in cumulative translation adjustments

Group

­

Joint ventures and associated companies

­

Tax on items that may be reclassified to profit or loss 2)

­

Total other comprehensive income, net of tax

­

Total comprehensive income

­

­

­

­

­

­

47

­

8,578

­

579

­

5

­

1,413

­

12,981

­
­
47
8,578 1) 579 5
1,413 12,981

­
­
­
156 ­ ­
153 ­272

­
­
47
8,734 579 5
1566 12,709

Transactions with owners Stock issue Sale/repurchase of own shares Stock purchase plans
Group Joint ventures and associated companies Dividends paid Transactions with non-controlling interest December 31, 2014

­ ­
­ ­ ­ ­ 16,526

­ ­
­ ­ ­ ­ 24,731

­ 106
717 ­
­9,702 ­
103,049

­ 106
717 ­
­9,702 3) ­
144,306

­ ­
­ ­ ­144 ­ 1,003

­ 106
717 ­
­9,846 ­
145,309

1) Changes in cumulative translation adjustments include changes regarding revaluation of goodwill in local currency of SEK 4,794 million (SEK ­204 million in 2013 and SEK 1,400 million in 2012), and realized gain/losses net from sold/liquidated companies, SEK 3 million (SEK ­20 million in 2013 and SEK ­461 million in 2012).
2) For further disclosures, see Note C8, "Taxes." 3) Dividends paid per share amounted to SEK 3.00 (SEK 2.75 in 2013 and SEK 2.50 in 2012).

60

Ericsson | Annual Report 2014

Equity and Other comprehensive income 2013
SEK million January 1, 2013
Net income Group Joint ventures and associated companies
Other comprehensive income
Items that will not be reclassified to profit or loss Remeasurements related to post-employment benefits
Group Tax on items that will not be reclassified to profit or loss
Items that may be reclassified to profit or loss Cash flow hedges
Gains/losses arising during the year Group
Reclassification adjustments for gains/losses included in profit or loss Revaluation of other investments in shares and participations
Group Changes in cumulative translation adjustments
Group Joint ventures and associated companies Tax on items that may be reclassified to profit or loss Total other comprehensive income, net of tax Total comprehensive income
Transactions with owners Stock issue Sale/repurchase of own shares Stock purchase plans
Group Joint ventures and associated companies Dividends paid Transactions with non-controlling interest December 31, 2013

Capital stock 16,526
­ ­
­ ­
­ ­
­
­ ­ ­ ­ ­
­ ­
­ ­ ­ ­ 16,526

Addit ional paid in capital
24,731
­ ­
­ ­
­ ­
­
­ ­ ­ ­ ­
­ ­
­ ­ ­ ­ 24,731

Retained e arnings
95,626

Stockh olders' Non-controll ing

equity

interest

136,883

1,600

12,135

12,135

169

­130

­130

­

Total equity 138,483
12,304 ­130

3,214 ­1,235

3,214 ­1,235

­

3,214

­

­1,235

251
­1,072
71
­1,687 ­14 179
­293 11,712
­ 90
388 ­
­8,863 ­6
98,947

251
­1,072
71
­1,687 ­14 179
­293 11,712
­ 90
388 ­
­8,863 ­6
140,204

­
­
­
0 ­ ­ ­ 169
­ ­
­ ­ ­290 ­60 1,419

251
­1,072
71
­1,687 ­14 179
­293 11,881
­ 90
388 ­
­9,153 ­66
141,623

Financials ­ Consolidated financial statements

Ericsson | Annual Report 2014

61

FINANCIALS ­ Consolidated financial statements

Equity and Other comprehensive income 2012

SEK million January 1, 2012
Net income Group Joint ventures and associated companies
Other comprehensive income
Items that will not be reclassified to profit or loss Remeasurements related to post-employment benefits
Group Joint ventures and associated companies Tax on items that will not be reclassified to profit or loss
Items that may be reclassified to profit or loss Cash flow hedges
Gains/losses arising during the year Group Joint ventures and associated companies
Reclassification adjustments for gains/losses included in profit or loss Adjustment for amounts transferred to initial carrying amount of hedged items Revaluation of other investments in shares and participations
Group Changes in cumulative translation adjustments
Group Joint ventures and associated companies Tax on items that may be reclassified to profit or loss Total other comprehensive income, net of tax Total comprehensive income
Transactions with owners Stock issue Sale/repurchase of own shares Stock purchase plans
Group Joint ventures and associated companies Dividends paid Transactions with non-controlling interest December 31, 2012

Capital stock 16,367
­ ­
­ ­ ­
­ ­ ­ ­
­
­ ­ ­ ­ ­
159 ­
­ ­ ­ ­ 16,526

Addit ional paid in capital
24,731
­ ­
­ ­ ­
­ ­ ­ ­
­
­ ­ ­ ­ ­
­ ­
­ ­ ­ ­ 24,731

Retained e arnings
102,007

Stockholders' Non-controlling

equity

interest

143,105

2,165

17,411

17,411

163

­11,636

­11,636

­

Total equity 145,270
17,574 ­11,636

­451 50
­59

­451 50
­59

­

­451

­

50

­

­59

1,668 ­25
­568
92
6
­3,898 ­511 ­363
­4,059 1,716
­ ­93
405 ­
­8,033 ­376
95,626

1,668 ­25
­568
92
6
­3,898 ­511 ­363
­4,059 1,716
159 ­93
405 ­
­8,033 ­376
136,883

­ ­
­
­
­
­49 ­ ­
­49 114
­ ­
­ ­ ­599 ­80 1,600

1,668 ­25
­568
92
6
­3,947 ­511 ­363
­4,108 1,830
159 ­93
405 ­
­8,632 ­456
138,483

62

Ericsson | Annual Report 2014

FINANCIALS
notes to the CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

C1  Significant accounting policies
Introduction The consolidated financial statements comprise Telefonaktieb olaget LM Ericsson, the Parent Company, and its subsidiaries ("the Company") and the Company's interests in joint ventures and associated companies. The Parent Company is domiciled in S weden at Torshamnsgatan 21, SE-164 83 Stockholm.
The consolidated financial statements for the year ended December 31, 2014 have been prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS) as endorsed by the EU and RFR 1 "Additional rules for Group Accounting," related interpretations issued by the Swedish Financial Reporting Board (Rådet för finansiell rapportering), and the S wedish Annual Accounts Act. For the financial reporting of 2014, the Company has applied IFRS as issued by the IASB (IFRS effective as per December 31, 2014). There is no difference between IFRS effective as per December 31, 2014, and IFRS as endorsed by the EU, nor is RFR 1 related interpretations issued by the Swedish Financial Reporting Board (Rådet för Finansiell Rapportering) or the Swedish Annual Accounts Act in conflict with IFRS, for all periods presented.
The financial statements were approved by the Board of Directors on February 20, 2015. The balance sheets and income statements are subject to approval by the Annual General Meeting of shareholders.
New standards, amendments of standards and interpretations, e ffective as from January 1, 2014 are as follows:
>> Amendment to IAS 32, "Financial instruments: Presentation," on asset and liability offsetting. This amendment is related to the application of guidance in IAS 32, `Financial instruments: Presentation,' and clarifies some of the requirements for offsetting financial assets and financial liabilities on the balance sheet.
>> IFRIC 21, "Levies." This sets out the accounting for an obligation to pay a levy that is not income tax. The interpretation addresses what the obligating event is that gives rise to the need to pay a levy and when a liability should be recognized.
None of the new or amended standards and interpretations have had any significant impact on the financial result or position nor on the disclosure of the Company.
For information on "New standards and interpretations not yet adopted," refer to the end of this Note.
Basis of presentation The financial statements are presented in millions of Swedish Krona (SEK). They are prepared on a historical cost basis, except for certain financial assets and liabilities that are stated at fair value: derivative financial instruments, financial instruments held for trading, financial instruments classified as available-for-sale and plan assets related to defined benefit pension plans. Financial information in the consolidated income statement, the consolidated statement of comprehensive income, the consolidated statement of cash flows and the consolidated statement of changes in equity with related notes are presented with two comparison years while for the consolidated balance sheet financial information with related notes is presented with only one comparison year.
Basis of consolidation and composition of the group The consolidated financial statements are prepared in accordance with the purchase method. Accordingly, consolidated stockholders' equity includes equity in subsidiaries, joint ventures and associated companies earned only after their acquisition.
Subsidiaries are all companies for which Telefonaktiebolaget LM E ricsson, directly or indirectly, is the parent. To be classified as a parent,

Telefonaktiebolaget LM Ericsson, directly or indirectly, must control another company which requires that the Parent Company has power over that other company, is exposed to variable returns from its involvement and has the ability to use its power over that other company. The financial statements of subsidiaries are included in the consolidated financial statements from the date that control commences until the date that such control ceases.
Intra-group balances and any unrealized income and expense arising from intra-group transactions are fully eliminated in preparing the consolidated financial statements. Unrealized losses are eliminated in the same way as unrealized gains, but only to the extent that there is no evidence of impairment.
The Company is composed of a parent company, Telefonaktieb olaget LM Ericsson, with generally fully-owned subsidiaries in many countries of the world. The largest operating subsidiaries are the fully-owned telecom vendor companies Ericsson AB, incorporated in Sweden and Ericsson Inc., incorporated in the US.
Business combinations At the acquisition of a business, the cost of the acquisition, being the purchase price, is measured as the fair value of the assets given, and liabilities incurred or assumed at the date of exchange, including any cost related to contingent consideration. Transaction costs attributable to the acquisition are expensed as incurred. The acquisition cost is allocated to acquired assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities based upon appraisals made, including assets and liabilities that were not recognized on the acquired entity's balance sheet, for example intangible assets such as customer relations, brands, patents and financial liabilities. Goodwill arises when the purchase price exceeds the fair value of recognizable acquired net assets. In acquisitions with non-controlling interests full or partial goodwill can be recognized. Final amounts are established within one year after the transaction date at the latest.
In case there is a put option for non-controlling interest in a subsidiary a corresponding financial liability is recognized.
Non-controlling interest The Company treats transactions with non-controlling interests as transactions with equity owners of the Company. For purchases from non-controlling interests, the difference between any consideration paid and the relevant share acquired of the carrying value of net assets of the subsidiary is recorded in equity. Gains or losses on disposals to non- controlling interests are also recorded in equity.
When the Company ceases to have control, any retained interest in the entity is remeasured to its fair value, with the change in carrying amount recognized in profit or loss. The fair value is the initial carrying amount for the purposes of subsequently accounting for the retained interest in an associate, joint venture or financial asset. In addition, any amounts previously recognized in Other comprehensive income in respect of that entity are accounted for as if the Company had directly disposed of the related assets or liabilities. This may mean that amounts previously recognized in Other comprehensive income are reclassified to profit or loss.
At acquisition, there is a choice on an acquisition-by-acquisition basis to measure the non-controlling interest in the acquiree either at fair value or at the non-controlling interest's proportionate share of the acquiree's net assets.
Joint ventures and associated companies Both joint ventures and associated companies are accounted for in a ccordance with the equity method. Under the equity method, the investment in an associate or joint venture is initially recognized at cost and the carrying amount is increased or decreased to recognize the investor's share of the profit or loss of the investee after the date of acquisition.

Financials ­ Notes to the consolidated financial statements

Ericsson | Annual Report 2014

63

FINANCIALS ­ Notes to the consolidated financial statements

If the Company's interest in an associated company or joint venture is nil, the Company shall not, as prescribed by IFRS, recognize its part of any future losses. Provisions related to obligations for such an interest shall, however, be recognized in relation to such an interest.
JVs are classed as ownership interests under which the Company has joint control of another company.
Investments in associated companies, i.e., when the Company has significant influence and the power to participate in the financial and operating policy decisions of the associated company, but is not in control or joint control over those policies. Normally, this is the case in voting stock interest, including effective potential voting rights, which stand at at least 20% but not more than 50%.
The Company's share of income before taxes is reported in item "Share in earnings of joint ventures and associated companies," included in Operating Income. This reflects the fact that these interests are held for operating rather than investing or financial purposes. Ericsson's share of income taxes related to joint ventures and associated companies is reported under the line item "Taxes," in the income statement.
Unrealized gains on transactions between the Company and its asso ciated companies and joint ventures are eliminated to the extent of the Company's interest in these entities. Unrealized losses are also eliminated unless the transaction provides evidence of an impairment of the asset transferred.
Shares in earnings of joint ventures and associated companies included in consolidated equity which are undistributed are reported in Retained earnings in the balance sheet.
Impairment testing as well as recognition or reversal of impairment of investments in each joint venture is performed in the same manner as for intangible assets other than goodwill. The entire carrying value of each investment, including goodwill, is tested as a single asset. See also d escription under "Intangible assets other than goodwill" below.
If the ownership interest in an associate is reduced but significant influence is retained, only a proportionate share of the amounts previously recognized in Other comprehensive income are reclassified to profit or loss where appropriate.
In Note C2, "Critical Accounting Estimates and Judgments," further disclosure is presented in relation to (i) key sources of estimation uncertainty and (ii) the decision made in relation to accounting policies applied.
Foreign currency remeasurement and translation Items included in the financial statements of each entity of the Company are measured using the currency of the primary economic environment in which the entity operates (`the functional currency'). The consolidated financial statements are presented in Swedish Krona (SEK), which is the Parent Company's functional and presentation currency.
Transactions and balances Foreign currency transactions are translated into the functional currency using the exchange rates prevailing at the dates of each respective transactions. Foreign exchange gains and losses resulting from the settlement of such transactions and from the translation at period-end exchange rates of monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies are recognized in the income statement, unless deferred in Other comprehensive income under the hedge accounting practices as described below.
Changes in the fair value of monetary securities denominated in foreign currency classified as available-for-sale are analyzed between translation differences resulting from changes in the amortized cost of the security and other changes in the carrying amount of the security. Translation differences related to changes in the amortized cost are recognized in profit or loss, and other changes in the carrying amount are recognized in OCI.
Translation differences on non-monetary financial assets and liabilities are reported as part of the fair value gain or loss.
Group companies The results and financial position of all the group entities that have a functional currency different from the presentation currency are translated into the presentation currency as follows: >> Assets and liabilities for each balance sheet presented are translated
at the closing rate at the date of that balance sheet

>> Income and expenses for each income statement are translated at average exchange rates
>> All resulting net exchange differences are recognized as a separate component of OCI.
On consolidation, exchange differences arising from the translation of the net investment in foreign operations, and of borrowings and other c urrency instruments designated as hedges of such investments, are accounted for in OCI. When a foreign operation is partially disposed of or sold, exchange differences that were recorded in OCI are recognized in the income statement as part of the gain or loss on sale.
Goodwill and fair value adjustments arising on the acquisition of a foreign entity are treated as assets and liabilities of the foreign entity and translated at the closing rate.
There is no significant impact due to any currency of a hyperinflationary economy.
Statement of cash flows The statement of cash flow is prepared in accordance with the indirect method. Cash flows in foreign subsidiaries are translated at the average exchange rate during the period. Payments for subsidiaries acquired or divested are reported as cash flow from investing activities, net of cash and cash equivalents acquired or disposed of, respectively.
Cash and cash equivalents consist of cash, bank, and short-term investments that are highly liquid monetary financial instruments with a remaining maturity of three months or less at the date of acquisition.
Revenue recognition Background The Company offers a comprehensive portfolio of telecommunication and data communication systems, professional services, and support solutions. Products, both hardware and software as well as services, are in general standardized. The impact of this is that any acceptance terms are normally only formal requirements. In Note C3, "Segment information," the Company's products and services are disclosed in more detail as per operating segment.
The Company's products and services are generally sold under delivery-type or multi-year recurring services contracts. The delivery type contracts often contain content from more than one segment.
Accounting treatment Sales are based on fair values of consideration received and recorded net of value added taxes, goods returned and estimated trade discounts. Revenue is recognized when risks and rewards have been transferred to the customer, with reference to all significant contractual terms, when: >> The product or service has been delivered >> The revenue amount is fixed or determinable >> The customer has received and activation has been made of separately
sold software >> Collection is reasonably assured
Estimations of contractual performance criteria impact the timing and amounts of revenue recognized and may therefore defer revenue recognition until the performance criteria are met. The profitability of contracts is periodically assessed, and provisions for any estimated losses are made immediately when losses are probable.
Allocation and/or timing criteria specific to each type of contract are: >> Delivery-type contracts ­ These contracts relate to delivery, installation,
integration of products and provision of related services, normally under multiple elements contracts. Under multiple elements contracts, account ing is based on that the revenue recognition criteria are applied to the separately identifiable components of the contract. Revenue, including the impact of any discount or rebate, is allocated to each element based on relative fair values. Networks, Global Services and Support Solutions have contracts that relate to this type of arrangement. >> Contracts for services ­ These relate to multi-year service contracts such as support- and managed service contracts and other types of recurring services. Revenue is recognized when the services have been provided, generally pro rata over the contract period. Global S ervices has contracts that relate to this type of arrangement.

64

Ericsson | Annual Report 2014

>> Contracts generating license fees from third parties for the use of the Company's intellectual property rights ­ License fees are normally measured as a percentage of sales or currency amount per unit and recognized over the license period as the amount of the consideration becomes reasonably certain. Networks and Support Solutions have contracts that relate to this type of arrangement.
For sales between consolidated companies, associated companies, joint ventures and segments, the Company applies arm's length pricing.
In Note C2, "Critical accounting estimates and judgments," a further disclosure is presented in relation to (i) key sources of estimation uncertainty and (ii) the decision made in relation to accounting policies applied.
Earnings per share Basic earnings per share are calculated by dividing net income attributable to stockholders of the Parent Company by the weighted average number of shares outstanding (total number of shares less treasury stock) during the year.
Diluted earnings per share are calculated by dividing net income attributable to stockholders of the Parent Company, when appropriately adjusted by the sum of the weighted average number of ordinary shares outstanding and dilutive potential ordinary shares. Potential ordinary s hares are treated as dilutive when, and only when, their conversion to ordinary shares would decrease earnings per share.
Rights to matching shares are considered dilutive when the actual fulfillment of any performance conditions as of the reporting date would give a right to ordinary shares.
Financial assets Financial assets are recognized when the Company becomes a party to the contractual provisions of the instrument. Regular purchases and sales of financial assets are recognized on the settlement date.
Financial assets are derecognized when the rights to receive cash flows from the investments have expired or have been transferred and the Company has transferred substantially all risks and rewards of ownership. Separate assets or liabilities are recognized if any rights and obligations are created or retained in the transfer.
The Company classifies its financial assets in the following categories: at fair value through profit or loss, loans and receivables, and availablefor-sale. The classification depends on the purpose for which the financial assets were acquired. Management determines the classification of its financial assets at initial recognition.
Financial assets are initially recognized at fair value plus transaction costs for all financial assets not carried at fair value through profit or loss. Financial assets carried at fair value through profit or loss are initially recognized at fair value, and transaction costs are expensed in the income statement.
The fair values of quoted financial investments and derivatives are based on quoted market prices or rates. If official rates or market prices are not available, fair values are calculated by discounting the expected future cash flows at prevailing interest rates. Valuations of foreign exchange options and Interest Rate Guarantees (IRG) are made by using the BlackScholes formula. Inputs to the valuations are market prices for implied v olatility, foreign exchange and interest rates.
Financial assets at fair value through profit or loss Financial assets at fair value through profit or loss are financial assets held for trading. A financial asset is classified in this category if acquired principally for the purpose of selling or repurchasing in the near term.
Derivatives are classified as held for trading, unless they are designated as hedges. Assets in this category are classified as current assets.
Gains or losses arising from changes in the fair values of the "Financial assets at fair value through profit or loss" category (excluding derivatives) are presented in the income statement within Financial income in the period in which they arise. Derivatives are presented in the income statement either as Cost of sales, Other operating income, Financial income or Financial expense, depending on the intent with the transaction.

Loans and receivables Receivables, including those that relate to customer financing, are sub sequently measured at amortized cost using the effective interest rate method, less allowances for impairment charges. Trade receivables include amounts due from customers. The balance represents amounts billed to customers as well as amounts where risk and rewards have been transferred to the customer but the invoice has not yet been issued.
Collectability of the receivables is assessed for purposes of initial revenue recognition.
Available-for-sale financial assets Available-for-sale financial assets are non-derivatives that are either designated in this category or not classified in any of the other categories. They are included in non-current assets unless management intends to dispose of the investment within 12 months of the balance sheet date.
Dividends on available-for-sale equity instruments are recognized in the income statement as part of financial income when the Company's right to receive payments is established.
Changes in the fair value of monetary securities denominated in a foreign currency and classified as available-for-sale are analyzed between translation differences resulting from changes in the amortized cost of the security and other changes in the carrying amount of the security. Translation differences on monetary securities are recognized in profit or loss; translation differences on non-monetary securities are recognized in OCI. Changes in the fair value of monetary and non-monetary securities classified as available-for-sale are recognized in OCI. When securities classified as available-for-sale are sold or impaired, the accumulated fair value adjustments previously recognized in OCI are included in the income statement.
Impairment At each balance sheet date, the Company assesses whether there is objective evidence that a financial asset or a group of financial assets is impaired. In the case of equity securities classified as available-for-sale, a significant or prolonged decline in the fair value of the security below its cost is considered as evidence that the security is impaired. If any such evidence exists for available-for-sale financial assets, the cumulative loss ­ measured as the difference between the acquisition cost and the current fair value, less any impairment loss on that financial asset previously recognized in profit or loss ­ is removed from OCI and recognized in the income statement. Impairment losses recognized in the income statement on equity instruments are not reversed through the income statement.
An assessment of impairment of receivables is performed when there is objective evidence that the Company will not be able to collect all amounts due according to the original terms of the receivable. Significant financial difficulties of the debtor, probability that the debtor will enter bankruptcy or financial reorganization, and default or delinquency in payments are considered indicators that the trade receivable is impaired. The amount of the allowance is the difference between the asset's carrying amount and the present value of estimated future cash flows, discounted at the original effective interest rate. The carrying amount of the asset is reduced through the use of an allowance account, and the amount of the loss is recognized in the income statement within selling expenses. When a trade receivable is finally established as uncollectible, it is written off against the allowance account for trade receivables. Subsequent recoveries of amounts previously written off are credited to selling expenses in the income statement.
Financial liabilities Financial liabilities are recognized when the Company becomes bound to the contractual obligations of the instrument.
Financial liabilities are derecognized when they are extinguished, i.e., when the obligation specified in the contract is discharged, cancelled or expires.
Borrowings Borrowings are initially recognized at fair value, net of transaction costs incurred. Borrowings are subsequently stated at amortized cost; any d ifference between the proceeds (net of transaction costs) and the

Financials ­ Notes to the consolidated financial statements

Ericsson | Annual Report 2014

65

FINANCIALS ­ Notes to the consolidated financial statements

redemption value is recognized in the income statement over the period of the borrowings using the effective interest method.
Borrowings are classified as current liabilities unless the Company has an unconditional right to defer settlement of the liability for at least 12 months after the balance sheet date.
Trade payables Trade payables are recognized initially at fair value and subsequently measured at amortized cost using the effective interest method.
Hedge accounting When applying hedge accounting, derivatives are initially recognized at fair value at trade date and subsequently re-measured at fair value. The method of recognizing the resulting gain or loss depends on whether the derivative is designated as a hedging instrument, and, if so, the nature of the item being hedged. The Company designates certain derivatives as either: a) Fair value hedges: a hedge of the fair value of recognized liabilities; b) Net investment hedges: a hedge of a net investment in a foreign operation.
At the inception of the hedge, the Company documents the relationship between hedging instruments and hedged items, as well as its risk management objectives and strategy for undertaking various hedging trans actions. The Company also documents its assessment, both at hedge inception and on an ongoing basis, of whether the derivatives that are used in hedging transactions are highly effective in offsetting changes in fair values or cash flows of the hedged items.
The fair values of various derivative instruments used for hedging purposes are disclosed in Note C20, "Financial risk management and financial instruments." Movements in the hedging reserve in OCI are shown in Note C16, "Equity and other comprehensive income."
The fair value of a hedging derivative is classified as a non-current asset or liability when the remaining maturity of the hedged item is more than 12 months, and as a current asset or liability when the remaining maturity of the hedged item is less than 12 months. Trading derivatives are classified as current assets or liabilities.
Fair value hedges The purpose of fair value hedges is to hedge the variability in the fair value of fixed-rate debt (issued bonds) from changes in the relevant benchmark yield curve for its entire term by converting fixed interest payments to a floating rate (e.g., STIBOR or LIBOR) by using interest rate swaps (IRS). The credit risk/spread is not hedged. The fixed leg of the IRS is matched against the cash flows of the hedged bond. Hereby, the fixed-rate bond/ debt is converted into a floating-rate debt in accordance with the policy.
Changes in the fair value of derivatives that are designated and qualify as fair value hedges are recorded in the income statement, together with any changes in the fair value of the hedged asset or liability that are attributable to the hedged risk, when hedge accounting is applied. The Company only applies fair value hedge accounting for hedging fixed interest risk on borrowings. Both gains and losses relating to the interest rate swaps hedging fixed rate borrowings and the changes in the fair value of the hedged fixed rate borrowings attributable to interest rate risk are recognized in the income statement within Financial expenses. If the hedge no longer meets the criteria for hedge accounting, the adjustment to the carrying amount of a hedged item for which the effective interest method is used is amortized to the income statement over the remaining period to maturity.
Net investment hedges Any gain or loss on the hedging instrument relating to the effective portion of the hedge is recognized in the cumulative translation adjustment (CTA). A gain or loss relating to an ineffective portion is recognized immediately in the income statement within Financial income or expense. Gains and losses deferred in CTA are included in the income statement when the foreign operation is partially disposed of or sold.

Financial guarantees Financial guarantee contracts are initially recognized at fair value (i.e., u sually the fee received). Subsequently, these contracts are measured at the higher of: >> The amount determined as the best estimate of the net expenditure
required to settle the obligation according to the guarantee contract. >> The recognized contractual fee less cumulative amortization when
amortized over the guarantee period, using the straight-line-method. >> The best estimate of the net expenditure comprising future fees and
cash flows from subrogation rights.
Inventories Inventories are measured at the lower of cost or net realizable value on a first-in, first-out (FIFO) basis.
Risks of obsolescence have been measured by estimating market value based on future customer demand and changes in technology and cus tomer acceptance of new products.
A significant part of Inventories is Contract work in progress (CWIP). Recognition and derecognition of CWIP relates to the Company's revenue recognition principles meaning that costs incurred under a customer c ontract are recognized as CWIP. When revenue is recognized, CWIP is derecognized and is instead recognized as Cost of sales.
In Note C2, "Critical accounting estimates and judgments," further disclosure is presented in relation to (i) key sources of estimation uncertainty and (ii) the decision made in relation to accounting policies applied.
Intangible assets Intangible assets other than goodwill Intangible assets other than goodwill comprise acquired intangible assets, such as patents, customer relations, trademarks and software, as well as capitalized development expenses and separately acquired intangible assets, mainly consisting of software. At initial recognition, acquired intangible assets related to business combinations are stated at fair value and capitalized development expenses and software are stated at cost. Subsequent to initial recognition, separately acquired intangible assets, mainly software and capitalized development expenses, are stated at initially recognized amounts less accumulated amortization and any impairment. Amortization and any impairment losses are included in Research and development expenses, which mainly consists of capitalized development expenses and patents; in Selling and administrative expenses, which mainly consists of expenses relating to customer relations and brands; and in Cost of sales.
Costs incurred for development of products to be sold, leased or otherwise marketed or intended for internal use are capitalized as from when technological and economic feasibility has been established until the product is available for sale or use. Research and development expenses directly related to orders from customers are accounted for as a part of Cost of sales. Other research and development expenses are charged to income as incurred. Amortization of acquired intangible assets, such as patents, customer relations, trademarks and software, is made according to the straight-line method over their estimated useful lives, not exceeding ten years. However, if the economic benefit related to an item of intangible assets is front-end loaded the amortization method reflects this. Thus, the amortization for such an item is amortized on a digressive curve basis and the asset value decreases by higher amounts in the beginning of its useful life compared to the end.
The Company has not recognized any intangible assets with indefinite useful life other than goodwill.
Impairment tests are performed whenever there is an indication of possible impairment. However, intangible assets not yet available for use are tested annually. An impairment loss is recognized if the carrying amount of an asset or its cash-generating unit exceeds its recoverable amount. The recoverable amount is the higher of the value in use and the fair value less costs to sell. In assessing value in use, the estimated future cash flows after tax are discounted to their present value using an after-tax discount rate that reflects current market assessments of the time value of money and the risks specific to the asset. Application of after tax amounts in calculation, both in relation to cash flows and discount rate is applied due to that available models for calculating discount rate include a tax component. The after tax discount rate applied by the Company is not

66

Ericsson | Annual Report 2014

materially different from a discounting based on before-tax future cash flows and before-tax discount rates, as required by IFRS.
Corporate assets have been allocated to cash-generating units in relation to each unit's proportion of total net sales. The amount related to corporate assets is not significant. Impairment losses recognized in prior periods are assessed at each reporting date for any indications that the loss has decreased or no longer exists. An impairment loss is reversed if there has been a change in the estimates used to determine the recover able amounts and if the recoverable amount is higher than the carrying value. An impairment loss is reversed only to the extent that the asset's carrying amount after reversal does not exceed the carrying amount, net of amortization, which would have been reported if no impairment loss had been recognized.
In Note C2, "Critical accounting estimates and judgments," further disclosure is presented in relation to (i) key sources of estimation uncertainty and (ii) the decision made in relation to accounting policies applied.
Goodwill As from the acquisition date, goodwill acquired in a business combination is allocated to each cash-generating unit (CGU) of the Company expected to benefit from the synergies of the combination. The Company's four operating segments have been identified as CGUs. Goodwill is assigned to three of them: Networks, Global Services and Support Solutions.
An annual impairment test for the CGUs to which goodwill has been allocated is performed in the fourth quarter, or when there is an indication of impairment. Impairment testing as well as recognition of impairment of goodwill is performed in the same manner as for intangible assets other than goodwill: see description under "Intangible assets other than goodwill" above. An impairment loss in respect of goodwill is not reversed.
Additional disclosure is required in relation to goodwill impairment testing: see Note C2, "Critical accounting estimates and judgments" below and Note C10, "Intangible assets."
Property, plant and equipment Property, plant and equipment consist of real estate, machinery and other technical assets, other equipment, tools and installation and construction in process and advance payment. They are stated at cost less accumulated depreciation and any impairment losses.
Depreciation is charged to income, generally on a straight-line basis, over the estimated useful life of each component of an item of property, plant and equipment, including buildings. Estimated useful lives are, in general, 25­50 years for real estate and 3­10 years for machinery and equipment. Depreciation and any impairment charges are included in Cost of sales, Research and development or Selling and administrative expenses.
The Company recognizes in the carrying amount of an item of property, plant and equipment the cost of replacing a component and derecognizes the residual value of the replaced component.
Impairment testing as well as recognition or reversal of impairment of property, plant and equipment is performed in the same manner as for intangible assets other than goodwill: see description under "Intangible assets other than goodwill" above.
Gains and losses on disposals are determined by comparing the proceeds less cost to sell with the carrying amount and are recognized within Other operating income and expenses in the income statement.
Leasing Leasing when the Company is the lessee Leases on terms in which the Company assumes substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership are classified as finance leases. Upon initial recognition, the leased asset is measured at an amount equal to the lower of its fair value and the present value of the minimum lease payments. Subsequent to initial recognition, the asset is accounted for in accordance with the accounting policy applicable to that type of asset, although the depreciation period must not exceed the lease term.
Other leases are operating leases, and the leased assets under such contracts are not recognized on the balance sheet. Costs under operating leases are recognized in the income statement on a straight-line basis over the term of the lease. Lease incentives received are recognized as an integral part of the total lease expense, over the term of the lease.

Leasing when the Company is the lessor Leasing contracts with the Company as lessor are classified as finance leases when the majority of risks and rewards are transferred to the lessee, and otherwise as operating leases. Under a finance lease, a receivable is recognized at an amount equal to the net investment in the lease and revenue is recognized in accordance with the revenue recognition principles.
Under operating leases the equipment is recorded as property, plant and equipment and revenue as well as depreciation is recognized on a straight-line basis over the lease term.
Income taxes Income taxes in the consolidated financial statements include both current and deferred taxes. Income taxes are reported in the income statement unless the underlying item is reported directly in equity or OCI. For those items, the related income tax is also reported directly in equity or OCI. A current tax liability or asset is recognized for the estimated taxes payable or refundable for the current year or prior years.
Deferred tax is recognized for temporary differences between the book values of assets and liabilities and their tax values and for tax loss carry- forwards. A deferred tax asset is recognized only to the extent that it is probable that future taxable profits will be available against which the deductible temporary differences and tax loss carry-forwards can be utilized. In the recognition of income taxes, the Company offsets current tax receivables against current tax liabilities and deferred tax assets against deferred tax liabilities in the balance sheet, when the Company has a legal right to offset these items and the intention to do so. Deferred tax is not recognized for the following temporary differences: goodwill not deductible for tax purposes, for the initial recognition of assets or liabilities that affect neither accounting nor taxable profit, and for differences related to investments in subsidiaries when it is probable that the temporary difference will not reverse in the foreseeable future.
Deferred tax is measured at the tax rate that is expected to be applied to the temporary differences when they reverse, based on the tax laws that have been enacted or substantively enacted by the reporting date. An adjustment of deferred tax asset/liability balances due to a change in the tax rate is recognized in the income statement, unless it relates to a temporary difference earlier recognized directly in equity or OCI, in which case the adjustment is also recognized in equity or OCI.
The measurement of deferred tax assets involves judgment regarding the deductibility of costs not yet subject to taxation and estimates regarding sufficient future taxable income to enable utilization of unused tax losses in different tax jurisdictions. All deferred tax assets are subject to annual review of probable utilization. The largest amounts of tax loss carry-forwards relate to Sweden, which have an indefinite period of utilization.
In Note C2, "Critical accounting estimates and judgments," further disclosure is presented in relation to (i) key sources of estimation uncertainty and (ii) the decision made in relation to accounting policies applied.
Provisions and contingent liabilities Provisions are made when there are legal or constructive obligations as a result of past events and when it is probable that an outflow of resources will be required to settle the obligations and the amounts can be reliably estimated. When the effect of the time value of money is material, discounting is made of estimated outflows. However, the actual outflows as a result of the obligations may differ from such estimates.
The provisions are mainly related to warranty commitments, restructuring, customer projects and other obligations, such as unresolved income tax and value added tax issues, claims or obligations as a result of patent infringement and other litigations, supplier claims and customer finance guarantees.
Product warranty commitments consider probabilities of all material quality issues based on historical performance for established products and expected performance for new products, estimates of repair cost per unit, and volumes sold still under warranty up to the reporting date.
A restructuring obligation is considered to have arisen when the Company has a detailed formal plan for the restructuring (approved by management), which has been communicated in such a way that a valid expectation has been raised among those affected.

Financials ­ Notes to the consolidated financial statements

Ericsson | Annual Report 2014

67

FINANCIALS ­ Notes to the consolidated financial statements

Project-related provisions include estimated losses on onerous contracts, contractual penalties and undertakings. For losses on customer contracts, a provision equal to the total estimated loss is recorded when a loss from a contract is anticipated and possible to estimate reliably. These contract loss estimates include any probable penalties to a customer under a loss contract.
Other provisions include provisions for unresolved tax issues, litigations, supplier claims, customer finance and other provisions. The Company provides for estimated future settlements related to patent infringements based on the probable outcome of each infringement. The actual outcome or actual cost of settling an individual infringement may vary from the Company's estimate.
The Company estimates the outcome of any potential patent infringement made known to the Company through assertion and through the Company's own monitoring of patent-related cases in the relevant legal systems. To the extent that the Company makes the judgment that an identified potential infringement will more likely than not result in an outflow of resources, the Company records a provision based on the Company's best estimate of the expenditure required to settle with the counterpart.
In the ordinary course of business, the Company is subject to proceedings, lawsuits and other unresolved claims, including proceedings under laws and government regulations and other matters. These matters are often resolved over a long period of time. The Company regularly assesses the likelihood of any adverse judgments in or outcomes of these matters, as well as potential ranges of possible losses. Provisions are recognized when it is probable that an obligation has arisen and the amount can be reasonably estimated based on a detailed analysis of each individual issue.
Certain present obligations are not recognized as provisions as it is not probable that an economic outflow will be required to settle the obligation or the amount of the obligation cannot be measured with sufficient reliability. Such obligations are reported as contingent liabilities. For further detailed information, see Note C24, "Contingent liabilities." In Note C2, "Critical accounting estimates and judgments," further disclosure is p resented in relation to (i) key sources of estimation uncertainty and (ii) the decision made in relation to accounting policies applied.
Post-employment benefits Pensions and other post-employment benefits are classified as either defined contribution plans or defined benefit plans. Under a defined contribution plan, the Company's only obligation is to pay a fixed amount to a separate entity (a pension trust fund) with no obligation to pay further contributions if the fund does not hold sufficient assets to pay all employee benefits. The related actuarial and investment risks fall on the employee. The expenditures for defined contribution plans are recognized as expenses during the period when the employee provides service.
Under a defined benefit plan, it is the Company's obligation to provide agreed benefits to current and former employees. The related actuarial and investment risks fall on the Company.
The present value of the defined benefit obligations for current and former employees is calculated using the Projected Unit Credit Method. The discount rate for each country is determined by reference to market yields on high-quality corporate bonds that have maturity dates approximating the terms of the Company's obligations. In countries where there is no deep market in such bonds, the market yields on government bonds are used. The calculations are based upon actuarial assumptions, assessed on a quarterly basis, and are as a minimum prepared annually. Actuarial assumptions are the Company's best estimate of the variables that determine the cost of providing the benefits. When using actuarial assumptions, it is possible that the actual results will differ from the estimated results or that the actuarial assumptions will change from one period to another. These differences are reported as actuarial gains and losses. They are, for example, caused by unexpectedly high or low rates of employee turnover, changed life expectancy, salary changes, remeasurement of plan assets and changes in the discount rate. Actuarial gains and losses are recognized in OCI in the period in which they occur. The Company's net liability for each defined benefit plan consists of the present value of pension commitments less the fair value of plan assets and is recognized net on the balance sheet. When the result is a net benefit to the

Company, the recognized asset is limited to the present value of any future refunds from the plan or reductions in future contributions to the plan.
Interest cost on the defined benefit obligation and interest income on plan assets is calculated as a net interest amount by applying the discount rate to the net defined benefit liability. All past service costs are recognized immediately. Swedish special payroll tax is accounted for as a part of the pension cost and the pension liability respectively.
Payroll taxes related to actuarial gains and losses are included in determining actuarial gains and losses, reported under OCI.
In Note C2, "Critical accounting estimates and judgments," further disclosure is presented in relation to key sources of estimation uncertainty.
Share-based compensation to employees and the Board of Directors Share-based compensation is related to remuneration to all employees, including key management personnel and the Board of Directors.
Under IFRS, a company shall recognize compensation costs for sharebased compensation programs based on a measure of the value to the company of services received under the plans.
This value is based on the fair value of, for example, free shares at grant date, measured as stock price as per each investment date. The value at grant date is charged to the income statement as any other remuneration over the service period. For example, value at grant date is 90. Given the normal service period of three years within Ericsson, 30 would be charged per year during the service period.
The amount charged to the income statement is reversed in equity each time of the income statement charge.
The reason for this IFRS accounting principle is that compensation cost is a cost with no direct cash flow impact. The purpose of share-based accounting according to IFRS (IFRS 2) is to present the impact of sharebased programs, being part of the total remuneration, in the income statement.
Compensation to employees Stock purchase plans For stock purchase plans, compensation costs are recognized during the vesting period, based on the fair value of the Ericsson share at the employee's investment date. The fair value is based upon the share price at investment date, adjusted for the fact that no dividends will be received on matching shares prior to matching and other features that are non- vesting conditions. The employee pays a price equal to the share price at investment date for the investment shares. The investment date is considered as the grant date. In the balance sheet, the corresponding amounts are accounted for as equity. Vesting conditions are non-market-based and affect the number of shares that Ericsson will match. Other features of a share-based payment are non-vesting conditions. These features would need to be included in the grant date fair value for transactions with employees and others providing similar services. Non-vesting conditions would not impact the number of awards expected to vest or valuation thereof subsequent to grant date. When calculating the compensation costs for shares under performance-based matching programs, the Company at each reporting date assesses the probability that the per formance targets will be met. Compensation expenses are based on e stimates of the number of shares that will match at the end of the vesting period. When shares are matched, social security charges are to be paid in certain countries on the value of the employee benefit. The employee benefit is generally based on the market value of the shares at the matching date. During the vesting period, estimated amounts for such social security charges are expensed and accrued.
Compensation to the Board of Directors During 2008, the Parent Company introduced a share-based compens ation program as a part of the remuneration to the Board of Directors. The program gives non-employee Directors elected by the General Meeting of Shareholders a right to receive part of their remuneration as a future payment of an amount which corresponds to the market value of a share of class B in the Parent Company at the time of payment, as further disclosed in Note C28, "Information regarding members of the Board of Directors, the Group management and employees." The cost for cash settlements is measured and recognized based on the estimated costs

68

Ericsson | Annual Report 2014

for the program on a pro rata basis during the service period, being one year. The estimated costs are remeasured during and at the end of the service period.
Segment reporting An operating segment is a component of a company whose operating results are regularly reviewed by the Company's chief operating decision maker, (CODM), to make decisions about resources to be allocated to the segment and assess its performance. The President and the Chief Executive Officer is defined as the CODM function in the Company.
The segment presentation, as per each segment, is based on the C ompany's accounting policies as disclosed in this note. The arm's length principle is applied in transactions between the segments.
The Company's segment disclosure about geographical areas is based on the country in which transfer of risks and rewards occur.
New standards and interpretations not yet adopted A number of issued new standards, amendments to standards and interpretations are not yet effective for the year ended December 31, 2014 and have not been applied in preparing these consolidated financial statements.
Below is a list of applicable standards/interpretations, that have been issued and are effective for periods as described per standard.
>> IFRS 9, "Financial instruments." The complete version of IFRS 9 replaces most of the guidance in IAS 39. IFRS 9 retains but simplifies the mixed measurement model and establishes three primary measurement categories for financial assets: amortized cost, fair value through OCI and fair value through P&L. The basis of classification depends on the entity's business model and the contractual cash flow characteristics of the financial asset. Investments in equity instruments are required to be measured at fair value through profit or loss with the irrevocable option at inception to present changes in fair value in OCI. There is now a new expected credit losses model that replaces the incurred loss impairment model used in IAS 39. This standard is effective as from January 1, 2018. The EU has not yet endorsed IFRS 9, `Financial instruments.' The Company has not yet finalized the evaluation of any impact on financial result or position.
>> IFRS 15, "Revenue from Contracts with Customers," Revenue is recognized when a customer obtains control of a good or service. A customer obtains control when it has the ability to direct the use of and obtain the benefits from the good or service. The core principle of IFRS 15 is that an entity recognizes revenue to depict the transfer of promised goods or services to customers in an amount that reflects the consideration to which the entity expects to be entitled in exchange for those goods or services. This standard is effective as from January 1, 2017. The EU has not yet endorsed IFRS 15, "Revenue from Contracts with Customers." The Company has not yet finalized the evaluation of any impact on financial result or position.
C2  Critical accounting estimates and judgments
The preparation of financial statements and application of accounting standards often involve management's judgment and the use of estimates and assumptions deemed to be reasonable at the time they are made. However, other results may be derived with different judgments or using different assumptions or estimates, and events may occur that could require a material adjustment to the carrying amount of the asset or liability affected. Following are the most important accounting policies subject to such judgments and the key sources of estimation uncertainty that the Company believes could have the most significant impact on the reported results and financial position.
The information in this note is grouped as per: >> Key sources of estimation uncertainty >> Judgments management has made in the process of applying the
Company's accounting policies.

Revenue recognition Key sources of estimation uncertainty Examples of estimates of total contract revenue and cost that are nec essary are the assessing of customer possibility to reach conditional p urchase volumes triggering contractual discounts to be given to the customer, the impact on the Company revenue in relation to performance criteria and whether any loss provisions shall be made.
Judgments made in relation to accounting policies applied Parts of the Company's sales are generated from large and complex customer contracts. Managerial judgment is applied regarding, among other aspects, conformance with acceptance criteria and if transfer of risks and rewards to the buyer have taken place to determine if revenue and costs should be recognized in the current period, degree of completion and the customer credit standing to assess whether payment is likely or not to justify revenue recognition.
Trade and customer finance receivables Key sources of estimation uncertainty The Company monitors the financial stability of its customers and the environment in which they operate to make estimates regarding the likelihood that the individual receivables will be paid. Total allowances for estimated losses as of December 31, 2014, were SEK 1.5 (1.2) billion or 1.8% (1.6%) of gross trade and customer finance receivables.
Credit risks for outstanding customer finance credits are regularly assessed as well, and allowances are recorded for estimated losses.
Inventory valuation Key sources of estimation uncertainty Inventories are valued at the lower of cost and net realizable value. Estimates are required in relation to forecasted sales volumes and inventory balances. In situations where excess inventory balances are identified, estimates of net realizable values for the excess volumes are made. Inventory allowances for estimated losses as of December 31, 2014, amounted to SEK 2.3 (2.5) billion or 8% (10%) of gross inventory.
Deferred taxes Key sources of estimation uncertainty Deferred tax assets and liabilities are recognized for temporary differences and for tax loss carry-forwards. Deferred tax is recognized net of valuation allowances. The valuation of temporary differences and tax loss carry-forwards, is based on management's estimates of future taxable profits in different tax jurisdictions against which the temporary differences and loss carry-forwards may be utilized.
The largest amounts of tax loss carry-forwards are reported in Sweden, with an indefinite period of utilization (i.e. with no expiry date). For further detailed information, please refer to Note C8, "Taxes."
At December 31, 2014, the value of deferred tax assets amounted to SEK 12.8 (9.1) billion. The deferred tax assets related to loss carry- forwards are reported as non-current assets.
Accounting for income tax, value added tax, and other taxes Key sources of estimation uncertainty Accounting for these items is based upon evaluation of income-, value added- and other tax rules in all jurisdictions where the Company performs activities. The total complexity of rules related to taxes and the accounting for these require management's involvement in judgments regarding classification of transactions and in estimates of probable o utcomes of claimed deductions and/or disputes.
Acquired intellectual property rights and other intangible assets, including goodwill Key sources of estimation uncertainty At initial recognition, future cash flows are estimated, to ensure that the initial carrying values do not exceed the expected discounted cash flows for the items of this type of assets. After initial recognition, impairment testing is performed whenever there is an indication of impairment, except in the case of goodwill for which impairment testing is performed at least

Financials ­ Notes to the consolidated financial statements

Ericsson | Annual Report 2014

69

FINANCIALS ­ Notes to the consolidated financial statements

once per year. Negative deviations in actual cash flows compared to estimated cash flows as well as new estimates that indicate lower future cash flows might result in recognition of impairment charges.
For further discussion on goodwill, see Note C1, "Significant accounting policies" and Note C10, "Intangible assets." Estimates related to acquired intangible assets are based on similar assumptions and risks as for goodwill.
At December 31, 2014, the amount of acquired intellectual property rights and other intangible assets amounted to SEK 50.9 (44.4) billion, including goodwill of SEK 38.3 (31.5) billion.
Judgments made in relation to accounting policies applied At initial recognition and subsequent remeasurement, management judg ments are made, both for key assumptions and regarding impairment indicators. In the purchase price allocation made for each acquisition, the purchase price shall be assigned to the identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities based on fair values for these assets. Any remaining excess value is reported as goodwill.
This allocation requires management judgment as well as the definition of cash-generating units for impairment testing purposes. Other judgments might result in significantly different results and financial position in the future.
Provisions Warranty provisions Key sources of estimation uncertainty Provisions for product warranties are based on current volumes of products sold still under warranty and on historic quality rates for mature products as well as estimates and assumptions regarding future quality rates for new products and estimates of costs to remedy the various qualitative issues that might occur. Total provisions for product warranties as of December 31, 2014, amounted to SEK 0.8 (0.9) billion.
Provisions other than warranty provisions Key sources of estimation uncertainty Provisions, other than warranty provisions, mainly comprise amounts related to contractual obligations and penalties to customers and estimated losses on customer contracts, restructuring, risks associated with patent and other litigations, supplier or subcontractor claims and/or disputes, as well as provisions for unresolved income tax and value added tax issues. The estimates related to the amounts of provisions for penalties, claims or losses receive special attention from the management. At December 31, 2014, provisions other than warranty commitments amounted to SEK 3.6 (4.5) billion. For further detailed information, see Note C18, "Provisions."
Judgments made in relation to accounting policies applied Whether a present obligation is probable or not requires judgment. The nature and type of risks for these provisions differ and management's judgment is applied regarding the nature and extent of obligations in deciding if an outflow of resources is probable or not.
Contingent liabilities Key sources of estimation uncertainty As disclosed under `Provisions other than warranty provisions' there are uncertainties in the estimated amounts. The same type of uncertainty exists for contingent liabilities.
Judgments made in relation to accounting policies applied As disclosed under Note C1, "Significant accounting policies" a potential obligation that is not likely to result in an economic outflow is classified as a contingent liability, with no impact on the Company's financial statements. However, should an obligation in a later period be deemed to be probable, then a provision shall be recognized, impacting the financial statements.

Pension and other post-employment benefits Key sources of estimation uncertainty Accounting for the costs of defined benefit pension plans and other applicable post-employment benefits is based on actuarial valuations, relying on key estimates for discount rates, future salary increases, employee turnover rates and mortality tables. The discount rate assumptions are based on rates for high-quality fixed-income investments with durations as close as possible to the Company's pension plans. At December 31, 2014, defined benefit obligations for pensions and other post-employment benefits amounted to SEK 73.8 (52.9) billion and fair value of plan assets to SEK 56.9 (46.6) billion. For more information on estimates and assumptions, see Note C17, "Post-employment benefits."
Foreign exchange risks Key sources of estimation uncertainty Foreign exchange risk impacts the financial results of the Company: see further disclosure in Note C20, "Financial Risk Management and Financial Instruments," under Foreign Exchange Risk.
C3  Segment information
Operating segments When determining Ericsson's operating segments, consideration has been given to which markets and what type of customers the products and services aim to attract, as well as the distribution channels they are sold through. Commonality regarding technology, research and development has also been taken into account. To best reflect the business focus and to facilitate comparability with peers, four operating segments are reported: >> Networks >> Global Services >> Support Solutions >> Modems
Networks delivers products and solutions for mobile access, IP and transmission networks, core networks and cloud. The offering includes: >> Radio access solutions that interconnect with devices such as mobile
phones, tablets and PCs. The RBS 6000 supports all major standardized mobile technologies >> IP routing and transport solutions based on the smart services routers, (the SSR 8000 family of products), Ericsson's evolved IP network as well as backhaul including microwave (MINI-LINK) and optical transmission solutions for mobile and fixed networks >> Core networks are based on the Ericsson Blade Server platform and include solutions such as the IMS >> A cloud platform that can handle all types of workloads for all clouds; telecom cloud, IT cloud and commercial cloud. >> Operations Support Systems (OSS), supporting operators' management of existing networks and introduction of new technologies and services.
Global Services delivers managed services, product-related services, consulting and systems integration services as well as broadcast and media services. The offering includes: >> Managed Services: Services for designing, building, operating and
managing the day-to-day operations of the customer's network or solution; maintenance; network sharing solutions; plus shared solutions such as hosting of platforms and applications. Ericsson also offers managed services of IT environments. >> Product-related services: Services to expand, upgrade, restructure or migrate networks; network-rollout services; customer support; network design and optimization services.

70

Ericsson | Annual Report 2014

>> Consulting and Systems Integration: Technology and operational c onsulting; integration of multi-vendor equipment; design and integration of new solutions and transforming programs.
>> Broadcast Services: Services include responsibility for technical platforms and operational services related to TV content management, playout and service provisioning.
>> Industry and Society; All above types of services for industry-specific solutions, primarily in the areas of utilities, transport & public safety.
Support Solutions provides software suites for operators. The offering includes: >> Operations Support Systems: plan, build and optimize, service fulfill-
ment and service assurance. >> Business Support Systems: revenue management (prepaid, post-paid,
convergent charging and billing), mediation and customer care solutions. >> TV & Media solutions: a suite of open, standards-based solutions and products for the creation, management and delivery of TV on any device over any network, including a TV platform for content creation, content management, on-demand video delivery, advanced video compression and video-optimized delivery network infrastructure. >> M-Commerce solutions for money transfer: payment transactions and services between mobile subscribers and operators or other service providers.
Modems performs design, development and sales of the LTE multimode thin modems solutions, including 2G, 3G and 4G interoperability. Modems was consolidated into Ericsson in late 2013. Since the integration, the addressable market for thin modems has been reduced. In addition, there is strong competition, price erosion and an accelerating pace of technology innovation. As a consequence, Ericsson announced, on September 18, 2014, the discontinuation of further development of modems. Modems will have no impact on Group profit and loss from the second half of 2015.
Former segments ST-Ericsson was a joint venture between Ericsson and STMicroelectronics. In 2013, the joint venture was closed and all business was either split up between parents or divested. As of January 1, 2013, ST-Ericsson is no longer reported as a separate segment.
Ericsson acquired the LTE thin-modem operations which was consolidated in a new segment entitled "Modems."
As of December 31, 2012 there were no remaining investments related to ST-Ericsson on the Company's balance sheet. For more information, see Note C12, "Financial assets."
Sony Ericsson was, up until 2012, a joint venture delivering mobile phones and accessories. In February 2012, Ericsson completed the divestment of its 50% stake in Sony Ericsson to Sony. The sale resulted in a gain of SEK 7.7 billion. Sony Ericsson was not consolidated by the Company during 2012.

Unallocated Some revenues, costs, assets and liabilities are not identified as part of any operating segment and are therefore not allocated. Examples of such items are costs for corporate staff, IT costs and general marketing costs.
Regions The Regions are the Company's primary sales channel. The Company operates worldwide and reports its operations divided into ten georaphical regions: >> North America >> Latin America >> Northern Europe & Central Asia >> Western and Central Europe >> Mediterranean >> Middle East >> Sub-Saharan Africa >> India >> North East Asia >> South East Asia & Oceania >> Other.
Region "Other" includes licensing revenues, broadcast services, power modules, mobile broadband modules, Ericsson-LG Enterprise and other businesses.
Major customers The Company does not have any customer for which revenues from transactions have exceeded 10% of the Company's total revenues for the years 2014, 2013 or 2012.
Ericsson derives most of its sales from large, multi-year agreements with a limited number of significant customers. Out of a customer base of more than 500, mainly consisting of network operators, the 10 largest customers accounted for 47% (44%) of net sales. The largest customer accounted for approximately 8% (8%) of sales in 2014.
For more information, see Risk Factors, "Market, Technology and Business Risks."
Marketing channels Marketing in a business-to-business environment is expanding, from being primarily conducted through personal meetings, to on-line forums, expert blogs and social media. Ericsson performs marketing through: >> Customer engagement with a consultative approach >> Selective focus on events and experience centers for customer experi-
ence and interaction >> Continuous dialogue with customers and target audiences through
social and other digital media (including virtual events) >> Activation of the open social and digital media landscape to strengthen
message reach and impact >> Execution of solutions-driven programs, aligned globally
and regionally.

Financials ­ Notes to the consolidated financial statements

Ericsson | Annual Report 2014

71

FINANCIALS ­ Notes to the consolidated financial statements

Operating segments 2014
Segment sales Net sales
Operating income Operating margin (%) Financial income Financial expenses Income after financial items Taxes Net income
Other segment items Share in earnings of JV and associated companies Amortization Depreciation Impairment losses Reversals of impairment losses Restructuring expenses Gains/losses from divestments

Networks 117,487 117,487
13,544 12%

Global S ervices
97,659 97,659
6,067 6%

Support Solutions
12,655 12,655
­31 0%

Modems 182 182
­2,025 ­

Total Segments
227,983 227,983
17,555 8%

Unallocated 0 0
­748 ­

33

32

­52

0

13

­69

­3,497

­1,036

­902

­168

­5,603

5

­3,225

­820

­124

­160

­4,329

­

­34

­1

­2

0

­37

­

14

4

0

1

19

­

­443

­835

­146

­32

­1,456

­

­36

Group 227,983 227,983
16,807 7%
1,277 ­2,273 15,811 ­4,668 11,143
­56 ­5,598 ­4,329
­37 19 ­1,456 ­36

Operating segments 2013
Segment sales Net sales
Operating income Operating margin (%) Financial income Financial expenses Income after financial items Taxes Net income
Other segment items Share in earnings of joint ventures and associated companies Amortization Depreciation Impairment losses Reversals of impairment losses Restructuring expenses Gains/losses from divestments

Networks 117,699 117,699
11,318 10%

Global Services
97,443 97,443
6,185 6%

Support Solutions
12,234 12,234
1,455 12%

Modems ­ ­
­543 ­

Total Segments
227,376 227,376
18,415 8%

Unallocated ­ ­
­570 ­

Group 227,376 227,376
17,845 8%
1,346 ­2,093 17,098 ­4,924 12,174

­155 ­4,237 ­3,243
­5 19 ­2,182 ­621

60 ­925 ­788
­2 5 ­1,997 ­166

­58 ­722 ­135
0 1 ­186 ­105

­

­153

­44

­5,928

­61

­4,227

­

­7

­

25

­

­4,365

­

­892

23

­130

­

­5,928

­

­4,227

­

­7

­

25

­88

­4,453

51

­841

72

Ericsson | Annual Report 2014

Operating segments 2012
Segment sales Inter-segment sales Net sales

Networks 117,185 100 117,285

Global S ervices
97,009 34
97,043

Support Solutions
13,445 6
13,451

Sony E ricsson
­ ­ ­

STEricsson
8,457 634
9,091

Total Segments
236,096 774
236,870

Unallocated ­ ­ ­

Eliminations 1) ­8,457 ­634 ­9,091

Operating income Operating margin (%) Financial income Financial expenses Income after financial items Taxes Net income

7,057 6%

6,226 6%

1,150 9%

8,026 2) ­

­15,447 3) ­170%

7,012 3%

­267 ­

3,713 ­

Other segment items Share in earnings of joint ventures and associated companies Amortization Depreciation Impairment losses Reversals of impairment losses Write-down of investment Restructuring expenses Gains/losses from divestments

­59 ­3,832 ­3,035
­385 39 ­
­1,253 ­59

45 ­853 ­727
­9 9 ­
­1,930 1

­20 ­809 ­290
­1 4 ­
­246 216

­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ 8,026 2)

­11,734 3) ­322 ­741 ­ 4) ­
­4,684 ­624 ­

­11,768 ­5,816 ­4,793 ­395 52 ­4,684 ­4,053 8,184

37

­

­

322

­

741

­

­

­

­

­

­

­18

624

152

­

1) All segment sales are presented, but as ST-Ericsson sales are accounted for in accordance with the equity method, their sales are eliminated in the Eliminations column. 2) Includes a gain from the divestment of Sony Ericsson of SEK 7.7 billion. 3) Includes a write-down of SEK ­4.7 billion of the ST-Ericsson investment, a provision of SEK ­3.3 billion and the Company's share in ST-Ericsson's operating loss of SEK ­3.7 billion. 4) Impairment losses included in Write-down of investment.

Revenue from the acquired Telcordia business operation is reported 50/50 between segments Global Services and Support Solutions.

Group 227,639
140 227,779
10,458 5%
1,708 ­1,984 10,182 ­4,244 5,938
­11,731 ­5,494 ­4,052 ­395 52 ­4,684 ­3,447 8,336

Regions

North America 3) Latin America Northern Europe & Central Asia 1) 2) Western & Central Europe 2) Mediterranean 2) Middle East Sub-Saharan Africa India North East Asia 4) South East Asia & Oceania Other 1) 2) 3) 4) Total 1) Of which in Sweden 6) 2) Of which in EU 6) 3) Of which in the United States 6) 4) Of which in China 6)

2014 54,509 22,570 12,373 19,706 23,003 21,277
8,749 7,702 27,572 15,858 14,664 227,983 4,144 45,101 55,722 14,335

Net sales 2013
59,339 21,982 11,618 18,485 24,156 17,438 10,049
6,138 27,398 15,787 14,986 227,376
4,427 43,544 59,085 11,799

5) Total non-current assets excluding financial instruments, deferred tax assets, and post-employment benefit assets. 6) Including IPR revenue reported under Other above.

2012 56,749 22,006 11,345 17,478 23,299 15,556 11,349
6,460 36,196 15,068 12,273 227,779
5,033 44,230 56,698 12,637

Non-current assets 5)

2014

2013

16,148

13,290

1,749

1,742

43,868

38,522

4,227

3,539

1,389

1,089

100

46

54

32

471

439

2,217

2,667

345

342

­

­

70,568

61,708

43,298

38,049

48,881

42,239

13,116

11,173

1,370

1,344

For employee information, see Note C28, "Information regarding members of the Board of Directors, the Group management and employees."

2012 15,058
2,084 38,335
2,922 1,099
32 119 460 3,371 301
­ 63,781 37,718 41,546 13,003
1,399

Financials ­ Notes to the consolidated financial statements

Ericsson | Annual Report 2014

73

FINANCIALS ­ Notes to the consolidated financial statements

C4 Net sales

Net sales
Sales of products and network rollout services 1) Professional Services sales License revenues Net sales Export sales from Sweden 1) Entirely delivery-type contracts.

2014 147,235
70,831 9,917
227,983 113,734

2013 150,429
66,395 10,552 227,376 108,944

2012 154,068
67,092 6,619
227,779 106,997

Total restructuring charges in 2014 were SEK 1.5 (4.5) billion and were mainly related to the continued implementation of the service delivery strategy. Restructuring charges are included in the expenses presented above.

Restructuring charges by function
Cost of sales R&D expenses Selling and administrative expenses Total restructuring charges

2014 1,029
304 123 1,456

2013 2,657
872 924 4,453

2012 2,225
852 370 3,447

C5  Expenses by nature

Expenses by nature

Goods and services Employee remuneration Amortization and depreciation Impairments and obsolescence allowances, net of reversals Financial expenses Taxes Expenses incurred Inventory increase/decrease (­/+) 1) Additions to capitalized development Expenses charged to the income statement

2014 126,401
75,950 9,927

2013 129,453
65,064 10,155

2012 137,769
64,100 9,546

1,138 2,273 4,668 220,357 ­2,929 ­1,523 215,905

537 2,093 4,924 212,226 5,220 ­915 216,531

1,999 1,984 4,244 219,642 2,782 ­1,641 220,783

1) The inventory changes are based on changes of gross inventory values prior to obsolescence allowances.

C6  Other operating income and expenses

Other operating income and expenses

Gains on sales of intangible assets and PP&E Losses on sales of intangible assets and PP&E Gains on sales of investments and operations Losses on sales of investments and operations Capital gains/losses, net Other operating revenues/expenses Total other operating income and expenses

2014 843
­935 8
­44 ­128 ­2,028 2) ­2,156

2013 172
­307 69
­910 ­976 1,089 2)
113

2012 12
­261 8,462 1) ­126 8,087
878 8,965

1) Includes a gain from the divestment of Sony Ericsson of SEK 7.7 billion. 2) Includes revaluation of cash flow hedges of SEK ­2.8 (0.5) billion. For more information,
see Note C1, "Significant accounting policies."

C7  Financial income and expenses

Financial income and expenses

Contractual interest on financial assets Of which on financial assets at fair value through profit or loss
Contractual interest on financial liabilities Net gains/losses on:
Instruments at fair value through profit or loss 1) Of which included in fair value hedge relationships
Loans and receivables Liabilities at amortized cost Other financial income and expenses Total

2014 Financial
income 713 297 ­

Financial expenses
­ ­ ­1,376

624 ­
­70 ­
10 1,277

­651 ­123
­ ­32 ­214 ­2,273

2013 Financial
income 971 597 ­

Financial expenses
­ ­ ­1,412

447 ­
­75 ­ 3
1,346

­601 ­196
­ 196 ­276 ­2,093

1) Excluding net loss from operating assets and liabilities, SEK 143 million (net gain of SEK 49 million in 2013, SEK 1,299 million in 2012), reported as Cost of sales.

2012 Financial
income 1,685 1,308 ­

Financial expenses
­ ­ ­1,734

142 ­
­127 ­ 8
1,708

54 ­129
­ ­133 ­171 ­1,984

74

Ericsson | Annual Report 2014

C8 Taxes
The Company's tax expense for 2014 was SEK ­4,668 (­4,924) million or 29.5% (28.8%) of income after financial items. The tax rate may vary between years depending on business and geographical mix.

Income taxes recognized in the income statement

2014

Current income taxes for the year

­5,714

Current income taxes related to prior years

­66

Deferred tax income/expense (+/­)

1,112

Subtotal

­4,668

Share of taxes in joint ventures

and associated companies

­

Tax expense

­4,668

2013 ­3,985
­26 ­913 ­4,924
­ ­4,924

2012 ­5,795
­241 1,697 ­4,339
95 ­4,244

A reconciliation between reported tax expense for the year and the theoretical tax expense that would arise when applying statutory tax rate in Sweden, 22.0%, on the consolidated income before taxes, is shown in the table below.

Reconciliation of Swedish income tax rate with effective tax rate

2014

2013

Expected tax expense at Swedish tax rate 22.0%

­3,479 ­3,762

Effect of foreign tax rates

­856

­935

Of which joint ventures and associated companies

­2

­

Current income taxes related to prior years

­66

­26

Remeasurement of tax loss carry-forwards

­51

165

Remeasurement of deductible temporary differences

­459

86

Tax effect of non-deductible expenses

­2,125

­620

Tax effect of non-taxable income

2,383

199

Tax effect of changes in tax rates

­15

­31

Tax expense

­4,668 ­4,924

Effective tax rate

29.5% 28.8%

2012
­2,678 ­581
­778 ­241 134
468 ­3,430 2,573
­489 ­4,244 41.7%

Deferred tax balances Deferred tax assets and liabilities are derived from the balance sheet items as shown in the table below.

Tax effects of temporary differences and tax loss carry-forwards

Deferred Deferred tax assets tax liabilities

2014

Intangible assets and property, plant and equipment

517

3,645

Current assets

2,720

197

Post-employment benefits

4,024

1,013

Provisions

1,729

63

Other

2,478

228

Loss carry-forwards

3,279

­

Deferred tax assets/liabilities

14,747

5,146

Netting of assets/liabilities

­1,969

­1,969

Deferred tax balances, net

12,778

3,177

Net balance
9,601 9,601

2013 Intangible assets and property, plant and equipment Current assets Post-employment benefits Provisions Other Loss carry-forwards Deferred tax assets/liabilities Netting of assets/liabilities Deferred tax balances, net

300 1,958 2,008
997 2,416 3,578 11,257 ­2,154 9,103

3,143 164
1,033 293 171 ­
4,804 ­2,154 2,650

6,453 6,453

Changes in deferred taxes, net
Opening balance, net Recognized in Net income Recognized in Other comprehensive income Acquisitions/disposals of subsidiaries Currency translation differences Closing balance, net

2014 6,453 1,112 2,223 ­377
190 9,601

2013 9,201 ­913 ­1,056 ­663 ­116 6,453

Tax effects reported directly in Other comprehensive income amount to SEK 2,223 (­1,056) million, of which actuarial gains and losses related to pensions constituted SEK 2,218 (­1,231) million, cash flow hedges SEK 0 (179) million and deferred tax on gains/losses on hedges on investments in foreign entities SEK 5 (­4) million.
Deferred tax assets are only recognized in countries where the Company expects to be able to generate corresponding taxable income in the future to benefit from tax reductions.
Significant tax loss carry-forwards are related to countries with long or indefinite periods of utilization, mainly Sweden and Germany. Of the total SEK 3,279 (3,578) million recognized deferred tax assets related to tax loss carry-forwards, SEK 2,336 (2,177) million relates to Sweden with indefinite periods of utilization. Due to the Company's strong current financial position and taxable income during 2014, the Company has been able to utilize part of its tax loss carry-forwards during the year. The assessment is that the Company will be able to generate sufficient income in the coming years to also utilize the remaining part of the recognized amounts.

Financials ­ Notes to the consolidated financial statements

Ericsson | Annual Report 2014

75

FINANCIALS ­ Notes to the consolidated financial statements

Tax loss carry-forwards Deferred tax assets regarding tax loss carry-forwards are reported to the extent that realization of the related tax benefit through future taxable profits is probable also when considering the period during which these can be utilized, as described below.
As of December 31, 2014, the recognized tax loss carry-forwards amounted to SEK 13,503 (14,093) million. The tax value of these tax loss carry-forwards is reported as an asset.
The final years in which the recognized loss carry-forwards can be u tilized are shown in the following table.

Tax loss carry-forwards: year of expiration
Year of expiration 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 2020 or later Total

Tax loss c arry-forwards
516 214
41 24 41 12,667 13,503

Tax value 182 79 16 8 14
2,980 3,279

C9  Earnings per share
Earnings per share
Basic Net income attributable to stockholders of the Parent Company (SEK million) Average number of shares outstanding, basic (millions) Earnings per share, basic (SEK)
Diluted Net income attributable to stockholders of the Parent Company (SEK million) Average number of shares outstanding, basic (millions) Dilutive effect for stock purchase plans (millions) Average number of shares outstanding, diluted (millions) Earnings per share, diluted (SEK)

2014
11,568 3,237 3.57
11,568 3,237 33 3,270 3.54

2013
12,005 3,226 3.72
12,005 3,226 31 3,257 3.69

In addition to the table above there are loss carry-forwards of SEK 4,572 (3,518) million at a tax value of SEK 1,216 (1,019) million that have not been recognized due to judgments of the possibility they will be used against future taxable profits in the respective jurisdictions. The majority of these loss carry-forwards have an expiration date in excess of five years.

2012
5,775 3,216
1.80
5,775 3,216
31 3,247
1.78

C10  Intangible assets

Intangible assets 2014

Cost Opening balance Acquisitions/capitalization Balances regarding acquired/divested b usinesses 1) Sales/disposals Reclassification Translation difference

Capitalized development expenses

For internal use

To be marketed

Acquired costs

Internal costs

Total

10,681 1,523
­ ­ ­ ­

2,213 ­
­ ­ ­ ­

1,478 ­
­ ­ ­ ­

14,372 1,523
­ ­ ­ ­

Closing balance

12,204

2,213

1,478

15,895

Accumulated amortization Opening balance Amortization Sales/disposals Translation difference Closing balance

­5,349 ­1,267
­ ­ ­6,616

­2,157 ­1 ­ ­
­2,158

­1,439 ­2 ­ ­
­1,441

­8,945 ­1,270
­ ­ ­10,215

Accumulated impairment losses Opening balance Impairment losses Closing balance Net carrying value

­1,987

­55

­37

­31

­

­

­2,018

­55

­37

3,070

0

0

1) For more information on acquired/divested businesses, see Note C26, "Business combinations."

­2,079 ­31
­2,110 3,570

Goodwill Total

Intellectual property rights (IPR), tradem arks and other intangible assets

Trademarks, customer rela tions hips and Patents and similar rights acquired R&D

Total

31,562 ­
2,014 ­22 ­
4,794 38,348

19,289 107
1,597 ­71 ­
2,440 23,362

28,777 0
943 ­22
­ 1,307 31,005

48,066 107
2,540 ­93 ­
3,747 54,367

­

­9,543

­20,377 ­29,920

­

­2,502

­1,826

­4,328

­

73

16

89

­

­1,472

­871

­2,343

­

­13,444

­23,058 ­36,502

­18 ­
­18 38,330

­ ­ ­ 9,918

­5,331 ­
­5,331 2,616

­5,331 ­
­5,331 12,534

76

Ericsson | Annual Report 2014

Intangible assets 2013

Cost Opening balance Acquisitions/capitalization Balances regarding acquired/divested businesses 1) Sales/disposals Reclassification Translation difference Closing balance

Capitalized development expenses

For internal use

To be marketed

Acquired costs

Internal costs

Total

9,766 915
­ ­ ­ ­ 10,681

2,213 ­
­ ­ ­ ­ 2,213

1,478 ­
­ ­ ­ ­ 1,478

13,457 915
­ ­ ­ ­ 14,372

Accumulated amortization Opening balance Amortization Sales/disposals Translation difference Closing balance

­4,027 ­1,322
­ ­ ­5,349

­2,106 ­51 ­ ­
­2,157

­1,405 ­34 ­ ­
­1,439

­7,538 ­1,407
­ ­ ­8,945

Accumulated impairment losses Opening balance Impairment losses Closing balance Net carrying value

­1,987

­55

­37

­

­

­

­1,987

­55

­37

3,345

1

2

1) For more information on acquired/divested businesses, see Note C26, "Business combinations."

­2,079 ­
­2,079 3,348

Goodwill Total

Intellectual property rights (IPR), tradem arks and other intangible assets

Trademarks, customer rela tions hips and Patents and similar rights acquired R&D

Total

30,422 ­
1,646 ­302
­ ­204 31,562

18,595 587
200 ­113
­ 20 19,289

27,416 60
1,351 ­ ­
­50 28,777

46,011 647
1,551 ­113
­ ­30 48,066

­

­7,277

­18,201 ­25,478

­

­2,322

­2,199

­4,521

­

92

­

92

­

­36

23

­13

­

­9,543

­20,377 ­29,920

­18 ­
­18 31,544

­ ­ ­ 9,746

­5,331 ­
­5,331 3,069

­5,331 ­
­5,331 12,815

Goodwill is allocated to the operating segments Networks, at the sum of SEK 20.1 (16.7) billion, Global Services, at the sum of SEK 5.6 (4.5) billion and Support Solutions, at the sum of SEK 12.6 (10.3) billion.
The recoverable amounts for cash-generating units are established as the present value of expected future cash flows. Estimation of future cash flows includes assumptions mainly for the following key financial parameters: >> Sales growth >> Development of operating income (based on operating margin or cost
of goods sold and operating expenses relative to sales) >> Development of working capital and capital expenditure requirements.
The assumptions regarding industry-specific market drivers and market growth are approved by Group management and each operating segment's management. These assumptions are based on industry sources as input to the projections made within the Company for the development 2014­2019 for key industry parameters: >> The number of global mobile subscriptions is estimated to grow from
around 7.1 billion by the end of 2014 to around 9 billion by the end of 2019. Of these, around 7.5 billion will be mobile broadband subscriptions. Around 700 million of these mobile broadband subscriptions will use mobile PC/tablets/mobile routers, but the vast majority will still use mobile phones to access the internet. >> Fixed broadband subscriptions are estimated to grow from around 700 million by the end of 2014 to around 850 million in 2019. Fixed broadband includes Fiber, Cable and xDSL. >> Mobile data traffic volume is estimated to increase by around six times in the period 2014­2019, while fixed internet traffic is estimated to increase around three times over the same timeframe, but from a much larger base.
The growth in network equipment is mainly driven by a shift in investments from voice to data. The end user requirements for "app-coverage" drives deployment of heterogeneous networks and small cells.
The demand for support solutions is driven by the opportunities for new types of service offerings enabled by IP technology and high-speed

broadband. There is strong IPTV subscriber growth, plus rapid growth in digital viewing and on-demand services. As a consequence, service providers and network owners need solutions to make networks efficient for video delivery.
The development and build out of mobile broadband networks and increasing number of mobile broadband subscriptions drives growth in service introduction and traffic. This puts high demand on plan to provision, implementation and systems integration services as well as real time payment systems. The Business Support Systems' growth is driven by the introduction of new services, new business models and price plans.
The demand for professional services is also driven by an increasing business and technology complexity. Therefore, operators review their business models and look for vendor partners that can take on a broader responsibility, including the outsourcing of network operations.
The assumptions are also based upon information gathered in the Company's long-term strategy process, including assessments of new technology, the Company's competitive position and new types of business and customers, driven by the continued integration of telecom, data and media industries.
The impairment testing is based on specific estimates for the first five years and with a reduction of nominal annual growth rate to an average GDP growth of 3% (3%) per year thereafter. The impairment tests for goodwill did not result in any impairment.
An after-tax discount rate of 9.0% (9.5%) has been applied for all cash-generating units for the discounting of projected after-tax cash flows. In addition, when a higher discount rate has been applied in the impairment tests it has not resulted in any impairment. The assumptions for 2013 are disclosed in Note C10, "Intangible assets" in the Annual Report of 2013.
The Company's discounting is based on after-tax future cash flows and after-tax discount rates. This discounting is not materially different from a discounting based on before-tax future cash flows and before-tax discount rates, as required by IFRS.
In Note C1, "Significant accounting policies," and Note C2, "Critical accounting estimates and judgments," further disclosures are given regarding goodwill impairment testing.

Financials ­ Notes to the consolidated financial statements

Ericsson | Annual Report 2014

77

FINANCIALS ­ Notes to the consolidated financial statements

C11  Property, plant and equipment

Property, plant and equipment 2014

Cost Opening balance Additions Balances regarding acquired/divested businesses Sales/disposals Reclassifications Translation difference Closing balance
Accumulated depreciation Opening balance Depreciation Sales/disposals Reclassifications Translation difference Closing balance
Accumulated impairment losses Opening balance Impairment losses Reversals of impairment losses Sales/disposals Reclassifications Translation difference Closing balance Net carrying value

Real estate
6,120 218 ­ ­483 ­217 740
6,378
­2,492 ­461 75 219 ­321
­2,980
­40 ­ ­
62 ­52
­2 ­32 3,366

Machinery and other technical assets
4,232 180 308 ­842 935 460
5,273
­3,182 ­539 720 ­736 ­337
­4,074
­123 ­
19 75 14 ­5 ­20 1,179

Other equipment, Construction in progress tools and installations and advance payments

24,060 2,452 119 ­1,911 316 1,990
27,026

865 2,472
­ ­218 ­1,034 105 2,190

­17,945

­

­3,329

­

1,890

­

517

­

­1,539

­

­20,406

­

­62 ­6 ­ 20 38 ­4
­14 6,606

­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ 2,190

Total
35,277 5,322 427 ­3,454 0 3,295
40,867
­23,619 ­4,329 2,685 0 ­2,197
­27,460
­225 ­6 19
157 0
­11 ­66 13,341

Contractual commitments for the acquisition of property, plant and equipment as per December 31, 2014, amounted to SEK 192 (203) million.

Property, plant and equipment 2013
Cost Opening balance Additions Balances regarding acquired/divested businesses Sales/disposals Reclassifications Translation difference Closing balance
Accumulated depreciation Opening balance Depreciation Balances regarding divested businesses Sales/disposals Reclassifications Translation difference Closing balance
Accumulated impairment losses Opening balance Impairment losses Reversals of impairment losses Sales/disposals Reclassifications Translation difference Closing balance Net carrying value

Real estate

Machinery and other t echnical assets

Other equipment, Construction in progress tools and installations and advance payments

4,985 975 ­29 ­185 404 ­30
6,120

4,746 175 ­564 ­341 165 51
4,232

23,033 2,113 315 ­1,677 627 ­351
24,060

1,451 1,240
­19 ­598 ­1,196
­13 865

­2,355

­3,489

­16,623

­

­479

­558

­3,190

­

­

450

147

­

399

386

1,493

­

­75

80

­5

­

18

­51

233

­

­2,492

­3,182

­17,945

­

­45

­124

­86

­

­

­7

­

­

­

2

23

­

4

6

­

­

­

1

­1

­

1

­1

2

­

­40

­123

­62

­

3,588

927

6,053

865

Total
34,215 4,503 ­297 ­2,801 ­ ­343
35,277
­22,467 ­4,227 597 2,278 ­ 200
­23,619
­255 ­7 25 10 ­ 2
­225 11,433

78

Ericsson | Annual Report 2014

C12  Financial assets, non-current

Equity in joint ventures and associated companies
Opening balance Share in earnings Contributions to joint ventures and associated companies OCI Dividends Divestments Closing balance 1) Goodwill, net, amounts to SEK 15 (11) million.

2014 2,568
­56
­2 579 ­249 ­47 2,793 1)

2013 2,842 ­130
­2 ­14 ­128
­ 2,568 1)

The major holdings in joint ventures and associated companies are specified below.

All companies apply IFRS in the reporting to the Company as issued by IASB.

Ericsson's share of assets, liabilities and income in associated company Rockstar Consortium

2014

2013

2012

Percentage in ownership interest

21.26% 21.26% 21.26%

Total assets

7,348

6,429

7,342

Total liabilities

196

53

28

Net assets (100%)

7,152

6,376

7,314

Company's share of net assets (21.26%)

1,520

1,356

1,555

Net sales

­

­

­

Income after financial items

­484

­897

­376

Net income and total comprehensive income (100%)

­484

­897

­376

Company's share of net income and other c omprehensive income (21,26%)

­103

­191

­80

Rockstar Consortium LLC (Rockstar) is a company that was formed in 2011 by Apple, Blackberry, Ericsson, Microsoft, and Sony to purchase approximately 4,000 patent assets out of the original about 6000 from the Nortel bankruptcy estate. On December 23, 2014 it was agreed between the owners of Rockstar and RPX Corporation (RPXC) that RPX shall purchase the remaining patents of Rockstar. The transaction occured in 2015 and the impact on income will not be material in 2015.

Ericsson's share of assets, liabilities and income in joint venture ST-Ericsson 1)

2014

2013

Percentage in ownership interest

50%

50%

Non-current assets

­

6

Current assets

­

1,435

Non-current liabilities

­

104

Current liabilities

­

1,204

Net assets (100%) Company's share of net assets (50%)

­

133

­

67

Net sales

­

3,127

Income after financial items

­

­726

Income taxes

­

­64

Net income and total comprehensive income (100%)

­

­790

Company's share of net income and other comprehensive income (50%)

­

­395 2)

2012 50% 2,194 2,012 740 2,678 788 394 9,090 ­5,006 ­800
­5,806
­2,903

Assets pledged as collateral Contingent liabilities

­

­

­

­

­

­

1) The table consists of amounts considered by the Company when applying the equity method in relation to ST-Ericsson.
2) Reported losses has not been recognized in the result for the Company, due to IFRS principles disclosed in Note C1, "Significant accounting policies."

The joint venture ST-Ericsson, equally owned by the Company and S TMicroelectronics, is winding down. Since December 2012, there are no remaining investments related to ST-Ericsson recognized in the Company's balance sheet. The result in ST-Ericsson for 2014 and 2013 has therefore not been recognized due to losses in previous periods, as per IFRS principles disclosed in C1 "Significant accounting policies." For more information, see Note C3, "Segment information."

Financials ­ Notes to the consolidated financial statements

Ericsson | Annual Report 2014

79

FINANCIALS ­ Notes to the consolidated financial statements

Financial assets, non-current
Cost Opening balance Additions Disposals/repayments/deductions Change in value in funded pension plans 1) Revaluation Translation difference Closing balance

Other investments in shares and participations

2014

2013

1,905 ­
­1 ­
47 164 2,115

1,758 85
­20 ­
71 11 1,905

Customer finance, noncurrent

2014

2013

1,484 1,452 ­963
­ ­ 38 2,011

1,538 3,070 ­3,070
­ ­ ­54 1,484

Accumulated impairment losses/allowances Opening balance Impairment losses/allowance Disposals/repayments/deductions Translation difference Closing balance Net carrying value

­1,400 ­
27 ­151 ­1,524 591

­1,372 ­
­14 ­14 ­1,400 505

­190 ­79 190 ­ ­79
1,932

1) This amount includes asset ceiling. For further information, see Note C17, "Post-employment benefits."

­248 9
47 2
­190 1,294

Derivatives, non-current

2014

2013

Other assets, non-current

2014

2013

613

825

­

­

­

­30

­

­

­62

­182

­

­

551

613

6,387 327
­1,238 ­38 ­ 183
5,621

4,414 1,215 ­130
951 ­
­63 6,387

­

­

­1,316

­1,275

­

­

­5

­

­

­

1,076

­12

­

­

­27

­29

­

­

­272

­1,316

551

613

5,349

5,071

C13  Inventories
Inventories
Raw materials, components, consumables and m anufacturing work in progress Finished products and goods for resale Contract work in progress Inventories, net

2014
6,880 11,117 10,178 28,175

2013
5,747 7,743 9,269 22,759

Contract work in progress includes amounts related to delivery-type c ontracts and service contracts with ongoing work in progress.
Reported amounts are net of obsolescence allowances of SEK 2,326 (2,496) million.

Movements in obsolescence allowances
Opening balance Additions, net Utilization Translation difference Balances regarding acquired/ divested businesses Closing balance

2014 2,496
691 ­979 204
­86 2,326

2013 3,473
308 ­1,308
12
11 2,496

2012 3,343 1,403 ­1,140 ­133
­ 3,473

The amount of inventories recognized as expense and included in Cost of sales was SEK 53,722 (56,781) million.

C14  Trade receivables and customer finance

Trade receivables and customer finance
Trade receivables excluding associated companies and joint ventures Allowances for impairment Trade receivables, net Trade receivables related to associated companies and joint ventures Trade receivables, total Customer finance credits Allowances for impairment Customer finance credits, net
Of which current Credit commitments for customer finance

2014
78,727 ­1,123 77,604
289 77,893
4,629 ­408 4,221 2,289 12,018

2013
71,850 ­880
70,970
43 71,013
3,693 ­305 3,388 2,094 6,402

Days sales outstanding (DSO) were 105 (97) in December 2014.

Movements in allowances for impairment

Trade receivables

2014

2013

Opening balance

880

655

Additions

316

417

Utilized

­136

­127

Reversal of excess amounts

­8

­72

Reclassification

­43

42

Translation difference

114

­35

Closing balance

1,123

880

Customer finance

2014

2013

305

422

121

38

­4

­13

­5

­136

­

­

­9

­6

408

305

80

Ericsson | Annual Report 2014

Aging analysis as per December 31
2014 Trade receivables, excluding associated companies and joint ventures Allowances for impairment Customer finance credits Allowances for impairment 2013 Trade receivables, excluding associated c ompanies and joint ventures Allowances for impairment Customer finance credits Allowances for impairment

Of which neither Of which impaired,

Total impaired nor past due

not past due

Of which past due in the following
time intervals:

less than 90 days

90 days or more

Of which past due and impaired in the following
time intervals:

less than 90 days

90 days or more

78,727 ­1,123 4,629
­408

71,601 ­
1,602 ­

35 ­21 1,981 ­120

3,412 ­ 1 ­

2,577 ­
677 ­

16

1,086

­16

­1086

21

347

­5

­283

71,850 ­880 3,693 ­305

66,414 ­
2,851 ­

25

3,134

1,400

­11

­

­

98

60

459

­82

­

­

23 ­19 149 ­139

854 ­850
76 ­84

Credit risk Credit risk is divided into three categories: credit risk in trade receivables, customer finance risk and financial credit risk: see Note C20, "Financial risk management and financial instruments."
Credit risk in trade receivables Credit risk in trade receivables is governed by a policy applicable to all legal entities in the Company. The purpose of the policy is to: >> Avoid credit losses through establishing internal standard credit
approval routines in all the Company's legal entities >> Ensure monitoring and risk mitigation of defaulting accounts, i.e. events
of non-payment and/or delayed payments from customers >> Ensure efficient credit management within the Company and thereby
improve Days sales outstanding and Cash flow >> Ensure payment terms are commercially justifiable >> Define escalation path and approval process for payment terms and
customer credit limits.
The credit worthiness of all customers is regularly assessed and a credit limit is set. Through credit management system functionality, credit checks are performed every time a sales order or an invoice is generated in the source system. These are based on the credit risk set on the customer. Credit blocks appear if the credit limit set on customer is exceeded or if past due receivables are higher than permitted levels. Release of a credit block requires authorization.
Letters of credits are used as a method for securing payments from customers operating in emerging markets, in particular in markets with unstable political and/or economic environments. By having banks con firming the letters of credit, the political and commercial credit risk exposures to the Company are mitigated.
Trade receivables amounted to SEK 78,727 (71,850) million as of December 31, 2014. Provisions for expected losses are regularly assessed and amounted to SEK 1,123 (880) million as of December 31, 2014. The Company's nominal credit losses have, however, historically been low. The amounts of trade receivables closely follow the distribution of the Company's sales and do not include any major concentrations of credit risk by customer or by geography. The five largest customers represented 30% (25%) of the total trade receivables in 2014.
Customer finance credit risk All major commitments to finance customers are made only after approval by the Finance Committee of the Board of Directors, according to the established credit approval process.
Prior to the approval of new facilities reported as customer finance, an internal credit risk assessment is conducted in order to assess the credit rating of each transaction, for political and commercial risk. The credit risk analysis is made by using an assessment tool, where the political risk rating is identical to the rating used by all Export Credit Agencies within the

OECD. The commercial risk is assessed by analyzing a large number of parameters, which may affect the level of the future commercial credit risk exposure. The output from the assessment tool for the credit rating also includes an internal pricing of the risk. This is expressed as a risk margin per annum over funding cost. The reference pricing for political and commercial risk, on which the tool is based, is reviewed using information from Export Credit Agencies and prevailing pricing in the bank loan market for structured financed deals. The objective is that the internally set risk margin shall reflect the assessed risk and that the pricing is as close as possible to the current market pricing. A reassessment of the credit rating for each customer finance facility is made on a regular basis.
Risk provisions related to customer finance risk exposures are only made upon events which occur after the financing arrangement has become effective and which are expected to have a significant adverse impact on the borrower's ability and/or willingness to service the outstanding debt. These events can be political (normally outside the control of the borrower) or commercial, e.g. a borrower's deteriorated creditworthiness.
As of December 31, 2014, the Company's total outstanding exposure related to customer finance was SEK 4,631 (3,693) million. As of December 31, 2014, the Company also had unutilized customer finance commitments of SEK 12,018 (6,402) million. Customer finance is arranged for infrastructure projects in different geographic markets and for a large number of customers. As of December 31, 2014, there were a total of 88 (73) customer finance arrangements originated by or guaranteed by the Company. The five largest facilities represented 56% (52%) of the total credit exposure in 2014.

Total outstanding customer finance exposure per region as of December 31

Percent

2014

2013

North America

8

10

Latin America

3

3

Northern Europe & Central Asia

2

9

Western & Central Europe

3

1

Mediterranean

15

11

Middle East

30

22

Sub-Saharan Africa

24

26

India

1

5

North East Asia

6

9

South East Asia and Oceania

8

4

Total

100

100

The effect of risk provisions and reversals for customer finance affecting the income statement amounted to a net negative impact of SEK 70 million in 2014 compared to a negative impact of SEK 55 million in 2013. C redit losses amounted to SEK 4 (13) million in 2014.

Financials ­ Notes to the consolidated financial statements

Ericsson | Annual Report 2014

81

FINANCIALS ­ Notes to the consolidated financial statements

Security arrangements for customer finance facilities normally include pledges of equipment, pledges of certain assets belonging to the borrower and pledges of shares in the operating company. If available, third-party risk coverage is, as a rule, arranged. "Third-party risk coverage" means that a financial payment guarantee covering the credit risk has been issued by a bank, an export credit agency or other financial institution. A credit risk cover from a third party may also be issued by an insurance company. A credit risk transfer under a sub-participation arrangement with a bank can also be arranged. In this case the entire credit risk and the funding is taken care of by the bank for the part that they cover.
Information about guarantees related to customer finance is included in Note C24, "Contingent liabilities," and information about leasing is included in Note C27, "Leasing."
The table below summarizes the Company's outstanding customer finance as of December 31, 2014 and 2013.

Outstanding customer finance
Total customer finance Accrued interest Less third-party risk coverage Ericsson's risk exposure

2014 4,631
173 ­649 4,154

2013 3,693
155 ­222 3,626

Transfers of financial assets Transfers where the Company has not derecognized the assets in their entirety As per December 31, 2014 there existed certain customer financing assets that the Company had transferred to third parties where the Company did not derecognize the assets in their entirety. The total carrying amount of the original assets transferred was SEK 811 (899) million; the amount of the assets that the Company continues to recognize was SEK 168 (210) million; and the carrying amount of the associated liabilities was SEK 0 (0) million.

C15  Other current receivables

Other current receivables

Prepaid expenses Accrued revenues Advance payments to suppliers Derivatives with a positive value 1) Taxes Other Total

2014 4,592 3,166
746 1,000 9,853 1,916 21,273

1) See also Note C20, "Financial risk management and financial instruments."

2013 2,766 2,846
877 1,532 7,950 1,970 17,941

C16  Equity and other comprehensive Income
Capital stock 2014 Capital stock at December 31, 2014, consisted of the following:

Capital stock
Parent Company Class A shares Class B shares Total

Number of shares 261,755,983
3,043,295,752 3,305,051,735

Capital stock (SEK million)
1,309 15,217 16,526

The capital stock of the Parent Company is divided into two classes: Class A shares (quota value SEK 5.00) and Class B shares (quota value SEK 5.00). Both classes have the same rights of participation in the net assets and earnings. Class A shares, however, are entitled to one vote per share while Class B shares are entitled to one tenth of one vote per share.
At December 31, 2014, the total number of treasury shares was 63,450,558 (73,968,178 in 2013 and 84,798,095 in 2012) Class B shares. Ericsson did not repurchase shares in 2014 in relation to the Stock Purchase Plan.

Reconciliation of number of shares Number of shares Jan 1, 2014

Number of shares 3,305,051,735

Capital stock (SEK million)
16,526

Number of shares Dec 31, 2014

3,305,051,735

16,526

For further information about the number of shares, see the chapter Share Information.
Dividend proposal The Board of Directors will propose to the Annual General Meeting 2015 a dividend of SEK 3.40 per share (SEK 3.00 in 2014 and SEK 2.75 in 2013).
Additional paid in capital This relates to payments made by owners and includes share premiums paid.
Retained earnings Retained earnings, including net income for the year, comprise the earned profits of the Parent Company and its share of net income in subsidiaries, joint ventures and associated companies. Retained earnings also include:
Remeasurements related to post-employment benefits Actuarial gains and losses resulting from experience-based events and changes in actuarial assumptions, fluctuations in the effect of the asset ceiling, and adjustments related to the Swedish special payroll taxes.
Revaluation of other investments in shares and participations The fair value reserve comprises the cumulative net change in the fair value of available-for-sale financial assets.
Cash flow hedges The cash flow hedge reserve comprises the effective portion of the cumulative net change in the fair value of cash-flow-hedging instruments related to hedged transactions that have not yet occurred.
Cumulative translation adjustments The cumulative translation adjustments comprise all foreign currency d ifferences arising from the translation of the financial statements of foreign operations and changes regarding revaluation of excess value in local currency as well as from the translation of liabilities that hedge the Company's net investment in foreign subsidiaries.

82

Ericsson | Annual Report 2014

C17  Post-employment benefits
Ericsson sponsors a number of post-employment benefit plans through out the Company, which are in line with market practice in each country. The year 2014 was characterized by significant decreases in discount rates in most plans resulting in actuarial losses on defined benefit obligations of SEK 14 billion. This was partly offset by positive development of plan assets resulting in actuarial gains of SEK 4 billion.
Swedish plans Sweden has both defined benefit and defined contribution plans based on collective agreement between the parties in the Swedish labor market: >> A defined benefit plan, known as ITP 2 (occupational pension for sala-
ried employees in manufacturing industries and trade), complemented by a defined contribution plan, known as ITPK (supplementary retirement benefits). This is a final salary-based plan. >> A defined contribution plan, known as ITP 1, for employees born in 1979 or later. >> A defined contribution plan ITP 1 or alternative ITP, for employees earning more than 10 income base amount and who have opted out of the defined benefit plan ITP 2, where rules are set by the Company and approved by each employee selected to participate.
The Company has by far most of its Swedish pension liabilities under defined benefit plans which are funded to 56% (73%) through Ericsson Pensionsstiftelse (a Swedish Pension Foundation). The Pensionsstiftelse covers the liability up to the value of the defined benefit obligation based on Swedish GAAP calculations. There are no funding requirements for the Swedish plans. The disability- and survivors' pension part of the ITP-plan is secured through an insurance solution with the company Alecta, see section about Multi-employer plans.
The benefit payments are done from the Company since the liability is growing and the necessary surplus therefore is not yet reached. For the unfunded plans the Company meets the payment obligation when it falls due. The responsibility for governance of the plans and the plan assets lies with the Company and the Pensionsstiftelse. The Swedish Pensionsstiftelse is managed on the basis of a capital preservation strategy and the risk profile is set accordingly. Traditional asset-liability matching (ALM) studies are undertaken on a regular basis to allocate within different asset classes.
The plans are exposed to different risks, i.e., a sudden decrease in the bond yields, which would lead to an increase in the plan liability. A sudden instability in the financial market might also lead to a decrease in fair value of plan assets held by the Pensionsstiftelse, as the holdings of plan assets partly are exposed to equity markets; however, this may be partly offset by higher values in fixed income holdings. Swedish plans are linked to inflation and higher inflation will lead to a higher liability. For the time being, inflation is a low risk factor to the Swedish plans as actual rate of inflation has not reached the ceiling target set by the Central Bank of Sweden.
Multi-employer plans As before, the Company has secured the disability and survivors' pension part of the ITP Plan through an insurance solution with the insurance company Alecta. Although this part of the plan is classified as a multi-employer defined benefit plan, it is not possible to get sufficient information to apply defined benefit accounting, as for most of the accrued pension benefits in Alecta, information is missing on the allocation of earnings process between employers. Full vesting is instead registered on the last employer. Alecta is not able to calculate a breakdown of assets and provisions for each respective employer, and therefore, the disability and survivors' pension portion of the ITP Plan has been accounted for as a defined contribution plan.
Alecta has a collective funding ratio which acts as a buffer for its insurance commitments to protect against fluctuations in investment return and insurance risks. Alecta's target ratio is 140% and reflects the fair value of Alecta's plan assets as a percentage of plan commitments, then mea-

sured in accordance with Alecta's actuarial assumptions, which are different from those in IAS 19R. Alecta's collective funding ratio was 143% (148%) as of December 31, 2014. The Company's share of Alecta's saving premiums is 0.6%; the total share of active members in Alecta are 2.3%. The expected contribution to the plan is SEK 107 million for 2015.
Contingent liabilities / Assets pledged as collateral Contingent liabilities include the Company's mutual responsibility as a credit insured company of PRI Pensionsgaranti in Sweden. This mutual responsibility can only be imposed in the instance that PRI Pensionsgaranti has consumed all of its assets, and it amounts to a maximum of 2% of the Company's pension liability in Sweden. The Company has a pledged business mortgage of SEK 2 billion to PRI Pensionsgaranti.
US plans The Company operates defined benefit pension plans in the US, which are a combination of final salary pension plans and contribution-based arrangements. The final salary pension plans provide benefits to members in the form of a guaranteed level of pension payable for life. The level of benefits provided depends on members' length of service and their salary in the final years leading up to retirement. Retirees generally do not receive inflationary increases once in payment.
The other type of plan is a contribution-based pension plan, which provides a benefit determined using a "cash balance" approach. The balance is credited monthly with interest credits and contribution credits, based on a combination of current year salary and length of service.
The majority of benefit payments are from trustee-administered funds; however, there are also a number of unfunded plans where the Company meets the benefit payment obligation as it falls due. In the US, the Company's policy is at least to meet or exceed the funding requirements of federal regulations. The funded level in the US Pension Plan is above the point at which minimum funding would be required for fiscal year 2014.
Plan assets held in trusts are governed by local regulations and practice, as is the nature of the relationship between the Company and the trustees (or equivalent) and their composition. Responsibility for governance of the plans ­ including investment decisions and contribution schedules ­ lies with the Plan Administrative Committee (PAC). The PAC is composed of representatives from the Company.
The Company's plans are exposed to various risks associated with pension plans, i.e., a sudden decrease in bond yields would lead to an increase in the present value of the defined benefit obligation. A sudden instability in the financial markets might also lead to a decrease in the fair value of plan assets held by the trust. Pension benefits in the US are not linked to inflation; however, higher inflation poses the risk of increased final salaries being used to determine benefits for active employees. There is also a risk that the duration of payments to retirees will exceed the life expectancy in mortality tables.
Other plans The Company also sponsors plans in other countries. The main plans are in Brazil, Ireland and the United Kingdom. The plan in Brazil is a pension plan wholly funded with a net surplus of assets. The plans in Ireland and the UK are final salary pension plans and are partly or wholly funded. The plans are managed by corporate trustees with directors appointed partly by the local company and partly by the plan members. The trustees are independent from the local company and subject to the specific country's pension laws.

Financials ­ Notes to the consolidated financial statements

Ericsson | Annual Report 2014

83

FINANCIALS ­ Notes to the consolidated financial statements

Amount recognized in the Consolidated balance sheet

Amount recognized in the Consolidated balance sheet
2014 Defined benefit obligation (DBO) Fair value of plan assets Deficit/surplus (+/­) Plans with net surplus, excluding asset ceiling 1) Provision for post-employment benefits 2)

Sweden
32,885 18,412 14,473
­ 14,473

US
18,281 19,665 ­1,384
2,057 673

2013 Defined benefit obligation (DBO) Fair value of plan assets Deficit/surplus (+/­) Plans with net surplus, excluding asset ceiling 1) Provision for post-employment benefits 2)

23,088 16,818
6,270 ­
6,270

1) Plans with a net surplus, i.e., where plan assets exceed DBO, are reported as Other financial assets, non-current: see Note C12, "Financial assets." The asset ceiling increased during the year by SEK 60 million from SEK 525 million in 2013 to SEK 585 million in 2014.
2) Plans with net liabilities are reported in the balance sheet as Post-employment benefits, non-current.

14,387 16,174 ­1,787
2,307 520

Other
22,586 18,785
3,801 1,438 5,239
15,444 13,575
1,869 1,166 3,035

Total
73,752 56,862 16,890
3,495 20,385
52,919 46,567
6,352 3,473 9,825

Total pension cost recognized in the Consolidated income statement The costs for post-employment benefits within the Company are distributed between defined contribution plans and defined benefit plans, with a trend toward defined contribution plans.

Pension costs for defined contribution plans and defined benefit plans
2014 Pension cost for defined contribution plans Pension cost for defined benefit plans Total Total pension cost expressed as a percentage of wages and salaries
2013 Pension cost for defined contribution plans Pension cost for defined benefit plans Total Total pension cost expressed as a percentage of wages and salaries
2012 Pension cost for defined contribution plans Pension cost for defined benefit plans Total Total pension cost expressed as a percentage of wages and salaries

Sweden
953 1,039 1,992
1,088 1,581 2,669
977 936 1,913

US
562 39
601
502 85
587
404 ­454
­50

Other
713 651 1,364
778 392 1,170
701 198 899

Total
2,228 1,729 3,957 6.8%
2,368 2,058 4,426 9.1%
2,082 680
2,762 5.7%

84

Ericsson | Annual Report 2014

Change in the net defined benefit obligation

Change in the net defined benefit obligation
Opening balance Reclassification 1)

Present value of obligation 2014 3)
52,919
­

Fair value of plan assets
2014
­46,567
­

Total 2014
6,352 ­

Present value of obligation 2013
51,958
1,799

Included in the income statement: Current service cost Past service cost and gains and losses on settlements Interest cost/ income (+/­) Taxes and administrative expenses Other
Remeasurements: Return on plan assets excluding amounts in interest expense/income Actuarial gains/losses (­/+) arising from changes in demographic assumptions Actuarial gains/losses (­/+) arising from changes in financial assumptions Experience-based gains/losses (­/+)
Other changes: Translation difference Contributions and payments from:
Employers 2) Plan participants Payments from plans: Benefit payments Settlements Business combinations and divestments 4) Closing balance

1,476 31
2,347 54 31
3,939
­
549 12,746
305 13,600
4,949
­574 43
­1,282 ­1,013
1,171 73,752

­ ­ ­2,244 31 3 ­2,210
­3,643
­ ­ ­ ­3,643
­5,059
­775 ­26
1,282 1,016 ­880 ­56,862

1,476 31
103 85 34
1,729
­3,643
549 12,746
305 9,957
­110
­1,349 17
0 3 291 16,890

1,351 363
2,046 129 ­4
3,885
­
46 ­3,629
611 ­2,972
­115
­554 55
­1,181 ­116 160
52,919

1) The provision for the Swedish special payroll taxes which was previously included in Other current liabilities, was in 2013 re-classified as a pension liability in line with the implementation of the revised IAS 19R on January 1, 2013.
2) The expected contribution to the plan is SEK 1,092 million during 2015. 3) The weighted average duration of DBO is 19.4 years. 4) Business combinations in 2014 are mainly related to the acquisition of Red Bee Media. In 2013 business combinations are related to the acquisition of Modems.

Fair value of plan assets
2013 ­44,642
­
­ ­ ­1,846 16 3 ­1,827
­550
­ ­ ­ ­550
190
­971 ­44
1,181 96 ­
­46,567

Present value of the defined benefit obligation
2014 DBO, closing balance
Of which partially or fully funded Of which unfunded
2013 DBO, closing balance
Of which partially or fully funded Of which unfunded

Sweden
32,885 32,348
537
23,088 22,598
490

US
18,281 17,608
673
14,387 13,867
520

Other
22,586 20,005
2,581
15,444 13,396
2,048

Total 2013 7,316 1,799
1,351 363 200 145 ­1
2,058
­550 46
­3,629 611
­3,522
75
­1,525 11
0 ­20 160 6,352
Total
73,752 69,961
3,791
52,919 49,861
3,058

Financials ­ Notes to the consolidated financial statements

Ericsson | Annual Report 2014

85

FINANCIALS ­ Notes to the consolidated financial statements

Asset allocation by asset type and geography
2014 Cash and cash equivalents Equity securities Debt securities Real estate Investment funds Assets held by insurance company Other Total
Of which real estate occupied by the Company Of which securities issued by the Company
2013 Cash and cash equivalents Equity securities Debt securities Real estate Investment funds Assets held by insurance company Other Total
Of which real estate occupied by the Company Of which securities issued by the Company

Sweden
2,118 4,598 6,815 2,383 2,498
­ ­ 18,412 ­ ­
592 2,112 3,601 1,649 8,864
­ ­ 16,818 ­ 25

US
509 1,003 14,993
­ 2,309
­ 851 19,665
­ ­
218 2,081 6,934
­ 6,512
­ 429 16,174
­ ­

Other
483 4,389 11,455
134 557 770 997 18,785
­ ­
261 4,459 6,982
76 414 633 750 13,575
­ ­

Total
3,110 9,990 33,263 2,517 5,364
770 1,848 56,862
­ ­
1,071 8,652 17,517 1,725 15,790
633 1,179 46,567
­ 25

Of which unquoted
24% 10% 83% 100% 67% 100% 71%
35% 31% 61% 100% 60% 100% 65%

Actuarial assumptions

Financial and demographic actuarial assumptions 1)

Financial assumptions Discount rate, weighted average Demographic assumptions Life expectancy after age 65 in years, weighted average

2014 3.4%
22

2013 4.5%
22

1) Weighted average for the Group for disclosure purposes only. Country-specific assumptions were used for each actuarial calculation.

Actuarial assumptions are assessed on a quarterly basis. See also Notes C1 and C2.

Sweden The defined benefit obligation has been calculated using a discount rate based on yields of covered bonds, which is higher than a discount rate based on yields of government bonds. The Swedish covered bonds are considered high-quality bonds, mainly AAA-rated, as they are secured with assets, and the market for covered bonds is considered deep and liquid, thereby meeting the revised IAS 19 requirements.

US The defined benefit obligation has been calculated using a discount rate based on yields of high-quality corporate bonds, where "high-quality" has been defined as a rating of AA and above.

Actuarial gains and losses reported directly in Other comprehensive income
Cumulative gain/loss (­/+) at beginning of year Recognized gain/loss (­/+) during the year Translation difference Cumulative gain/loss (­/+) at end of year

2014 5,219 9,957
129 15,305

2013 8,696 ­3,522
45 5,219

Total remeasurements in Other comprehensive income related to p ost-e mployment benefits

Actuarial gains and losses (+/­) The effect of asset ceiling Swedish special payroll taxes 1) Total

2014 ­8,322
­60 ­1,635 ­10,017

1) Swedish payroll taxes are included in recognized gain/loss during the year in OCI.

2013 3,128 ­308
394 3,214

Sensitivity analysis of significant actuarial assumptions Impact on DBO, SEK billion 2014 Discount rate +0.5% Discount rate ­0.5%

2014
­7 +8

2013
­5 +5

86

Ericsson | Annual Report 2014

C18  Provisions
Provisions
2014 Opening balance Additions Reversal of excess amounts
Negative effect on Income Statement Utilization/Cash out Reclassifications Translation differences Closing balance
2013 Opening balance Additions Reversal of excess amounts
Negative effect on Income Statement Cash out/utilization Balances regarding divested/acquired businesses Reclassification Translation differences Closing balance

Warranty Restruct uring

909 1,050 ­319

1,345 708
­195

­921 2
103 824

­1,202 51 94
801

1,595 924
­588
­948 ­2 1
­73 909

1,218 2,439 ­237
­2,089 0
­3 17 1,345

Other
3,108 968
­424
­938 ­16 104
2,802
5,825 1,336 ­736
­2,984 ­10
­184 ­139 3,108

Total
5,362 2,726 ­938 1,788 ­3,061
37 301 4,427
8,638 4,699 ­1,561 3,138 ­6,021
­12 ­186 ­195 5,362

Provisions will fluctuate over time depending on business mix, market mix and technology shifts. Risk assessment in the ongoing business is performed monthly to identify the need for new additions and reversals. Management uses its best judgment to estimate provisions based on this assessment. Under certain circumstances, provisions are no longer required due to outcomes being more favorable than anticipated, which affect the provisions balance as a reversal. In other cases, the outcome can be negative, and if so, a charge is recorded in the income statement.
For 2014, new or additional provisions amounting to SEK 2.7 billion were made, and SEK 0.9 billion of provisions were reversed. The actual cash outlays for 2014 were SEK 3.1 billion compared with the estimated SEK 4.2 billion. The total cash out for 2014 was made up of warranty provisions of SEK 0.9 billion, restructuring provisions of SEK 1.2 billion and other provisions of SEK 0.9 billion. The expected total cash outlays in 2015 are approximately SEK 3.2 billion.
Of the total provisions, SEK 202 (222) million is classified as non-current. For more information, see Note C1, "Significant accounting policies" and Note C2, "Critical accounting estimates and judgments."
Warranty provisions Warranty provisions are based on historic quality rates for established products as well as estimates regarding quality rates for new products and costs to remedy the various types of faults predicted. Provisions amounting to SEK 1.0 billion were made and due to more favorable o utc omes in certain cases reversals of SEK 0.3 billion were made. The actual cash outlays for 2014 were SEK 0.9 billion, in line with the expected SEK 0.7 billion. The cash outlays of warranty provisions during year 2015 are estimated to total approximately SEK 0.9 billion.

Restructuring provisions In 2014, SEK 0.7 billion in provisions were made and SEK 0.2 billion were reversed due to a more favorable outcome than expected. The cash outlays were SEK 1.2 billion for the full year, in line with the expected SEK 1.1 billion. The cash outlays for 2015 for these provisions are estimated to total approximately SEK 0.6 billion.
Other provisions Other provisions include provisions for probable contractual penalties, tax issues, litigations, supplier claims, and other. During 2014, new provisions amounting to SEK 1.0 billion were made and SEK 0.4 billion were reversed due to a more favorable outcome. The cash outlays were SEK 0.9 billion in 2014 compared to the estimate of SEK 2.4 billion. For 2015, the cash outlays are estimated to total approximately SEK 1.7 billion.

Financials ­ Notes to the consolidated financial statements

Ericsson | Annual Report 2014

87

FINANCIALS ­ Notes to the consolidated financial statements

C19  Interest-bearing liabilities
As of December 31, 2014, the Company's outstanding interest-bearing liabilities stood at SEK 24.1 (29.5) billion.

Interest-bearing liabilities
Borrowings, current Current part of non-current borrowings 1) Other current borrowings Total current borrowings
Borrowings, non-current Notes and bond loans Other borrowings, non-current Total non-current interest-bearing liabilities Total interest-bearing liabilities 1) Including notes and bond loans of SEK 0 (1.966) million.

2014
946 1,335 2,281

2013
6,037 1,351 7,388

14,346 7,518
21,864 24,145

14,522 7,545
22,067 29,455

To secure long term funding the Company uses notes and bond programs together with bilateral research and development loans. All outstanding notes and bond loans are issued by the Parent Company under its Euro Medium-Term Note (EMTN) program or under its U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) Registered program. Bonds issued at a fixed interest rate could be swapped to a floating interest rate using interest rate swaps, and normally a maximum of 50% of all outstanding loans are at fixed interest rates. Total weighted average interest rate cost during the year was 3.45% (3.27%). Outstanding notes and bonds are revalued based on changes in benchmark interest rates according to the fair value hedge methodology stipulated in IAS 39.
In January 2014, the Company repaid the SEK 4 billion EIB loan with original maturity in July 2015.
In February 2014, the Company repaid the USD 300 million note from the Swedish Export Credit Corporation with original maturity in 2016.
In June 2014, the Company repaid the EUR 220 million note. In June 2014, the Company exercised the option to extend the maturity of the USD 2 billion multi-currency revolving credit facility with one year to June 2019. One extension option of one year remains.

Notes, bonds, bilateral loans and committed credits

Issued­maturing Notes and bond loans 2007­2017 2010­2020 2) 2012­2022 Total notes and bond loans

Nominal amount
500 170 1,000

Coupon 5.375% 4.125%

Bilateral loans

2012­2019 3)

98

2012­2021 4)

98

2013­2020 5)

684

Total bilateral loans

Committed credit Long-term committed credit facility 6) Total committed credit

2,000

1) Interest rate swaps are designated as fair value hedges. 2) Private Placement, Swedish Export Credit Corporation (SEK). 3) Nordic Investment Bank (NIB), R&D project financing. 4) Nordic Investment Bank (NIB), R&D project financing. 5) European Investment Bank (EIB), R&D project financing. 6) Multi-currency revolving credit facility. Unutilized. One extension option of one year remains.

Currency EUR USD USD
USD USD USD
USD

Book value (SEK m.)
5,277 1) 1,325 7,744 14,346
763 764 5,332 6,859
0 0

Maturity date
June 27, 2017 December 23, 2020 May 15, 2022
September 30, 2019 September 30, 2021 November 6, 2020

Unrealized hedge gain/loss (included
in book value)
­551
­551

June 27, 2019

88

Ericsson | Annual Report 2014

C20 Financial risk management and financial instruments

The Company's financial risk management is governed by a policy approved by the Board of Directors. The Finance Committee of the Board of Directors is responsible for overseeing the capital structure and financial management of the Company and approving certain matters (such as investments, customer finance commitments, guarantees and borrowing) and continuously monitors the exposure to financial risks.
The Company defines its managed capital as the total Company equity. For the Company, a robust financial position with a strong equity ratio, solid investment grade rating, low leverage and ample liquidity is deemed important. This provides financial flexibility and independence to operate and manage variations in working capital needs as well as to capitalize on business opportunities.
The Company's overall capital structure should support the financial targets: to grow faster than the market, deliver best-in-class margins and generate a healthy cash flow. The capital structure is managed by balancing equity, debt financing and liquidity in such a way that the Company can secure funding of operations at a reasonable cost of capital. Regular borrowings are complemented with committed credit facilities to give additional flexibility to manage unforeseen funding needs. The Company strives to finance growth, normal capital expenditures and dividends to shareholders by generating cash flows from operating activities.

The Company's capital objectives are: >> To maintain an equity ratio above 40% >> A cash conversion rate above 70% >> To maintain a positive net cash position >> To maintain a solid investment grade rating by Moody's and
Standard & Poor's.

Capital objectives-related information, SEK billion
Capital Equity ratio Cash conversion Positive net cash

2014 145 50% 84% 27.6

2013 142 53% 79% 37.8

Credit rating Moody's Standard & Poor's

Baa1, stable

A3, negative

BBB+, stable BBB+, negative

The Company has a treasury function with the principal role to ensure that appropriate financing is in place through loans and committed credit facilities, actively managing the Company's liquidity as well as financial assets and liabilities, and managing and controlling financial risk exposures in a manner consistent with underlying business risks and financial policies. Hedging activities, cash management and insurance management are largely centralized to the treasury function in Stockholm.
The Company also has a customer finance function with the main objective to find suitable third-party financing solutions for customers and to minimize recourse to the Company. To the extent that customer loans are not provided directly by banks, the Parent Company provides or guarantees vendor credits. The customer finance function monitors the exposure from outstanding vendor credits and credit commitments.
The Company classifies financial risks as: >> Foreign exchange risk >> Interest rate risk >> Credit risk >> Liquidity and refinancing risk >> Market price risk in own and other equity instruments.
The Board of Directors has established risk limits for defined exposures to foreign exchange and interest rate risks as well as to political risks in certain countries.
For further information about accounting policies, see Note C1, " Significant accounting policies."

Foreign exchange risk The Company is a global company with sales mainly outside Sweden. Sales and incurred costs are to a large extent denominated in currencies other than SEK and therefore the financial results of the Company are impacted by currency fluctuations.
The Company reports the financial statements in SEK. Movements in exchange rates between currencies that affect these statements are impacting the comparability between periods.
Line items, primarily sales, are impacted by translation exposure incurred when converting foreign entities' financial statements into SEK. Line items and profitability, such as operating income are impacted by transaction exposure incurred when financial assets and liabilities, primarily, trade receivables and trade payables, are initially recognized and subsequently remeasured due to change in foreign exchange rates.
The table below presents the net exposure for the eight largest cur rencies impact on sales and also net transaction exposure of these currencies on profitability.

Currency exposure, SEK billion

Exposure currency USD EUR CNY JPY INR BRL GBP MXN

Sales

Sales

t ranslation t ransaction

exposure exposure

53.5

51.1

30.5

13.1

14.2

­0.3

9.4

0.0

7.6

0.0

7.1

0.0

7.1

­1.6

3.8

­4.0

Sales net exposure
104.6 43.6 13.9 9.4 7.6 7.1 5.5 ­0.2

Incurred cost

Net

transaction t ransaction

exposure 1) exposure

­19.6

31.5

­4.4

8.7

­2.0

­2.3

5.0

5.0

0.5

0.4

1.4

1.3

0.8

­0.8

1.4

­2.6

1) Transactions in foreign currency ­ internal sales, internal purchases, external purchases.

Translation exposure Translation exposure relates to sales and cost incurred in foreign entities when converted into SEK upon consolidation. These exposures cannot be addressed by hedging, but as the income statement is translated using average rate, the impact of volatility in foreign currency rates is reduced.

Transaction exposure Transaction exposure relates to sales and cost incurred in non-reporting currencies in individual group companies. Foreign exchange risk is as far as possible concentrated in Swedish group companies, primarily Ericsson AB. Sales to foreign subsidiaries are normally denominated in the functional currency of the customers, and so tend to be denominated in USD or another foreign currency. In order to limit the exposure toward exchange rate fluctuations on future revenues and costs, committed and forecasted future sales and purchases in major currencies are hedged with 7% of 12-month forecast monthly. By this way, the Company will have hedged 84% of the next month and 7% of the 12th month of an average forecast of the individual month at any given reporting date. This corre sponds to approximately 5-6 months of an average forecast.
Outstanding derivatives contracts that are hedging future sales and costs incurred are revalued against "Other operating income and expense." The sensitivity in "Other operating income and expense" in relation to this revaluation is dependent on changes in foreign exchange rates, forecasts, seasonality and hedging policy. USD is the Company's largest exposure and at year-end a change by 0.25 SEK/USD would impact profit and loss with approximately SEK 0.5 billion. Revaluation results of these derivative contracts amounted to SEK ­2 billion in 2014.
According to Company policy, transaction exposure in subsidiaries' balance sheets (i.e., trade receivables and payables and customer finance receivables) should be fully hedged, except for non-tradable currencies.
Foreign exchange exposures in balance sheet items are hedged through offsetting balances or derivatives.

Financials ­ Notes to the consolidated financial statements

Ericsson | Annual Report 2014

89

FINANCIALS ­ Notes to the consolidated financial statements

Interest rate risk The Company is exposed to interest rate risk through market value fluct uations in certain balance sheet items and through changes in interest revenues and expenses. The net cash position was SEK 27.6 (37.8) billion at the end of 2014, consisting of cash, cash equivalents and short-term investments of SEK 72.2 (77.1) billion and interest-bearing liabilities and post-employment benefits of SEK 44.5 (39.3) billion.
The Company manages the interest rate risk by i) matching fixed and floating interest rates in interest-bearing balance sheet items and ii) avoiding significant fixed interest rate exposure in the Company's net cash position. The policy is that interest-bearing assets shall have an average interest duration of between 10 and 14 months, taking derivative instruments into consideration. Interest-bearing liabilities do not have a firm target for the duration, nor a firm target for fixed/floating interest rate, as duration and interest mix are decided based on market conditions when the liabilities are issued. Group Treasury has a mandate to deviate from the asset management benchmark given by the Board and take foreign exchange positions up to an aggregated risk of VaR SEK 45 million given a confidence level of 99% and a 1-day horizon.

Interest duration, SEK billion

< 3M 3­12M

Interest-bearing trading

­2.0

0.2

Interest-bearing assets

36.5

7.2

Interest-bearing liabilities

­31.7

0.0

1­3Y 2.1 9.9
­4.7

3­5Y 0.0
20.6 ­0.6

>5Y Total

­0.3

0

­2.0 72.2

­7.5 ­44.5

When managing the interest rate exposure, the Company uses derivative instruments, such as interest rate swaps. Derivative instruments used for converting fixed rate debt into floating rate debt are designated as fair value hedges.

Outstanding derivatives

Outstanding derivatives 1)
Fair value Currency derivatives Maturity within 3 months Maturity between 3 and 12 months Maturity between 1 and 3 years Total
Of which designated in cash flow hedge relations Of which designated in net investment hedge relations

2014 Asset Liability

221

­1,132

90

­933

­

­

311

­2,065

­

­

­

­

2013 Asset Liability

512

158

293

9

8

­

813

167

­

­

­

­

Interest rate derivatives Maturity within 3 months Maturity between 3 and 12 months Maturity between 1 and 3 years Maturity between 3 and 5 years Maturity of more than 5 years Total
Of which designated in fair value hedge relations

­

­5

72 937
85 146 1,240 2)

­896 ­656 ­285 ­211 ­2,053

669

­

­
186 382 663 101 1,332 2)
724

­
269 688 163
36 1,156
­

1) Some of the derivatives hedging non-current liabilities are recognized in the balance sheet as non-current derivatives due to hedge accounting.
2) Of which SEK 551 (613) million is reported as non-current assets.

Sensitivity analysis The Company uses the VaR methodology to measure foreign exchange and interest rate risks in portfolios managed by the Treasury. This statistical method expresses the maximum potential loss that can arise with a certain degree of probability during a certain period of time. For the VaR measurement, the Company has chosen a probability level of 99% and a 1-day time horizon. The daily VaR measurement uses market volatilities and correlations based on historical daily data (one year).
The average VaR calculated for 2014 was SEK 12.2 (16.3) million for the combined mandates. No VaR-limits were exceeded during 2014.

Financial credit risk Financial instruments carry an element of risk in that counterparts may be unable to fulfill their payment obligations. This exposure arises in the investments in cash, cash equivalents, short-term investments and from derivative positions with positive unrealized results against banks and other counterparties.
The Company mitigates these risks by investing cash primarily in wellrated securities such as treasury bills, government bonds, commercial papers, and mortgage-covered bonds with short-term ratings of at least A-2/P-2 or equivalents, and long-term ratings of AAA. Separate credit limits are assigned to each counterpart in order to minimize risk concentration. All derivative transactions are covered by ISDA netting agreements to reduce the credit risk.
At December 31, 2014, the credit risk in financial cash instruments was equal to the instruments' carrying value. Credit exposure in derivative instruments was SEK 1.6 (2.1) billion.

Liquidity risk The Company minimizes the liquidity risk by maintaining a sufficient cash position, centralized cash management, investments in highly liquid interest-bearing securities, and by having sufficient committed credit lines in place to meet potential funding needs. For information about contractual obligations, please see Note C31, "Contractual obligations." The current cash position is deemed to satisfy all short-term liquidity requirements as well as non-current borrowings.

Cash, cash equivalents and short-term investments

Remaining time to maturity

SEK billion

< 3 3­12 months months

1­5 years

>5 years

Banks

38.2

0.3

0.0

0.0

Type of issuer/counterpart Governments Corporates Mortgage institutes 2014 2013

1.0

5.6 12.3

0.6

2.9

0.0

0.0

0.0

0.0

1.0 10.2

0.1

42.1

6.9 22.5

0.7

42.5

4.4 26.5

3.7

Total 38.5
19.5 2.9
11.3 72.2 77.1

The instruments are either classified as held for trading or as assets available-for-sale with maturity less than one year and are therefore short-term investments. Cash, cash equivalents and short-term investments are mainly held in SEK unless offset by EUR-funding.

90

Ericsson | Annual Report 2014

Refinancing risk Refinancing risk is the risk that the Company is unable to refinance outstanding debt under reasonable terms and conditions, or at all, at a given point in time.

Debt financing is mainly carried out through borrowing in the Swedish and international debt capital markets.
Bank financing is used for certain subsidiary funding and to obtain committed credit facilities.

Funding programs 1)

Euro Medium-Term Note program (USD million)

Amount 5,000

SEC Registered program (USD million)

2)

1) There are no financial covenants related to these programs. 2) Program amount indeterminate.

Utilized Unutilized

778 1,000

4,223 ­

Fair valuation of the Company's financial instruments The Company's financial instruments accounted for at fair value generally meet the requirements of level 1 valuation due to the fact that they are based on quoted prices in active markets for identical assets.
Exceptions to this relates to: >> OTC derivatives with an amount of gross SEK 2.9 (5.2) billion in relation
to assets and gross SEK 5.5 (4.4) billion in relation to liabilities were valued based on references to other market data as currency or interest rates. These valuations fall under level 2 valuation as defined by IFRS. >> Ownership in other companies where the Company neither has control nor significant influence. The amount recognized in these cases was SEK 0.5 (0.5) billion. These assets, classified as level 3 assets for valuation purposes, have been valued based on value in use technique.

Financial instruments carried at other than fair value The fair value of the Company's financial instruments, recognized at fair value, is determined based on quoted market prices or rates. For further information about valuation principles, see Note C1, "Significant accounting policies."
Financial instruments, such as trade receivables, borrowings and p ayables, are carried at amortized cost which is deemed to be equal to

fair value. When a market price is not readily available and there is insigni ficant interest rate exposure and credit spreads affecting the value, the carrying value is considered to represent a reasonable estimate of fair value.
Market price risk in own shares and other listed equity investments Risk related to the Company's own share price The Company is exposed to fluctuations in its own share price through stock purchase plans for employees and synthetic share-based compensations to the Board of Directors
Stock purchase plans for employees The obligation to deliver shares under the stock purchase plan is covered by holding Ericsson Class B shares as treasury stock. A change in the share price will result in a change in social security charges, which represents a risk to the income statement. The cash flow exposure is fully hedged through the holding of Ericsson Class B shares as treasury stock to be sold to generate funds, which also cover social security payments.
Synthetic share-based compensations to the Board of Directors In the case of these plans, the Company is exposed to risks in relation to own share price, both with regards to compensation expenses and social security charges. The obligation to pay compensation amounts under the synthetic share-based compensations to the Board of Directors is covered by a liability in the balance sheet.
For further information about the stock purchase plan and synthetic share-based compensations to the Board of Directors, see note C28, "Information regarding members of the Board of Directors, the Group management and employees."
Offsetting financial assets and liabilities As required by IFRS, the Company has off set financial instruments under ISDA agreements. The related assets amounted to SEK 2.9 (5.2) billion, prior to offsetting of SEK 1.4 (3.1) billion, with a net amount of SEK 1.5 (2.1) billion recognized in the balance sheet. The related liabilities amounted to SEK 5.5 (4.4) billion, prior to offsetting of SEK 1.4 (3.1) billion, with a net amount of SEK 4.1 (1.3) billion recognized in the balance sheet.

Financial instruments, book value

SEK billion
Note Assets at fair value through profit or loss Loans and receivables Financial liabilities at amortized cost
Total

Customer

Trade Short-term

Cash

finance receiva bles investm ents equivalents Borrowings

C14

C14

C19

Trade p ayables
C22

­

­

31.2

8.9

4.2

77.9

­

2.4

­

­

­

­

­

­

­

­

­24.1

­24.5

4.2

77.9

31.2

11.3

­24.1

­24.5

Other

Other

financial current

assets receiva bles

C12

C15

0.6

1.0

5.3

­

­

­

5.9

1.0

Other c urrent li abilities
C21
­4.1 ­
­ ­4.1

2014
37.6 89.8 ­48.6 78.8

2013
46.9 81.9 ­50.0 78.8

Financials ­ Notes to the consolidated financial statements

Ericsson | Annual Report 2014

91

FINANCIALS ­ Notes to the consolidated financial statements

C21  Other current liabilities

Other current liabilities

Income tax liabilities Advances from customers Accrued interest Accrued expenses
Of which employee-related Of which supplier-related Of which other 1) Deferred revenues Derivatives with a negative value 2) Other 3) Total

2014 3,225 10,076
212 35,805 13,762 13,863
8,180 11,057
4,118 5,352 69,845

2013 2,805 5,471
208 32,810 11,532 11,478
9,800 9,887 1,323 5,810 58,314

1) Major balance relates to accrued expenses for customer projects. 2) See Note C20, "Financial risk management and financial instruments." 3) Includes items such as VAT and withholding tax payables and other payroll deductions,
and liabilities for goods received where the related invoice has not yet been received.

C24 Contingent liabilities
Contingent liabilities
Contingent liabilities Total

2014 737 737

2013 657 657

Contingent liabilities assumed by Ericsson include guarantees of loans to other companies of SEK 25 (23) million. Ericsson has SEK 33 (37) million issued to guarantee the performance of a third party.
All ongoing legal and tax proceedings have been evaluated, their potential economic outflows and probability estimated and necessary provisions made. In Note C2, "Critical Accounting Estimates and Judgments." further disclosure is presented in relation to (i) key sources of estimation uncertainty and (ii) the decision made in relation to accounting policies applied.
Financial guarantees for third parties amounted to SEK 81 (116) million as of December 31, 2014. The maturity date for the majority of the issued guarantees occurs in 2018 at the latest.

C22 Trade payables
Trade payables
Payables to associated companies Other Total

2014 288
24,185 24,473

2013 333
20,169 20,502

C23 Assets pledged as collateral

Assets pledged as collateral
Chattel mortgages 1) Bank deposits Total 1) See also Note C17, "Post-Employment benefits."

2014 2,222
303 2,525

2013 2,177
379 2,556

C25 Statement of cash flows
Interest paid in 2014 was SEK 1,120 million (SEK 1,233 million in 2013 and SEK 1,650 million in 2012) and interest received in 2014 was SEK 1,369 million (SEK 1,266 million in 2013 and SEK 1,883 million in 2012). Taxes paid, including withholding tax, were SEK 6,114 million in 2014 (SEK 6,537 million in 2013 and SEK 5,750 million in 2012).
Cash and cash equivalents include cash of SEK 29,650 (28,618) million and temporary investments of SEK 11,338 (13,477) million. For more information regarding the disposition of cash and cash equivalents and unutilized credit commitments, see Note C20, "Financial risk management and financial instruments."
Cash and cash equivalents as of December 31, 2014, include SEK 5.4 billion (4.9) in countries where there exist significant cross-border conversion restrictions due to hard currency shortage or strict government controls. This amount is therefore not considered available for general use by the Parent Company.

92

Ericsson | Annual Report 2014

Adjustments to reconcile net income to cash
Property, plant and equipment Depreciation Impairment losses/reversals of impairments Total

2014
4,329 ­13
4,316

2013
4,227 ­18
4,209

2012
4,052 ­40
4,012

Intangible assets
Amortization
Capitalized development expenses
Intellectual Property Rights, brands and other intangible assets
Total amortization
Impairments
Capitalized development expenses
Intellectual Property Rights, brands and other intangible assets
Total
Total depreciation, amortization and impairment losses on property, plant and equipment and intangible assets

1,270 4,328 5,598
31
5,629

1,407
4,521 5,928
­
­ 5,928

1,058
4,436 5,494
266
117 5,877

9,945 10,137

9,889

Taxes
Dividends from joint ventures/associated companies 1)
Undistributed earnings in joint ventures/ associated companies 1)
Gains/losses on sales of investments and o perations, intangible assets and PP&E, net 2)
Other non-cash items 3)
Total adjustments to reconcile net income to cash

­1,235 249 56 128
2,057 11,200

­1,323 128 130 976 ­220
9,828

­1,140 133
11,636 ­8,087
646 13,077

1) See Note C12, "Financial assets, non-current." 2) See Note C26, "Business combinations." 3) Refers mainly to unrealized foreign exchange, gains/losses on financial instruments.

Acquisitions/divestments of subsidiaries and other operations

Acquisitions Divestments

2014 Cash flow from business combinations 1)

­4,410

42

Acquisitions/divestments of other investments

­32

6

Total

­4,442

48

2013 Cash flow from business combinations 1) Acquisitions/divestments of other investments Total

­3,054

448

­93

17

­3,147

465

2012 Cash flow from business combinations 1) Acquisitions/divestments of other investments Total
1) See also Note C26, "Business combinations."

­11,575 46
­11,529

9,502 ­50
9,452

C26 Business combinations

Acquisitions and divestments Acquisitions

Acquisitions 2012­2014 Total consideration, including cash

2014 4,767

2013 3,176

2012 12,564 1)

Acquisition-related costs 2)

50

101

150

Net assets acquired Cash and cash equivalents Property, plant and equipment Intangible assets Investments in joint ventures and associated companies Other assets Provisions, including post-employment benefits Other liabilities Total identifiable net assets

407 427 2,540

223 597 1,551

1,139 480
6,672

­ 817 ­288 ­1,150 2,753

­ 850 ­463 ­1,705 1,053

­ 2,105
714 ­3,214 7,896

Operating expenses Non-controlling interest Goodwill Total

­ ­ 2,014 4,767

410 67
1,646 3,176

­ 375 4,293 12,564

1) The cash transaction includes payment of external loan of SEK 6.2 billion and investment in subsidiary of SEK 2.5 billion.
2) Acquisition-related costs are included in Selling and administrative expenses in the consolid ated income statement.

In 2014, Ericsson made acquisitions with a negative cash flow effect amounting to SEK 4,410 (3,054) million. The acquisitions presented below are not material but the Company gives the information to provide the reader a summarized view of the content of the acquisitions made. The acquisitions consist primarily of:

Apcera: On October 10, 2014, the Company acquired a majority stake of the shares in Apcera, a U.S.- based enterprise services company and creator of ContinuumTM- a next-generation platform as-a-service (PaaS). The move strengthens Ericsson's position in the cloud market by extending the company's network approach into operator and enterprise cloud. Balances to facilitate the purchase price allocation are preliminary.

Azuki: On February 14, 2014, the Company acquired 100% of the shares in Massachusetts-based Azuki Systems, Inc., a provider of TV Anywhere delivery platforms for service providers, content owners and broadcasters. Azuki Systems extends Ericsson's leading TV and media portfolio which includes the recent addition of Mediaroom from Microsoft. Through the acquisition, Ericsson will accelerate the availability of new and compelling viewing experiences across a variety of devices and screens. In addition, Ericsson will gain additional key functionality related to the deployment of TV Anywhere services, including adaptive bit rate and content protection technologies. Balances to facilitate the purchase price allocation are final.

Fabrix: On October 8, 2014, the Company acquired 100% of the shares in Fabrix Systems, a leading provider of cloud storage, computing and network delivery for video applications that today power some of the most advanced cable and telecom cloud DVR deployments. Fabrix Systems further extends Ericsson's leading TV and media portfolio with a cloud based scale out storage and computing platform focused on providing a simple, tightly integrated solution optimized for media storage, processing and delivery applications such as cloud DVR and video-on-demand (VOD) expansion. The approach takes advantage of the latest advances in clustered storage; grid computing; virtualization and video processing technologies enabling a wide range of applications. Balances to facilitate the purchase price allocation are preliminary.

Financials ­ Notes to the consolidated financial statements

Ericsson | Annual Report 2014

93

FINANCIALS ­ Notes to the consolidated financial statements

MetraTech: On September 15, 2014, the Company acquired assets from US-based MetraTech Corp., a provider of metadata-based billing, commerce and settlement solutions uniquely adaptable to multiple business models and industries. The acquisition includes all 140 employees and contractors comprising a team of highly-skilled software experts. It will further build upon Ericsson's expertise in billing and expands its geo graphic presence in the US. The deal was structured as an asset deal. Balances to facilitate the purchase price allocation are preliminary.
Red Bee Media: On May 9, 2014, the Company acquired 100% of the shares in Red Bee Media a leading media services company headquartered in the UK. Ericsson looks forward to working with Red Bee Media's extensive list of high-profile broadcast services customers, including the BBC, BSkyB, BT Sport, Canal Digital, Channel 4, EE, UKTV, UPC, Virgin Media, and many more.
In addition, Ericsson has gained 1,500 highly skilled employees as well as media services and operations facilities in the UK, France, Germany, Spain and Australia. This will further strengthen Ericsson's broadcast s ervices business. Balances to facilitate the purchase price allocation are final.
In order to finalize a purchase price allocation all relevant information needs to be in place. Examples of such information are final consideration and final opening balances, which may remain preliminary for a period of time due to for example adjustments of working capital, tax items or decisions from local authorities.

Divestments Divestments 2012­2014
Proceeds Net assets disposed of Property, plant and equipment Investments in joint ventures and associated companies Other assets Other liabilities
Net gains/losses from divestments Less Cash and cash equivalents Cash flow effect

2014 42

2013 655

2012 9,502

­

297

­

32

­

1,353

46

1,326

296

­

­127

­483

78

1,496

1,166

­36

­841

8,336

­

­207

­

42

448

9,502

In 2014, the Company made some minor divestments with a cash flow effect amounting to SEK 42 (448) million.

Acquisitions 2012­2014 Company Apcera Fabrix MetraTech Red Bee Media
Azuki Airvana Mediaroom Telcocell Modems
Devoteam
ConceptWave Technicolor BelAir Ericsson-LG Telcordia

Description The acquisition of a majority stake in Apcera strengthens Ericsson's position in enterprise cloud. The acquisition of Fabrix Systems extends Ericsson's overall leadership position in TV & Media. The acquisition of MetraTech accelerates Ericsson's cloud and enterprise billing capabilities within BSS. A leading media services company headquartered in the UK with an extensive list of high-profile broadcast services customers. A provider of TV Anywhere delivery platforms for service providers, content owners and broadcasters. A Massachusetts-based company and supplier of EVDO software to Ericsson. The leading platform for video distribution deployed with the world's largest IPTV operators. A consulting and systems integration company specializing in Business Support Systems (BSS). Ericsson has taken on the design, development and sales of the LTE multimode thin modem solutions, including 2G, 3G and 4G interoperability. A leader in Information and Communications Technology consulting with 5,000 employees in Europe, the Middle East and Africa. A Canadian OSS and BSS company. A technology company in the media and entertainment sector. A telecom-grade Wi-Fi company based in Canada. Increase of ownership from 50% plus one share, to 75%. A US company developing software and services for OSS and BSS.

Transaction date Oct 2014 Oct 2014 Sep 2014
May 2014 Feb 2014 Sep 2013 Sep 2013 Sep 2013
Aug 2013
Apr 2013 Sep 2012 Jul 2012 Apr 2012 Mar 2012 Jan 2012

Divestments 2012­2014
Company Telecom cable business Power cables operation Applied Communication Sciences IPX EDA 1500 GPON Sony Ericsson

Description Divestment of the telecom cable business in Hudiksvall, Sweden, to Hexatronic. It resulted in a loss of SEK ­0.5 billion. Divestment of the power cables operation to NKT Cables. The transaction resulted in a loss of SEK ­0.1 billion. Sale of Applied Communication Sciences (ACS), the former research and engineering arm of Telcordia Technologies. This resulted in a loss of SEK ­0.3 billion. Sale of IPX to Gemalto, with a positive cash flow effect of SEK 260 million. Capital asset sale of EDA 1500 GPON portfolio with a positive cash flow effect of SEK 80 million. Sale of the Company's share in Sony Ericsson (50%) to Sony, with a positive cash flow effect of SEK 9.1 billion.

Transaction date Dec 2013 Jul 2013 May 2013
Sep 2012 Aug 2012 Feb 2012

94

Ericsson | Annual Report 2014

C27  Leasing
Leasing with the Company as lessee Assets under finance leases, recorded as property, plant and equipment, consist of:

Finance leases
Cost Real estate Machinery
Accumulated depreciation Real estate Machinery
Accumulated impairment losses Real estate
Net carrying value

2014
650 ­
650
­212 ­
­212
­ ­ 438

2013
1,774 3
1,777
­610 ­3
­613
­25 ­25 1,139

As of December 31, 2014, future minimum lease payment obligations were distributed as follows:

Future minimum lease payment obligations
2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 2020 and later Total Future finance charges 1) Present value of finance lease liabilities 1) Average effective interest rate on lease payables is 8.20%.

Finance leases 71 69 68 67 67 516 858 ­256 602

Operating leases 2,352 1,931 1,355 1,035 878 3,924 11,475 n/a n/a

Expenses in 2014 for leasing of assets were SEK 2,662 (2,517) million, of which variable expenses comprised SEK 19 (18) million. The leasing contracts vary in length from 1 to 24 years.
The Company's lease agreements normally do not include any contingent rents. In the few cases they occur, they relate to charges for heating linked to the oil price index. Most of the leases of real estate contain terms of renewal, giving the Company the right to prolong the agreement in question for a predefined period of time. All of the finance leases of facil ities contain purchase options. Only a very limited number of the Com pany's lease agreements contain restrictions on stockholders' equity or other means of finance. The major agreement contains a restriction stating that the Parent Company must maintain a stockholders' equity of at least SEK 25 billion.

Leases with the Company as lessor Leasing income relates to subleasing of real estate as well as equipment provided to customers under leasing arrangements. These leasing contracts vary in length from 1 to 17 years.
At December 31, 2014, future minimum payment receivables were distributed as follows:

Future minimum payment receivables
2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 2020 and later Total Unearned financial income Uncollectible lease payments Net investments in financial leases

Finance leases 26 27 1 1 ­ ­ 55 n/a n/a n/a

Operating leases 30 16 15 6 0 2 69 n/a n/a n/a

Leasing income in 2014 was SEK 74 (165) million.

Financials ­ Notes to the consolidated financial statements

Ericsson | Annual Report 2014

95

FINANCIALS ­ Notes to the consolidated financial statements

C28Information regarding members of the Board of Directors, the Group management and employees

Remuneration to the Board of Directors

Remuneration to members of the Board of Directors

Number of Value at grant

Number of

synthetic date of synthetic previously allocated

shares/portion shares allocated synthetic shares

SEK

Board fees of Board fee

in 2014

outstanding

A

Board member

Leif Johansson

3,975,000

0/0%

­

­

Sverker Martin­Löf

950,000

0/0%

­

­

Jacob Wallenberg

950,000

2,976/25%

237,455

12,050

Roxanne S. Austin

950,000

2,976/25%

237,455

23,147

Sir Peter L. Bonfield

950,000

0/0%

­

7,944

Nora Denzel

950,000

2,976/25%

237,455

­

Börje Ekholm

950,000

8,929/75%

712,445

32,249

Alexander Izosimov

950,000

2,976/25%

237,455

6,296

Ulf J. Johansson

950,000

0/0%

­

6,571

Kristin Skogen Lund

950,000

2,976/25%

237,455

2,804

Hans Vestberg

­

­

­

­

Pär Östberg

950,000

0/0%

­

­

Net change in value of s ynthetic shares 1)
B

Committee fees

Total

Total fees r emunera tion

paid in cash 2)

2014

C

(A+B+C)

­ ­ 301,555 673,905 217,687 43,331 941,756 171,613 263,274 96,186 ­ ­

400,000 175,000 175,000 175,000 250,000
­ 175,000
­ 350,000
­ ­ 250,000

4,375,000 3) 1,125,000 4)
887,500 887,500 1,200,000 712,500 412,500 712,500 5) 1,300,000 6) 712,500
­ 1,200,000

4,375,000 1,125,000 1,426,510 1,798,860 1,417,687
993,286 2,066,701 1,121,568 1,563,274 1,046,141
­ 1,200,000

Employee Representatives Pehr Claesson Kristina Davidsson Karin Åberg Rickard Fredriksson Karin Lennartsson Roger Svensson Total Total

13,500 13,500 13,500 13,500 12,000 10,500 13,551,500 13,551,500

­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ 23,809 23,809

­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ 1,899,720 1,899,720

­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ 91,061 99,966 8)

­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ 2,709,307 3,000,694 8) 9)

­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ 1,950,000 1,950,000

13,500 13.500 13,500 13,500 12,000 10,500 13,601,500 13,601,500

13,500 13,500 13,500 13,500 12,000 10,500 18,210,527 7) 18,501,914 7)

1) The difference in value as of the time for payment, compared to December 31, 2013, for synthetic shares allocated in 2009 (for which payment was made in 2014). The difference in value as of December 31, 2014, compared to December 31, 2013, for synthetic shares allocated in 2010, 2011, 2012 and 2013. Calculated on a share price of SEK 94.35. The difference in value as of December 31, 2014, compared to grant date for synthetic shares allocated in 2014. The value of synthetic shares allocated in 2010, 2011, 2012 and 2013 includes respectively SEK 2.25, SEK 2.50, SEK 2.75 and SEK 3.00 per share in compensation for dividends resolved by the Annual General Meetings 2011, 2012, 2013 and 2014 and the value of the synthetic shares allocated in 2009 includes dividend compensation for dividends resolved in 2010, 2011, 2012 and 2013.
2) Committee fee and cash portion of the Board fee. 3) In addition, an amount corresponding to statutory social charges in respect of the part of the fee that has been invoiced through a company was paid, amounting to SEK 1,374,625. 4) In addition, an amount corresponding to statutory social charges in respect of the part of the fee that has been invoiced through a company was paid, amounting to SEK 114,863. 5) In addition, an amount corresponding to statutory social charges in respect of the part of the fee that has been invoiced through a company was paid, amounting to SEK 223,868. 6) In addition, an amount corresponding to statutory social charges in respect of the part of the fee that has been invoiced through a company was paid, amounting to SEK 132,730. 7) Excluding social security charges to the amount of SEK 4,942,427. 8) Including synthetic shares previously allocated to the former Director Nancy McKinstry. 9) Including synthetic shares previously allocated to the former Director Michelangelo Volpi, where the difference in value is the difference as of the time for payment, compared to December 31, 2013.

Comments to the table >> The Chairman of the Board was entitled to a Board fee of SEK
3,975,000 and a fee of SEK 200,000 for each Board Committee on which he served as Chairman. >> The other Directors elected by the Annual General Meeting were entitled to a fee of SEK 950,000 each. In addition, the Chairman of the Audit Committee was entitled to a fee of SEK 350,000 and the other non- employee members of the Audit Committee were entitled to a fee of SEK 250,000 each. The Chairmen of the Finance and Remuneration Committees were entitled to a fee of SEK 200,000 each and the other non-employee members of the Finance and the Remuneration Committees were entitled to a fee of SEK 175,000 each. >> Members of the Board, who are not employees of the Company, have not received any remuneration other than the fees and synthetic shares as above. None of the Directors have entered into a service contract with the Parent Company or any of its subsidiaries, providing for termination benefits. >> Members and deputy members of the Board who are Ericsson employees received no remuneration or benefits other than their entitlements

as employees and a fee to the employee representatives and their d eputies of SEK 1,500 per attended Board meeting. >> Board members invoicing for the amount of the Board and Committee fee through a company may add to the invoice an amount corresponding to social charges. The social charges thus included in the invoiced amount are not higher than the general payroll tax that would otherwise have been paid by the Company. The entire amount, i.e., the cash portion of the Board fee and the Committee fee, including social charges, constitutes the invoiced Board fee. >> The Annual General Meeting 2014 resolved that non-employee Directors may choose to receive the Board fee (i.e., exclusive of Committee fee) as follows: i) 25% of the Board fee in cash and 75% in the form of synthetic shares, with a value corresponding to 75% of the Board fee at the time of allocation, ii) 50% in cash and 50% in the form of synthetic shares, or iii) 75% in cash and 25% in the form of synthetic shares. Directors may also choose not to participate in the synthetic share program and receive 100% of the Board fee in cash. Committee fees are always paid in cash.

96

Ericsson | Annual Report 2014

The number of synthetic shares allocated is based on a volume-weighted average of the market price of Ericsson Class B shares on Nasdaq Stockholm during the five trading days immediately following the publication of Ericsson's interim report for the first quarter 2014: SEK 79.79. The number of synthetic shares is rounded down to the nearest whole number of shares.
The synthetic shares are vested during the Directors' term of office and the right to receive payment with regard to the allocated synthetic shares occurs after the publication of the Company's year-end financial statement during the fifth year following the Annual General Meeting which resolved on the synthetic share program, i.e., in 2019. The amount payable shall be determined based on the volume-weighted average price for shares of Class B during the five trading days immediately following the publication of the year-end financial statement.
Synthetic shares were allocated to members of the Board for the first time in 2008 and have been allocated annually since then on equal terms and conditions. Payment based on synthetic shares allocated in 2009 occurred in 2014. In 2014, advance payment was also made to the former Director Michelangelo Volpi with respect to his synthetic shares, all in accordance with the terms and conditions for the synthetic shares. The amounts paid in 2014 under the synthetic share programs were determined based on the volume-weighed average price for shares of Class B on Nasdaq Stockholm during the five trading days immediately following the publication of the year-end financial statements for 2013: SEK 80.06 and totalled SEK 3,302,811, excluding social security charges. The payments made do not constitute a cost for the Company in 2014. The Company's costs for the synthetic shares have been disclosed each year and the net change in value of the synthetic shares for which payment was made in 2014, is disclosed in the table "Remuneration to members of the Board of Directors" on page 96.

The value of all outstanding synthetic shares fluctuates in line with the market value of Ericsson's Class B share and may differ from year to year compared to the original value on their respective grant dates. The change in value of the outstanding synthetic shares is established each year and affects the total recognized costs that year. As of December 31, 2014, the total outstanding number of synthetic shares under the programs is 123,775 and the total accounted debt is SEK 12,380,400 (including synthetic shares previously allocated to the former Director Nancy McKinstry).
Remuneration to the Group management The Company's costs for remuneration to the Group management are the costs recognized in the Income statement during the fiscal year. These costs are disclosed under "Remuneration costs" below.
Costs recognized during a fiscal year in the Income statement are not fully paid by the Company at the end of the fiscal year. The unpaid amounts that the Company has in relation to the Group management are disclosed under "Outstanding balances."
Remuneration costs The total remuneration to the President and CEO and to other members of the Group management, consisting of the Executive Leadership Team (ELT), includes fixed salary, short-term and long-term variable compensation, pension and other benefits. These remuneration elements are based on the guidelines for remuneration to Group management as approved by the Annual General Meeting held in 2014: see the approved guidelines in section "Guidelines for remuneration to Group management 2014."

Remuneration costs for the President and CEO and other members of Executive Leadership Team (ELT)

The President The President Other members

SEK

and CEO 2014 and CEO 2013

of ELT 2014

Salary

13,617,013

13,177,080

87,958,871

Cost for annual variable remuneration earned 2014 to be paid 2015

13,342,079

3,256,151

38,584,082

Long-term variable compensation provision

6,733,294

8,184,603

8,644,039

Pension costs

8,909,314

6,847,596

26,308,223

Other benefits

72,188

68,704

6,315,568

Social charges and taxes

12,750,392

9,368,485

26,880,902

Total

55,424,281

40,902,620 194,691,685

Other members of ELT 2013 90,320,536
22,880,144 9,066,127
22,971,876 5,370,876
26,838,704 177,448,263

Total 2014 101,575,884
51,926,161 15,377,333 35,217,537
6,387,757 39,631,293 250,115,966

Total 2013 103,497,616
26,136,295 17,250,731 29,819,473
5,439,579 36,207,190 218,350,883

Comments to the table >> During 2014, there were three Executive Vice Presidents, who have
been appointed by the Board of Directors. None of them has acted as deputy to the President and CEO during the year. The Executive Vice Presidents are included in the group "Other members of ELT." >> The group "Other members of ELT" comprises the following persons: Per Borgklint, Bina Chaurasia, Ulf Ewaldsson, Jan Frykhammar, Douglas L. Gilstrap (left Ericsson August 1), Nina Macpherson, Magnus Mandersson, Helena Norrman, Mats H. Olsson, Rima Qureshi, Angel Ruiz, Anders Thulin, Johan Wibergh and Jan Wäreby. >> The salary stated in the table for the President and CEO and other members of the ELT includes vacation pay paid during 2014 as well as other contracted compensation expensed in 2014. >> "Long-term variable compensation provision" refers to the compensation costs during 2014 for all outstanding share-based plans. >> For a description of compensation cost, including accounting treatment, see Note C1, "Significant accounting policies," section Share-based compensation to employees and the Board of Directors. >> For the President and CEO and other members of the ELT employed in Sweden before 2011, a supplementary plan is applied in addition to the occupational pension plan for salaried staff on the Swedish labor market (ITP) with pension payable from the age of 60 years. These p ension plans are not conditional upon future employment at Ericsson.

Outstanding balances The Company has recognized the following liabilities relating to unpaid remunerations in the Balance sheet: >> Ericsson's commitments for defined benefit based pensions as of
December 31, 2014 under IAS 19 amounted to SEK 7,610,562 for the President and CEO which includes ITP plan and early retirement. For other members of the ELT the Company's commitments amounted to SEK 36,220,736 of which SEK 33,456,584 refers to the ITP plan, Ericsson US Pension Plan and early retirement and the remaining SEK 2,764,152 to survivor's pensions. >> For previous Presidents and CEOs, the Company has made provisions for defined benefit pension plans in connection with their active service periods within the Company. >> Deferred salary, earned in 2014 or earlier, to be paid 12 months after period end or later, amounts to SEK 12,263,575.

Financials ­ Notes to the consolidated financial statements

Ericsson | Annual Report 2014

97

FINANCIALS ­ Notes to the consolidated financial statements

Maximum outstanding matching rights
As of December 31, 2014 Number of Class B shares
Stock Purchase Plans 2011-2014 Executive Performance Stock Plans 2011-2014

The President Other members

and CEO

of the ELT

268,462

354,218

Comments to the table >> For the definition of matching rights, see the description in section
"Long-term variable compensation." >> Matching result of 22.2% is included for the 2011 plan. >> Cash conversion target for 2012, 2013 and 2014 was reached. >> During 2014, the President and CEO received 178,918 matching shares
and other members of the ELT 177,339 matching shares.
Guidelines for remuneration to Group management 2014 For Group Management consisting of the Executive Leadership Team, including the President and CEO, total remuneration consists of fixed s alary, short- and long-term variable compensation, pension and other benefits.
The following guidelines apply for the remuneration to the Executive Leadership Team: >> Variable remuneration is through cash and stock-based programs
awarded against specific business targets derived from the long-term business plan approved by the Board of Directors. Targets may include financial targets at either Group or unit level, operational targets, employee engagement targets and customer satisfaction targets. >> All benefits, including pension benefits, follow the competitive practice in the home country taking total compensation into account. >> By way of exception, additional arrangements can be made when deemed necessary. An additional arrangement can be renewed but each such arrangement shall be limited in time and shall not exceed a period of 36 months and twice the remuneration that the individual would have received had no additional arrangement been made. >> The mutual notice period may be no more than six months. Upon termination of employment by the Company, severance pay amounting to a maximum of 18 months' fixed salary is paid. Notice of termination given by the employee due to significant structural changes, or other events that in a determining manner affect the content of work or the conditions for the position, is equated with notice of termination served by the Company.

Long-Term Variable compensation The Stock Purchase Plan The Stock Purchase Plan is designed to offer an incentive for all employees to participate in the Company where practicable, which is consistent with industry practice and with Ericsson's ways of working. For the 2014 plan, employees are able to save up to 7.5% of their gross fixed salary (The President and CEO can save up to 10% of their gross fixed salary and short-term variable remuneration) for purchase of Class B contribution shares at market price on Nasdaq Stockholm or American Depositary Shares (ADSs) on NASDAQ New York (contribution shares) during a 12-month period (contribution period). If the contribution shares are retained by the employee for three years after the investment and their employment with the Ericsson Group continues during that time, the employee's shares will be matched with a corresponding number of Class B shares or ADSs free of consideration. Employees in 102 countries participate in the plans.
The table below shows the contribution periods and participation details for ongoing plans as of December 31, 2014.

Stock purchase plans

Plan
Stock Purchase plan 2011
Stock Purchase plan 2012
Stock Purchase plan 2013
Stock Purchase plan 2014

Contribution period
August 2011 ­ July 2012
August 2012 ­ July 2013
August 2013 ­ July 2014
August 2014 ­ July 2015

Number of

Take-up rate

participants at ­ percent of eligible

launch

employees

24,000

30%

27,000

28%

29,000

29%

32,000

30%

Participants save each month, beginning with the August payroll, towards quarterly investments. These investments (in November, February, May and August) are matched on the third anniversary of each such investment, subject to continued employment, and hence the matching spans over two financial years and two tax years.
The Key Contributor Retention Plan The Key Contributor Retention Plan is part of Ericsson's talent management strategy and is designed to give recognition for performance, critical skills and potential as well as to encourage retention of key employees. Under the program, up to 10% of employees (2014 plan: up to 10,000 employees) are selected through a nomination process that identifies individuals according to performance, critical skills and potential. Participants selected obtain one extra matching share in addition to the ordinary one matching share for each contribution share purchased under the Stock Purchase Plan during a 12-month period.

Executive Performance Stock Plans

Matching share vesting range 2) Maximum opportunity as percentage of fixed salary 3)

2014 0.67 to 4
1 to 6 1.5 to 9
30% 45% 162%

Executive Performance Stock Plan

2013 1)

2012

2011

0.67 to 4

0.67 to 4

0.67 to 4

1 to 6

1 to 6

1 to 6

1.5 to 9

1.5 to 9

1.5 to 9

30%

30%

30%

45%

45%

45%

162%

162%

162%

1) Targets for Executive Performance Stock Plans 2012 to 2014 are described in the next table. 2) Corresponding to EPS range (no Performance Share Plan matching below this range). Matching shares per contribution share invested in addition to Stock Purchase Plan
matching according to program of up to 4, 6 or 9 matching shares. 3) At full investment, full vesting and constant share price. Excludes Stock Purchase Plan matching.

2010 0.67 to 4
1 to 6 1.5 to 9
30% 45% 162%

98

Ericsson | Annual Report 2014

Executive Performance Stock Plan targets

Base year value
SEK billion

Year 1

Year 2

Year 3

2014 Growth (Net sales growth) 1)

225.3 Compound annual growth rate of 2­8%

Margin (Operating income growth) 1)

15.7 Compound annual growth rate of 5­15%

Cash Flow (Cash conversion)

­

70%

70%

70%

2013 Growth (Net sales growth) Margin (Operating income growth) 2) Cash Flow (Cash conversion)

227.8 Compound annual growth rate of 2­8%

18.5 Compound annual growth rate of 5­15%

­

70%

70%

70%

2012 Growth (Net sales growth Margin (Operating income growth) Cash Flow (Cash conversion)

226.9 Compound annual growth rate of 2­8%

17.9 Compound annual growth rate of 5­15%

­

70%

70%

70%

1) Base year 2013 has been adjusted for the impact of the Samsung IPR agreement. 2) Base year 2012 excludes a non-cash charge for ST-Ericsson.

The Executive Performance Stock Plan The Executive Performance Stock Plan is designed to focus management on driving earnings and provide competitive remuneration. Senior managers, including ELT, are selected to obtain up to four or six extra shares (performance matching shares) in addition to the ordinary one matching share for each contribution share purchased under the Stock Purchase Plan. Up to 0.5% of employees (2014 plan: up to 450 executives) are offered participation in the plan. The President and CEO can save up to 10% of gross fixed salary and short-term variable compensation, and may obtain up to nine performance-matching shares in addition to the Stock Purchase Plan matching share for each contribution share.
The performance targets changed from EPS targets to targets linked to the business strategy as from 2011. To support the long-term strategy and value creation of the company, performance targets are from since linked to growth on Net Sales, Operating Income and Cash Conversion.
The tables above show ongoing Executive Performance Stock Plans as of December 31, 2014.

Shares for all plans

Plan (million shares) Originally designated Outstanding beginning of 2014 Awarded during 2014 Exercised/matched during 2014 Forfeited/expired during 2014 Outstanding end of 2014 1) Compensation costs charged during 2014 (SEK million)

A B C D E F=B+C­D­E G

Stock Purchase Plan, Key Contributor Retention Plan and Executive Performance Stock Plans

2014

2013

2012

2011

22.8

26.6

26.2

19.4

0.0

3.2

12.5

12.4

3.6

9.8

­

­

0.0

0.2

0.4

2.8

0.0

0.4

0.4

1.7

3.6

12.4

11.7

7.9

10 2)

219 2)

241 2)

195 2)

2010 19.4
6.0 ­
6.0 0.0 0.0 52 2)

Total 114.4
34.1 13.4
9.4 2.5 35.6 717 2)

1) Shares under the Executive Performance Stock Plans were based on the fact that the 2010 plan was fully vested and that the 2011 plan vested for 22% and lapsed for 78%. For the other ongoing plans, cost is estimated.
2) Fair value is calculated as the share price on the investment date, reduced by the net present value of the dividend expectations during the three-year vesting period. Net present value calculations are based on data from external party. Fair value is also adjusted for participants failing to keep hold of their contribution shares during the vesting period. For shares under the Executive Performance Stock Plans, the company makes a forecast for the fulfillment of the financial targets for all ongoing plans except for 2009 and 2010 plans as disclosed under 1) when calculating the compensation cost. Fair value of the Class B share at each investment date during 2014 was: February 15 SEK 72.37, May 15 SEK 71.98, August 15 SEK 74.07 and November 15 SEK 79.39.
3) Total compensation costs charged during 2013: SEK 388 million, 2012: SEK 405 million.

Shares for all plans All plans are funded with treasury stock and are equity settled. Treasury stock for all plans has been issued in directed cash issues of Class C shares at the quotient value and purchased under a public offering at the subscription price plus a premium corresponding to the subscribers' financing costs, and then converted to Class B shares.
For all plans, additional shares have been allocated for financing of social security expenses. Treasury stock is sold on the Nasdaq Stockholm to cover social security payments when arising due to matching of shares. During 2014, 1,129,800 shares were sold at an average price of SEK 85.49. Sales of shares are recognized directly in equity.
If, as of December 31, 2014, all shares allocated for future matching under the Stock Purchase Plan were transferred, and shares designated to cover social security payments were disposed of as a result of the exercise and the matching, approximately 60 million Class B shares would be transferred, corresponding to 1.9% of the total number of shares outstanding, or 3,242 million not including treasury stock. As of December 31, 2014, 63 million Class B shares were held as treasury stock.

The table above shows how shares (representing matching rights but excluding shares for social security expenses) are being used for all outstanding plans. From up to down the table includes (A) the number of shares originally approved by the Annual General Meeting; (B) the number of originally designated shares that were outstanding at the beginning of 2014; (C) the number of shares awarded during 2014; (D) the number of shares matched during 2014; (E) the number of shares forfeited by participants or expired under the plan rules during 2014; and (F) the balance left as outstanding at the end of 2014, having added new awards to the shares outstanding at the beginning of the year and deducted the shares related to awards matched, forfeited and expired. The final row (G) shows the compensation costs charged to the accounts during 2014 for each plan, calculated as fair value in SEK.
For a description of compensation cost, including accounting treatment, see Note C1, "Significant accounting policies," section Sharebased compensation to employees and the Board of Directors.

Financials ­ Notes to the consolidated financial statements

Ericsson | Annual Report 2014

99

FINANCIALS ­ Notes to the consolidated financial statements
Employee numbers, wages and salaries Employee numbers Average number of employees
North America Latin America Northern Europe & Central Asia 1) 2) Western & Central Europe 2) Mediterranean 2) Middle East Sub-Saharan Africa India North East Asia South East Asia & Oceania Total 1) Of which in Sweden 2) Of which in EU

Women 3,173 2,517 5,312 1,746 2,899 491 448 3,184 4,028 1,211
25,009 3,944 9,438

2014 Men
12,228 10,169 15,159
9,541 10,053
3,323 1,925 16,699 9,523 3,527 92,147 12,584 32,842

Total 15,401 12,686 20,471 11,287 12,952
3,814 2,373 19,883 13,551 4,738 117,156 16,528 42,280

Women 3,234 2,216 5,523 3,802 2,865 566 364 2,586 4,308 1,061
26,525 4,118
11,703

2013 Men
12,060 9,562
15,519 8,263 9,793 4,820 1,704
15,042 10,108
3,234 90,105 12,972 31,729

Total 15,294 11,778 21,042 12,065 12,658
5,386 2,068 17,628 14,416 4,295 116,630 17,090 43,432

Number of employees by region at year-end
North America Latin America Northern Europe & Central Asia 1) 2) Western & Central Europe 2) Mediterranean 2) Middle East Sub-Saharan Africa India North East Asia South East Asia & Oceania Total 1) Of which in Sweden 2) Of which in EU

2014 15,516 11,066 21,633 12,617 13,387
3,858 2,406 19,971 13,464 4,137 118,055 17,580 45,202

2013 14,931 11,445 21,892 11,530 12,314
3,752 2,084 17,622 14,503 4,267 114,340 17,858 43,421

Employee wages and salaries
Wages and salaries and social security expenses (SEK million) Wages and salaries Social security expenses
Of which pension costs

2014 58,006 17,944
3,957

2013 48,533 16,531
4,426

Amounts related to the President and CEO and the Executive Leadership Team are included.

Remuneration to Board members and Presidents in subsidiaries

(SEK million)

2014

Salary and other remuneration

288

Of which annual variable remuneration

72

Pension costs

21

2013 294 40 23

Number of employees by gender and age at year-end 2014

Under 25 years old 25­35 years old 36­45 years old 46­55 years old Over 55 years old Percent of total

Women 2,680 9,557 7,777 4,410 1,399 22%

Men 2,683 36,316 30,062 18,072 5,099 78%

Percent of total
5% 39% 32% 19%
5% 100%

Board members, Presidents and Group management by gender at year end

2014

2013

Women

Men

Women

Men

Parent Company

Board members and President

30%

70%

25%

75%

Group Management

29%

71%

29%

71%

Subsidiaries Board members and Presidents

30%

70%

27%

73%

Employee movements
Head count at year-end Employees who have left the Company Employees who have joined the Company Temporary employees

2014 118,055
15,536 19,251
776

2013 114,340
13,025 17,110
493

100

Ericsson | Annual Report 2014

C29 Related party transactions
During 2014, various related party transactions were executed pursuant to contracts based on terms customary in the industry and negotiated on an arm's length basis. For information regarding equity and Ericsson's share of assets, liabilities and income in joint ventures and associated companies, see Note C12, "Financial assets, non-current." For information regarding transactions with senior management, see Note C28, "Information regarding members of the Board of Directors, the Group management and employees."

ST-Ericsson ST-Ericsson was formed in 2009 as a joint venture, equally owned by Ericsson and STMicroelectronics. In early 2013 the parents agreed to split up and close the joint venture. The company ST-Ericsson is winding down and all business has been transferred to parents or divested during 2013. Ericsson has taken over assets and liabilities in the design, development and sales of the thin LTE multi-mode modem solution with a net value of SEK 1.1 billion. The acquired business was during 2013 consolidated in the segment Modems. In 2014, the Company announced the discontinuation of further development of modems and the shift of approximately 500 employees to Networks research and development organization to pursue growth opportunities in the radio business. During 2014 and 2013 Ericsson had no sales and purchases in the course of ordinary business, only transactions related to the winding down described above. Therefore, the descriptions below refer to the year 2012. The major transactions in 2012 were as follows: >> Sales: Ericsson provides ST-Ericsson with services in the areas of
R&D, HR, IT and facilities. >> Purchases: A major part of Ericsson's purchases from ST-Ericsson
consists of chipsets and R&D services.

ST-Ericsson
Related party transactions Sales Purchases Related party balances Receivables Liabilities 1) See text above for further information.

2014 1)
­ ­

2013 1)
­ ­

2012
138 634

­

­

127

­

­

­

Ericsson does not have any contingent liabilities, assets pledged as c ollateral or guarantees towards ST-Ericsson.

C30 Fees to Auditors

Fees to auditors
2014 Audit fees Audit-related fees Tax fees Other fees Total
2013 Audit fees Audit-related fees Tax fees Other fees Total

PwC
83 11 15 18 127
75 12 12 15 114

Others
7 0 4 1 12
7 ­ 3 1 11

Total
90 11 19 19 139
82 12 15 16 125

Note C30, cont.
2012 Audit fees Audit-related fees Tax fees Other fees Total

PwC
82 15 16 10 123

Others
5 ­ 3 10 18

Total
87 15 19 20 141

During the period 2012­2014, in addition to audit services, PwC provided certain audit-related services, tax and other services to the Company. The audit-related services include quarterly reviews, ISO audits, SSAE 16 reviews and services in connection with the issuing of certificates and opinions and consultation on financial accounting. The tax services include general expatriate services and corporate tax compliance work. Other services include, work related to acquisitions, operational effectiveness and assessments of internal control.
Audit fees to other auditors largely consist of local statutory audits.

C31  Contractual obligations

Contractual obligations 2014

SEK billion Long-term debt 1) 2) Finance lease obligations 3) Operating leases 3) Other non-current liabilities Purchase obligations 4) Trade payables Commitments for customer finance 5) Total

Payment due by period

<1

1­3

3­5

>5

year years years years

0.5

6.0

1.1 15.5

0.1

0.2

0.1

0.5

2.4

3.3

1.9

3.9

0.0

0.2

0.1

1.5

5.1

24.5

0.0

0.0

0.0

12.0

0.0

0.0

0.0

44.6

9.7

3.2 21.4

Total 23.1
0.9 11.5
1.8 5.1 24.5
12.0 78.9

1) Including interest payments. 2) See Note C19, "Financial risk management and financial instruments." 3) See Note C27, "Leasing." 4) The amounts of purchase obligations are gross, before deduction of any related provisions. 5) See also Note C14, "Trade receivables and customer finance."

For information about financial guarantees, see Note C24, "Contingent liabilities."
Except for those transactions described in this report, the Company has not been a party to any material contracts over the past three years other than those entered into during the ordinary course of business.

C32  Events after the reporting period
Rockstar Consortium LLC (Rockstar) is a company that was formed in 2011 by Apple, Blackberry, Ericsson, Microsoft, and Sony to purchase approximately 4,000 patent assets out of the original about 6000 from the Nortel bankruptcy estate. On December 23, 2014, it was agreed between the owners of Rockstar and RPX Corporation (RPXC) that RPX should purchase the remaining patents of Rockstar. The transaction occured in 2015 and the impact on income will not be material in 2015.

Financials ­ Notes to the consolidated financial statements

Ericsson | Annual Report 2014

101

FINANCIALS
Parent company FINANCIAL STATEMENTS with NOTES

Contents

Parent Company financial statements

Parent Company income statement and statement

of comprehensive income

103

Parent Company balance sheet

104

Parent Company statement of cash flows

106

Parent Company statement of changes in stockholders' equity 107

Notes to the Parent Company financial statements

P1 Significant accounting policies

108

P2 Other operating income and expenses

108

P3 Financial income and expenses

108

P4 Taxes

109

P5 Intangible assets

109

P6 Property, plant and equipment

110

P7 Financial assets

111

P8 Investments

112

P9 Inventories

113

P10 Trade receivables and customer finance

113

P11 Receivables and liabilities ­ subsidiary companies

114

P12 Other current receivables

115

P13 Equity and other comprehensive income

115

P14 Untaxed reserves

116

P15 Post-employment benefits

116

P16 Other provisions

117

P17 Interest-bearing liabilities

117

P18 Financial risk management and financial instruments

118

P19 Other current liabilities

119

P20 Trade payables

119

P21 Assets pledged as collateral

119

P22 Contingent liabilities

119

P23 Statement of cash flows

119

P24 Leasing

119

P25 Information regarding employees

120

P26 Related party transactions

120

P27 Fees to auditors

120

102

Ericsson | Annual Report 2014

Parent company FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

Parent Company income statement
January­December, SEK million Net sales Cost of sales Gross income
Selling expenses Administrative expenses Operating expenses
Other operating income and expenses Operating income
Financial income Financial expenses Income after financial items
Changes in depreciation in excess of plan Contributions to subsidiaries, net
Taxes Net income

Notes
P2 P3 P3 P14 P14 P4

2014 ­ ­ ­
­262 ­947 ­1,209
3,088 1,879
26,912 ­3,228 25,563
­ ­1,700 23,863
­263 23,600

2013 ­ ­ ­
­210 ­1,170 ­1,380
2,768 1,388
8,321 ­2,465 7,244
288 ­430 7,102 ­247 6,855

2012 ­ ­ ­
­241 ­690 ­931
2,534 1,603
11,932 ­18,392
­4,858
388 ­2,034 ­6,504
­289 ­6,793

Parent Company statement of comprehensive income
January­December, SEK million Net income
Other comprehensive income Items that may be reclassified to profit and loss Cash flow hedges
Gains/losses arising during the period Adjustments for amounts transferred to initial carrying amount of hedged items Revaluation of other investments in shares and participations Fair value remeasurement Total other comprehensive income, net of tax Total comprehensive income

2014 23,600

2013 6,855

2012 ­6,793

­ ­
46 46 23,646

­ ­
69 69 6,924

­64 ­139
­ ­203 ­6,996

Financials ­ Parent Company financial statements

Ericsson | Annual Report 2014

103

FINANCIALS ­ Parent Company financial statements
Parent Company balance sheet
December 31, SEK million Assets Fixed assets Intangible assets Tangible assets Financial assets
Investments Subsidiaries Joint ventures and associated companies Other investments
Receivables from subsidiaries Customer finance, non-current Deferred tax assets Other financial assets, non-current
Current assets Inventories Receivables
Trade receivables Customer finance, current Receivables from subsidiaries Current income taxes Other current receivables Short-term investments Cash and cash equivalents
Total assets

Notes
P5 P6
P7, P8 P7, P8 P7 P7, P11 P7, P10 P4 P7
P9
P10 P10 P11
P12 P18 P18

2014

2013

1,193

646

470

571

81,265 337 496
13,290 1,475 227 811
99,564
27
8 1,343 21,130
164 2,173 30,577 24,443 79,865 179,429

80,756 337 410
11,024 1,064 233 917
95,958
7
34 901 13,833 123 2,356 34,520 23,954 75,728 171,686

104

Ericsson | Annual Report 2014

December 31, SEK million Stockholders' equity, provisions and liabilities Stockholders' equity Capital stock Revaluation reserve Statutory reserve Restricted equity Retained earnings Net income Fair value reserves Non-restricted equity
Provisions Post-employment benefits Other provisions
Non-current liabilities Notes and bond loans Other borrowings, non-current Liabilities to subsidiaries Other non-current liabilities
Current liabilities Borrowings, current Trade payables Liabilities to subsidiaries Other current liabilities
Total stockholders' equity, provisions and liabilities
Assets pledged as collateral Contingent liabilities

Notes P13
P15 P16
P17 P17 P11
P17 P20 P11 P19
P21 P22

2014

2013

16,526 20
31,472 48,018 14,156 23,600
115 37,871 85,889
390 1,081 1,471
14,346 6,859
24,034 273
45,512
­ 615 40,687 5,255 46,557 179,429
525 20,906

16,526 20
31,472 48,018 16,874
6,855 69
23,798 71,816
407 1,690 2,097
14,522 5,686
24,034 249
44,491
6,005 611
44,444 2,222
53,282 171,686
553 15,999

Financials ­ Parent Company financial statements

Ericsson | Annual Report 2014

105

FINANCIALS ­ Parent Company financial statements
Parent Company statement of cash flows
January­December, SEK million Operating activities Net income Adjustments to reconcile net income to cash
Changes in operating net assets Inventories Customer finance, current and non-current Trade receivables Trade payables Provisions and post-employment benefits Other operating assets and liabilities, net
Cash flow from operating activities
Investing activities Investments in property, plant and equipment Investments in intangible assets Sales of property, plant and equipment Investments in shares and other investments Divestments of shares and other investments Lending, net Other investing activities Short-term investments Cash flow from investing activities Cash flow before financing activities
Financing activities Changes in current liabilities to subsidiaries Proceeds from issuance of borrowings Repayment of borrowings Stock issue Sale/repurchase of own shares Dividends paid Settled contributions from/to (­) subsidiaries Other financing activities Cash flow from financing activities Effect from remeasurement in cash Net change in cash Cash and cash equivalents, beginning of period Cash and cash equivalents, end of period

Notes P23
P18

2014
23,600 2,057
25,657
­20 ­853 ­1,083
­74 ­425 2,360
­95 25,562
­223 ­902 153 ­979 201 ­7,918
­ 3,435 ­6,233
19,329
­5,016 ­
­7,982 ­
106 ­9,702
­431 ­619 ­23,644
4,804 489
23,954 24,443

2013
6,855 956
7,811
48 54 ­2,662 279 ­1,803 901 ­3,183 4,628
­245 ­15 ­
­883 300 9,047
­ ­2,537 5,667
10,295
­2,547 4,436 ­2,916 ­ 90 ­8,863 ­2,673
­1,324 ­13,797
1,510 ­1,992
25,946 23,954

2012
­6,793 14,436
7,643
6 201 ­39 ­261 ­91 ­2,837 ­3,021 4,622
­224 ­ ­
­1,807 9,792 ­2,668
1 5,043 10,137
14,759
2,795 8,132 ­7,296
159 ­93 ­8,033 ­543 ­158 ­5,037
­1,064 8,658
17,288 25,946

106

Ericsson | Annual Report 2014

Parent Company statement of changes in stockholders' equity

SEK million January 1, 2014
Total comprehensive income
Transactions with owners Stock issue Sale of own shares Stock purchase plans Repurchase of own shares Dividends paid December 31, 2014

Capital Revaluation

stock

reserve

16,526

20

­

­

Statutory Total restric- Disposition

reserve ted equity

reserve

31,472

48,018

100

­

­

­

Fair value reserves
69

Other retained earnings
23,629

46

23,600

Non- restricted
equity 23,798
23,646

­ ­ ­ ­ ­ 16,526

­

­

­

­

­

­

­

­

­

­

­

­

106

106

­

­

­

­

­

23

23

­

­

­

­

­

­

­

­

­

­

­

­

­9,702

­9,702

20

31,472

48,018

100

115

37,656

37,871

January 1, 2013
Total comprehensive income
Transactions with owners Stock issue Sale of own shares Stock purchase plans Repurchase of own shares Dividends paid December 31, 2013

16,526 ­
­ ­ ­ ­ ­ 16,526

20

31,472

48,018

100

­

­

­

­

­

­

­

­

­

­

­

­

­

­

­

­

­

­

­

­

­

­

­

­

20

31,472

48,018

100

­

25,524

25,624

69

6,855

6,924

­

­

­

­

90

90

­

23

23

­

­

­

­

­8,863

­8,863

69

23,629

23,798

Total 71,816 23,646
­ 106
23 ­
­9,702 85,889
73,642 6,924
­ 90 23
­ ­8,863 71,816

Financials ­ Parent Company financial statements

Ericsson | Annual Report 2014

107

FINANCIALS
notes to the Parent Company FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

P1  Significant accounting policies
The financial statements of the Parent Company, Telefonaktiebolaget LM Ericsson, have been prepared in accordance with the Annual Accounts Act and RFR 2 "Reporting in separate financial statements." RFR 2 requires the Parent Company to use the same accounting principles as for the Group, i.e., IFRS, to the extent allowed by RFR 2.
The main deviations between accounting policies adopted for the Group and accounting policies for the Parent Company are:
Subsidiaries, associated companies and joint ventures The investments are accounted for according to the acquisition cost method. Investments are carried at cost and only dividends are accounted for in the income statement. An impairment test is performed annually and write­downs are made when permanent decline in value is established.
Contributions to/from subsidiaries and shareholders' contributions are accounted for according to RFR 2. Contributions from/to Swedish subsidiaries are reported net in the income statement.
Shareholders' contributions increase the Parent Company's investments.
Classification and measurement of financial instruments IAS39 Financial Instruments: Recognition and Measurement is adopted, except regarding financial guarantees where the exception allowed in RFR 2 is chosen. Financial guarantees are included in Contingent liabilities.
Leasing The Parent Company has had one rental agreement up until 2014 which was accounted for as a finance lease in the consolidated statements and as an operating lease in the Parent Company financial statements.
Deferred taxes The accounting of untaxed reserves in the balance sheet results in different accounting of deferred taxes as compared to the principles applied in the consolidated statements. Swedish GAAP and tax regulations require a company to report certain differences between the tax basis and book value as an untaxed reserve in the balance sheet of the standalone financial statements. Changes to these reserves are reported as an addition to, or withdrawal from, untaxed reserves in the income statement.
Pensions Pensions are accounted for in accordance with the recommendation FAR SRS RedR 4 "Accounting for pension liability and pension cost" from the Institute for the Accountancy Profession in Sweden. According to RFR 2, IAS 19R shall be adopted regarding supplementary disclosures when applicable.
Borrowing costs All borrowing costs in relation to qualifying assets are expensed as incurred.
Business combinations Transaction costs attributable to the acquisition are included in the cost of acquisition in the Parent Company statements compared to Group Statements where these costs are expensed as incurred.

P2  Other operating income and expenses

Other operating income and expenses
License revenues and other operating revenues Subsidiary companies Other
Net gains/losses (­) on sales of tangible assets Total

2014
2,882 207 ­1
3,088

2013
2,639 135 ­6
2,768

2012
2,488 49 ­3
2,534

P3  Financial Income and Expenses

Financial income and expenses
Financial income Result from participations in subsidiary companies
Dividends Net gains on sales Result from participations in joint ventures and associated companies Dividends Net gains on sales Result from other securities and receivables accounted for as fixed assets Net gains on sales Other interest income and similar profit/loss items Subsidiary companies Other Total
Financial expenses Losses on sales of participations in subsidiary companies Write­down of investments in subsidiary companies Net loss from joint ventures and associated companies Write­down of participations in other companies Interest expenses and similar profit/loss items
Subsidiary companies Other Other financial expenses Total Financial net

2014

2013

2012

24,644 91

7,054 8

5,031 61

249

126

132

200

195

4,768

­

6

62

740 988 26,912

357 575 8,321

472 1,406 11,932

­1 ­317
­ ­

­137

­36

­500

­

­ ­16,972

­

­47

­103 ­1,121 ­1,686 ­3,228 23,684

­154 ­977 ­697 ­2,465 5,856

­189 ­1,089
­59 ­18,392
­6,460

Interest expenses on pension liabilities are included in the interest expenses shown above.

Critical accounting estimates and judgments See Notes to the consolidated financial statements ­ Note C2, "Critical accounting estimates and judgments." Major critical accounting estimates and judgments applicable to the Parent Company include "Trade and customer finance receivables" and "Acquired intellectual property rights and other intangible assets, excluding goodwill."

108

Ericsson | Annual Report 2014

P4  Taxes

Income taxes recognized in the income statement

2014

Current income taxes for the year

­87

Current income taxes related to prior years

­170

Deferred tax income/expense (+/­)

­6

Tax expense

­263

2013 ­100 ­183
36 ­247

2012 ­125 ­112
­52 ­289

A reconciliation between actual tax expense for the year and the theoretical tax expense that would arise when applying the statutory tax rate in Sweden, 22.0% (22.0% in 2013 and 26.3% in 2012), on the income before taxes is shown in the table below.

Reconciliation of Swedish income tax rate with actual tax

2014

2013

Expected tax expense at Swedish tax rate 22.0%

­5,250 ­1,567

Current income taxes related to prior years

­170

­183

Tax effect of non­deductible expenses

­326

­23

Tax effect of non­taxable income

5,554

1,636

Tax effect related to write­downs of investments in subsidiary companies

­71

­110

Tax effect of change in deferred tax rate

­

­

Actual tax expense

­263

­247

2012
1,711 ­112
­29 2,655
­4,476 ­38
­289

P5  Intangible assets
Patents, licenses, trademarks and similar rights
Accumulated acquisition costs Opening balance Acquisitions Sales/disposals Closing balance
Accumulated amortization Opening balance Amortization Sales/disposals Closing balance
Accumulated impairment losses Opening balance Impairment losses Closing balance Net carrying value

2014
4,161 902 ­
5,063

2013
4,146 15 ­
4,161

­2,570 ­355 ­
­2,925

­2,352 ­218 ­
­2,570

­945 ­
­945 1,193

­945 ­
­945 646

The balances relate mainly to the Marconi trademark acquired during 2006 and RF technology and IPR's acquired during 2014. The useful life and amortization period for this trademark has been set to 10 years.

Deferred tax balances Tax effects of temporary differences have resulted in deferred tax assets as follows:

Deferred tax assets Deferred tax assets

2014 227

2013 233

Deferred tax assets refer mainly to costs related to customer finance and post­employment benefits.

Financials ­ Notes to the Parent Company financial statements

Ericsson | Annual Report 2014

109

FINANCIALS ­ Notes to the Parent Company financial statements
P6  Property, plant and equipment
Property, plant and equipment
2014 Accumulated acquisition costs Opening balance Additions Sales/disposals Reclassifications Closing balance
Accumulated depreciation Opening balance Depreciation Sales/disposals Closing balance Net carrying value
2013 Accumulated acquisition costs Opening balance Additions Sales/disposals Reclassifications Closing balance
Accumulated depreciation Opening balance Depreciation Sales/disposals Closing balance Net carrying value

Land and buildings

Other equipment and installations

Construction in process and advance payments

­

1,482

­

33

­

­89

­

143

­

1,569

­

­1,073

­

­171

­

81

­

­1,163

­

406

162 190 ­145 ­143
64
­ ­ ­ ­ 64

Total
1,644 223 ­234 ­
1,633
­1,073 ­171 81
­1,163 470

­

1,267

­

15

­

­77

­

277

­

1,482

­

­941

­

­203

­

71

­

­1,073

­

409

209 230
­ ­277 162
­ ­ ­ ­ 162

1,476 245 ­77 ­
1,644
­941 ­203
71 ­1,073
571

110

Ericsson | Annual Report 2014

P7  Financial assets
Investments in subsidiary companies, joint ventures and associated companies
Opening balance Acquisitions and stock issues Shareholders' contribution Reclassifications Repayment of shareholders' contribution Write-downs Disposals Closing balance

Subsidiary companies

2014

2013

80,756

80,839

820

282

115

518

2

­

­

­

­199

­500

­229

­383

81,265

80,756

Associated companies

2014

2013

337

337

­

­

­

­

­

­

­

­

­

­

­

­

337

337

Other financial assets
Accumulated acquisition costs Opening balance Additions Disposals/repayments/deductions Reclassifications Fair value remeasurement Translation difference Closing balance
Accumulated write-downs/allowances Opening balance Write-downs/allowances Disposals/repayments/deductions Reclassifications Translation difference Closing balance Net carrying value

Other investments in s hares and participations

2014

2013

Receivables from s ubsidiaries, non-current

2014

2013

466

323

11,024

15,737

42

74

­

1,405

­45

­

­

­6,000

­2

­

­

­630

46

69

­

­

­

­

2,266

512

507

466

13,290

11,024

­56

­56

­

­

­

­

­

­

45

­

­

­

­

­

­

­

­

­

­

­

­11

­56

­

­

496

410

13,290

11,024

Customer finance, n on-current

2014

2013

1,119 1,333 ­570 ­334
­ 6 1,554

1,065 345 ­49
­226 ­
­16 1,119

Other financial assets, non-current

2014

2013

917

1,153

17

42

­61

­66

­62

­212

­

­

­

­

811

917

­55 ­9 4
­13 ­6
­79 1,475

­66 ­ 6 3 2
­55 1,064

­

­

­

­

­

­

­

­

­

­

­

­

811

917

Financials ­ Notes to the Parent Company financial statements

Ericsson | Annual Report 2014

111

FINANCIALS ­ Notes to the Parent Company financial statements

P8  Investments
The following listing shows certain shareholdings owned directly and indirectly by the Parent Company as of December 31, 2014. A complete listing of shareholdings, prepared in accordance with the Swedish Annual Accounts Act and filed with the Swedish Companies Registra-
tion Office (Bolagsverket), may be obtained upon request to: Telefonaktiebolaget LM Ericsson, External Reporting, SE-16483 S tockholm, Sweden.

Shares owned directly by the Parent Company

Company Subsidiary companies Ericsson AB Ericsson Shared Services AB Netwise AB Datacenter i Rosersberg AB Datacenter i Mjärdevi Aktiebolag AB Aulis Ericsson Credit AB Other (Sweden)
Ericsson Austria GmbH Ericsson Danmark A/S Oy LM Ericsson Ab Ericsson Participations France SAS Ericsson Germany GmbH Ericsson Hungary Ltd. LM Ericsson Holdings Ltd. L M Ericsson Limited Ericsson Telecomunicazioni S.p.A. Ericsson Holding International B.V. Ericsson A/S Ericsson Television AS Ericsson Corporatia AO Ericsson España S.A. Ericsson AG Ericsson Holdings Ltd. Other (Europe, excluding Sweden)
Ericsson Holding II Inc. Companía Ericsson S.A.C.I. Ericsson Canada Inc. Belair Networks Ericsson Telecom S.A. de C.V. Other (United States, Latin America)
Teleric Pty Ltd. Ericsson Ltd. Ericsson (China) Company Ltd. Ericsson India Private Ltd. Ericsson India Global Services PVT. Ltd Fabrix Systems Ltd Ericsson-LG CO Ltd. Ericsson (Malaysia) Sdn. Bhd. Ericsson Telecommunications Pte. Ltd. Ericsson South Africa PTY. Ltd Ericsson Taiwan Ltd. Ericsson (Thailand) Ltd. Other countries (the rest of the world) Total

Reg. No.
556056-6258 556251-3266 556404-4286 556895-3748 556366-2302 556030-9899 556326-0552

Domicile
Sweden Sweden Sweden Sweden Sweden Sweden Sweden
Austria Denmark Finland France Germany Hungary Ireland Ireland Italy The Netherlands Norway Norway Russia Spain Switzerland United Kingdom
United States Argentina Canada Canada Mexico
Australia China China India India Israel Korea Malaysia Singapore South Africa Taiwan Thailand

Joint ventures and associated companies ST-Ericsson SA Rockstar Consortium Group Ericsson Nikola Tesla d.d. Total

Switzerland Canada Croatia

1) Through subsidiary holdings, total holdings amount to 100% of Compania Ericsson S.A.C.I. 2) Through subsidiary holdings, total holdings amount to 100% of Ericsson (Thailand) Ltd.

Percentage of ownership
100 100 100 100 100 100 100
­
100 100 100 100 100 100 100 100 100 100 100 100 100 100 100 100
­
100 95 1)
100 100 100
­
100 100 100 100 100 100
75 70 100 75 90 49 2)
­

Par value in local currency, million

Carrying value, SEK million

50 361
2 ­ 10 14 5 ­
4 90 13 26
­ 1,301
2 ­ 44 222 75 161 5 43 ­ 328 ­
2,896 41 ­ ­ ­ ­
20 2
65 725 389
­ 600
2 2 ­ 270 90 ­

20,731 2,216 306 88 69 6 5 1,640
65 216 196 524 4,232 120
15 33 5,357 3,199 114 1,788
5 170
­ 4,094
295
29,006 15 51
170 1,050
166
100 2
475 147
64 704 3,285
4 1 144 36 17 344 81,265

50

137

­

21

1

7

49

65

330

337

112

Ericsson | Annual Report 2014

Shares owned by subsidiary companies

Company Subsidiary companies Ericsson Cables Holding AB Ericsson France SAS Ericsson Telekommunikation GmbH 1) Ericsson Telecommunicatie B.V. Ericsson Telekomunikasyon A.S. Ericsson Ltd. Redbee Media Ericsson Inc. Ericsson Wifi Inc. Drutt Corporation Inc. Redback Networks Inc. Telcordia Technologies Inc. Ericsson Telecomunicações S.A. Ericsson Australia Pty. Ltd. Ericsson (China) Communications Co. Ltd. Nanjing Ericsson Panda Communication Co. Ltd. Ericsson Japan K.K. Ericsson Communication Solutions Pte Ltd.

Reg. No. 556044-9489

Domicile
Sweden France Germany The Netherlands Turkey United Kingdom United Kingdom United States United States United States United States United States Brazil Australia China China Japan Singapore

Percentage of ownership
100 100 100 100 100 100 100 100 100 100 100 100 100 100 100
51 100 100

1) Disclosures Pursuant to Section 264b of the German Commercial Code (Handelsgesetzbuch ­ HGB) Applying Section 264b HGB, Ericsson Holding GmbH and Ericsson Telekommunikation GmbH, located in Frankfurt am Main/Germany, are exempted from the obligation to prepare, have audited and disclose financial statements and a management report in accordance with the legal requirements being applicable for German corporations.

P9  Inventories
Inventories
Finished products and goods for resale Inventories

2014 27 27

2013 7 7

P10  Trade receivables and customer finance
Credit risk management is governed on a Group level. For further information, see Notes to the consolidated financial state-
ments ­ Note C14, "Trade receivables and customer finance" and Note C20, "Financial risk management and financial instruments."

Trade receivables and customer finance
Trade receivables excluding associated companies and joint ventures Allowances for impairment Trade receivables, net Trade receivables related to associated companies and joint ventures Trade receivables, total Customer finance Allowances for impairment Customer finance, net

2014
30 ­23
7
1 8 3,073 ­255 2,818

2013
54 ­22 32
2 34 2,040 ­75 1,965

Movements in allowances for impairment

Trade receivables

2014

2013

Opening balance

23

23

Additions

­

­

Utilization

­

­

Reversal of excess amounts

­

­

Translation difference

­

­

Closing balance

23

23

Customer finance

2014

2013

75

97

191

3

­4

­

­11

­27

4

2

255

75

Financials ­ Notes to the Parent Company financial statements

Ericsson | Annual Report 2014

113

FINANCIALS ­ Notes to the Parent Company financial statements

Aging analysis as per December 31
2014 Neither impaired nor past due Impaired, not past due Past due in less than 90 days Past due in 90 days or more Past due and impaired in less than 90 days Past due and impaired in 90 days or more Total 2013 Neither impaired nor past due Impaired, not past due Past due in less than 90 days Past due in 90 days or more Past due and impaired in less than 90 days Past due and impaired in 90 days or more Total

Trade receivables excluding associated companies and joint
ventures
23 ­
­1 ­ ­ 8
30
24 ­ 1 8 ­
23 56

Allowances for impairment of
receivables

Trade receivables related to associated companies and joint ventu-
res

­

1

­

­

­

­

­

­

­

­

­23

­

­23

1

Customer finance
2,072 94 12
682 4
209 3,073

Allowances for impairment of c ustomer finance
­ ­94
­ ­ ­3 ­158 ­255

­

2

1,404

­

­

­

80

­63

­

­

58

­

­

­

448

­

­

­

18

­9

­23

­

32

­3

­23

2

2,040

­75

Outstanding customer finance
On-balance sheet customer finance Financial guarantees for third parties Total customer finance Accrued interest Less third-party risk coverage Parent Company's risk exposure On-balance sheet credits, net carrying value
Of which current Credit commitments for customer finance

2014 3,073
75 3,148
172 ­649 2,671 2,818 1,343 4,975

2013 2,040
178 2,218
115 ­213 2,120 1,965 901 456

Transfers of financial assets Transfers where the Parent Company has not derecognized the assets in their entirety As per December 31, 2014 there existed certain customer financing assets that the Parent Company had transferred to third parties where the Parent Company did not derecognize the assets in their entirety. The total carrying amount of the original assets transferred was SEK 811 (899) million; the amount of the assets that the Parent Company continues to recognize was SEK 168 (210) million; and the carrying amount of the a ssociated liabilities was SEK 0 (0) million.

P11 Receivables and liabilities ­ subsidiary companies

Receivables and liabilities ­ subsidiary companies

Payment due by period

<1

1­5

>5

year years years

Non-current receivables 1)

Financial receivables

41 13,249

­

Current receivables

Trade receivables

5,228

­

­

Financial receivables

15,902

­

­

Total

21,130

­

­

Total 2014
13,290
5,228 15,902 21,130

Total 2013
11,024
3,573 10,260 13,833

Non-current liabilities 1) Financial liabilities Current liabilities Trade payables Financial liabilities Total

­
454 40,233 40,687

­ 24,034 24,034 24,034

­

­

454

502

­

­ 40,233 43,942

­

­ 40,687 44,444

1) Including non-interest-bearing receivables and liabilities, net, amounting to SEK ­24,034 (­24,034) million.

114

Ericsson | Annual Report 2014

P12  Other current receivables
Other current receivables
Prepaid expenses Accrued revenues Derivatives with a positive value Other Total

2014 516 263 993 401
2,173

2013 506 126
1,527 197
2,356

P13  Equity and other comprehensive income
Capital stock 2014 Capital stock at December 31, 2014, consisted of the following:

Capital stock

Class A shares 1) Class B shares 1) Total

Number of shares 261,755,983
3,043,295,752 3,305,051,735

Capital stock 1,309
15,217 16,526

1) Class A shares (quotient value SEK 5.00) and Class B shares (quotient value SEK 5.00).

Equity and other comprehensive income 2014

January 1, 2014
Net income
Other comprehensive income Items that may be reclassified to profit or loss Revaluation of other investments in shares and participations
Fair value remeasurement Total other comprehensive income, net of tax Total comprehensive income
Transactions with owners Stock issue Sale of own shares Stock Purchase Plans Repurchase of own shares Dividends paid December 31, 2014

Capital Revaluation

stock

reserve

16,526

20

­

­

­

­

­

­

­

­

­

­

­

­

­

­

­

­

­

­

16,526

20

Statutory Total restric- Disposition

reserve ted equity

reserve

31,472

48,018

100

­

­

­

­

­

­

­

­

­

­

­

­

­

­

­

­

­

­

­

­

­

­

­

­

­

­

­

31,472

48,018

100

Fair value reserves
69

Other retained earnings
23,629

­

23,600

46

­

46

­

46

­

­

­

­

106

­

23

­

­

­

­9,702

115

37,656

Non- restricted
equity 23,798 23,600
46
46 46
­ 106
23 ­
­9,702 37,871

Total 71,816 23,600
46 46 46
­ 106
23 ­
­9,702 85,889

Equity and other comprehensive income 2013

January 1, 2013
Net income
Other comprehensive income Items that may be reclassified to profit or loss Revaluation of other investments in shares and participations
Fair value remeasurement Total other comprehensive income, net of tax Total comprehensive income
Transactions with owners Stock issue Sale of own shares Stock Purchase Plans Repurchase of own shares Dividends paid December 31, 2013

Capital Revaluation

stock

reserve

16,526

20

­

­

­

­

­

­

­

­

­

­

­

­

­

­

­

­

­

­

16,526

20

Statutory Total restric- Disposition

reserve ted equity

reserve

31,472

48,018

100

­

­

­

­

­

­

­

­

­

­

­

­

­

­

­

­

­

­

­

­

­

­

­

­

­

­

­

31,472

48,018

100

Fair value reserves
­

Other retained earnings
25,524

­

6,855

69

­

69

­

69

­

­

­

­

90

­

23

­

­

­

­8,863

69

23,629

Non- restricted
equity 25,624
6,855
69
69 69
­ 90 23
­ ­8,863 23,798

Total 73,642
6,855
69 69 69
­ 90 23
­ ­8,863 71,816

Financials ­ Notes to the Parent Company financial statements

Ericsson | Annual Report 2014

115

FINANCIALS ­ Notes to the Parent Company financial statements

P14  Untaxed reserves

Untaxed reserves
2014 Accumulated depreciation in excess of plan Total accumulated depreciation in excess of plan

Additions/ Jan 1 withdrawals (­) Dec 31

­

­

­

Contributions to Swedish subsidiaries amount to SEK 1,700 (430) million. There were no contributions from Swedish subsidiaries in 2014 and 2013.

P15  Post-employment benefits
The Parent Company has two types of pension plans: >> Defined contribution plans: post-employment benefit plans where the
Parent Company pays fixed contributions into separate entities and has no legal or constructive obligation to pay further contributions if the entities do not hold sufficient assets to pay all employee benefits relating to employee service. The expenses for defined contribution plans are recognized during the period when the employee provides service. >> Defined benefit plans: post-employment benefit plans where the Parent Company's undertaking is to provide predetermined benefits that the employee will receive on or after retirement. The ITP2 plan for the Parent Company is partly funded. ITP2 is a supplementary pension plan for salaried employees born before 1979. Pension obligations are calculated annually, on the balance sheet date, based on actuarial assumptions.

Defined benefit obligation ­ amount recognized in the Balance sheet

Present value of wholly or partially funded pension plans 1) Fair value of plan assets Unfunded/net surplus (­) of funded pension plans Present value of unfunded pension plans Excess from plan assets not accounted for Payment to pension trust, reclassified Closing balance provision for pensions

2014 793
­1,031 ­238 390 238 ­ 390

2013 754 ­947 ­193 407 185 8 407

1) The ITP2 obligation is covered by the Swedish law on safeguarding of pension commitments and amounts to SEK 755 (737) million.

The defined benefit obligations are calculated based on the actual salary levels at year-end and based on a discount rate of 3.4%.
Weighted average life expectancy after the age of 65 is 25 years for women and 23 years for men.
In 2005, SEK 524 million was transferred into the Swedish pension trust. From 2009­2014 additional transfers of SEK 182 million have been made.
The Parent Company utilizes no assets held by the pension trust. Return on plan assets was 8.1 (5.8)%.

Plan assets allocation
Cash and cash equivalents Equity securities Debt securities Real estate Investment funds Total
Of which Ericsson securities

2014 118 258 382 133 140
1031 ­

2013 33
119 203
93 499 947
1

Change in the defined benefit obligation
Opening balance Payment to pension trust Payment to pension trust, reclassified Pension costs, excluding taxes, related to defined benefit obligations accounted for in the income statement Pension payments Return on plan assets Return on plan assets not accounted for Closing balance provision for pensions

2014 407 ­6 ­8
93 ­72 ­77 53 390

2013 386 ­23 ­17
126 ­65 ­51 51 407

Estimated pension payments for 2015 are SEK 68 million.

Total pension cost and income recognized in the Income statement

2014

2013

Defined benefit obligations

Costs excluding interest and taxes

39

87

Interest cost

54

40

Credit insurance premium

2

1

Total cost defined benefit plans excluding taxes

95

128

Defined contribution plans Pension insurance premium Total cost defined contribution plans excluding taxes Return on plan assets Total pension cost, net excluding taxes

65

73

65

73

­24

­

136

201

2012
61 39
1
101
59
59 ­
160

Of the total pension cost, SEK 106 (161 in 2013 and 121 in 2012) million is included in operating expenses and SEK 30 (40 in 2013 and 39 in 2012) million in the financial net.

116

Ericsson | Annual Report 2014

P16  Other provisions
Other provisions
2014 Opening balance Additions Reversal of excess amounts Cash out/utilization Reclassifications Closing balance
2013 Opening balance Additions Reversal of excess amounts Cash out/utilization Reclassifications Closing balance 1) Of which SEK 1,073 (1,540) million is expected to be utilized within one year.

Restructuring
159 12 ­40 ­99 ­ 32
71 170
­ ­82
­ 159

Customer finance
89 1 ­4
­78 ­ 8
84 5 ­ ­ ­
89

Other

Total other p rovisions1)

1,442 93
­200 ­294
­ 1,041

1,690 106
­244 ­471
­ 1,081

3,554 218 ­195
­2,135 ­
1,442

3,709 393 ­195
­2,217 ­
1,690

p17  Interest-bearing liabilities
As of December 31, 2014, the Parent Company's outstanding interestbearing liabilities, excluding liabilities to subsidiaries, stood at SEK 21.2 (26.2) billion.

Interest-bearing liabilities
Borrowings, current Current part of non-current borrowings 1) Other current borrowings Total current borrowings
Borrowings, non-current Notes and bond loans Other borrowings, non-current Total non-current interest-bearing liabilities Total interest-bearing liabilities 1) Including notes and bond loans of SEK 0 (1,966) million.

2014
­ ­ ­

2013
5,966 39
6,005

14,346 6,859
21,205 21,205

14,522 5,686
20,208 26,213

To secure long-term funding the Parent Company use notes and bond programs together with bilateral research and development facilities. All outstanding notes and bond loans are issued under the Euro MediumTerm Note (EMTN) program or under the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) Registered program. Bonds issued at a fixed interest rate could be swapped to a floating interest rate using interest rate swaps, and normally a maximum of 50% of all outstanding loans are at fixed interest rates. Total weighted average interest rate cost during the year was 4.18% (4.44%). Outstanding notes and bonds are revalued based on changes in benchmark interest rates according to the fair value hedge methodology stipulated in IAS 39.
In January 2014 the Parent Company repaid the SEK 4 billion EIB loan with original maturity July 2015.
In February 2014 the Parent Company repaid the USD 300 million note from the Swedish Export Credit Corporation with original maturity in 2016.
In June 2014 the Parent Company repaid the EUR 220 million note. In June 2014 the Parent Company exercised the option to extend the maturity of the USD 2 billion multi-currency revolving credit facility with one year to June 2019. One extension option of one year remains.

Notes, bonds, bilateral loans and committed credits

Issued­maturing Notes and bond loans

Nominal amount

Coupon

Currency

Book value (SEK)

Maturity date

Unrealized hedge gain/loss (included
in book value)

2007­2017

500

5.375%

EUR

5,277 1)

June 27, 2017

­551

2010­2020 2) 2012­2022 Total notes and bond loans
Bilateral loans

170 1,000

4.125%

USD USD

1,325 7,744 14,346

December 23, 2020 May 15, 2022

­551

2012­2019 3) 2012­2021 4) 2013­2020 5) Total bilateral loans

98

USD

763

98

USD

764

684

USD

5,332

6,859

Committed credit Long-term committed credit facility 6) Total committed credit

2,000

USD

0

0

1) Interest rate swaps are designated as fair value hedges. 2) Private Placement, Swedish Export Credit Corporation (SEK). 3) Nordic Investment Bank (NIB), R&D project financing.

4) Nordic Investment Bank (NIB), R&D project financing. 5) European Investment Bank (EIB), R&D project financing.

September 30, 2019 September 30, 2021 November 6, 2020
June 27, 2019
6) Multi-currency revolving credit facility. Unutilized. One extension option of one year remains.

Financials ­ Notes to the Parent Company financial statements

Ericsson | Annual Report 2014

117

FINANCIALS ­ Notes to the Parent Company financial statements

P18 Financial risk management and financial instruments

Ericsson's financial risk management is governed on a Group level. For further information see Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements, Note C20, "Financial Risk Management and Financial Instruments".

Outstanding derivatives 1)
Fair value Currency derivatives Maturity within 3 months Maturity between 3 and 12 months Maturity between 1 and 3 years Total
Of which internal

2014 Asset Liability

1,351
946 0
2,297 1,994

1,185
933 0
2,118 63

2013 Asset Liability

523

604

290

266

8

­

821

870

23

720

Interest rate derivatives Maturity within 3 months Maturity between 3 and 12 months Maturity between 1 and 3 years Maturity between 3 and 5 years Maturity of more than 5 years Total
Of which designated in fair value hedge relations

0
72 937
85 146 1,240 2)
669

5
896 656 285 211 2,053
0

­
186 382 663 101 1,332 2)
724

­
269 688 163
36 1,156
­

1) Some of the derivatives hedging non-current liabilities are recognized in the balance sheet as non-current due to hedge accounting
2) Of which SEK 551 (613) million is reported as non-current assets.

Cash, cash equivalents and short-term investments

Remaining time to maturity

SEK billion

< 3 3­12 months months

1­5 years

>5 years

Bank Deposits

15.4

Type of issuer/counterpart Governments Banks Corporations Mortgage institutes 2014 2013

1.0

5.5 12.3

0.6

6.1

2.9

1.0 10.1

0.1

25.4

6.5 22.4

0.7

24.3

4.0 26.5

3.7

Total 15.4
19.4 6.1 2.9
11.2 55.0 58.5

a vailable-for-sale with maturity less than one year and are therefore shortterm investments. Cash, cash equivalents and short-term investments are mainly held in SEK unless offset by EUR-funding.
Debt financing is mainly carried out through borrowing in the Swedish and international debt capital markets.
Bank financing is used for certain subsidiary funding and to obtain committed credit facilities.

Funding programs 1)

Euro Medium-Term Note program (USD million)
SEC Registered program (USD million)

Amount
5,000
2)

1) There are no financial covenants related to these programs. 2) Program amount indeterminate.

Utilized Unutilized

778 1,000

4,223

In May 2014 Moody's changed the Company's credit rating from A3 (negative) to Baa1 (stable). In August 2014 Standard & Poor's changed the Company's credit rating outlook from BBB+ (negative) to BBB+ (stable). Both credit ratings are considered to be solid investment grade.

Fair valuation of the Company's financial instruments The Company's financial instruments generally meet the requirements of level 1 valuation due to the fact that they are based on quoted prices in active markets for identical assets.
Exceptions to this relates to: >> OTC derivatives with an amount of gross SEK 4.9 (5.2) billion in relation
to assets and gross SEK 5.5 (5.1) billion in relation to liabilities were valued based on references to other market data as currency or interest rates. These valuations fall under level 2 valuation as defined by IFRS. >> Ownership in other companies where the Company neither has control nor significant influence. The amount recognized in these cases was SEK 0.5 (0.5) billion. These assets, classified as level 3 assets for valuation purposes, have been valued based on value in use technique.

The instruments are either classified as held for trading or as assets

Financial instruments, book value

SEK billion
Note Assets at fair value through profit or loss Loans and receivables Financial Liabilities at amortized cost
Total

Short-

Trade

term

receiv ables investment

P10

­

30.6

2.8

­

­

­

2.8

30.6

Rece iv ables and liabilities
subsidi aries Borrowings

P11

P17

­

­

34.4

­

­64.7 ­30.3

­21.2 ­21.2

Trade payables
P20

Other Cash current equivalent receivables
P12

­

8.9

1.0

­

­

­

­0.4

­

­

­0.4

8.9

1.0

Other current liabilities
P19
­4.1 ­
­ ­4.1

Other noncurrent assets
0.6 ­
­ 0.6

2014
37.0 37.2 ­86.3 ­12.1

2013
46.4 26.9 ­95.1 ­21.8

118

Ericsson | Annual Report 2014

P19  Other current liabilities
Other current liabilities
Accrued interest Accrued expenses, of which Employee related Other Deferred revenues Derivatives with a negative value Other current liabilities Total

2014 205 693 357 336 41
4,109 207
5,255

2013 189 633 299 334 15
1,305 80
2,222

P20 Trade payables
Trade payables
Trade payables excluding associated companies and joint ventures Associated companies and joint ventures Total
All trade payables fall due within 90 days.

2014
411 204 615

2013
407 204 611

P21  Assets pledged as collateral

Assets pledged as collateral
Bank deposits Total

2014 525 525

2013 553 553

The major item in bank deposits is the internal bank's clearing and settlement commitments of SEK 303 (376) million.

P22 Contingent liabilities
Contingent liabilities Total contingent liabilities

2014 20,906

2013 15,999

Contingent liabilities include pension commitments of SEK 16,910 (14,362) million.
In accordance with standard industry practice, the Company enters into commercial contract guarantees related to contracts for the supply of telecommunication equipment and services. The total amount for 2014 was SEK 19,801(16,595) million. Potential payments due under these bonds are related to the Company's performance under applicable contracts.
For information about financial guarantees, see Note P10, "Trade Receivables and Customer Finance."

P23 Statement of cash flows
Interest paid in 2014 amounted to SEK 864 million (SEK 1,022 in 2013 and SEK 1,218 million in 2012) and interest received was SEK 1,657 million (SEK 1,203 in 2013 and SEK 1,536 million in 2012). Income taxes paid were SEK 321 million (income taxes paid were SEK 255 million in 2013 and income taxes received SEK 133 million in 2012).

Adjustments to reconcile net income to cash
Property, plant and equipment Depreciation Total Intangible assets Amortization Impairment losses Total Total depreciation and amortization on t angible and intangible assets Taxes Write-downs and capital gains (­)/losses on sale of fixed assets, excluding customer finance, net Additions to/withdrawals from (­) untaxed reserves Unsettled group contributions Unsettled dividends Other non-cash items Total adjustments to reconcile net income to cash

2014
171 171
355 ­
355
526 ­58
28
­ 1,700
­ ­139
2,057

2013
203 203
218 ­
218
421 ­7

2012
177 177
218 ­
218
395 421

434
­288 430
­ ­34
956

12,167
­388 2,034
­ ­193
14,436

P24 Leasing
Leasing with the Parent Company as lessee At December 31, 2014, future payment obligations for leases were distributed as follows:

Future payment obligations for leases
2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 and later Total

Operating leases 742 637 495 355 304
1,190 3,723

Leasing with the Parent Company as lessor At December 31, 2014, future minimum payment receivables were d istributed as follows:

Future minimum payment receivables
2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 and later Total

Operating leases 6 1 1 1 ­ ­ 9

The operating lease income is mainly income from the subleasing of real estate. See Notes to the consolidated financial statements, Note C27, "Leasing."

Financials ­ Notes to the Parent Company financial statements

Ericsson | Annual Report 2014

119

FINANCIALS ­ Notes to the Parent Company financial statements

P25 Information regarding employees

Average number of employees

2014

Men Women

Northern Europe & Central Asia 1) 2)

187

172

Middle East

168

20

Total

355

192

1) Of which in Sweden

187

172

2) Of which in EU

187

172

Total
359 188 547 359 359

2013 Men Women

189

168

217

27

406

195

189

168

189

168

Total
357 244 601 357 357

Remuneration Wages and salaries and social security expenses
Wages and salaries Social security expenses
Of which pension costs

2014 707 341 180

2013 644 380 246

Wages and salaries per geographical area
Northern Europe & Central Asia 1) 2) Middle East Total 1) Of which in Sweden 2) Of which in the EU

2014 460 247 707 460 460

2013 410 234 644 410 410

Remuneration in foreign currency has been translated to SEK at average exchange rates for the year.

Remuneration to the Board of Directors and the President and CEO See Notes to the consolidated financial statements, Note C28, "Information Regarding members of the Board of Directors, the Group management and employees."

Long-term variable compensation The Stock Purchase Plan Compensation costs for all employees of the Parent Company amounted to SEK 22.4 (22.1) million.

P26  Related party transactions
During 2014, various transactions were executed pursuant to contracts based on terms customary in the industry and negotiated on an arm's length basis.

Ericsson Nikola Tesla d.d. Ericsson Nikola Tesla d.d. is a company providing the design, sales and service of telecommunications systems and equipment and an associated member of the Ericsson Group. Ericsson Nikola Tesla d.d. is located in Zagreb, Croatia. The Parent Company holds 49.07% of the shares.
For the Parent Company, the major transactions are license revenues for Ericsson Nikola Tesla d.d.'s usage of trademarks and received dividends.

Ericsson Nikola Tesla d.d.
Related party transactions License revenues Dividends Related party balances Receivables

2014
1 249
1

2013
12 128
2

The Parent Company does not have any contingent liabilities, assets pledged as collateral or guarantees toward Ericsson Nikola Tesla d.d.

ST-Ericsson ST-Ericsson was formed in 2009 as a joint venture, equally owned by Ericsson and STMicroelectronics.
In early 2013 the parents agreed to split up and close the joint venture. The company ST-Ericsson is winding down and all business has been transferred to parents or divested during 2013. In 2013, the Parent C ompany acquired the remaining shares in ST-Ericsson AT SA which is now a fully owned subsidiary.
The Parent Company does not have any contingent liabilities, assets pledged as collateral or guarantees towards ST-Ericsson.

ST-Ericsson
Related party transactions License revenues Dividends Related party balances Receivables Payables

2014
­ 142
170 186

2013
­ 23
­ 204

Other related parties For information regarding the remuneration of management, see Notes to the consolidated financial statements, Note C28, "Information regarding members of the Board of Directors, the Group management and employees."

P27  Fees to auditors

Fees to auditors
2014 Audit fees Audit-related fees Tax services fees Other fees Total
2013 Audit fees Audit-related fees Tax services fees Other fees Total
2012 Audit fees Audit-related fees Tax services fees Other fees Total

PwC
24 7 1 1
33
22 8 1
10 41
23 11
1 5 40

The allocation of fees to the auditors is based on the requirements in the Swedish Annual Accounts Act.

During the period 2012­2014, in addition to audit services, PwC provided certain audit-related services, tax and other services to the Parent Company. The audit-related services include quarterly reviews, SSAE 16 reviews and services in connection with the issuing of certificates and o pinions and consultation on financial accounting. The tax services include general expatriate services and corporate tax compliance work. Other services include services related to acquisitions, operational e ffectiveness and assessments of internal control.

120

Ericsson | Annual Report 2014

FINANCIALS
risk factors

Contents

Market, technology and business risks

121

Regulatory, compliance and corporate governance risks

126

Risks associated with owning Ericsson shares

128

You should carefully consider all the information in this Annual Report and in particular the risks and uncertainties outlined below. Based on the information currently known to us, we believe that the following information identifies the most significant risk factors affecting our business. Any of the factors described below, or any other risk factors discussed elsewhere in this report, could have a material negative effect on our business, revenues, operating and after-tax results, profit margins, financial condition, cash flow, liquidity, credit rating, market share, reputation, brand and/or our share price. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us or that we currently believe to be immaterial may also materially adversely affect our business. Furthermore, our operating results may have a greater variability than in the past and we may have difficulties in accurately predicting future developments. See also "Forward-Looking Statements."
Market, Technology and Business Risks
Challenging global economic conditions may adversely impact the demand and pricing for our products and services as well as limit our ability to grow. Challenging global economic conditions and political unrest could have adverse, wide-ranging effects on demand for our products and for the products of our customers. Adverse global economic conditions and political unrest, could cause operators and other customers to postpone investments or initiate other cost-cutting initiatives to improve their financial position. This could result in significantly reduced expenditures for our products and services, including network infrastructure, in which case our operating results would suffer. If demand for our products and services were to fall in the future, we could experience material adverse effects on our revenues, cash flow, capital employed and value of our assets and we could incur operating losses. Furthermore, if demand is significantly weaker or more volatile than expected, our credit rating, borrowing opportunities and costs as well as the trading price of our shares could be adversely impacted. Should global economic conditions fail to improve, or worsen, other business risks we face could intensify and could also negatively impact the business prospects of operators and other customers. Some operators and other customers, in particular in markets with weak currencies, may incur borrowing difficulties and slower traffic development, which may negatively affect their investment plans and cause them to purchase less of our products and services.

The potential adverse effects of an economic downturn include: >> Reduced demand for products and services, resulting in
increased price competition or deferrals of purchases, with lower revenues not fully compensated through reduced costs >> Risks of excess and obsolete inventories and excess manu facturing capacity >> Risk of financial difficulties or failures among our suppliers >> Increased demand for customer finance, difficulties in collection of accounts receivable and increased risk of counter party failures >> Risk of impairment losses related to our intangible assets as a result of lower forecasted sales of certain products >> Increased difficulties in forecasting sales and financial results as well as increased volatility in our reported results >> Changes in the value in our pension plan assets resulting from for example, adverse equity and credit market developments and/or increased pension liabilities resulting from, for example, lower discount rates. Such development may trigger additional pension trust capitalization needs affecting the company's cash balance negatively >> End user demand could also be adversely affected by reduced consumer spending on technology, changed operator pricing, security breaches and trust issues.
We may not be successful in implementing our strategy or in achieving improvements in our earnings. There can be no assurance that we will be able to successfully implement our strategy to achieve future earnings, growth or create shareholder value. When deemed necessary, we undertake specific restructuring or cost-saving initiatives; however, there are no guarantees that such initiatives will be sufficient, successful or executed in time to deliver any improvements in our earnings.
The telecommunications industry fluctuates and is affected by many factors, including the economic environment, and decisions made by operators and other customers regarding their deployment of technology and their timing of purchases. The telecommunications industry has experienced downturns in the past in which operators substantially reduced their capital spending on new equipment. While we expect the network service provider equipment market, telecommunications services market and ICT market to grow in the coming years, the uncertainty surrounding the global economic recovery may materially harm actual market conditions. Moreover, market conditions are subject to substantial fluctuation, and could vary geographically and across technologies. Even if global conditions improve, conditions in the specific industry segments in which we participate may be weaker than in other segments. In that case, our revenue and operating results may be adversely affected.
If capital expenditures by operators and other customers are weaker than we anticipate, our revenues, operating results and profitability may be adversely affected. The level of demand from operators and other customers who buy our products and services can change quickly and can vary over short periods of time, including from month to month. Due to the uncertainty and varia-

Financials ­ Risk factors

Ericsson | Annual Report 2014

121

FINANCIALS ­ Risk factors

tions in the telecommunications industry, as well as in the ICT industry, accurately forecasting revenues, results, and cash flow remains difficult.
Sales volumes and gross margin levels are affected by the mix and order time of our products and services. Our sales to operators and other customers represent a mix of equipment, software and services, which normally generate different gross margins. We sell our own products as well as third party products, which normally have lower margins than our own products. As a consequence, our reported gross margin in a s pecific period will be affected by the overall mix of products and services as well as the relative content of third party products. Further, network expansions and upgrades have much shorter lead times for delivery than initial network build outs. Orders for such network expansions and upgrades are normally placed at short notice by customers, often less than a month in advance, and consequently variations in demand are difficult to forecast. As a result, changes in our product and service mix and the short order time for certain of our products may affect our ability to accurately forecast sales and margins or detect in advance whether actual results will deviate from market consensus. S hort-term variation could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results, financial condition and cash flow.
We may not be able to properly respond to market trends in the industries in which we operate, including the ongoing convergence of the telecom, data and media industries, which may harm our market position relative to our competitors. We are affected by market conditions and trends within the industries in which we operate, including the convergence of the telecom, data and media industries. Convergence is largely driven by technological development related to IP-based communications. This has changed the competitive landscape and affects our objective-setting, risk assessment and strategies. Competitors new to our business have entered and may continue to enter this new business context and negatively impact our market share in selected areas. If we fail to understand the market development, or fail to acquire the necessary competencies to develop and sell products, services and solutions that are competitive in this changing business environment, our business, operating results and financial condition will suffer.
Our business depends upon the continued growth of mobile communications and the acceptance of new services. If growth slows or new services do not succeed, operators' investment in networks may slow or stop, harming our business and operating results. A substantial portion of our business depends on the continued growth of mobile communications in terms of both the number of subscriptions and usage per subscriber, which in turn drives the continued deployment and expansion of network systems by our customers. If operators fail to increase the number of subscribers and/or usage does not increase, our business and operating results could be materially adversely affected. Also, if operators fail to monetize new services, fail to introduce new business models or experience a decline in operator revenues or profitability, their willingness to further invest in their network systems may decrease which will reduce their demand for our products and

services and have an adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial condition.
Fixed and mobile networks converge and new technologies, such as IP and broadband, enable operators to deliver a range of new types of services in both fixed and mobile networks. We are dependent upon market acceptance of such services and the outcome of regulatory and standardization activities in this field, such as spectrum allocation. If delays in standardization, regulation, or market acceptance occur, this could adversely affect our business, operating results and financial condition.
We face intense competition from our existing competitors as well as new entrants, including IT companies entering the telecommunications market, and this could materially adversely affect our results. The markets in which we operate are highly competitive in terms of price, functionality, service quality, customization, timing of development, and the introduction of new products and services. We face intense competition from significant competitors, many of which are very large, with substantial technological and financial resources and established relationships with operators. Further, certain competitors, Chinese companies in particular, have become relatively stronger in recent years. We also encounter increased competition from new market entrants and alternative technologies are evolving industry standards. In particular, we face competition from large IT companies entering the telecommunications market who benefit from economies of scale due to being active in several industries. We cannot assure that we will be able to compete successfully with these companies. Our competitors may implement new technologies before we do, offer more attractively priced or enhanced products, services or solutions, or they may offer other incentives that we do not provide. Some of our competitors may also have greater resources in certain business segments or geographic markets than we do. Increased competition could result in reduced profit margins, loss of market share, increased research and development costs as well as increased sales and marketing expenses, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results, financial condition and market share. Traffic development on cellular networks could be affected if more traffic is offloaded to Wi-Fi networks. Further, alternative services provided over-the-top have profound effects on operator voice/ SMS revenues with possible reduced capital expenses consequences.
Additionally, we operate in markets characterized by rapidly changing technology. This results in continuous price erosion and increased price competition for our products and services. If our counter measures, including enhanced products and business models or cost reductions cannot be achieved or do not occur in a timely manner, there could be adverse impacts on our business, operating results, financial condition and market share.
Vendor consolidation may lead to stronger competitors who are able to benefit from integration, scale and greater resources. Industry convergence and consolidation among equipment and services suppliers could potentially result in stronger competitors that are competing as end-to-end suppliers as well as competitors more specialized in particular areas. Consolidation may also result in competitors with greater resources than we have or in reduction of our current scale advantages. This could have a

122

Ericsson | Annual Report 2014

materially adverse effect on our business, operating results, financial condition and market share.
A significant portion of our revenue is currently generated from a limited number of key customers, and operator consolidation may increase our dependence on key customers. We derive most of our business from large, multi-year agreements with a limited number of significant customers. Many of these agreements are opened up on a yearly basis to renegotiate the price for our products and services and do not contain committed purchase volumes. Although no single customer represented more than 8% of our sales in 2014, our ten largest customers accounted for 47% of our sales in 2014. A loss of or a reduced role with a key customer could have a significant adverse impact on sales, profit and market share for an extended period.
In recent years, network operators have undergone significant consolidation, resulting in fewer operators with activities in several countries. This trend is expected to continue, and intra-country consolidation is likely to accelerate as a result of competitive pressure. A market with fewer and larger operators will increase our reliance on key customers and may negatively impact our bargaining position and profit margins. Moreover, if the combined companies operate in the same geographic market, networks may be shared and less network equipment and fewer associated services may be required. Network investments could be delayed by the consolidation process, which may include, among others, actions relating to merger or acquisition agreements, securing necessary regulatory approvals, or integration of businesses. Network operators also share parts of their network infrastructure through cooperation agreements rather than legal consolidations, which may adversely affect demand for network equipment. Accordingly, operator consolidation may have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results, market share and financial condition.
Certain long-term agreements with customers still include commitments to future price reductions, requiring us to constantly manage and control our cost base. Long-term agreements with our customers are typically awarded on a competitive bidding basis. In some cases, such agreements also include a commitment to future price reductions. In order to maintain our gross margin with such price reductions, we continuously strive to reduce the costs of our products through design improvements, negotiation of better purchase prices from our suppliers, allocation of more production to low-cost countries and increased productivity in our own production. However, there can be no assurance that our actions to reduce costs will be sufficient or quick enough to maintain our gross margin in such contracts, which may have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial condition.
Growth of our managed services business is difficult to p redict, and requires taking significant contractual risks. Operators increasingly outsource parts of their operations to reduce cost and focus on new services. To address this oppor tunity, we offer operators various services in which we manage their networks. The growth rate in the managed services market is difficult to forecast and each new contract carries a risk that transformation and integration of the operations will not be as fast or smooth as planned. Additionally, early contract margins are generally low and the mix of new and old contracts may negatively

affect reported results in a given period. Contracts for such s ervices normally cover several years and generate recurring revenues. However, contracts have been, and may in the future be, terminated or reduced in scope, which has negative impacts on sales and earnings. While we believe we have a strong position in the managed services market, competition in this area is increasing, which may have adverse effects on our future growth, business, operating results and profitability.
We depend upon the development of new products and enhancements to our existing products, and the success of our substantial research and development investments is uncertain. Rapid technological and market changes in our industry require us to make significant investments in technological innovation. We invest significantly in new technology, products and solutions. In order for us to be successful, those technologies, products and solutions must be accepted by relevant standardization bodies and by the industry as a whole. The failure of our research and development efforts to be technically or commercially successful, could have adverse effects on our business, operating results and financial condition. If we invest in the development of technologies, products and solutions that do not function as expected, are not adopted by the industry, are not ready in time, or are not successful in the marketplace, our sales and earnings may materially suffer. Additionally, it is common for research and development projects to encounter delays due to unforeseen problems. Delays in production and research and development may increase the cost of research and development efforts and put us at a disadvantage against our competition. This could have a material adverse effect upon our business, operating results and financial condition.
We engage in acquisitions and divestments which may be disruptive and require us to incur significant expenses. In addition to in-house innovation efforts, we make strategic acquisitions in order to obtain various benefits such as reduced time-to-market, access to technology and competence, increased scale or to broaden our product portfolio or customer base. Future acquisitions could result in the incurrence of contingent liabilities and an increase in amortization expenses related to goodwill and other intangible assets, which could have a material adverse effect upon our business, operating results, financial condition and liquidity. Risks we could face with respect to acquisitions include: >> Difficulties in the integration of the operations, technologies,
products and personnel of the acquired company >> Risks of entering markets in which we have no or limited prior
experience >> Potential loss of employees >> Diversion of management's attention away from other business
concerns >> Expenses of any undisclosed or potential legal liabilities of the
acquired company.
From time to time we also divest parts of our business to optimize our product portfolio or operations. Any decision to dispose of or otherwise exit businesses may result in the recording of special charges, such as workforce reduction costs and industry- and technology-related write-offs. We cannot assure that we will be

Financials ­ Risk factors

Ericsson | Annual Report 2014

123

FINANCIALS ­ Risk factors

successful in consummating future acquisitions or divestments on favorable terms or at all. The risks associated with such acquisitions and divestments could have a material adverse effect upon our business, operating results, financial condition and liquidity.
We are in, and may enter into new, JV arrangements and have, and may have new, partnerships which may not be successful and expose us to future costs. Our JV and partnering arrangements may fail to perform as expected for various reasons, including an incorrect assessment of our needs, our inability to take action without the approval of our partners or the capabilities or financial stability of our strategic partners. Our ability to work with these partners or develop new products and solutions may become constrained, which could harm our competitive position in the market.
Additionally, our share of any losses from or commitments to contribute additional capital to such JV's and partnerships may adversely affect our business, operating results, financial condition and cash flow.
We rely on a limited number of suppliers of components, production capacity and R&D and IT services, which exposes us to supply disruptions and cost increases. Our ability to deliver according to market demands and contractual commitments depends significantly on obtaining a timely and adequate supply of materials, components, production capacity and other vital services on competitive terms. Although we strive to avoid single-source supplier solutions, this is not always possible. Accordingly, there is a risk that we will be unable to obtain key supplies we need to produce our products and provide our services on commercially reasonable terms, or at all. Failure by any of our suppliers could interrupt our product or services supply or operations and significantly limit sales or increase our costs. To find an alternative supplier or redesign products to replace components may take significant time which could cause significant delays or interruptions in the delivery of our products and services. We have from time to time experienced interruptions of supply and we may experience such interruptions in the future.
Furthermore, our procurement of supplies requires us to predict future customer demands. If we fail to anticipate customer demand properly, an over or under supply of components and production capacity could occur. In many cases, some of our competitors utilize the same manufacturers and if they have purchased capacity ahead of us we could be blocked from acquiring the needed products. This factor could limit our ability to supply our customers and increase costs. At the same time, we commit to certain capacity levels or component quantities, which, if unused, will result in charges for unused capacity or scrapping costs. We are also exposed to financial counterpart risks to s uppliers when we pay in advance for supplies. Such supply disruptions and cost increases may negatively affect our business, operating results and financial condition.
Product or service quality issues could lead to reduced r evenue and gross margins and declining sales to existing and new customers. Sales contracts normally include warranty undertakings for faulty products and often include provisions regarding penalties and/or termination rights in the event of a failure to deliver ordered products or services on time or with required quality. Although we undertake a number of quality assurance measures to reduce

such risks, product quality or service performance issues may negatively affect our reputation, business, operating results and financial condition. If significant warranty obligations arise due to reliability or quality issues, our operating results and financial position could be negatively impacted by costs associated with fixing software or hardware defects, high service and warranty expenses, high inventory obsolescence expense, delays in collecting accounts receivable or declining sales to existing and new customers.
Due to having a significant portion of our costs in SEK and revenues in other currencies, our business is exposed to foreign exchange fluctuations that could negatively impact our revenues and operating results. We incur a significant portion of our expenses in SEK. As a result of our international operations, we generate, and expect to continue to generate, a significant portion of our revenue in currencies other than SEK. To the extent we are unable to match revenue received in foreign currencies with costs paid in the same currency, exchange rate fluctuations could have a negative impact on our consolidated income statement, balance sheet and cash flows when foreign currencies are exchanged or translated to SEK, which increases volatility in reported results.
As market prices are predominantly established in USD or EUR, we presently have a net revenue exposure in foreign currencies which means that a stronger SEK exchange rate would generally have a negative effect on our reported results. Our attempts to reduce the effects of exchange rate fluctuations through a variety of hedging activities may not be sufficient or successful, resulting in an adverse impact on our results and financial condition.
Our ability to benefit from intellectual property rights (IPR) which are critical to our business may be limited by changes in regulation limiting patents, inability to prevent infringement, the loss of licenses from third parties, infringement claims brought against us by competitors and others and changes in the area of open standards, especially in light of recent attention on licensing of open standard patents. Although we have a large number of patents, there can be no assurance that they will not be challenged, invalidated, or circumvented, or that any rights granted in relation to our patents will in fact provide us with competitive advantages.
We utilize a combination of trade secrets, confidentiality policies, nondisclosure and other contractual arrangements in addition to relying on patent, copyright and trademark laws to protect our intellectual property rights. However, these measures may not be adequate to prevent or deter infringement or other misappropriation. In addition, we rely on many software patents, and limitations on the patentability of software may materially affect our business.
Moreover, we may not be able to detect unauthorized use or take appropriate and timely steps to establish and enforce our proprietary rights. In fact, existing legal systems of some countries in which we conduct business offer only limited protection of intellectual property rights, if at all. Our solutions may also require us to license technologies from third parties. It may be necessary in the future to seek or renew licenses and there can be no assurance that they would be available on acceptable terms, or at all. Moreover, the inclusion in our products of software or other intellectual property licensed from third parties on a non-exclusive basis could limit our ability to protect proprietary rights in our products.

124

Ericsson | Annual Report 2014

Many key aspects of telecommunications and data network technology are governed by industry-wide standards usable by all market participants. As the number of market entrants and the complexity of technology increases, the possibility of functional overlap and inadvertent infringement of intellectual property rights also increases. In addition to industry-wide standards, other key industry-wide software solutions are today developed by market participants as free and open source software. Contributing to the development of software developed as free and open source software may limit our ability to enforce applicable patents in the future. Third parties have asserted, and may assert in the future, claims, directly against us or against our customers, alleging infringement of their intellectual property rights. Defending such claims may be expensive, time-consuming and divert the efforts of our management and/or technical personnel. As a result of litigation, we could be required to pay damages and other compensation directly or to indemnify our customers for such damages and other compensation, develop non-infringing products/technology or enter into royalty or licensing agreements. However, we cannot be certain that such licenses will be available to us on commercially reasonable terms or at all, and such judgments could have a material adverse effect on our business, reputation, operating results and financial condition. Using free and open source software may allow third parties to further investigate our software due to the accessibility of source code. This may in turn make this software more prone to assertions from third parties.
Recent attention on licensing of patents necessary to conduct an open standard (e.g. 2G, 3G and 4G technology), investigations held by antitrust authorities and legislative change could potentially affect Ericsson's ability to benefit from its patent portfolio in the area of such open standards, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, reputation, operating results and financial condition. Ericsson holds a leading patent portfolio in open standards and possible changes regarding such a portfolio may materially affect our reputation, business, operating results and financial condition.
We are involved in lawsuits and investigations which, if determined against us, could require us to pay substantial damages, fines and/or penalties. In the normal course of our business we are involved in legal proceedings. These lawsuits include such matters as commercial d isputes, claims regarding intellectual property, antitrust, tax and labor disputes. Litigation can be expensive, lengthy and disruptive to normal business operations. Moreover, the results of complex legal proceedings are difficult to predict. An unfavorable resolution of a particular lawsuit could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results, financial condition and reputation.
As a publicly listed company, Ericsson may be exposed to lawsuits in which plaintiffs allege that the Company or its officers have failed to comply with securities laws, stock market regulations or other laws, regulations or requirements. Whether or not there is merit to such claims, the time and costs incurred to defend the Company and its officers and the potential settlement or com pensation to the plaintiffs could have significant impact on our reported results and reputation. For additional information regarding certain of the lawsuits in which we are involved, see "Legal Proceedings" in the Board of Directors' Report.

Our operations are complex and several critical operations are centralized in a single location. Any disruption of our operations, whether due to natural or man-made events, may be highly damaging to the operation of our business. Our business operations rely on complex operations and communications networks, which are vulnerable to damage or disturbance from a variety of sources. Having outsourced significant portions of our operations, such as IT, finance and HR operations, we depend on the performance of external companies, including their security and reliability measures. Regardless of protection measures, our systems and communications networks are susceptible to disruption due to failure, vandalism, computer viruses, security or privacy breaches, natural disasters, power outages and other events. We also have a concentration of operations on certain sites, including R&D, production, network operation centers, ICT centers and logistic centers and shared services centers, where business interruptions could cause material damage and costs. The delivery of goods from suppliers, and to customers, could also be hampered for the reasons stated above. Interruptions to our systems and communications may have an adverse effect on our operations and financial condition.
Cyber security incidents affecting our business may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, r eputation and brand. Ericsson's business operations involve areas that are particularly vulnerable to cyber security incidents such as data breaches, intrusions, espionage, know-how and data privacy infringements, leakage and general malfeasance. Examples of these areas include, among others, research and development, managed s ervices, usage of cloud solutions, software development, lawful interception, product engineering, IT, finance and HR operations. Any cyber security incident including unintended use, involving our operations, product development, services, our third party providers or installed product base, could cause severe harm to Ericsson and could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, reputation and brand.
Ericsson relies heavily on third parties to whom we have outsourced significant aspects of our IT infrastructure, product development, engineering services, finance and HR operations. While we have taken precautions relating to the selection, integration and ongoing management of these third parties, any event or attack that is caused as a result of vulnerabilities in their operations or products supplied to us could have a material adverse effect upon Ericsson, our business, financial condition, reputation and brand, potentially slowing operations, leaking valuable intellectual property or sensitive information or damaging our products which have been installed in our customers' networks.
We must continue to attract and retain highly qualified employees to remain competitive. We believe that our future success largely depends on our cont inued ability to hire, develop, motivate and retain engineers and other qualified personnel needed to develop successful new products, support our existing product range and provide services to our customers.
Competition for skilled personnel and highly qualified managers in the industries in which we operate remains intense. We are continuously developing our corporate culture, remuneration, p romotion and benefits policies as well as other measures aimed at empowering our employees and reducing employee turnover.

Financials ­ Risk factors

Ericsson | Annual Report 2014

125

FINANCIALS ­ Risk factors

However, there are no guarantees that we will be successful in attracting and retaining employees with appropriate skills in the future, and failure in retention and recruiting could have a material adverse effect on our business and brand.
If our customers' financial conditions decline, we will be exposed to increased credit and commercial risks. After completing sales to customers, we may encounter difficulty collecting accounts receivables and could be exposed to risks associated with uncollectable accounts receivable. We regularly assess the credit worthiness of our customers and based on that we determine a credit limit for each one of them. Challenging economic conditions have impacted some of our customers' ability to pay their accounts receivables. Although our credit losses have historically been low and we have policies and procedures for managing customer finance credit risk we may be unable to avoid future losses on our trade receivables. We have also experienced demands for customer financing, and in adverse financial markets or more competitive environments, those demands may increase. Upon the financial failure of a customer, we may experience losses on credit extended and loans made to such customer, losses relating to our commercial risk exposure, and the loss of the customer's ongoing business. If customers fail to meet their obligations to us, we may experience reduced cash flows and losses in excess of reserves, which could materially adversely impact our operating results and financial condition.
We rely on various sources for short-term and long-term capital for the funding of our business. Should such capital become unavailable or available in insufficient amounts or unreasonable terms, our business, financial condition and cash flow may materially suffer. Our business requires a significant amount of cash. If we do not generate sufficient amounts of capital to support our operations, service our debt and continue our research and development and customer finance programs, or if we cannot raise sufficient amounts of capital at the required times and on reasonable terms, our business is likely to be adversely affected. Access to funding may decrease or become more expensive as a result of our operational and financial condition, market conditions, including financial conditions in the Eurozone, or due to deterioration in our credit rating. There can be no assurance that additional sources of funds that we may need from time to time will be available on reasonable terms or at all. If we cannot access capital on a commercially viable basis, our business, financial condition and cash flow could materially suffer.
Impairment of goodwill or other intangible assets may negatively impact our financial condition and results of operations. An impairment of goodwill or other intangible assets could adversely affect our financial condition or results of operations. We have a significant amount of goodwill and intangible assets; for example, patents, customer relations, trademarks and software.
Goodwill is the only intangible asset the company has recognized to have indefinite useful life. Other intangible assets are mainly amortized on a straight-line basis over their estimated u seful lives, but for no more than ten years, and are reviewed for impairment whenever events such as product discontinuances,

product dispositions or other changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount may not be wholly recoverable. Those not yet in use are tested for impairment annually.
Historically, we have recognized impairment charges related to intangible assets mainly due to restructuring. Additional impairment charges may be incurred in the future that could be significant due to various reasons, including restructuring actions or adverse market conditions that are either specific to us or the broader telecommunications industry or more general in nature and that could have an adverse effect on our operating results and financial condition.
Negative deviations in actual cash flows compared to estimated cash flows as well as new estimates that indicate lower future cash flows might result in recognition of impairment charges. Estimates require management judgment as well as the definition of cash-generating units for impairment testing purposes. Other judgments might result in significantly different results and may differ from the actual financial condition in the future.
Regulatory, Compliance and Corporate Governance risk
Ericsson may fail or be unable to comply with laws or regulations and could experience penalties and adverse rulings in enforcement or other proceedings, which could have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition and brand. The industries in which we operate are subject to laws and regulations. While Ericsson strives for compliance, we cannot assure that violations do not occur. If we fail to or are unable to comply with applicable laws and regulations, we could experience pen alties and adverse rulings in enforcement or other proceedings, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, fin ancial condition and reputation.
Further our business may suffer as a result of changes in laws or regulations which could subject us to liability, increased costs, or reduced product demand and have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and brand.
Changes to these regulations may adversely affect both our customers' and our own operations. For example, regulations imposing more stringent, time-consuming or costly planning and zoning requirements or building approvals for radio base stations and other network infrastructure could adversely affect the timing and costs of network construction or expansion, and ultimately the commercial launch and success of these networks. Similarly, tariff and roaming regulations or rules on network neutrality could also affect operators' ability or willingness to invest in network infrastructure, which in turn could affect the sales of our systems and services. Additionally, delay in radio frequency spectrum allocation, and allocation between different types of usage may adversely affect operator spending or force us to develop new products to be able to compete.
Further, we develop many of our products and services based on existing regulations and technical standards. Changes to existing regulations and technical standards, or the implementation of new regulations and technical standards relating to products and services not previously regulated, could adversely affect our development efforts by increasing compliance costs and causing delay. Demand for those products and services could also

126

Ericsson | Annual Report 2014

decline. Regulatory changes in license fees, environmental, health and safety, privacy and other regulatory areas may increase costs and restrict our operations or the operations of network operators and service providers. Also indirect impacts of such changes and regulatory changes in other fields, such as pricing regulations, could have an adverse impact on our business even though the specific regulations may not apply directly to our products or us.
Our substantial international operations are subject to uncertainties which could affect our operating results. We conduct business throughout the world and are subject to the effects of general global economic conditions as well as conditions unique to specific countries or regions. We have customers in more than 180 countries, with a significant proportion of our sales to emerging markets in the Asia Pacific region, Latin America, Eastern Europe, the Middle East and Africa.
Our extensive operations are subject to numerous additional risks, including civil disturbances, economic and geopolitical instability and conflict, pandemics, the imposition of exchange controls, economies which are subject to significant fluctuations, nationalization of private assets or other governmental actions affecting the flow of goods and currency, and difficulty of enforcing agreements and collecting receivables through local legal systems. Further, in certain markets in which we operate, there is a risk of protectionist governmental measures implemented to assist domestic market participants at the expense of foreign competitors. The implementation of such measures could adversely affect our sales or our ability to purchase critical components.
We must always comply with relevant export control regulations and sanctions or other trade embargoes in force in all parts of the business process. The political situation in parts of the world, particularly in the Middle East, remains uncertain and the level of sanctions is still high. A universal element of these sanctions is the financial restrictions with respect to individuals and/or legal entities, but sanctions can also restrict certain exports and ultimately lead to a complete trade embargo towards a country. In particular, the sanctions towards Iran are still significant in scope, although in part temporarily and conditionally recently relieved. The EU exemption for certain standard telecom equipment is still maintained. Even so, there is a risk in many of these countries of unexpected changes in regulatory requirements, tariffs and other trade barriers, price or exchange controls, or other governmental policies which could limit our operations and decrease our profitability. Further export control regulations, sanctions or other forms of trade restrictions imposed on countries in which we are active may result in a reduction of commitment in those countries. The need to terminate activities as a result of further trade restrictions may also expose us to customer claims and other actions. Although we seek to comply with all such regulations, there can be no assurance that we are or will be compliant with all relevant regulations at all times. Such violations could have material adverse effects on our business, operating results, reputation and brand.
There has been a growing concern reported by media and o thers, that certain countries may use features of their telecommunications systems in violation of human rights. This may adversely affect the telecommunications business and may have a negative impact on our reputation and brand.

We may fail to comply with our corporate governance standards which could negatively affect our business, operating results, financial condition, reputation and our brand. We are subject to corporate governance laws and regulations and are also committed to several corporate responsibility and sustainability initiatives. In some of the countries where we operate, corruption risks are high. In addition, there is higher focus on anticorruption, for example with changed legislation in many countries. To ensure that our operations are conducted in accordance with applicable requirements, our management system includes a Code of Business Ethics, a Code of Conduct and a Sustainability Policy, as well as other policies and directives to govern our processes and operations. Our commitment to apply the UN Global Compact principles, the UN Guiding Principles for Business and Human Rights and principles of the Partnering Against Corruption Initiative to our operation cannot fully prevent unintended or unlawful use of our technology by democratic and non-democratic regimes, violation of our Code of Business Ethics, corruption or violations of our Code of Conduct in the supply chain. While we attempt to monitor and audit internal compliance with the policies and directives as well as our suppliers' adherence to our Code of Conduct and strive for continuous improvements, we cannot provide any assurances that violations will not occur which could have material adverse effects on our business, operating results, reputation and brand.
Failure to comply with environmental, health and safety regulations in many jurisdictions may expose us to significant penalties and other sanctions. We are subject to certain environmental, health and safety laws and regulations that affect our operations, facilities, products and services in each of the jurisdictions in which we operate. While we believe that we are in compliance with all material laws and regulations related to the environment, health, and safety that apply to us, we can provide no assurance that we have been, are, or will be compliant with these regulations. If we have failed or fail to comply with these regulations, we could be subject to significant penalties and other sanctions that could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results, financial condition, reputation and brand. Additionally, there is a risk that we may have to incur expenditures to cover environmental and health liabilities to maintain compliance with current or future laws and regulations or to undertake any necessary remediation. It is difficult to reasonably estimate the future impact of environmental matters, such as c limate change and weather events, including potential liabilities. This is due to several factors, particularly the length of time often involved in resolving such matters. Adverse future events, regulations, or judgments could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results, financial condition, reputation and brand.
Potential health risks related to electromagnetic fields may subject us to various product liability claims and result in regulatory changes. The mobile telecommunications industry is subject to claims that mobile handsets and other devices that generate electromagnetic fields expose users to health risks. At present, a substantial number of scientific studies conducted by various independent research bodies have indicated that electromagnetic fields, at

Financials ­ Risk factors

Ericsson | Annual Report 2014

127

FINANCIALS ­ Risk factors

levels within the limits prescribed by public health authority safety standards and recommendations, cause no adverse effects to human health. However, any perceived risk or new scientific findings of adverse health effects from mobile communication devices and equipment could adversely affect us through a reduction in sales or through liability claims. Although Ericsson's products are designed to comply with all current safety standards and recommendations regarding applicable electromagnetic fields, we c annot guarantee that we will not become the subject of product liability claims or be held liable for such claims or be required to comply with future regulatory changes that may have an adverse effect on our business, operating results, financial condition, reputation and brand.
Regulations related to "conflict minerals" may cause us to incur additional expenses, and may make our supply chain more complex. In 2012, the US Securities and Exchange Commission ("SEC") adopted a rule requiring disclosures of specified minerals ( "conflict minerals") that are necessary to the functionality or production of products manufactured or contracted to be manufactured by companies that file periodic reports with the SEC, whether or not these products or their components are manufactured by third parties. While we believe that we will be able to fulfill these requirements without materially affecting our costs or access to materials we can provide no assurance that there will not be material costs associated with complying with the disclosure requirements. These requirements could adversely affect the sourcing, availa bility and pricing of minerals used in the manufacture of certain of our products. In addition, since our supply chain is complex, we may not be able to sufficiently verify the origins for these minerals contained in our products through the due diligence procedures that we implement, which may harm our reputation. We may also encounter challenges if customers require that all of the components of our products be certified as conflict-free.

Risks associated with owning Ericsson shares
Our share price has been and may continue to be volatile, especially as technology companies, securities and markets as a whole remain volatile. Our share price has been volatile due to various factors, including our operating performance as well as the high volatility in the securities markets generally and volatility in telecommunications and technology companies' securities in particular. Our share price is also likely to be affected by future developments in our market, our financial results and the expectations of financial analysts, as well as statements and market speculation regarding our prospects or the timing or content of any public communications, including reports of operating results, by us or our competitors. Factors other than our financial results that may affect our share price include, but are not limited to: >> A weakening of our brand name or other circumstances with
adverse effects on our reputation >> Announcements by our customers, competitors or us regard-
ing capital spending plans of our customers >> Financial difficulties for our customers >> Awards of large supply or service contracts >> Speculation in the press or investment community about the
business level or growth in the telecommunications market >> Technical problems, in particular those relating to the introduc-
tion and viability of new network systems, including LTE/4G and new platforms such as the RBS 6000 (multi-standard radio base station) platform >> Actual or expected results of ongoing or potential litigation >> Announcements concerning bankruptcy or investigations into the accounting procedures of ourselves or other telecommunications companies >> Our ability to forecast and communicate our future results in a manner consistent with investor expectations.
Currency fluctuations may adversely affect share value or value of dividends. Because our shares are quoted in SEK on Nasdaq Stockholm (our primary stock exchange), but in USD on NASDAQ New York (ADSs), fluctuations in exchange rates between SEK and USD may affect the value of our shareholders' investments. In addition, because we pay cash dividends in SEK, fluctuations in exchange rates may affect the value of distributions when converted into other currencies. An increasing part of the trade in our shares is carried out on alternative exchanges or markets, which may lead to less accurate share price information on Nasdaq Stockholm or NASDAQ New York.

128

Ericsson | Annual Report 2014

FINANCIALS
Auditor's report

To the Annual General Meeting of the shareholders of Telefonaktiebolaget LM Ericsson (publ), Corporate Identity Number 556016-0680
Report on the annual accounts and consolidated accounts We have audited the annual accounts and consolidated accounts of Telefonaktiebolaget LM Ericsson (publ) for the year 2014. (The annual accounts and consolidated accounts of the company are included in the printed version of this document on pages 42­128.)
Responsibilities of the Board of Directors and the President and CEO for the annual accounts and consolidated accounts The Board of Directors and the President and CEO are respons ible for the preparation and fair presentation of these annual accounts and consolidated accounts in accordance with Intern ational Financial Reporting Standards, as adopted by the EU, and the Annual Accounts Act, and for such internal control as the Board of Directors and the President and CEO determine is necessary to enable the preparation of annual accounts and c onsolidated accounts that are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error.
Auditor's responsibility Our responsibility is to express an opinion on these annual accounts and consolidated accounts based on our audit. We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards on Auditing and generally accepted auditing standards in Sweden. Those standards require that we comply with ethical requirements and plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the annual accounts and consolidated accounts are free from material misstatement.
An audit involves performing procedures to obtain audit evidence about the amounts and disclosures in the annual accounts and consolidated accounts. The procedures selected depend on the auditor's judgement, including the assessment of the risks of material misstatement of the annual accounts and consolidated accounts, whether due to fraud or error. In making those risk assessments, the auditor considers internal control relevant to the company's preparation and fair presentation of the annual accounts and consolidated accounts in order to design audit procedures that are appropriate in the circumstances, but not for the purpose of expressing an opinion on the effectiveness of the company's internal control. An audit also includes evaluating the appropriateness of accounting policies used and the reasonableness of accounting estimates made by the Board of Directors and the President and CEO, as well as evaluating the overall presentation of the annual accounts and consolidated accounts.
We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our audit opinion.
Opinions In our opinion, the annual accounts have been prepared in accordance with the Annual Accounts Act and present fairly, in all m aterial respects, the financial position of the Parent Company as of 31 December 2014 and of its financial performance and its cash flows for the year then ended in accordance with the Annual Accounts Act. The consolidated accounts have been prepared in accordance with the Annual Accounts Act and present fairly, in all material respects, the financial position of the group as of 31 December 2014 and of their financial performance and cash flows

for the year then ended in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards, as adopted by the EU, and the Annual Accounts Act. The statutory administration report is consistent with the other parts of the annual accounts and consolidated accounts.
We therefore recommend that the annual meeting of shareholders adopt the income statement and balance sheet for the parent company and the group.

Report on other legal and regulatory requirements In addition to our audit of the annual accounts and consolidated accounts, we have also audited the proposed appropriations of the company's profit or loss and the administration of the Board of Directors and the President and CEO of Telefonaktiebolaget LM Ericsson (publ) for the year 2014.

Responsibilities of the Board of Directors and the President and CEO The Board of Directors is responsible for the proposal for appropriations of the company's profit or loss, and the Board of Directors and the President and CEO are responsible for administration under the Companies Act.

Auditor's responsibility Our responsibility is to express an opinion with reasonable assurance on the proposed appropriations of the company's profit or loss and on the administration based on our audit. We conducted the audit in accordance with generally accepted auditing standards in Sweden.
As a basis for our opinion on the Board of Directors' proposed appropriations of the company's profit or loss, we examined the Board of Directors' reasoned statement and a selection of supporting evidence in order to be able to assess whether the proposal is in accordance with the Companies Act.
As a basis for our opinion concerning discharge from liability, in addition to our audit of the annual accounts and consolidated accounts, we examined significant decisions, actions taken and circumstances of the company in order to determine whether any member of the Board of Directors or the President and CEO is liable to the company. We also examined whether any member of the Board of Directors or the President and CEO has, in any other way, acted in contravention of the Companies Act, the Annual Accounts Act or the Articles of Association.
We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is s ufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our opinion.

Opinions We recommend to the annual meeting of shareholders that the profit be appropriated in accordance with the proposal in the statutory administration report and that the members of the Board of Directors and the President and CEO be discharged from liability for the financial year.
Stockholm, February 20, 2015 PricewaterhouseCoopers AB

Peter Nyllinge Authorized Public Accountant
Auditor in Charge

Bo Hjalmarsson Authorized Public Accountant

Financials ­ Auditor's report

Ericsson | Annual Report 2014

129

FINANCIALS ­ Forward-looking statements
Forward-looking statements

This Annual Report includes forward-looking statements, including statements reflecting management's current views relating to the growth of the market, future market conditions, future events and expected operational and financial performance. The words "believe," "expect," "foresee," "anticipate," "assume," "intend," "may," "could," "plan," "estimate," "forecast," "will," "should," " predict," "aim," "ambition," "target," "might," or, in each case, their negative, and similar words are intended to help identify forward-looking statements.
Forward-looking statements may be found throughout this document, and include statements regarding: >> Our goals, strategies and operational or financial performance
expectations >> Development of corporate governance standards, stock
market regulations and related legislation >> The future characteristics of the markets in which we operate >> Projections and other characterizations of future events >> Our liquidity, capital resources, capital expenditures, our credit >> ratings and the development in the capital markets, affecting >> our industry or us >> The expected demand for our existing as well as new products >> and services >> The expected operational or financial performance of joint
ventures and other strategic cooperation activities >> The time until acquired entities will be accretive to income >> Technology and industry trends including regulatory and
s tandardization environment, competition and our customer structure >> Our plans for new products and services including research and development expenditures.
Although we believe that the expectations reflected in these and other forward-looking statements are reasonable, we cannot assure you that these expectations will materialize. Because forward-looking statements are based on assumptions, judgments and estimates, and are subject to risks and uncertainties, actual results could differ materially from those described or implied herein.
Important factors that could affect whether and to what extent any of our forward-looking statements materialize include, but are not limited to: >> Challenging global economic conditions may adversely impact
the demand and pricing for our products and services as well as limit our ability to grow. >> We may not be successful in implementing our strategy or in achieving improvements in our earnings. >> The telecommunications industry fluctuates and is affected by many factors, including the economic environment, and decisions made by operators and other customers regarding their deployment of technology and their timing of purchases. >> Sales volumes and gross margin levels are affected by the mix and ordertime of our products and services. >> We may not be able to properly respond to market trends in the industries in which we operate, including the ongoing convergence of the telecom, data and media industries, which may harm our market position relative to our competitors.

>> Our business depends upon the continued growth of mobile communications and the acceptance of new services. If growth slows or new services do not succeed, operators' investment in networks may slow or stop, harming our business and operating results.
>> We face intense competition from our existing competitors as well as new entrants, including IT companies entering the telecommunications market, and this could materially adversely affect our results.
>> Vendor consolidation may lead to stronger competitors who are able to benefit from integration, scale and greater resources.
>> A significant portion of our revenue is currently generated from a limited number of key customers, and operator consolidation may increase our dependence on key customers.
>> Certain long-term agreements with customers still include commitments to future price reductions, requiring us to constantly manage and control our cost base.
>> Growth of our managed services business is difficult to predict, and requires taking significant contractual risks.
>> We depend upon the development of new products and enhancements to our existing products, and the success of our substantial research and development investments is uncertain.
>> We engage in acquisitions and divestments which may be disruptive and require us to incur significant expenses.
>> We are in, and may enter into new JV arrangements and have, and may have new, partnerships which may not be successful and expose us to future costs.
>> We rely on a limited number of suppliers of components, production capacity and R&D and IT services, which exposes us to supply disruptions and cost increases.
>> Product or service quality issues could lead to reduced revenue and gross margins and declining sales to existing and new customers.
>> Due to having a significant portion of our costs in SEK and revenues in other currencies, our business is exposed to foreign exchange fluctuations that could negatively impact our revenues and operating results.
>> Our ability to benefit from intellectual property rights (IPR) which are critical to our business may be limited by changes in regulation limiting patents, inability to prevent infringement, the loss of licenses from third parties, infringement claims brought against us by competitors and others and changes in the area of open standards, especially in light of recent attention on licensing of open standard patents.
>> We are involved in lawsuits and investigations which, if determined against us, could require us to pay substantial damages, fines and/or penalties.
>> Our operations are complex and several critical operations are centralized in a single location. Any disruption of our operations, whether due to natural or man-made events, may be highly damaging to the operation of our business.
>> Cyber security incidents affecting our business may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, reputation and brand.

130

Ericsson | Annual Report 2014

>> We must continue to attract and retain highly qualified e mployees to remain competitive.
>> If our customers' financial conditions decline, we will be exposed to increased credit and commercial risks.
>> We rely on various capital sources for short-term and long-term capital for the funding of our business. Should such capital become unavailable or available in insufficient amounts or unreasonable terms, our business, financial condition and cashflow may materially suffer.
>> Impairment of goodwill or other intangible assets may negatively impact financial condition and results of operations.
>> Ericsson may fail or be unable to comply with laws or regulations and could experience penalties and adverse rulings in enforcement or other proceedings, which could have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition and brand.
>> Our substantial international operations are subject to uncertainties which could affect our operating results.
>> We may fail to comply with our corporate governance standards which could negatively affect our business, operating results, financial condition, reputation and our brand.
>> Failure to comply with environmental, health and safety regulations in many jurisdictions may expose us to significant penalties and other sanctions.

>> Potential health risks related to electromagnetic fields may subject us to various product liability claims and result in regulatory changes.
>> Regulations related to "conflict minerals" may cause us to incur additional expenses, and may make our supply chain more complex.
>> Our share price has been and may continue to be volatile, especially as technology companies, securities and markets as a whole remain volatile.
>> Currency fluctuations may adversely affect share value or value of dividends.
Certain of these risks and uncertainties are described further in "Risk factors." We undertake no obligation to publicly update or revise any forward-looking statements included in this Annual Report, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise, except as required by applicable law or stock exchange regulation.

Financials ­ Forward-looking statements

Ericsson | Annual Report 2014

131

CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT 2014
Corporate governance describes how rights and responsibilities are distributed among corporate bodies according to applicable laws, rules and internal processes. Corporate governance also defines the decision-making systems and structure through which owners directly or indirectly control a company.

Contents

Regulation and compliance

133

Governance structure

134

Shareholders

134

General Meetings of shareholders

135

Nomination Committee

136

Board of Directors

137

Committees of the Board of Directors

140

Remuneration to Board members

143

Members of the Board of Directors

144

Management

148

Members of the Executive Leadership Team

152

Auditor

155

Internal control over financial reporting 2014

156

Auditor's report on the Corporate Governance Report

158

This Corporate Governance Report is rendered as a separate report added to the Annual Report in accordance with the Annual Accounts Act ((SFS 1995:1554) Chapter 6, Sections 6 and 8) and the Swedish Corporate Governance Code.
The report has been reviewed by Ericsson's auditor in accordance with the Annual Accounts Act. A report from the auditor is appended hereto.

Ericsson's core values "professionalism, respect and perseverance", together with Ericsson's continuous corporate governance focus, have an important role in creating and maintaining a robust corporate culture globally where business is conducted with integrity. I am confident that such robust corporate culture is a key factor for a global organization to maintain competitive and sustainable business operations worldwide.
Important tasks of the Board of Directors are to support and develop talent management, to give Group management clear governance frameworks and mandates, and to set the Group strategy. As Chairman of the Board, I know that the Board needs to have considerable insight in the business activities of Ericsson and in the markets in which Ericsson operates, to provide support to management and add value, while also exercising due control of the business operations. Therefore, I strive to enable an open and meaningful dialogue between the Board and the Group management.
This Corporate Governance Report 2014 aims to describe how Ericsson continuously works with these matters and how we focus on establishing efficient and reliable controls and procedures. I believe that Ericsson's continuous corporate governance focus and work to create a robust corporate culture build trust, and in turn, generate value for our investors."
Leif Johansson Chairman of the Board of Directors

Ericsson's core values

Professionalism

Respect

Perseverance

Our values are the foundation of our culture. They guide us in our daily work, in how we relate to each other and the world around us and in the way we do business.

132

Ericsson | Annual Report 2014

The Code of Business Ethics can be found on Ericsson's website.
Code of Business Ethics

Regulation and compliance
External rules As a Swedish public limited liability company with securities quoted on Nasdaq Stockholm as well as on NASDAQ New York, Ericsson is subject to a variety of rules that affect its governance. Major external rules include: >> The Swedish Companies Act >> The Rule Book for issuers of Nasdaq
Stockholm >> The Swedish Corporate Governance Code
(the "Code") >> NASDAQ Stock Market Rules, including
applicable NASDAQ New York corporate governance requirements (subject to certain exemptions principally reflecting mandatory Swedish legal requirements) >> Applicable requirements of the US Securities and Exchange Commission (the "SEC")
Internal rules In addition, to ensure compliance with legal and regulatory requirements and the high standards that we set for ourselves, Ericsson has adopted internal rules that include: >> A Code of Business Ethics >> Group Steering Documents, including Group
policies and directives, instructions and business processes for approval, control and risk management >> A Code of Conduct, to be applied in product development, production, supply and support of Ericsson products and services worldwide.

The articles of association and the work pro cedure for the Board of Directors also include internal corporate governance rules.
Code of Business Ethics Ericsson's Code of Business Ethics summarizes fundamental Group policies and directives and contains rules to ensure that business is conducted with a strong sense of integrity. This is critical to maintain trust and credibility with Ericsson's customers, partners, employees, shareholders and other stakeholders.
The Code of Business Ethics contains rules for all individuals performing work for Ericsson, under the staff management of Ericsson or in Ericsson premises, whether as an employee of Ericsson or a subcontractor, or as a private contractor. The Code of Business Ethics has been translated into 30 languages. This ensures that it is accessible to everyone working for Ericsson. During recruitment, employees acknowledge that they are aware of the principles of the Code of Business Ethics. This procedure is repeated during the term of employment. Through this process, Ericsson strives to raise awareness throughout its global operations.
Everyone working for Ericsson has an individual responsibility to ensure that business practices adhere to the Code of Business Ethics.

Compliance with regulations

Compliance with the Swedish
Corporate Governance Code The Code is based on the principle of "comply or explain" and is published on the website of the Swedish Corporate Governance Board, which administrates the Code: www.corporategovernanceboard.se. Ericsson is committed to comp lying with best-practice corporate governance on a global level wherever possible. This includes continued compliance with the Code. Ericsson does not report any deviations from the rules of the Code in 2014.

Compliance with applica ble stock exchange rules There has been no infringement of applicable stock exchange rules and no breach of good practice on the securities market reported by the stock exchange's d isciplinary committee or the Swedish Securities Council in 2014.

Corporate Governance ­ Corporate Governance Report

Ericsson | Annual Report 2014

133

CORPORATE GOVERNANCE ­ Corporate Governance Report

Shareholders
Ownership percentage (voting rights)

Swedish institutions: 

54.65%

Of which:

­ Investor AB: 

21.50%

­ AB Industrivärden: 

20.05%

(together with SHB Pensions

stiftelse and Pensionskassan

SHB Försäkringsförening)

 Foreign institutions: Swedish retail investors: Others:

32.16% 5.44% 7.75%

Source: Nasdaq

Governance structure
Shareholders may exercise their decision-making rights in Telefonaktiebolaget LM Ericsson (the "Parent Company") at General Meetings of shareholders.
A Nomination Committee is appointed each year by the major shareholders in accordance with the Instruction for the Nomination Committee adopted by the Annual General Meeting of shareholders. The tasks of the Nomination Committee include the proposal of an external auditor and Board members for election by the Annual General Meeting of shareholders and proposals of Board member and auditor remuneration.
In addition to the Board members elected by shareholders, the Board of Directors consists of employee representatives and their deputies, which the unions have the right to appoint under Swedish law. The Board of Directors is ultimately responsible for the strategy and the organization of Ericsson and the management of its operations.
The President and CEO, appointed by the Board of Directors, is responsible for handling the day-to-day management of Ericsson in accordance with guidelines from the Board. The President and CEO is supported by the Executive Leadership Team (ELT).
The external auditor of Ericsson is elected by the General Meeting of shareholders.

Governance structure
General Meetings of shareholders Annual General Meeting/Extraordinary General meeting

Nomination Committee

Unions

Board of Directors
12 Directors elected by the General Meetings of shareholders 3 Directors and 3 Deputies appointed by the Unions

External Auditor

Shareholders
Ownership structure As of December 31, 2014, the Parent Company had 482,025 registered shareholders, of which 470,016 were resident or located in Sweden (according to the share register kept by Euroclear Sweden AB). Swedish institutions held approximately 54.65% of the votes. The largest shareholders as of December 31, 2014 were Investor AB, with 21.50% of the votes, and AB Industrivärden, with 20.05% of the votes (together with Svenska Handelsbankens P ensionsstiftelse and Pensionsk assan SHB Försäkringsförening).
A significant number of the shares held by foreign investors are nominee-registered, i.e. held of-record by banks, brokers and/or nominees. This means that the actual shareholder is not displayed in the share register or included in the shareholding statistics.
More information on Ericsson's shareholders can be found in the chapter "Share Information" in the Annual Report.
Shares and voting rights The share capital of the Parent Company consists of two classes of listed shares: A and B shares. Each Class A share carries one vote and each Class B share carries one tenth of one vote. Class A and B shares entitle the holder to the same proportion of assets and earnings and carry equal rights to dividends.
The Parent Company may also issue Class C shares, which shares are used to create treasury stock to finance and hedge long-term variable compensation programs resolved by the General Meeting of shareholders. Class C shares are converted into Class B shares before they are used for long-term variable compensation programs.
In the United States, the Ericsson Class B shares are listed on NASDAQ New York in the form of American Depositary Shares (ADS) e videnced by American Depositary Receipts (ADR). Each ADS represents one Class B share.
The members of the Board of Directors and the Executive Leadership Team have the same voting rights on shares as other shareholders holding the same class of shares.

Audit Committee

Finance Committee

Remuneration Committee

President and CEO

Management

134

Ericsson | Annual Report 2014

Contact the Board of Directors
The Board of Directors Secretariat SE-164 83 Stockholm Sweden boardsecretariat@ericsson.com

General Meetings of shareholders
Decision-making at General Meetings The decision-making rights of Ericsson's shareholders are exercised at General Meetings of shareholders. Most resolutions at General M eetings are passed by a simple majority. H owever, the Swedish Companies Act requires qualified majorities in certain cases, for example in case of: >> Amendment of the Articles of Association >> Resolution to transfer treasury stock to
employees participating in long-term variable compensation programs.
The Annual General Meeting of shareholders The Annual General Meeting of shareholders (AGM) is held in Stockholm. The date and venue for the meeting are announced on the Ericsson website no later than at the time of release of the third-quarter interim financial report in the preceding year.
Shareholders who cannot participate in p erson may be represented by proxy. Only shareholders registered in the share register have voting rights. Nominee-registered shareholders who wish to vote must request to be entered into the share register by the record date for the AGM.
The AGM is held in Swedish and is simultaneously translated into English. All documentation provided by the Company is available in both Swedish and English.
The AGM gives shareholders the opportunity to raise questions relating to the operations of the Group. Normally, the majority of the members of the Board of Directors and the Executive Leadership Team is present to answer such questions.
The external auditor is always present at the AGM.

Ericsson's Annual General Meeting 2014 Including shareholders represented by proxy, 2,930 shareholders were represented at the AGM held on April 11, 2014, making up almost 70% of the votes.
The meeting was also attended by members of the Board of Directors, members of the Executive Leadership Team (ELT) and the external auditor.
Decisions of the AGM 2014 included: >> Payment of a dividend of SEK 3 per share >> Re-election of Leif Johansson as Chairman of
the Board of Directors >> Re-election of members of the Board of
Directors: Roxanne S. Austin, Sir Peter L. Bonfield, Nora Denzel, Börje Ekholm, A lexander Izosimov, Ulf J. Johansson, Sverker Martin-Löf, Kristin Skogen Lund, Hans Vestberg, Jacob Wallenberg and Pär Östberg >> Board of Directors' fees: ­Chairman: SEK 3,975,000 (previously
SEK 3,850,000) ­Other non-employee Board members:
SEK 950,000 each (previously SEK 900,000) ­Chairman of the Audit Committee: SEK 350,000 (unchanged) ­Other non-employee members of the Audit Committee: SEK 250,000 each (unchanged) ­Chairmen of the Finance and Remuneration Committees: SEK 200,000 each (unchanged) ­Other non-employee members of the Finance and Remuneration Committees: SEK 175,000 each (unchanged) >> Approval for part of the Directors' fees to be paid in the form of synthetic shares >> Approval of Guidelines for remuneration to Group management >> Implementation of a Long-Term Variable Compensation Program 2014.
The minutes from the AGM 2014 are available on Ericsson's website.

Annual General Meeting 2015

Ericsson's AGM 2015 will take place on April 14, 2015 at Stockholm Waterfront Congress Centre in Stockholm. Further information is available on Ericsson's website.

Corporate Governance ­ Corporate Governance Report

Ericsson | Annual Report 2014

135

CORPORATE GOVERNANCE ­ Corporate Governance Report

Contact the Nomination Committee Telefonaktiebolaget LM Ericsson The Nomination Committee c/o General Counsel's Office SE-164 83 Stockholm Sweden nomination.committee @ericsson.com
Proposals to the Nomination Committee Shareholders may submit proposals to the Nomination Committee at any time, but should do so in due time before the AGM to ensure that the proposals can be considered by the Committee. Further information is available on Ericsson's website.

Nomination Committee
The Annual General Meeting of shareholders has adopted an Instruction for the Nomination Committee that includes the tasks of the Nomination Committee and the procedure for appointing its members. The instruction applies until the General Meeting of shareholders resolves otherwise. Under the instruction, the Nomination Committee shall consist of: >> Representatives of the four largest share
holders by voting power by the end of the month in which the AGM was held, and >> The Chairman of the Board of Directors.
The Committee may also include additional members following a request by a shareholder. The request must be justified by changes in the shareholder's ownership of shares and be received by the Nomination Committee no later than December 31. No fees are paid to the members of the Nomination Committee.
Members of the Nomination Committee The current Nomination Committee members are: >> Petra Hedengran (Investor AB), Chairman of
the Nomination Committee >> Carl-Olof By (AB Industrivärden, Svenska
Handelsbankens Pensionsstiftelse) >> Johan Held (AFA Försäkring) >> Leif Johansson, Chairman of the Board of
Directors >> Marianne Nilsson (Swedbank Robur Fonder).
The tasks of the Nomination Committee The main task of the Committee is to propose Board members for election by the AGM. The Committee must orient itself on the Company's strategy and future challenges to be able to assess the competence and experience that is required by the Board. In addition, the Committee must consider independence rules applicable to the Board of Directors and its committees.
The Nomination Committee also makes the following proposals, for resolution by the AGM: >> Proposal for remuneration to non-employee
Directors elected by the AGM and remuneration to the auditor >> Proposal for election of auditor, whereby c andidates are selected in cooperation with the Audit Committee of the Board >> Proposal for election of Chairman at the AGM.

Work of the Nomination Committee for the AGM 2015 The Nomination Committee started its work by going through a checklist of its duties under the Code and the Instruction for the Nomination Committee and by setting a time plan for its work ahead. A good understanding of Ericsson's business and strategy is important for the members of the Nomination Committee. Therefore, the Committee met with Ericsson's President and CEO who, together with the Chairman of the Board, presented their views on the Company's position and strategy.
The Committee was thoroughly informed of the results of the evaluation of the Board work and procedures, including the performance of the Chairman of the Board. On this basis, the Committee has assessed the competence and experience required by Ericsson Board members as well as the need for improvement of the composition of the Board in terms of d iversity in age, gender and cultural/geographic background. The Nomination Committee has met with members of the Board of Directors to get their views on the Board work.
The Nomination Committee searches for potential Board member candidates both with a long-term and a short-term perspective. This year, the Committee has made particular efforts to identify potential female candidates that would bring relevant expertise and competence to the Board, while also improving the gender balance. The Nomination Committee considered the need for renewal and diversity and carefully assessed whether the proposed Directors have the capability to devote necessary time and care to the Board work.
The Committee met with the Chairman of the Audit Committee to acquaint itself with the assessments made by the Company and the Audit Committee of the quality and efficiency of external auditor work. The Audit Committee also provided its recommendations on external auditor and audit fees.
As of February 20, 2015 the current Nomination Committee has held eight meetings.

136

Ericsson | Annual Report 2014

Board of Directors

The Board of Directors is ultimately responsible for the organization of Ericsson and the management of Ericsson's operations. The Board appoints the President and CEO who is responsible for managing the day-to-day operations in accordance with guidelines from the Board. The President and CEO ensures that the Board is updated regularly on issues of importance to Ericsson. This includes updates on business development, results, financial position and liquidity.
Directors serve from the close of one AGM to the close of the next, but can serve any number of consecutive terms.
The President and CEO may be elected a Director of the Board, but, under the Swedish Companies Act, the President of a public company may not be elected Chairman of the Board.
Conflicts of interest Ericsson maintains rules and regulations regarding conflicts of interest. Directors are disqualified from participating in any decision regarding agreements between themselves and Ericsson. The same applies to agreements between Ericsson and any third party or legal entity in which the Board member has an interest that may be contrary to the interests of Ericsson.
The Audit Committee has implemented a procedure for related-party transactions and a pre-approval process for non-audit services carried out by the external auditor.
Composition of the Board of Directors The current Board of Directors consists of 12 Directors elected by the shareholders at the AGM 2014 for the period until the close of the AGM 2015. It also consists of three employee representatives, each with a deputy, appointed by the trade unions for the same period of time. The President and CEO, Hans Vestberg, is the only Board member who was also a member of Ericsson's management during 2014.
Work procedure Pursuant to the Swedish Companies Act, the Board of Directors has adopted a work procedure and Committee charters outlining rules for the distribution of tasks among the Board, its Committees and the President and CEO. This complements rules in the Swedish Companies

Act and in the Articles of Association of the Company. The work procedure and the Committee charters are reviewed, evaluated and adopted by the Board as required and at least once a year.
Independence The Board of Directors and its Committees are subject to a variety of independence rules under applicable Swedish law, the Code and applicable US securities laws, SEC rules and the NASDAQ Stock Market Rules. Ericsson can rely on exemptions from certain US requirements.
The composition of the Board of Directors meets all applicable independence criteria. The Nomination Committee concluded before the AGM 2014 that, for purposes of the Code, at least seven of the nominated Directors were independent of Ericsson, its senior management and its major shareholders. These were R oxanne S. Austin, Sir Peter L. Bonfield, Nora Denzel, Alexander Izosimov, Leif Johansson, Ulf J. Johansson and Kristin Skogen Lund.
Structure of the work of the Board of D irectors The work of the Board follows a yearly cycle. This enables the Board to appropriately address each of its duties and to keep strategy, risk assessment and value creation high on the agenda. In addition to Board meetings, the annual work cycle of the Board includes two Board Strategic Days held in connection with Board meetings. The Board Strategic Days are described below under Training and Board Strategic Days.
As the Board is responsible for financial oversight, financial information is presented and evaluated at each Board meeting. Furthermore, the Chairmen of each Committee, generally report on Committee work at each Board meeting and minutes from Committee meetings are distributed to all Directors prior to the Board meetings.
At every Board meeting, the President and CEO reports on business and market developments as well as on the financial performance of the Group. Strategic issues and risks are also addressed at most Board meetings. The Board is regularly informed of developments in legal and regulatory matters of importance.

Corporate Governance ­ Corporate Governance Report

Ericsson | Annual Report 2014

137

CORPORATE GOVERNANCE ­ Corporate Governance Report

The 2014 annual work cycle of the Board: >> Fourth-quarter and full-year financial
results meeting Following the end of the calendar year, the Board held a meeting which focused on the financial results of the entire year 2013 and handled the fourth-quarter financial report. >> Board Strategic Day A Board Strategic Day, focusing on deepening Board member knowledge of matters of strategic importance for Ericsson, was held in connection with a Board meeting in the spring. >> Annual Report meeting At this meeting the Board approved the Annual Report 2013. >> Statutory Board meeting The statutory Board meeting was held in connection with the AGM 2014. At this meeting, members of each of the three Board Committees were appointed and the Board resolved on signatory power. >> First interim report meeting At the next ordinary meeting, the Board handled the interim financial report for the first quarter of the year. >> Main strategy meeting Various strategic issues are addressed at most Board meetings and, in accordance with the annual cycle for the strategy process, a main strategy Board meeting was held, in essence dedicated to short- and long-term

strategies of the Group. Following the Board's input on, and approval of, the overall strategy, the strategy was cascaded throughout the entire organization, starting at the Global Leadership Summit with Ericsson's top 250 leaders. >> Second interim report meeting At the second interim report meeting, the Board handled the interim financial report for the second quarter of the year. >> Follow-up strategy and risk management meeting Following the summer, a meeting was held to address particular strategy matters in further detail and to finally confirm the Group strategy. The meeting also addressed the overall risk management of the Group. >> Board Strategic Day A Board Strategic Day, focusing on deepening Board member knowledge of matters of strategic importance for Ericsson, was held in connection with a Board meeting in the fall. >> Third interim report meeting A Board meeting was held to handle the interim financial report for the third quarter of the year. At this meeting, the results of the Board evaluation were presented to and discussed by the Board. >> Budget and financial outlook meeting A meeting was held for the Board to address the budget and financial outlook as well as to further analyze internal and external risks.

The Board's annual work cycle 2014

The annual cycle applied to the Board's work allows the Board to appropriately address its duties during the year. It also facilitates the organization in aligning its global processes to allow appropriate Board involvement. This is particularly relevant for the Group's strategy process and risk management.

Budget and financial outlook meeting
Third interim report meeting >> Q3 Financial report >> Board work evaluation
Board Strategic Day
Follow-up strategy and risk management meeting

Q4

Dec

Nov

Jan

Q1

Feb

Oct

Mar

Sep

Apr

Aug

Q3

Jul

May

Jun

Q2

138

Second interim report meeting >> Q2 Financial report
Ericsson | Annual Report 2014

Fourth-quarter and full-year financial results meeting
>> Financial result of the entire year
Board Strategic Day
Annual Report meeting
Statutory Board meeting (in connection with AGM)
>> Appointment of Committee Members >> Authorization to sign
for the Company
First interim report meeting >> Q1 Financial report
Main strategy meeting

Training and Board Strategic Days All new Directors receive comprehensive training tailored to their individual needs. Introductory training typically includes meetings with the heads of the business units and Group functions, as well as training arranged by Nasdaq Stockholm on listing issues and insider rules. In addition, the company arranges training for Board members at regular intervals.
Since 2013, bi-annual Board Strategic Days are arranged for Board members in conjunction with ordinary Board meetings, and these Board Strategic Days normally span one full day each. The Board Strategic Days focus on combining strategy issues with making deep dives into issues of importance for the Ericsson Group. The purpose of the Board Strategic Days is to ensure that members of the Board have know ledge and understanding of the business activities of the Group, the business environment and the Group's strategic options and challenges. Directors' knowledge in these fields is crucial to allow well-founded Board resolutions, and to ensure that the Company takes due advantage of the different competences of the Directors. The Board Strategic Days also form an important platform for contacts between Directors and talent from different parts of Ericsson's organization where the Board gets the opportunity to meet Ericsson employees and leaders. Such contacts and meetings are highly valued by the Board as part of the Board's involvement in Ericsson's talent management.
As a rule, the Board Strategic Days also include sustainability and corporate responsib ility training for the Board members.

Auditor involvement The Board meets with Ericsson's external auditor in closed sessions at least once a year to receive and consider the auditor's observations. The auditor reports to management on the accounting and financial reporting practices of the Group.
The Audit Committee also meets regularly with the auditor to receive and consider observations on the interim reports and the Annual Report. The auditor has been instructed to report on whether the accounts, the management of funds and the general financial position of the Group are presented fairly in all material respects.
In addition, the Board reviews and assesses the process for financial reporting, as described later in "Internal control over financial reporting 2014". Combined with other steps taken internally, the Board's and the auditor's review of the interim and annual reports are deemed to give reasonable assurance of the effectiveness of the internal controls over financial reporting.
Work of the Board of Directors in 2014 In 2014, nine Board meetings were held. For attendance at Board meetings, see the table on page 143.
Strategy and risk management are always high on the Board's agenda and, during 2014, these matters got even more focus through the bi-annual Board Strategic Days instituted in 2013. The Board Chairman has also had several meetings with different Ericsson talents to further develop Ericsson's talent management and learn from the organization.

Organization of the Board work

Audit Committee (4 Directors)
Oversight of financial reporting Oversight of internal control Oversight of auditing

Board of Directors 15 Directors
Finance Committee (4 Directors) Financing Investing Customer credits

Remuneration Committee (4 Directors)
Guidelines for remuneration to Group management Long-Term Variable Remuneration Executive remuneration

Corporate Governance ­ Corporate Governance Report

Ericsson | Annual Report 2014

139

CORPORATE GOVERNANCE ­ Corporate Governance Report

Sustainability and corporate responsibility are increasingly important to Ericsson and the Company continuously strives to improve in these areas. Sustainability and corporate responsibility are integrated into Ericsson's business strategy.
Due to the political unrest in various parts of the world, the Board has continuously monitored the international developments and their possible impact on Ericsson.
During 2014, profitability, cost reductions and efficiency gains have been a focus within Ericsson. Further, the evaluatio1n of the future of Ericsson's modems business was completed and it was resolved to discontinue the development of modems. The Board also addressed a number of acquisitions, including the acquisitions of Azuki Systems Inc., Fabrix Systems and Metra-Tech Corporation and the acquisition of the business of Ambient Corporation and a majority stake in Apcera, Inc.
Board work evaluation A key objective of the Board evaluation is to ensure that the Board work is functioning well. This includes gaining an understanding of the issues that the Board thinks warrant greater focus, as well as determining areas where additional competence is needed within the Board and whether the Board composition is appropriate. The evaluation also serves as guidance for the work of the Nomination Committee.
Each year, the Chairman of the Board initiates and leads the evaluation of the Board and Committee work and procedures. Evaluation tools include detailed questionnaires and discussions. The services of an external corporate advisory firm have been retained by the Company to assist in developing questionnaires, carrying out surveys and summarizing responses.
In 2014, all Directors responded to written questionnaires, covering the Director's individual performance, Board work in general, Committee work and the Chairman's performance. The Chairman was not involved in the development

or compilation of the questionnaire which related to his performance, nor was he present when his performance was evaluated. As part of the evaluation process, the Chairman of the Board also had individual discussions with each of the Directors. The evaluations were thoroughly discussed and an action plan was developed in order to further improve the work of the Board.
Committees of the Board of Directors
The Board of Directors has established three Committees: the Audit Committee, the Finance Committee and the Remuneration Committee. Members of each Committee are appointed for one year from amongst the Board members.
The task of the Committees is mainly to prepare matters for resolution by the Board. However, the Board has authorized each Committee to determine and handle certain issues in limited areas. It may also on occasion provide extended authorization for the Committees to determine specific matters.
If deemed appropriate, the Board of Directors and each Committee have the right to engage independent external expertise, either in general or with respect to specific matters.
Prior to the Board meetings, each Committee submits the minutes from Committee meetings to the Board. The Chairman of the Committee also reports on the Committee work at each Board meeting.
Audit Committee On behalf of the Board, the Audit Committee monitors the following: >> The scope and accuracy of the financial
statements >> Compliance with legal and regulatory require-
ments >> Internal control over financial reporting >> Risk management >> The effectiveness and appropriateness of the
Group's anti-corruption program.

Members of the Committees

Members of the Committees of the Board of Directors 2014

Audit Committee
Ulf J. Johansson (Chairman) Sir Peter L. Bonfield Kristina Davidsson Pär Östberg

Finance Committee
Leif Johansson (Chairman) Pehr Claesson Sverker Martin-Löf Jacob Wallenberg

Remuneration Committee
Leif Johansson (Chairman) Börje Ekholm Roxanne S. Austin Karin Åberg

140

Ericsson | Annual Report 2014

The Audit Committee also reviews the annual and interim financial reports and oversees the external audit process, including audit fees.
The Audit Committee itself does not perform audit work. Ericsson has an internal audit function which reports directly to the Audit Committee. Ericsson also has an external auditor elected by the AGM.
The Committee is involved in the preparatory work of proposing an auditor for election by the AGM. It also monitors Group transactions and the ongoing performance and independence of the auditor with the aim to avoid conflicts of interest.
In order to ensure the auditor's independence, the Audit Committee has established pre-appro val policies and procedures for non-audit related services to be performed by the external auditor. Pre-approval authority may not be delegated to management.
The Audit Committee also oversees E ricsson's process for reviewing transactions with related parties and Ericsson's whistleblower procedures.
Whistleblower procedure Ericsson's whistleblower procedure can be used for reporting of alleged violations of laws or the Code of Business Ethics that: >> are conducted by Group or local manage-
ment, and >> relate to corruption, questionable accounting
or auditing matters or otherwise seriously affect vital interests of the Group or personal health and safety.
Violations reported through the whistleblower procedures are handled by Ericsson's Group Compliance Forum, consisting of representatives from Ericsson's internal audit function, Group Function Legal Affairs, Group Security, and Group Function Human Resources. Information regarding any incident is reported to the Audit Committee. Reports include measures taken, details of the responsible Group function and the status of any investigation.
Members of the Audit Committee The Audit Committee consists of four Board members appointed by the Board. The Audit Committee members appointed by the Board in connection with the AGM 2014 are: Ulf J. Johansson (Chairman of the Committee), Sir Peter L. Bonfield, Kristina Davidsson and Pär Östberg.
The composition of the Audit Committee meets all applicable independence requirements. The Board of Directors has determined that each of Ulf J. Johansson, Sir Peter L. Bonfield and Pär Östberg is an audit committee financial expert, as defined under the SEC rules. Each of them is considered independent under

applicable US securities laws, SEC rules and NASDAQ Stock Market Rules and each of them is financially literate and familiar with the accounting practices of an international company, such as Ericsson.
Work of the Audit Committee in 2014 The Audit Committee held six meetings in 2014. Directors' attendance is reflected in the table on page 143. During the year, the Audit Committee reviewed the scope and results of external financial audits and the independence of the external auditor. It also monitored the external audit fees and approved non-audit services performed by the external auditor in accordance with the Committee's pre-approval policies and procedures.
The Committee approved the annual audit plan for the internal audit function and reviewed its reports. Prior to publishing it, the Committee also reviewed and discussed each interim report and the annual report with the external auditor.
The Committee monitored the continued compliance with the Sarbanes-Oxley Act as well as the internal control and risk management process. It also reviewed certain related-party transactions in accordance with its established process.
The Committee reviewed and evaluated the effectiveness and appropriateness of the Group's anti-corruption program.
Finance Committee The Finance Committee is primarily responsible for: >> Handling matters related to acquisitions and
divestments >> Handling capital contributions to companies
inside and outside the Ericsson Group >> Raising loans, issuing guarantees and similar
undertakings, and approving financial support to customers and suppliers >> Continuously monitoring the Group's financial risk exposure.
The Finance Committee is authorized to determine matters such as: >> Direct or indirect financing >> Provision of credits >> Granting of guarantees and similar
undertakings >> Certain investments, divestments and
financial commitments.
Members of the Finance Committee The Finance Committee consists of four Board members appointed by the Board. The Finance Committee members appointed by the Board in connection with the AGM 2014 are: Leif Johansson (Chairman of the Committee), Pehr Claesson, Sverker Martin-Löf and Jacob Wallenberg.

Corporate Governance ­ Corporate Governance Report

Ericsson | Annual Report 2014

141

CORPORATE GOVERNANCE ­ Corporate Governance Report

Work of the Finance Committee in 2014 The Finance Committee held six meetings in 2014. Directors' attendance is reflected in the table on page 143. During the year, the Finance Committee approved numerous customer finance credit arrangements and reviewed a number of potential mergers and acquisitions and real estate investments. The Finance Committee spent significant time discussing and securing an adequate capital structure, as well as examining cash flow and working capital p erformance. It also continuously monitored Ericsson's financial position, foreign exchange and credit exposures.
Remuneration Committee The Remuneration Committee's main responsibilities include: >> Reviewing and preparing for resolution by the
Board, proposals on salary and other remuneration, including retirement compensation, for the President and CEO. >> Reviewing and preparing for resolution by the Board, proposals to the AGM on guidelines for remuneration to the ELT. >> Approving proposals on salary and other remuneration, including retirement compensation, for the Executive Vice Presidents and other CEO direct reports. >> Reviewing and preparing for resolution by the Board, proposals to the AGM on the LongTerm Variable Compensation Program and similar equity arrangements.
In its work, the Remuneration Committee considers trends in remuneration, legislative changes, disclosure rules and the general global executive remuneration environment. The Committee reviews salary survey data before approving any salary adjustment for CEO direct reports and before preparing salary adjustments for the President and CEO for resolution by the Board.

Members of the Remuneration Committee The Remuneration Committee consists of four Board members appointed by the Board. The Remuneration Committee members appointed by the Board in connection with the AGM 2014 are: Leif Johansson (Chairman of the Committee), Börje Ekholm, Roxanne S. Austin and Karin Åberg.
An independent expert advisor, Piia Pilv, has been appointed by the Remuneration Committee to advise and assist the Committee.
Work of the Remuneration Committee in 2014 The Remuneration Committee held six meetings in 2014. Directors' attendance is reflected in the table on page 143.
The Committee reviewed and prepared a proposal for the LTV 2014 for resolution by the Board and further approval by the AGM 2014. The Committee further resolved on salaries and Short-Term Variable remuneration (STV) for 2014 for certain CEO direct reports and prepared proposals regarding remuneration to the President and CEO, for resolution by the Board. The Committee also prepared guidelines for remuneration to the ELT, for resolution by the Board, which were subsequently referred by the Board to the AGM for approval.
The Remuneration Committee additionally concluded its analysis of the current LTV structure and executive remuneration. The resulting proposals on LTV and guidelines for remuneration to the ELT will be referred to the AGM 2015 for resolution.
For further information on fixed and variable remuneration, please see Notes to the consolidated financial statements ­ Note C28 "Information regarding members of the Board of Directors, the Group management and employees" and the "Remuneration Report" included in the Annual Report.

142

Ericsson | Annual Report 2014

Directors' attendance and fees 2014

Board member Leif Johansson Sverker Martin-Löf Jacob Wallenberg Roxanne S. Austin Sir Peter L. Bonfield Nora Denzel Börje Ekholm Alexander Izosimov Ulf J. Johansson Kristin Skogen Lund Hans Vestberg

Fees resolved by the AGM 2014

Board fees, Committee fees,

SEK 1)

SEK

3,975,000

400,000

950,000

175,000

950,000

175,000

950,000

175,000

950,000

250,000

950,000

­

950,000

175,000

950,000

­

950,000

350,000

950,000

­

­

­

Number of Board/Committee meetings attended in 2014

Board

Audit C ommittee

Finance Remuneration C ommittee Committee

9

6

6

9

5

9

6

9

5

9

6

9

9

6

9

9

6

9

9

Pär Östberg Pehr Claesson Kristina Davidsson Karin Åberg Rickard Fredriksson Karin Lennartsson Roger Svensson Total number of meetings

950,000 13,500 2) 13,500 2) 13,500 2) 13,500 2) 12,000 2) 10,500 2)

250,000 ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­

9

6

9

6

9

6

9

6

9

8

7

9

6

6

6

1) Non-employee Directors can choose to receive part of their Board fee (exclusive of Committee fees) in the form of synthetic shares. 2) Employee representative Board members and their deputies are not entitled to a Board fee but compensation in the amount of SEK 1,500 per attended Board meeting.

Remuneration to Board members
Remuneration to Board members not employed by the Company is proposed by the Nomination Committee for resolution by the AGM.
The AGM 2014 approved the Nomination Committee's proposal for fees to the non-employee Board members for Board and Committee work. For further information on Board of Directors' fees 2014, please refer to Notes to the consolidated financial statements ­ Note C28 "Information regarding members of the Board of Directors, the Group management and employees" in the Annual Report.
The AGM 2014 also approved the Nomination Committee's proposal that Board members may be paid part of their Board fee in the form of synthetic shares.

A synthetic share gives the right to receive a future cash payment of an amount which corresponds to the market value of a Class B share in Ericsson at the time of payment. The Director's right to receive payment with regard to allocated synthetic shares occurs, as a main rule, after the publication of the Company's year-end financial statement during the fifth year following the General Meeting that resolved on the allocation of the synthetic shares. The purpose of paying part of the Board of Directors' fee in the form of synthetic shares is to further align the Directors' interests with shareholder interests. For more information on the terms and conditions of the synthetic shares, please refer to the notice convening the AGM 2014 and to the minutes from the AGM 2014, which are available at Ericsson's website.

Corporate Governance ­ Corporate Governance Report

Ericsson | Annual Report 2014

143

CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
Members of the Board of Directors
Board members elected by the AGM 2014

Leif Johansson
(first elected 2011)
Chairman of the Board of D irectors, Chairman of the R emuneration Committee and of the Finance Committee

Sverker Martin-Löf
(first elected 1993)
Deputy Chairman of the Board of Directors, Member of the Finance Committee

Jacob Wallenberg
(first elected 2011)
Deputy Chairman of the Board of Directors, Member of the Finance Committee

Roxanne S. Austin (first elected 2008)
Member of the Remuneration Committee

Born 1951. Master of Science in Engineering, Chalmers University of Technology, Gothenburg, Sweden.
Board Chairman: Astra Zeneca PLC.
Board Member: Svenska Cellulosa Aktiebolaget SCA and Ecolean AB.
Holdings in Ericsson: 41,933 Class B shares 1), and 12,000 Class B shares held via endowment insurance 2).
Principal work experience and other information: Member of the European Round Table of Industrialists since 2002, and served as Chairman 2009­2014. President of the Royal Swedish Academy of Engineering Sciences since 2012. Chairman of the International Advisory Board of the Nobel Foundation. President and CEO of AB Volvo 1997­2011. Executive Vice President of AB Electrolux 1988­ 1991, President 1991­1994 and President and CEO of AB Electrolux 1994­1997. Holds honorary Doctorates at Blekinge Institute of Technology, the University of Gothenburg and Chalmers University of Technology. Awarded the Large Gold Medal of the Royal Swedish Academy of Engineering Sciences in 2011.

Born 1943. Doctor of Technology and Master of Engineering, KTH Royal Institute of Technology, Stockholm, Sweden.
Board Chairman: Svenska Cellulosa Aktiebolaget SCA, SSAB and AB Industrivärden.
Deputy Board Chairman: Svenska Handelsbanken AB.
Board Member: Skanska AB.
Holdings in Ericsson: 10,400 Class B shares 1)
Principal work experience and other information: President and CEO of Svenska Cellulosa Aktiebolaget SCA 1990­2002, where he was employed 1977­ 1983 and 1986­2002. Previous positions at Sunds Defibrator and Mo och Domsjö AB.

Born 1956. Bachelor of Science in Economics and Master of Business Administration, Wharton School, University of Pennsylvania, USA. Officer of the Reserve, Swedish Navy.
Board Chairman: Investor AB.
Deputy Board Chairman: SAS AB.
Board Member: ABB Ltd, The Knut and Alice Wallenberg Foundation and the Stockholm School of Economics.
Holdings in Ericsson: 2,703 Class B shares 1), and 15,026 synthetic shares 3).
Principal work experience and other information: Chairman of the Board of Investor AB since 2005. President and CEO of SEB in 1997 and Chairman of SEB's Board of Directors 1998­2005. Executive Vice President and CFO of Investor AB 1990­1993. Honorary Chairman of IBLAC (Mayor of Shanghai's International Business Leaders Advisory Council) and member of The European Round Table of Industrialists.

Born 1961. Bachelor of Business Administration in Accounting, University of Texas, San Antonio, USA.
Board Member: Abbott Laboratories, AbbVie Inc., Target Corporation and Teledyne Technologies Inc.
Holdings in Ericsson: 3,000 Class B shares 1), and 26,123 synthetic shares 3).
Principal work experience and other information: President of Austin Investment Advisors since 2004. President and CEO of Move Networks Inc. 2009­2010. President and COO of DirecTV 2001­2003. Corporate Senior Vice President and CFO of Hughes Electronics Corporation 1997­ 2000, which she joined in 1993. Previously a partner at Deloitte & Touche. Member of the California State Society of Certified Public Accountants and the American Institute of Certified Public Accountants.

The Board memberships and holdings in Ericsson reported above are as of December 31, 2014. 1) The number of shares includes holdings by related natural and legal persons, as well as holdings of any ADS, if applicable. 2) Shares held via endowment insurance include shares held under an insurance under which the insurance holder may make investment decisions with respect to the shares
(Sw: "kapitalförsäkring" or "depåförsäkring") and include holdings by related natural and legal persons, as well as holdings of ADS, if applicable. 3) Since 2008, the AGM has each year resolved that part of the Board fee may be received in the form of synthetic shares. A synthetic share is a right to receive in the future a payment
corresponding to the value of the Class B share in Ericsson at the time of payment. Please see page 143 for further information.

144

Ericsson | Annual Report 2014

Sir Peter L. Bonfield (first elected 2002) Member of the Audit Committee

Nora Denzel (first elected 2013)

Börje Ekholm (first elected 2006)
Member of the Remuneration Committee

Alexander Izosimov (first elected 2012)

Born 1944. Honors degree in Engineering, Loughborough University, Leicestershire, UK.
Board Chairman: NXP Semiconductors N.V.
Board Member: GlobalLogic Inc., Mentor Graphics Inc. and Taiwan Semiconductor Manufacturing Company, Ltd.
Holdings in Ericsson: 4,400 Class B shares 1), and 7,944 synthetic shares 3).
Principal work experience and other information: CEO and Chairman of the Executive Committee of British Telecommunications plc 1996­ 2002. Chairman and CEO of ICL plc 1985­1996. Positions with STC plc and Texas Instruments Inc. Member of the Advisory Board of the Longreach Group. Board Mentor of CMi. Senior Advisor, Rothschild, London. Chair of Council and Senior ProChancellor, Loughborough University, UK. Fellow of the Royal Academy of Engineering.

Born 1962. Master of Science in Business Administration, Santa Clara University, USA. Bachelor of Science in Computer Science, State University of New York, USA.
Board Member: Advanced Micro Devices, Inc., Outerwall, Inc. and Saba Software.
Holdings in Ericsson: 3,850 Class B shares1) , and 2,976 synthetic shares3).
Principal work experience and other information: Intuit Software (2008­ 2012) ­ Senior Vice President Big Data, Marketing and Social Product Design and General Manager QuickBooks Payroll Division. Previous positions include Senior Vice President and General Manager of HP's Global Software, Storage and Consulting Divisions (2000­2006), Senior Vice President Product Operations Legato Systems (bought by EMC) and various engineering, marketing and executive positions at IBM. Non-Profit board member of YWCA of Silicon Valley, Ushahidi and the Anita Borg Institute.

Born 1963. Master of Science in Electrical Engineering, KTH Royal Institute of Technology, Stockholm, Sweden. Master of Business Administration, INSEAD, France.
Board Chairman: KTH Royal Institute of Technology, Stockholm and NASDAQ OMX Group Inc.
Board Member: Investor AB, AB Chalmersinvest and EQT Partners AB.
Holdings in Ericsson: 30,760 Class B shares 1), and 41,178 synthetic shares 3).
Principal work experience and other information: President and CEO of Investor AB since 2005. Formerly Head of Investor Growth Capital Inc. and New Investments. Previous positions at Novare Kapital AB and McKinsey & Co Inc. Member of the Board of Trustees of Choate Rosemary Hall.

Born 1964. Master of Business Administration, INSEAD, France and Master of Science in Production Management Systems and Computer Science, Moscow Aviation Institute, Russian Federation.
Board Member: Modern Times Group MTG AB, EVRAZ Group S.A., Dynasty Foundation and Transcom WorldWide SA.
Holdings in Ericsson: 1,600 Class B shares 1), 50,000 Class B shares held via endowment insurance 2), and 9,272 synthetic shares 3).
Principal work experience and other information: CEO and President of VimpelCom 2003­ 2011. Previous positions with Mars Inc., including Member of the Global Executive Board and Regional President for CIS, Central Europe and Nordics. Earlier positions with McKinsey & Co as consultant in the Stockholm and London offices. Served as GSMA Board member 2005­2008 and Chairman of GSMA 2008­2010.

The Board memberships and holdings in Ericsson reported above are as of December 31, 2014. 1) The number of shares includes holdings by related natural and legal persons, as well as holdings of any ADS, if applicable. 2) Shares held via endowment insurance include shares held under an insurance under which the insurance holder may make investment decisions with respect to the shares
(Sw: "kapitalförsäkring" or "depåförsäkring") and include holdings by related natural and legal persons, as well as holdings of ADS, if applicable. 3) Since 2008, the AGM has each year resolved that part of the Board fee may be received in the form of synthetic shares. A synthetic share is a right to receive in the future a payment
corresponding to the value of the Class B share in Ericsson at the time of payment. Please see page 143 for further information.

Corporate Governance ­ Corporate Governance Report

Ericsson | Annual Report 2014

145

CORPORATE GOVERNANCE ­ Corporate Governance Report
Board members elected by the AGM 2014, cont.

Ulf J. Johansson (first elected 2005) Chairman of the Audit Committee

Kristin Skogen Lund (first elected 2013)

Hans Vestberg (first elected 2010)

Pär Östberg (first elected 2013) Member of the Audit Committee

Born 1945. Doctor of Technology and Master of Science in Electrical Engineering, KTH Royal Institute of Technology, Stockholm, Sweden.
Board Chairman: Acando AB, Eurostep Group AB and Trimble Navigation Ltd.
Board Member: European Institute of Innovation and Technology.
Holdings in Ericsson: 6,435 Class B shares 1), and 6,571 synthetic shares 2).
Principal work experience and other information: Founder of Europolitan Vodafone AB, where he was the Chairman of the Board 1990­2005. Previous positions at Spectra-Physics AB as President and CEO and at Ericsson Radio Systems AB. Member of the Royal Academy of Engineering Sciences.

Born 1966. Master of Business Administration, INSEAD, France. Bachelor in International Studies and Business Administration, University of Oregon, USA.
Board Member: None.
Holdings in Ericsson: 5,780 synthetic shares 2).
Principal work experience and other information: Director General of the Confederation of Norwegian Enterprise (NHO) since 2012. Executive Vice President and Head of Digital Services and Broadcast and Executive Vice President and Head of Nordic Region, Group Executive Management at Telenor 2010­2012. Previous positions include Chief Executive Officer and Commercial Director at Aftenposten, Chief Executive Officer at Scanpix, Managing Director and Editor in Chief at Scandinavia Online, and several positions at the Coca-Cola Company, Unilever and Norges Eksportråd.

Born 1965. Bachelor of Business Administration and Economics, University of Uppsala, Sweden.
Board Chairman: Svenska Handbollförbundet.
Board Member: Thernlunds AB.
Holdings in Ericsson: 333,329 Class B shares 1).
Principal work experience and other information: President and CEO of Telefonaktiebolaget LM Ericsson since January 1, 2010. Previously, First Executive Vice President, CFO and Head of Group Function Finance and Executive Vice President and Head of Business Unit Global Services. Various positions in the Group since 1988, including Vice President and Head of Market Unit Mexico and Head of Finance and Control in USA, Brazil and Chile. International advisor to the Governor of Guangdong, China and co-chairman of the RussianSwedish Business Council. Founding member of the Broadband Commission for Digital Development, and heading the Commission's task group on the post 2015 development agenda. Member of the Leadership Council of the United Nations Sustainable Development Solutions Network.

Born 1962. Master of Business Administration, Gothenburg School of Economics, Gothenburg, Sweden.
Board Member: Skanska AB and SSAB.
Holdings in Ericsson: 4,000 Class B shares held via endowment insurance 3).
Principal work experience and other information: Executive Vice President of AB Industrivärden since 2012. Executive Vice President at Volvo Group Truck Joint Ventures between January 2012 and October 2012. Several senior managerial positions within the Volvo group including Senior Vice President and President Trucks Asia at AB Volvo, Chairman of the Board of VE Commercial Vehicles Ltd, Senior Vice President and CFO at AB Volvo, CFO at Volvo Trucks France and senior positions at Volvo Treasury Asia Ltd, Singapore and Volvo Treasury Europe AB. Previous positions also include Senior Vice President, CFO at Renault Trucks and positions within Renault Crédit International (RCI) and Renault SA.

The Board memberships and holdings in Ericsson reported above are as of December 31, 2014. 1) The number of shares includes holdings by related natural and legal persons, as well as holdings of any ADS, if applicable. 2) Since 2008, the AGM has each year resolved that part of the Board fee may be received in the form of synthetic shares. A synthetic share is a right to receive in the future a payment
corresponding to the value of the Class B share in Ericsson at the time of payment. Please see page 143 for further information. 3) Shares held via endowment insurance include shares held under an insurance under which the insurance holder may make investment decisions with respect to the shares
(Sw: "kapitalförsäkring" or "depåförsäkring") and include holdings by related natural and legal persons, as well as holdings of ADS, if applicable.

146

Ericsson | Annual Report 2014

Board members and deputies appointed by the unions

Pehr Claesson (first appointed 2008)
Employee representative, Member of the Finance Committee

Kristina Davidsson (first appointed 2006)
Employee representative, Member of the Audit Committee

Karin Åberg (first appointed 2007)
Employee representative, Member of the Remuneration Committee

Born 1966. Appointed by the union The Swedish Association of Graduate Engineers.
Holdings in Ericsson: 1,661 Class B shares 1).
Employed since 1997. Working with marketing and communication for Consulting and Systems Integration within Business Unit Global Services.

Born 1955. Appointed by the union IF Metall.
Holdings in Ericsson: 2,088 Class B shares 1).
Employed since 1995. Previously working as a repairer within Business Unit Networks and currently working full time as union representative.

Born 1959. Appointed by the union Unionen.
Holdings in Ericsson: 3,577 Class B shares 1).
Employed since 1998. Working as a Service Engineer within the IT organization.

Rickard Fredriksson (first appointed 2012) Deputy employee representative

Karin Lennartsson (first appointed 2010) Deputy employee representative

Roger Svensson (first appointed 2011) Deputy employee representative

Born 1969. Appointed by the union IF Metall.
Holdings in Ericsson: 1,688 Class B shares 1).
Employed since 2000. Previously working as machine operator within Business Unit Networks and currently working full time as union representative.

Born 1957. Appointed by the union Unionen.
Holdings in Ericsson: 667 Class B shares 1).
Employed since 1976. Working as Process Expert within Group Function Business Excellence & Common Functions.

Born 1971. Appointed by the union The Swedish Association of Graduate Engineers.
Holdings in Ericsson: 11,738 Class B shares 1).
Employed since 1999. Working as Senior Specialist within Business Unit Networks.

Hans Vestberg was the only Director who held an operational management position at Ericsson in 2014. No Director has been elected pursuant to an arrangement or understanding with any major shareholder, customer, supplier or other person.

1) The number of shares reflects ownership as of December 31, 2014 and includes holdings by related natural and legal persons, as well as holdings of any ADS, if applicable.

Corporate Governance ­ Corporate Governance Report

Ericsson | Annual Report 2014

147

CORPORATE GOVERNANCE ­ Corporate Governance Report

Management
The President/CEO and the Executive Leadership Team The Board of Directors appoints the President and CEO and the Executive Vice Presidents. The President and CEO is responsible for the management of day-to-day operations and is supported by the Executive Leadership Team (the "ELT"). The ELT members as of December 31, 2014, are presented on page 152.
The role of the ELT is to: >> Establish a strong corporate culture, a long-
term vision and Group strategies and policies, all based on objectives stated by the Board. >> Determine targets for operational units, allocate resources and monitor unit performance. >> Secure operational excellence and realize global synergies through efficient organization of the Group.
Remuneration to the Executive Leadership Team Guidelines for remuneration to the ELT were approved by the AGM 2014. For further inform ation on fixed and variable remuneration, see the Remuneration Report and Notes to the consolidated financial statements ­ Note C28, "Information regarding members of the Board of Directors, the Group management and employees" in the Annual Report.
The Ericsson Group Management System Ericsson has one global management system,

known as the Ericsson Group Management S ystem (EGMS) to drive corporate culture and to ensure that the business is managed: >> To fulfill the objectives of Ericsson's major
stakeholders (customers, shareholders, employees). >> Within established risk limits and with reliable internal control. >> In compliance with relevant applicable laws, listing requirements, governance codes and corporate responsibilities.
The EGMS is a framework consisting of rules and requirements for Ericsson's business, specified through process and organization descriptions, policies, directives and instructions. The management system is applied in all Ericsson's operations globally, and its consistency and global reach is designed to build trust in the way Ericsson works. The EGMS is founded on ISO 9001 (international standard for quality management systems) but is designed as a dynamic governance system, enabling Ericsson to adapt the system to evolving demands and expectations, including new legislation as well as customers' and other stakeholders' requirements. Ericsson does not implement external requirements without analyzing them and putting them into the Ericsson context. The EGMS comprises three elements: >> Management and control >> Ericsson business processes >> Organization and resources.

Ericsson Group Management System

Demands and Expectations

Customers Key Stakeholders Business Environment
Management and Control VisionPoliciesDirectives

Satisfaction through Value Deliverables

Objectives Strategies

Results

The Ericsson Business Processes

Performance improvement

Performance evaluation

Organization and Resources Corporate Culture

148

Ericsson | Annual Report 2014

Management and control Ericsson's strategy and target-setting processes consider the demands and expectations of c ustomers as well as other key stakeholders. Ericsson uses balanced scorecards as tools for translating strategic objectives into a set of performance indicators for its operational units. Based on annual strategy work, these scorecards are updated with targets for each unit for the next year and are communicated throughout the organization.
Group-wide policies and directives govern how the organization works and are core elements in managing and controlling Ericsson. The Group Policies and Directives include, among other things, a Code of Business Ethics, a Code of Conduct and accounting and reporting directives to fulfill external reporting requirements.
Ericsson has a Group Steering Documents Committee for purposes of aligning policies and directives with Group strategies, values and structures.
Ericsson business processes As a market leader, Ericsson utilizes the competitive advantages that are gained through global scale and has implemented common processes and IT tools across all operational units worldwide. Customer requirements are identified, clarified and formalized in Ericsson Business Processes where requirements transform from theory to practice. Ericsson attempts to reduce costs with efficient and effective process flows and with standardized internal controls and performance indicators.
Organization and resources Ericsson is operated in two dimensions: one operational structure and one legal structure. The operational structure aligns accountability and authority regardless of country borders and supports the process flow with cross-country operations. In the operational structure, Ericsson is organized in group functions, business units and regions. The legal structure is the basis for legal requirements and responsibility as well as for tax and statutory reporting purposes. There are more than 200 legal entities within the Ericsson Group with eighty branch offices with representation (via legal entities, branch and representative offices) in more than 150 countries.
Chief Compliance Officer Ericsson has a Chief Compliance Officer (CCO), reporting to the General Counsel whose responsibilities among other things include to further develop Ericsson's anti-corruption compliance program. Attention from senior-management level on anti-corruption and compliance is crucial, as is ensuring that these matters are addressed from a cross-functional perspective.

Ericsson's anti-corruption compliance program is reviewed and evaluated by the Audit Committee at least annually.
Audits, assessments and certification The purpose of audits and assessments is to determine levels of compliance and to provide valuable information for understanding, analyzing and continually improving performance. Management monitors compliance with policies, directives and processes through internal self-assessment within all units. This is com plemented by internal and external audits.
Due to demands and requirements from customers and other external stakeholders, Ericsson sometimes needs to take decisions on certification in order to stay competitive in the market. Certification means that Ericsson's interpretation of standards or requirements are confirmed by a third party assessment.
As the EGMS is a global system, group-wide certificates are issued by a third party certification body proving that the system is efficient throughout the whole organization. Ericsson is currently globally certified to ISO 9001 (Quality), ISO 14001 (Environment) and OHSAS 18001 (Health & Safety). Selected Ericsson units are also certified to additional standards, for example ISO 27001 (Information Security) and TL 9000 (telecom-specific standard). EGMS is also audited within the scope of the audit plan of Ericsson's internal audit function.
Ericsson's external financial audits are performed by PricewaterhouseCoopers, and ISO/ management system audits by Intertek. Internal audits are performed by the company's internal audit function which reports to the Audit Committee.
Ericsson conducts audits of suppliers in order to secure compliance with Ericsson's Code of Conduct, which includes rules that suppliers to the Ericsson Group must comply with.
Risk management Ericsson's risk management is integrated into the operational processes of the business, and is a part of the EGMS to ensure accountability, effectiveness, efficiency, business continuity and compliance with corporate governance, legal and other requirements. The Board of Directors is also actively engaged in the Com pany's risk management. Risks related to longterm objectives are discussed and strategies are formally approved by the Board as part of the annual strategy process. Risks related to annual targets for the Company are also reviewed by the Board and then monitored continuously during the year. Certain transactional risks require specific Board approval, e.g. acquisitions, management remuneration, borrowing or customer finance in excess of pre-defined limits.

Corporate Governance ­ Corporate Governance Report

Ericsson | Annual Report 2014

149

CORPORATE GOVERNANCE ­ Corporate Governance Report

Operational, financial and compliance risks Operational and financial risk Operational risks are owned and managed by operational units. Risk management is embedded in various process controls, such as decision tollgates and approvals. Certain cross- process risks are centrally coordinated, such as information security, IT security, corporate responsibility and business continuity and insurable risks. Financial risk management is governed by a Group policy and carried out by the Treasury and Customer Finance functions, both supervised by the Finance Committee. The policy governs risk exposures related to foreign exchange, liquidity/financing, interest rates, credit risk and market price risk in equity instruments. For further information on financial risk management, see Notes to the consolidated financial statements ­ Note C14, "Trade receivables and customer finance," Note C19, "Interest-bearing liabilities" and Note C20, "Financial risk management and financial instruments" in the Annual Report.
Compliance risks Ericsson has implemented Group policies and directives in order to comply with applicable laws and regulations, including a Code of B usiness Ethics and a Code of Conduct. Risk m anagement is integrated in the Company's business processes. Policies and controls are implemented to comply with financial reporting standards and stock market regulations.

Risk mitigation Examples of significant activities to mitigate risks are: >> Conducting regular supplier Code of C onduct
audits. >> Continuously assessing and managing risks
relating to Corporate Responsibility. >> Conducting business continuity management
in an efficient way. >> Continuously monitoring information systems
to guard against data breaches. >> Reviewing top risks and mitigating actions
at various internal governance meetings.
Strategic and tactical risks Strategic risks constitute the highest risk to the Company if not managed properly as they could have a long-term impact. Ericsson therefore reviews its long-term objectives, main strategies and business scope on an annual basis and continuously works on its tactics to reach these objectives and to mitigate any risks identified.
In the annual strategy and target setting process, objectives are set for the next three to five years. Risks are assessed and strategies are developed to achieve the objectives. The strategy process in the Company is well established and involves regions, business units and Group functions. The strategy is summarized and discussed in a yearly Leadership Summit with approximately 250 leaders from all parts of the business. By involving all parts of the business in the process, potential risks are identified early

Strategy process
The annual strategy and target-s etting process, including risk management, involves regions, business units and Group functions.
 Board quarterly risk monitoring

Business strategy directives Quantitative and qualitative situation analysis

Board target approval Review of one-year risks
Target Setting Related risk identification and mitigation (12-month horizon)
Region strategy development

Q4

Dec

Nov

Jan

Q1

Feb

Oct

Mar

Ericsson Strategy process

Sep

Apr

Group management strategic direction, strategic risk identification and mitigation
Group strategy development (five-year perspective)
Region strategy directives Function strategy directives

Aug

Q3

Jul

May

Jun

Q2

Board approval of Group strategy Review of long-term risks

Functional strategy development
Strategic risk identification and mitigation
Leadership Summit on strategy

150

Ericsson | Annual Report 2014

and mitigating actions can be incorporated in the strategy and in the annual target-setting process following the finalization of the strategy.
Key components in the evaluation of risk related to Ericsson's long-term objectives include technology development, cyber security related matters, industry and market fundamentals, the development of the economy, the political environment, health and environmental aspects and laws and regulations.
The outcome of the strategy process forms the basis for the annual target-setting process, which involves regions, business units and Group functions. Risks related to the targets are identified as part of this process together with

actions to mitigate the identified risks. Follow-up of targets, risks and mitigating actions are reported and discussed continuously in business unit and region steering groups and are reviewed by the Board of Directors.
Ericsson continuously strives to improve its risk management and believes that it is important that the entire global organization takes part in the risk management and strategy work. The risk management framework implemented during 2012 has been further developed and qualified during 2014. For more information on risks related to Ericsson's business, see the chapter "Risk factors" in the Annual Report.

Process to identify and manage strategic and tactical risks for regions, business units and Group functions
The process is aligned with the strategy and target-setting process

Preparations
Compile input: >> Business unit plan, region
plan, functional strategy including SWOT analysis >> Preparatory meetings/ workshop

Leadership Team meeting and workshop

Establish gross list

Prioritize risks

Assign responsibility

Consider the four risk categories: >> Industry & market risks >> Commercial risks >> Operational risks >> Compliance risks

>> Rank the risks based on business impact and probability
>> Document risk heat map in relation with strategic objectives (up to 5 years) and with short-term targets (1 year)

>> Define management response; accept, reduce, eliminate
>> Assign responsibility for managing each top risk
>> Agree on cooperation between units.

Manage risks
>> Develop mitigation actions
>> Secure risk reviews in monthly business reports and governance meetings

Example of risk heat map document
Risk heat maps are generated by business units, regions and Group functions in four risk categories:
>> Industry & market >> Commercial >> Operational >> Compliance

RISK HEAT MAP (illustration only)
Time horizon 1­5 years

Industry & Market

Commercial

Operational

Compliance

Probability (Low, Medium, High)

Impact (Low, Medium, High)
Risk description 1 2 3 4 5

Impact (Low, Medium, High)

Impact (Low, Medium, High)

Impact (Low, Medium, High)

Management response Accept Reduce Eliminate

Mitigating action

Corporate Governance ­ Corporate Governance Report

Ericsson | Annual Report 2014

151

CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
Members of the Executive Leadership Team

Hans Vestberg President and CEO (since 2010)

Jan Frykhammar
Executive Vice President, Chief Financial Officer and Head of Group Function Finance (since 2009)

Born 1965. Bachelor of Business Administration and Economics, University of Uppsala, Sweden.
Board Chairman: Svenska Handbollförbundet.
Board Member: Telefonaktiebolaget LM Ericsson and Thernlunds AB.
Holdings in Ericsson 1): 333,329 Class B shares.
Background: Previously, First Executive Vice President, CFO and Head of Group Function Finance and Executive Vice President and Head of Business Unit Global Services. Various positions in the Group since 1988, including Vice President and Head of Market Unit Mexico and Head of Finance and Control in USA, Brazil and Chile. International advisor to the Governor of Guangdong, China and co-chairman of the RussianSwedish Business Council. Founding member of the Broadband Commission for Digital Development, and heading the Commission's task group on the post-2015 development agenda. Member of the Leadership Council of the United Nations Sustainable Development Solutions Network.

Born 1965. Bachelor of Business Administration and Economics, University of Uppsala, Sweden.
Board Member: The Swedish International Chamber of Commerce and Attendo AB.
Holdings in Ericsson 1): 33,291 Class B shares.
Background: Previously Senior Vice President and Head of Business Unit Global Services. Various positions within Ericsson including Sales and Business Control in Business Unit Global Services, CFO in North America and Vice President, Finance and Commercial within the Global Customer Account Vodafone.

The Board memberships and Ericsson holdings reported above are as of December 31, 2014. 1) The number of shares includes holdings by related natural and legal persons, as well as
holdings of any ADS, if applicable.

Magnus Mandersson
Executive Vice President (since 2011) and Head of Business Unit Global Services (since 2010)

Johan Wibergh
Executive Vice President (2010­January 15, 2015) and Head of Segment Networks (2008­January 15, 2015)

Born 1959. Bachelor of Business Administration, University of Lund, Sweden.
Board Member: None.
Holdings in Ericsson 1): 44,588 Class B shares.
Background: Previously Head of Business Unit CDMA, Market Unit Northern Europe, Global Customer Account Deutsche Telekom AG and Product Area Managed Services. Has also been President and CEO of SEC/Tele2 Europe and COO of Millicom International Cellular S.A.

Born 1963. Master of Computer Science, Linköping Institute of Technology, Sweden.
Board Member: Confederation of Swedish Enterprise, KTH Royal Institute of Technology and Teknikföretagen.
Holdings in Ericsson 1): 74,006 Class B shares.
Background: Head of Business Unit Networks 2008-2014. Previously President of Ericsson Brazil, President of Market Unit Nordic and Baltics and Vice President and Head of Sales at Business Unit Global Services.

Effective January 15, 2015 Johan Wibergh left his previous position as Executive Vice President and Head of Segment Networks.
Effective November 1, 2014, Group Function Marketing and Communications was established; a merger of Group Function Communications and Marketing (which was formerly part of Group Function Sales and Marketing). As a consequence, Group Function Sales and Marketing was renamed Group Function Sales. Helena Norrman heads Group Function Marketing and Communications and Jan Wäreby heads Group Function Sales.
Effective August 1, 2014, Douglas Gilstrap, former Senior Vice President, Head of Group Function Strategy and Chairman of Business Unit Modems, left Ericsson.
No ELT member has been appointed pursuant to an arrangement or understanding with any major shareholder, customer, supplier or other person.

152

Ericsson | Annual Report 2014

Per Borgklint
Senior Vice President and Head of Business Unit Support Solutions (since 2011)

Bina Chaurasia
Senior Vice President, Chief Human Resources Officer and Head of Group Function Human Resources (since 2010)

Ulf Ewaldsson
Senior Vice President, Chief Technology Officer and Head of Group Function Technology (since 2012)

Nina Macpherson
Senior Vice President, General Counsel, Head of Group Function Legal Affairs and secretary to the Board of Directors (since 2011)

Born 1972. Master of Science in Business Administration, Jönköping International Business School, Sweden.
Board Member: None.
Holdings in Ericsson 1): 5,000 Class B shares.
Background: Previously CEO of Net1 (Ice.net), Canal Plus Nordic and Versatel. Has also held several leading positions at Tele2.

Born 1962. Master of Science in Management and Human Resources, Ohio State University, USA, and Master of Arts in Philosophy, University of Wisconsin, USA.
Board Member: None.
Holdings in Ericsson 1): 36,009 Class B shares.
Background: Joined Ericsson from Hewlett Packard, where she was Vice President of Global Talent Management. Has held senior HR leadership roles at Gap, Sun Microsystems and PepsiCo/ Yum.

Born 1965. Master of Science in Engineering and Business Management, Linköping Institute of Technology, Sweden.
Board Member: Lund University.
Holdings in Ericsson 1): 29,913 Class B shares.
Background: Previously Head of Product Area Radio within Business Unit Networks. Has held various managerial positions within Ericsson since 1990. Member of the European Cloud Partnership Steering Board.

Born 1958. Master of Laws, LL.M., University of Stockholm, Sweden.
Board Member: The Association for Swedish Listed Companies and the Arbitration Institute of the Stockholm Chamber of Commerce (SCC).
Holdings in Ericsson 1): 16,624 Class B shares.
Background: Previously Vice President and Deputy Head of Group Function Legal Affairs at Ericsson. Previous positions also include private practice and in-house attorney. Member of the Swedish Securities Council.

The Board memberships and Ericsson holdings reported above are as of December 31, 2014. 1) The number of shares includes holdings by related natural and legal persons, as well as
holdings of any ADS, if applicable.
Corporate Governance ­ Corporate Governance Report

Ericsson | Annual Report 2014

153

CORPORATE GOVERNANCE ­ Corporate Governance Report
Members of the Executive Leadership Team, cont.

Helena Norrman
Senior Vice President, Chief Marketing and Communications Officer and Head of Group Function Marketing and Communications (since November 1, 2014)

Mats H. Olsson
Senior Vice President and Head of Asia-Pacific (since 2013)

Rima Qureshi
Senior Vice President, Chief Strategy Officer, Head of Group Function Strategy and Head of M&A (since May 1, 2014)

Angel Ruiz
Head of Region North America (since 2010)

Born 1970. Master of International Business Administration, Linköping University, Sweden.
Board Member: None.
Holdings in Ericsson 1): 18,243 Class B shares.
Background: Senior Vice President and Head of Group Function Communications 20112014. Previously Vice President, Communications Operations at Group Function Communications. Has held various positions within Ericsson's global communications organization since 1998. Previous positions as communications consultant.

Born 1954. Master of Business Administration, Stockholm School of Economics, Sweden.
Board Member: None.
Holdings in Ericsson 1): 90,051 Class B shares.
Background: International economic advisor to a number of Chinese provincial and municipal governments. Head of Region North East Asia, 2010­2012. Has held various executive positions across the Asia-Pacific region for more than 25 years, including Head of Market Unit Greater China and Head of Market Unit South East Asia.

Born 1965. Bachelor of Information Systems and Master of Business Administration, McGill University, Montreal, Canada.
Board Member: MasterCard Incorporated and the Supervisory Board of Wolters Kluwer NV.
Holdings in Ericsson 1): 9,178 Class B shares.
Background: Senior Vice President Strategic Projects 2013­ 2014, and Head of Business Unit CDMA Mobile Systems, 2010­ 2012. Previously Vice President of Strategic Improvement Program and Vice President Product Area Customer Support. Has held various positions within Ericsson since 1993.

Born 1956. Bachelor of Electrical Engineering, University of Central Florida, USA, and Master of Management Science and Information Systems, Johns Hopkins University, USA.
Board Member: CTIA­The Wireless Association and Liberty Mutual Holding Company.
Holdings in Ericsson 1): 79,962 Class B shares.
Background: Joined Ericsson in 1990 and has held a variety of technical, sales and managerial positions within the Company, including heading up the global account teams for Cingular/SBC/ BellSouth (now AT&T). Was appointed Head of Market Unit North America in 2001. Member of the US National Security Telecommunications Advisory Committee (NSTAC).

The Board memberships and Ericsson holdings reported above are as of December 31, 2014. 1) The number of shares includes holdings by related natural and legal persons, as well as
holdings of any ADS, if applicable.

154

Ericsson | Annual Report 2014

Anders Thulin
Senior Vice President, Chief Information Officer and Head of Group Function Business Excellence and Common Functions (since 2013)

Jan Wäreby
Senior Vice President and Head of Group Function Sales (since November 1, 2014)

Born 1963. Degree in Economics and Business Administration from Stockholm School of Economics, Sweden, including MBA studies at the Western University, Ivey Business School, Canada.
Board Member: None.
Holdings in Ericsson 1): 3,677 Class B shares.
Background: Joined Ericsson from McKinsey & Co where he was senior partner. Has more than 20 years of experience in implementing business excellence across diverse industries, including IT and telecom.

Born 1956. Master of Science, Chalmers University, Gothenburg, Sweden.
Board Member: None.
Holdings in Ericsson 1): 98,314 Class B shares.
Background: Senior Vice President and Head of Group Function Sales and Marketing 2011-2014. Previously Senior Vice President and Head of Business Unit Multimedia and Executive Vice President and Head of Sales and Marketing for Sony Ericsson Mobile Communications.

Auditor
According to the Articles of Association, the Parent Company shall have no less than one and no more than three registered public accounting firms as external independent auditor. Ericsson's auditor is currently elected each year at the AGM pursuant to the Swedish Companies Act for a one-year mandate period. The auditor reports to the shareholders at General Meetings.
The duties of the auditor include: >> Updating the Board of Directors regarding the plan-
ning, scope and content of the annual audit work >> Reviewing the interim reports to assess that the finan-
cial statements are presented fairly in all material respects and providing review opinions over the interim reports for the third and fourth quarters and the year-end financial statements >> Reviewing and providing an audit opinion over the Annual Report >> Advising the Board of Directors of non-audit services performed, the consideration paid and other issues that determine the auditor's independence.
Auditing work is carried out by the auditor continuously throughout the year. For further information on the contacts between the Board and the auditor, please see "Work of the Board of Directors" earlier in this Corporate Governance Report.
Current auditor PricewaterhouseCoopers AB was elected auditor at the AGM 2014 for a period of one year, i.e. until the close of the AGM 2015.
PricewaterhouseCoopers AB has appointed Peter Nyllinge, Authorized Public Accountant, to serve as auditor in charge.
Fees to the auditor Ericsson paid the fees (including expenses) for audit- related and other services listed in the table in Notes to the consolidated financial statements ­ Note C30, "Fees to auditors" in the Annual Report.

The Board memberships and Ericsson holdings reported above are as of December 31, 2014. 1) The number of shares includes holdings by related natural and legal persons, as well as
h oldings of any ADS, if applicable.
Corporate Governance ­ Corporate Governance Report

Ericsson | Annual Report 2014

155

CORPORATE GOVERNANCE ­ Corporate Governance Report

Internal control over financial reporting 2014
This section has been prepared in accordance with the Annual Accounts Act and the Swedish Corporate Governance Code and is limited to internal control over financial reporting.
Since Ericsson is listed in the United States, the requirements outlined in the Sarbanes-Oxley Act (SOX) apply. These regulate the establishment and maintenance of internal controls over financial reporting as well as management's assessment of the effectiveness of the controls.
In order to support high quality reporting and to meet the requirement of SOX, the Company has implemented detailed documented controls and testing and reporting procedures based on the internationally established 2013 COSO framework for internal control. The COSO framework is issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission (COSO).
Management's internal control report according to SOX will be included in Ericsson's Annual Report on Form 20-F and filed with the SEC in the United States.
Disclosure policies Ericsson's financial disclosure policies aim to ensure transparent, relevant and consistent communication with equity and debt investors on a timely, fair and equal basis. This will support a fair market value for Ericsson securities. Ericsson wants current and potential investors to have a good understanding of how the Company works, including operational performance, prospects and potential risks.
To achieve these objectives, financial reporting and disclosure must be: >> Transparent ­ enhancing understanding of the eco-
nomic drivers and operational performance of the business, building trust and credibility. >> Consistent ­ comparable in scope and level of detail to facilitate comparison between reporting periods. >> Simple ­ to support understanding of business operations and performance and to avoid misinterpretations. >> Relevant ­ with focus on what is relevant to Ericsson's stakeholders or required by regulation or listing agreements, to avoid information overload. >> Timely ­ with regularly scheduled disclosures as well as ad-hoc information, such as press releases on important events, performed in a timely manner. >> Fair and equal ­ where all material information is p ublished via press releases to ensure that the whole investor community receives the information at the same time. >> Complete, free from material errors and a reflection of best practice ­ disclosures compliant with applicable financial reporting standards and listing requirements and in line with industry norms.
Ericsson's website comprises comprehensive information on the Group, including: >> An archive of annual and interim reports. >> Access to recent news.

Disclosure controls and procedures Ericsson has controls and procedures in place to allow for timely disclosure in accordance with applicable laws and regulations, including the US Securities Exchange Act of 1934, and under agreements with Nasdaq Stockholm and NASDAQ New York. These procedures also require that such information is provided to management, including the CEO and the CFO, so timely decisions can be made regarding required disclosure.
The Disclosure Committee comprises members with various expertise. It assists management in fulfilling their responsibility regarding disclosures made to the shareholders and the investment community. One of the main tasks of the committee is to monitor the integrity and effectiveness of the disclosure controls and procedures.
Ericsson has investments in certain entities that the Company does not control or manage. With respect to such entities, disclosure controls and procedures are substantially more limited than those maintained with respect to subsidia ries.
Ericsson's President and CEO and the CFO evaluated the Company's disclosure controls and procedures and concluded that they were effective at a reasonable assurance level as of December 31, 2014. Any controls and procedures, no matter how well designed and operated, can provide only reasonable assurance of achieving the desired control objectives.
Internal control over financial reporting Ericsson has integrated risk management and internal control into its business processes. As defined in the COSO framework, internal control is an aggregation of components such as a control environment, risk assessment, control activities, information and communication and monitoring.
During the period covered by the Annual Report 2014, there were no changes to the internal control over financial reporting that have materially affected, or are reasonably likely to materially affect, the internal control over financial reporting.
Control environment The Company's internal control structure is based on the division of tasks between the Board of Directors and its Committees and the President and CEO. The Company has implemented a management system that is based on: >> Steering documents, such as policies, directives and a
Code of Business Ethics. >> A strong corporate culture. >> The Company's organization and mode of operations,
with well-defined roles and responsibilities and delegations of authority. >> Several well-defined Group-wide processes for planning, operations and support.
The most essential parts of the control environment relative to financial reporting are included in steering d ocuments and processes for accounting and financial reporting. These steering documents are updated regularly to include, among other things:

156

Ericsson | Annual Report 2014

>> Changes to laws. >> Financial reporting standards and listing requirements,
such as IFRS and SOX.
The processes include specific controls to be performed to ensure high quality financial reports. The management of each reporting legal entity, region and business unit is supported by a financial controller function with execution of controls related to transactions and reporting. The financial controller functions are organized in a number of Company Control Hubs, each supporting a number of legal entities within a geographical area. A financial controller function is also established on Group level, reporting to the CFO.
Risk assessment Risks of material misstatements in financial reporting may exist in relation to recognition and measurement of assets, liabilities, revenue and cost or insufficient disclosure. Other risks related to financial reporting include fraud, loss or embezzlement of assets and undue favorable treatment of counterparties at the expense of the Company.
Policies and directives regarding accounting and financial reporting cover areas of particular significance to support correct, complete and timely accounting, reporting and disclosure.
Identified types of risks are mitigated through well- defined business processes with integrated risk management activities, segregation of duties and appropriate delegation of authority. This requires specific approval of material transactions and ensures adequate asset management.
Control activities The Company's business processes include financial controls regarding the approval and accounting of business transactions. The financial closing and reporting process has controls regarding recognition, measurement and disclosure. These include the application of critical accounting policies and estimates, in individual subsidiaries as well as in the consolidated accounts.
Regular analyses of the financial results for each subsidiary, region and business unit cover the significant elements of assets, liabilities, revenues, costs and cash flow. Together with further analysis of the consolidated financial statements performed at Group level, these p rocedures are designed to produce financial reports without material errors.
For external financial reporting purposes, the Disclosure Committee performs additional control procedures to review whether the disclosure requirements are fulfilled.
The Company has implemented controls to ensure that financial reports are prepared in accordance with its internal accounting and reporting policies and IFRS as well as with relevant listing regulations. It maintains

detailed documentation on internal controls related to accounting and financial reporting. It also keeps records on the monitoring of the execution and results of such controls. This allows the President and CEO and the CFO to assess the effectiveness of the controls in a way that is compliant with SOX.
Entity-wide controls, focusing on the control environment and compliance with financial reporting policies and directives, are implemented in all subsidiaries. Detailed process controls and documentation of controls performed are also implemented in almost all subsidiaries, covering the items with significant materiality and risk.
In order to secure compliance, governance and risk management in the areas of legal entity accounting and taxation, as well as securing funding and equity levels, the Company operates through a Company Control hub structure, covering subsidiaries in each respective geographical area.
Based on a common IT platform, a common chart of account and common master data, the hubs and shared services centers perform accounting and financial reporting services for most subsidiaries.
Information and communication The Company's information and communication channels support complete, correct and timely financial reporting by making all relevant internal process instructions and policies accessible to all the employees concerned. Regular updates and briefing documents regarding changes in accounting policies, reporting and disclosure requirements are also supplied.
Subsidiaries and operating units prepare regular financial and management reports for internal steering groups and Company management. These include analysis and comments on financial performance and risks. The Board of Directors receives financial reports monthly. Ericsson has established whistleblower procedures for the reporting of alleged violations that: >> are conducted by Group or local management, and >> relate to corruption, questionable accounting or audit-
ing matters or otherwise seriously affect vital interests of the Group or personal health and safety.
Monitoring The Company's process for financial reporting is reviewed annually by the management. This forms a basis for evaluating the internal management system and internal steering documents to ensure that they cover all significant areas related to financial reporting. The shared service center and company control hub management continuously monitor accounting quality through a set of performance indicators. Compliance with policies and directives is monitored through annual self-assessments and representation letters from heads and company c ontrollers in all subsidiaries as well as in business units and regions.

Corporate Governance ­ Corporate Governance Report

Ericsson | Annual Report 2014

157

CORPORATE GOVERNANCE

The Company's financial performance is also reviewed at each Board meeting. The Committees of the Board fulfill important monitoring functions regarding remuneration, borrowing, investments, customer finance, cash management, financial reporting and internal control. The Audit Committee and the Board of Directors review all

interim and annual financial reports before they are released to the market. The Company's internal audit function reports directly to the Audit Committee. The Audit Committee also receives regular reports from the external auditor. The Audit Committee follows up on any actions taken to improve or modify controls.

Board of Directors
Stockholm, February 20, 2015
Telefonaktiebolaget LM Ericsson (publ) Org. no. 556016-0680

Auditor's report on the corporate governance report

To the Annual General Meeting of the shareholders in Telefonaktiebolaget LM Ericsson (publ), Corporate Identity Number 556016-0680.
It is the Board of Directors who is responsible for the corporate governance report for the year 2014 and that it has been prepared in accordance with the Annual Accounts Act.
We have read the corporate governance report and based on that reading and our knowledge of the com-

pany and the group we believe that we have a sufficient basis for our opinions. This means that our statutory examination of the corporate governance report is different and substantially less in scope than an audit conducted in accordance with International Standards on Auditing and generally accepted auditing standards in Sweden.
In our opinion, the corporate governance report has been prepared and its statutory content is consistent with the annual accounts and the consolidated accounts.

Stockholm, February 20, 2015 PricewaterhouseCoopers AB

Peter Nyllinge Authorized Public Accountant
Auditor in charge

Bo Hjalmarsson Authorized Public Accountant

158

Ericsson | Annual Report 2014

Connected talents

Ericsson's technology and services enable change and change makers around the world. One of the new business models that the networked society has enabled is crowdsourcing which allows global talent to contribute and develop new ideas or concepts. The crowdsourcing project that DJ/producer Avicii launched in 2013 is an example of how music has the ability not only to reach millions of fans, but also be created by thousands, through communication

technology. As advancements in mobility provide more ways to communicate, expression is no longer limited to one device or one person. Connected individuals participated in the creation process of the new single and Avicii received almost 13 000 contributions of which the best were picked. The world's first collaborative or crowdsourced hit single "Avicii X You" became a platinum hit.

Corporate Governance ­ Corporate Governance Report

Ericsson | Annual Report 2014

159

CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
REmuNERATION REPORT

Introduction
This report outlines how the remuneration policy is implemented throughout Ericsson in line with corporate governance best practice, with specific references to Group management.
The work of the Remuneration Committee in 2014 and the remuneration policy are explained at the beginning of the report, followed by descriptions of plans and their outcome.
More details on the remuneration of Group management and Board members' fees can be found in the Notes to the Consolidated financial statements ­ Note C28, "Information regarding members of the Board of Directors, the Group management and employees."
Board member remuneration is resolved annually by the Annual General Meeting.
The Remuneration Committee
The Remuneration Committee advises the Board of Directors on a regular basis on the remuneration to the Group management, consisting of the Executive Leadership Team (ELT). This includes fixed salaries, pensions, other benefits and short-term and longterm variable compensation, all in the context of pay and employment conditions throughout Ericsson. The Remuneration Committee reviews and prepares for resolution by the Board: >> Proposals on salary and other remuneration, including retire-
ment compensation, for the President and CEO. >> Proposals on targets for the short-term variable compensation
for the President and CEO. >> Proposals to the Annual General Meeting on guidelines for
remuneration to the ELT. >> Proposals to the Annual General Meeting on long-term variable
compensation and similar equity arrangements.
The responsibility of the Remuneration Committee is also to: >> Approve proposals on salary and other remuneration, including
retirement compensation, for the Executive Vice Presidents and other ELT members. >> Approve proposals on targets for the short-term variable c ompensation for the Executive Vice Presidents and other ELT members. >> Approve pay out of the short-term variable compensation for the ELT, based on achievements and performance.

The Remuneration Committee's work forms the foundation for the governance of Ericsson's remuneration processes, together with Ericsson's internal systems and audit controls. The Committee is chaired by Leif Johansson and its other members are Börje Ekholm, Roxanne S. Austin, and Karin Åberg. All the members are non-executive directors, independent (except for the employee representative) as required by the Swedish Corporate Governance Code and have relevant knowledge and experience of remuneration matters.
The Company's General Counsel acts as secretary to the Committee. The President and CEO, the Senior Vice President, Head of Human Resources and the Vice President, Head of Total Rewards attend Remuneration Committee meetings by invitation and assist the Committee in its considerations, except when issues relating to their own remuneration are being discussed.
The Remuneration Committee has appointed an independent expert advisor, Piia Pilv, to assist and advise the Committee. The independent advisor provided no other services to the Company during 2014. The Remuneration Committee is also furnished with national and international pay data collected from external survey providers and can call on other independent expertise, should it so require. The Chairman strives to ensure that contact is maintained, as necessary and appropriate, with shareholders regarding remuneration.
Further information on the Remuneration Committee and its responsibilities can be found in the Corporate Governance Report. These responsibilities, together with the Guidelines for remuneration to Group management (ELT) and the Long-Term Variable (LTV) compensation program is reviewed and evaluated annually in light of matters such as changes to corporate governance best practice or changes to accounting, legislation, political opinion or business practices among peers. This helps to ensure that the policy continues to provide Ericsson with a competitive remuneration strategy.
The Guidelines for remuneration to Group management are, in accordance with Swedish law, brought to shareholders annually for approval.
The Remuneration Committee met six times during the year 2014.
The winter meetings focused on following up on results from the 2013 variable compensation programs and preparing proposals to shareholders for the 2014 Annual General Meeting (AGM). Based on the Committee's proposal, the AGM decided to adjust

Remuneration policy

Remuneration at Ericsson is based on the principles of performance, competitiveness and fairness. The remuneration policy, together with the mix of remuneration elements, is designed to reflect these principles by creating a balanced remuneration package. The Guidelines for remuneration to

Group management 2014, approved by the AGM, can be found in Note C28. The auditor's report regarding whether the company has complied with the guidelines for remuneration to the ELT during 2014 is posted on the Ericsson website.

160

Ericsson | Annual Report 2014

the 2014 Guidelines for Remuneration to Group management by deleting the reference to normal retirement age between 60 and 65 years. The reason for this change is that all new retirement schemes for ELT members are defined contribution plans and thus the retirement age is not relevant. Also, the Committee proposed to the Board of Directors to approve the LTV 2011 vesting result. In the summer the committee reviewed alternative LTV plan designs. The Committee based its considerations on business needs, analyses and reviews of the global market trends and feedback from shareholders and institutions. Supported by the independent advisor, the Committee reviewed the competitiveness of the ELT remuneration in the global market. The Committee also reviewed the ELT severance conditions and adjusted two ELT members' remuneration following a re-organization.
Evaluation of the Guidelines for remuneration to Group m anagement and of the LTV program The Remuneration Committee supports the Board with the review and evaluation of the Guidelines for remuneration to Group management and Ericsson's application of these guidelines. The Committee and the Board have concluded that the guidelines remain valid and right for Ericsson and that the guidelines should not be materially changed for 2015.
Furthermore, the Remuneration Committee is of the opinion that the LTV program fulfills the defined objectives to promote "One Ericsson". The number of participants as of December 1, 2014 was approximately 32,000 employees, compared to 29,000 employees as of December 1, 2013. The evaluation also confirms that the Key Contributor Retention Plan meets the purpose of retaining the Company's key employees. The voluntary attrition rate among Key Contributors is about two-thirds compared to the attrition rate in the total number of employees. After a thorough review of alternative LTV designs, the Committee concluded not to propose any changes in the 2015 Executive Performance Stock plan but will continue to explore alternatives.

Total remuneration
When considering the remuneration of an individual, it is the total remuneration that matters. First, the total annual cash compensation is defined, consisting of the target level of short-term variable compensation plus fixed salary. Thereafter, target long-term variable compensation may be added to get to the total target compensation and, finally, pension and other benefits may be added to arrive at the total remuneration.
For the ELT, remuneration consists of fixed salary, short-term and long-term variable compensation, pension and other benefits. If the size of any one of these elements is increased or decreased when setting the remuneration, at least one other element has to change if the competitive position is to remain unchanged.
The remuneration costs for the CEO and the ELT are reported in Note C28.
Fixed salary When setting fixed salaries, the Remuneration Committee con siders the impact on total remuneration, including pensions and associated costs. The absolute levels are determined based on the size and complexity of the position and the year-to-year p erformance of the individual. Together with other elements of remuneration, ELT salaries are subject to an annual review by the Remuneration Committee, which considers external pay data to ensure that levels of pay remain competitive and appro priate to the remuneration policy.
Variable compensation Ericsson strongly believes that, where possible, variable comp ensation should be encouraged as an integral part of total remuneration. First and foremost, this aligns employees with clear and relevant targets, but it also enables more flexible payroll costs and emphasizes the link between performance and pay.
All variable compensation plans have maximum award and vesting limits. Short-term variable compensation is to a greater extent dependent on the performance of the specific unit or function, while long-term variable compensation is dependent on the achievements of the Ericsson Group.

Short-term variable compensation payouts as percentage of opportunity
100

80
61.9 60.4
60

40

20

0 2010

2011

CEO Average ELT excl. CEO

2012

2013

2014

Corporate Governance ­ Remuneration report

Fixed salary, short-term and long-term variable compensation as percentage of total target compensation

Obs! Gjord med column

design. Prata med

Eva/CCEaOtta/Sanna frågor.

om ev 35.8

28.7

35.5

Gör så här: Färglägg inte från paletten. Markera staplar med vita piAlevne.rVaägljeObject­Graph­Column. DEäLrTväelxjecrl.man färg och ev tint. 55.6 Kolla CsäErsOkilt att "Sliding" är valt på "Column type".

27.8

16.7

Type­Option0s:

20

40

60

80

100

1 stapel: 76% 70%

2 staFpixlaerd: 8s0a%la8ry0%2014

 Short-Term Variable Target 2014

 Long-Term Variable at half of max 2014

Obs! Gjord m design. Prat Eva/Catta/S frågor.
Gör så här: Färg paletten. Marke pilen. Välj Objec Där väljer man f Kolla särskilt att "Column type".
Type­Options: 1 stapel: 76% 70 2 staplar: 80% 8

Ericsson | Annual Report 2014

161

CORPORATE GOVERNANCE ­ Remuneration report

Summaries of 2014 short- and long-term variable compensation

What we call it

What is it?

What is the objective?

Short-term: Compensation delivered over twelve months or less

Fixed salary

Fixed compensation paid at set times

Attract and retain employees, delivering part of annual compensation in a predictable format

Short-Term Variable compensation (STV)

A variable plan that is measured and paid over a single year

Align employees with clear and relevant targets, providing an earnings opportunity in return for performance, and flexible cost

Sales Incentive Plans

Tailored versions of the STV

As for STV, tailored for local or business requirements, such as sales

Long-term: Compensation delivered over three years or more

Stock Purchase Plan (SPP)

All-employee stockbased plan

Reinforce a "One Ericsson" mentality and align employees' interests with those of shareholders

Key Contributor Retention Plan (KC)

Share-based plan for selected individuals

Recognize, retain and motivate key contributors for performance, critical skills and potential

Executive Performance Stock Plan (EPSP)

Share-based plan for senior managers

Compensation for long-term commitment and value creation

Who participates?
All employees
Enrolled employees, including Executive Leadership Team. Approximately 86,000 in 2014 Employees in sales. Approximately 3,000 in 2014
All employees are eligible
Up to 10% of employees
Senior managers, including Executive Leadership Team

How is it earned?
Market appropriate levels set according to position and evaluated according to individual performance Achievements against set targets. Reward can increase to up to twice the target level and decrease to zero, depending on performance Similar to STV. All plans have maximum award and vesting limits
Buy one share and it will be matched by one share after three years if still employed If selected, get one more matching share in addition to the SPP one
Get up to four, six or, for CEO, nine further shares matched to each SPP share for long-term performance

Ericsson measures business performance according to five categories of measurements derived from the overall strategy: growing sales faster than market, best-in-class operating margin, strong cash conversion, customer satisfaction and employee engagement. These categories form the basis for the short- and longterm variable compensation programs and set the framework of what measurements shall be used for variable compensation.
Short-term variable compensation Annual variable compensation is delivered through cash-based programs. Specific business targets are derived from the annual business plan approved by the Board of Directors and, in turn, defined by the Company's long-term strategy. Ericsson strives to grow faster than the market with best-in-class margins and strong cash conversion and therefore the starting point is to have three core targets: >> Net sales growth >> Operating income >> Cash flow
For the ELT, targets are thus predominantly financial at either Group level (for Heads of Group functions) or at the individual unit level (for Heads of regions or business units) and may also include operational targets like customer satisfaction and employee engagement.
The chart on previous page illustrates how payouts to the ELT have varied with performance over the past five years.
The Board of Directors and the Remuneration Committee decide on all targets for Group management which are cascaded to unit-related targets throughout the Company, always subject to a two-level management approval process. The Remuneration Committee monitors the appropriateness and fairness of Group target levels throughout the performance year and has the authority to revise them should they cease to be relevant or stretching or to enhance shareholder value.
During 2014, approximately 89,000 employees participated in short-term variable compensation plans.
Long-term variable compensation Share-based long-term variable compensation plans are sub mitted each year for approval by shareholders at the AGM.

All long-term variable compensation plans are designed to form part of a well-balanced total remuneration package and to span over a minimum of three years. As these are variable plans, outcomes are unknown and rewards depend on long-term personal investment, corporate performance and resulting share price performance. During 2014, share-based compensation was made up of three different but linked plans: the all-employee Stock Purchase Plan, the Key Contributor Retention Plan and the Executive Performance Stock Plan.
The Stock Purchase Plan The all-employee Stock Purchase Plan is designed to offer, where practicable, an incentive for all employees to participate. This reinforces "One Ericsson," aligned with shareholder interests. Employees can save up to 7.5% of gross fixed salary (the President and CEO can save up to 10% of gross fixed salary and shortterm variable compensation) for purchase of Class B shares at market price on Nasdaq Stockholm or ADSs on NASDAQ New York (contribution shares) over a 12-month period. If the contribution shares are retained by the employee for three years after the investment and employment with the Ericsson Group continues during that time, the employee's shares will be matched with a corresponding number of Class B shares or ADSs, as applicable. The plan was introduced in 2002 and employees in 71 countries participated during its first year. In December 2014, the number of participants was over 32,000, or approximately 30% of eligible employees in 102 countries.
Participants save each month, beginning with the August p ayroll, towards quarterly investments. These investments (in November, February, May and August) are matched on the third anniversary of each such investment and hence the m atching spans over two financial years and two tax years.
The Key Contributor Retention Plan The Key Contributor Retention Plan is part of Ericsson's talent management strategy. It is designed to recognize individuals for performance, critical skills and potential as well as to encourage retention of key employees.
Under the program, operating units around the world can nominate up to 10% of employees worldwide. Each unit nominates individuals that have been identified according to performance,

162

Ericsson | Annual Report 2014

Short-term variable compensation structure

CEO 2013 CEO 2014 Average ELT 2013 1) Average ELT 2014 1)

Short-term variable compensation as percentage of fixed salary

Target level 40% 80% 37% 54%

Maximum level 80%
160% 74%
107%

Actual paid 25% 99% 36% 59%

Percentage of short-term variable compensation maximal opportunity

Group financial t argets

Unit/functional financial targets

Non-financial targets

100%

0%

0%

100%

0%

0%

53%

25%

22%

46%

23%

31%

1) Excludes CEO, differences in target and maximum levels from year to year are due to changes in the composition of the ELT.

critical skills and potential. The nominations are calibrated in m anagement teams locally and are reviewed by both local and corporate Human Resources to ensure that there is a minimum of bias and a strong belief in the system.
Participants selected obtain one extra matching share in addition to the one matching share for each contribution share purchased under the Stock Purchase Plan during a 12-month investment period. The plan was introduced in 2004.
The Executive Performance Stock Plan The Executive Performance Stock Plan was first introduced in 2004. The plan is designed to focus management on driving longterm financial performance and to provide market-competitive remuneration. Senior managers, including the ELT, are selected to obtain up to four or six extra shares (performance-matching shares). This is in addition to the one matching share for each contribution share purchased under the all-employee Stock Purchase Plan. Performance matching is subject to the fulfillment of performance targets. Since 2010, the President and CEO may obtain up to nine performance-matching shares in addition to the Stock Purchase Plan matching share for each contribution share.
In the 2004 to 2010 plans, the performance targets were Earnings Per Share (EPS) targets.
To support the long-term strategy and value creation of the Company, new targets have been in place since the 2011 plan. At the AGM 2014, the following targets for the 2014 Executive P erformance Stock Plan were resolved on proposal by the Board: >> Net Sales Growth: Up to one-third of the award will vest if the
compound annual growth rate of consolidated net sales is between 2 and 8% comparing 2016 financial results to 2013. >> Operating Income Growth: Up to one-third of the award will vest if the compound annual growth rate of consolidated operating income is between 5 and 15% comparing 2016 financial results to 2013. >> Cash Conversion: Up to one third of the award will vest if cash conversion is at or above 70% during each of the years 2014­ 2016 and vesting one ninth of the total award for each year the target is achieved.
Before the number of performance shares to be matched are finally determined, the Board of Directors shall examine whether the performance matching is reasonable considering the Company's financial results and position, conditions on the stock market and other circumstances, and if not, as determined by the Board of Directors, reduce the number of performance shares to be matched to the lower number of shares deemed appropriate by the Board of Directors. When undertaking its evaluation of per formance, the Board of Directors will consider, in particular, the impact of larger acquisitions, divestitures, the creation of joint v entures and any other significant capital event on the three targets on a case-by-case basis.

Benefits and terms of employment Pension benefits follow the competitive practice in the employee's home country and may contain various supplementary plans, in addition to any national system for social security. Where possible, pension plans are operated on a defined contribution basis. Under these plans, Ericsson pays in contributions but does not guarantee the ultimate benefit, unless local regulations or legislation p rescribe that defined benefit plans that do give such guarantees have to be offered.
For the President and CEO and other members of the ELT employed in Sweden before 2011, a supplementary pension plan is applied in addition to the occupational pension plan for salaried staff on the Swedish labor market (ITP). The retirement age for these ELT members is normally 60 years.
The ELT members employed in Sweden from 2011 are normally covered by the defined contribution plan under the ITP1 scheme, with a retirement age of 65 years.
For members of the ELT who are not employed in Sweden, local market competitive pension arrangements apply.
Other benefits, such as company cars and medical insurance, are also set to be competitive in the local market. The ELT members may not receive loans from the Company.
The ELT members locally employed in Sweden have a mutual notice period of up to six months. Upon termination of employment by the Company, severance pay can amount to up to 18 months' fixed salary. For other ELT members, different notice p eriods and severance pay agreements apply; however, no agreement exceeds the notice period of six months or the severance pay period of 18 months.
Remuneration policy in practice
Ericsson has taken a number of measures over the years to enhance the understanding of how the company translates remuneration principles and policy into practice. The first step was the launch of an internal remuneration website where it provide e-learning and training program solutions targeted for line managers. This was followed by the development and implementation of an Integrated Human Resources IT tool. During 2014 enhancements of the IT tool and intensified briefings of line managers on pay principles and their practical execution enabled further progress towards a globally consistent implementation of core principles while allowing room for adaptation to local legislation and pay markets.

Corporate Governance ­ Remuneration report

Ericsson | Annual Report 2014

163

FOR INVESTORS ­ Ericsson and the capital market
Ericsson and the capital market

Roadshows and Conferences in 2014

 Nordic 12%  UK 24%  Rest of Europe 26%  US 21%  Asia 10%  Other 7%

Number of IR activities 2014

300 278 250

200

179

150

150

100

50

25

17

0

 One-on-one meetings  Group meetings  Conference calls Roadshows  Investor conferences

Purpose of the capital markets communications Ericsson's overall goal is to create shareholder value. This is achieved through a number of objectives, both financial and non-financial, including growing faster than the market with best-in-class margins and strong cash con version.
The communication with the capital market aims to support the Company's overall goal by ensuring increased understanding and decreased volatility through transparency and clear messages. The Investor Relations department serves as the bridge between the Company's strategic planning , development and activities, and the external valuation and perception.
Transparency means giving transparent, relevant and consistent communication, on a timely, fair and equal basis and making sure the stakeholders are updated. Over the years, the stakeholders have become more diverse, which has increased the importance of clear and concise messages to the financial market.
OGbos!aGlsjoardnmdemd ecoalsuumrnement dPeesirgcne. pPrtaiotanmsetuddies are carried out on a regular Ebvaa/sCisattoa/Sgaanungaeotmhevperceptions of messages at frcåagpoirt.al markets days, the web site, road shows Gaörnsdå htähr:eFäragvläaggilaintbeiflriåtny of IR and the executive manpaalgetetemn. Meanrkte.ra staplar med vita pDiälernv.äEVljäerlrijcmOsbajnsecfoät­rngGoraacpihmhe­vCstointluotm. mn. aintain a long-term rela Ktoilolansäsrshkiilpt atwt "Sitlihdinitgs"äor vwaltnpeå rs, and the IR department "Cmoluomnnittoypres". shareholder turnover on a regular basis.
IR activities are linked to the Company strategy and development Throughout the year, the IR department carries out a number of activities aiming at meeting the

goals of transparent communication and increased understanding; capital markets days, road shows, meetings with investors and analysts etc. IR also participates in all communications surrounding the Company's activities, product launches, quarterly earnings, M&A-activities etc, to ensure that financial communication is clear and relevant for the capital market.
Working with other functions in the company IR also works together with other Group functions, e.g. Strategy and Treasury. While communication with the rating institutions primarily falls with Treasury, the IR department is also involved on a regular basis.
With strong growth in Ericsson's operations in the US, coupled with a larger shareholder base, the US market has grown in importance in recent years. To match strong operations with local funding, Ericsson launched a bond program in the US in 2012. Treasury and IR do a joint annual roadshow to meet bondholders in the US market.
Activities at Industry events IR also participates at important industry events such as the annual Mobile World Congress. The IR activities include communication relating to important Company news, but also setting up meetings between Company spokespeople and different stakeholders to facilitate their understanding of how important news and activities relate to the Company's goals and strategy.
IR in Transformation Ericsson is transforming from a leader in telecommunications and related services into a leader in the ICT arena.

Important activities during the year

164

>> At the Mobile World Congress in Barcelona in Feb ruary, Ericsson announced several new products and contracts. Investor and analysts meetings were held with management and spokespersons.

>> At the Annual General Meeting of shareholders in April, CEO Hans Vestberg outlined the vision to hold the leadership position in the rapidly deve loping Networked Society, and talked about the ongoing transition in the Company.

>> CEO Hans Vestberg made a key note speech and held investor meetings at an investor conference in Paris in June.

Ericsson | Annual Report 2014

Share price development during the year
SEK 120

100

80

60

40

20

0

Jan

Feb

Mar

Apr

Important events during the year

May

Jun

Q4 Report, January: Sales flat YoY while gross margin improved driven by changed business mix. A signed cross-licensing agreement with Samsung contributed to both Sales and Income.

Q1 Report, April: Gross margin improved YoY driven by strong capacity business, while sales declined primarily due to reduced mobile broadband coverage activities.

AGM, April: The proposed dividend of SEK 3,00 (SEK 2,75) was approved at the AGM. Record date was April 16.
Volume traded at Nasdaq Stockholm, 000's E ricsson, B OMX Stockholm

Jul

Aug

Sep

Q2 Report, July: Sequential sales growth was driven by North America, China and Brazil. Continued strong capacity business had a positive impact on the result.

Modems announcement, September: Announced discontinued development of modems business ­ with an estimated significant reduction in costs related to modems in the 1st half of 2015.

Volume, 000's 42,000

35,000

28,000

21,000

14,000

7,000

0

Oct

Nov

Dec

Q3 Report, October: Sales growth YoY was driven by Middle East, China, India and Russia, partly offset by lower sales in North America. Revaluation of currency hedge contracts had a significant negative effect on income.

CMD, November: Ericsson announced a cost saving program of SEK 9 billion, at the Capital Markets Day in Stockholm.

New stakeholders ­ new focus areas Simultaneously, the stakeholders in the capital market have also transformed in recent years; from industry-specialists focusing on the technology sector to generalists covering several sectors. It has become increasingly important for the financial

communication to make it easy for stakeholders to make the connection between the Company's activities and development and its long-term strategy, thus putting higher demands on clear messages.
With almost two thirds of Ericsson's holdings outside of Sweden, IR needs to

have an understanding of focus areas, questions and issues in other parts of the world. The demand for availability at a global level also means working with other tools besides regular meetings, such as digital media.

>> During the UN week in New York, CEO Hans Vestberg and Elaine WeidmanGrunewald, head of Sustainability and CR, talked about Ericsson's role and vision of the networked society and how Sustainability and CR is an integral part of this vision.

>> In November, Ericsson arranged the annual Capital Markets Day in Stockholm with more than 200 participants. For more information see page 167.

>> CFO Jan Frykhammar held a speech and investor meetings at an investor conference in Barcelona in November.

For investors ­ Ericsson and the capital market

Ericsson | Annual Report 2014

165

FOR INVESTORS ­ Ericsson and the capital market

Investors and financial analysts Q&a

What is the sales development and market trend in North America? After a few years of major LTE network build outs, the business in North America during 2014 were driven by network quality and capacity expansion business. This was a consequence of the continued increase in user demand for mobile data. Full-year sales declined, driven by lower network sales as a result of large mobile broadband coverage projects coming to an end, and increased operator focus on cash flow in the second half of the year. Sales in Support Solutions and Professional Services continued to grow, driven by OSS and BSS modernization. The overall market fundamentals are strong with continued need for capacity investments and densification driven by video and the introduction of new services such as VoLTE. The US market is at the forefront when it comes to network evolution and LTE usage, and many of the targeted areas such as OSS and BSS, IP, Cloud and TV&Media have a strong potential in this market.
What is the market trend in Europe? Compared to previous years, that were impacted by the modernization projects, business in 2014 was driven by investments in network quality and capacity combined with managed services. Vodafone started to invest in a multi-year project called "Project Spring" to increase the coverage and capacity in several European countries. Western Europe is in the forefront of mobile broadband, with 65 percent of all subscriptions being WCDMA/ HSPA. LTE subscriptions are still below

20% but is expected to make up around 75 percent of the subscription base by 2020. Operator consolidations in Europe continued to be on the agenda during the year partly driven by an increasing need for network investments. Business in Russia developed favorably during the year driven by mobile broadband investments.
What is the market trend in China? Mainland China has started a large scale roll out of LTE and by the end of 2020 we estimate it will have over 1.2 billion LTE- subscriptions ­ more than one third of the global total. Sales during the year were driven by deployment of 4G/LTE coverage type of contracts, primarily to one Chinese customer. Future capacity sales will be dependent on subscriber uptake and mobile data usage in the LTE networks.
What has driven the improved operating margin in segment Networks during the year? Operating income improved significantly compared with last year due to increased capacity business, earlier actions to improve commercial and operational efficiency and lower restructuring charges. This was partly offset by a negative effect from currency hedges and byhigher operating expenses mainly in IP and Cloud.
How has the business mix developed during the year? The business mix has developed with more capacity sales compared to previous years. This was primarily visible in the US, in Europe and in parts of North East Asia. Network rollout revenues declined YoY,

which is an indicator for a lower share of coverage projects. The increased capacity and software sales is driven by a continued increase in mobile data traffic and end user demand for good network performance and new services.
USD has strengthened compared to several currencies, how has this impacted the result? Compared to 2013, currency movements versus the Swedish Krona has impacted sales positively mainly driven by the strengthened USD and the weakened SEK. The positive underlying effect on the income from having less costs than revenues in USD was offset by negative effect from currency hedge contracts. A strengthened USD versus the Swedish krona will over time have a positive impact on both Sales and Income.
Can you give us an update on your cost saving plan? Ericsson continues to proactively identify efficiency opportunities in the Company. The cost and efficiency program presented at the Capital Markets Day, with the ambition to achieve savings of approx imately SEK 9 b. with full effect during 2017, is progressing. Activities for the discontinuation of the modems business are included in the program and are ahead of plan. The Company will report progress on the program starting Q1 2015.

166

Ericsson | Annual Report 2014

capital markets day the main messages

Ericsson's Capital Markets Day (CMD) 2014 took place in Stockholm. During the day, speakers including Ericsson's CEO Hans Vestberg and CFO Jan Frykhammar, and the heads of the business segments, focused on explaining how Ericsson's technology and service leadership and global strength enable the company to transform in terms of product and business mix, resource allocation, headcount and earnings. The Company's strategic direction, namely to excel in core business, establish

leadership in targeted areas and expand business in new areas, was also thoroughly explained by the CEO Hans Vestberg and Head of Strategy Rima Qureshi. The Company's focus on operational efficiency, profitability and cash flow generation, with the ambition to improve profitability and grow faster than the market, or by more than CAGR 3­5%, were significant key takeaways from the CMD 2014.

FOR INVESTORS ­ Share information
Share information

Share trading

The Ericsson Class A and Class B

Nasdaq Stockholm and is unchanged

shares are listed on Nasdaq Stock-

in the United States compared to 2013.

holm. In the United States, the Class B With the implementation of the Mifid

shares are listed on NASDAQ New York directive in the EU, share trading has

in the form of American Depositary

become increasingly fragmented

Shares (ADS) evidenced by American

across a number of venues and trading

Depositary Receipts (ADR) under the

categories. Trading on MTFs and other

symbol ERIC. Each ADS represents

venues have gained market shares

one Class B share.

from stock exchanges like Nasdaq

In 2014, approximately 1.9 (2.0)

OMX Stockholm.

billion shares were traded on Nasdaq

Trading in Stockholm represented

Stockholm and approximately 1.0 (1.0) 37 percent of total trading in 2014,

billion ADS were traded in the United

compared with more than 50 percent

States (incl. NASDAQ New York). A

in 2010. Total trading in Ericsson B on

total of 2.9 (3.0) billion Ericsson shares all venues combined, has decreased

were thus traded on the exchanges in

slightly over the past five years, from

Stockholm and in the United States.

6.8 billion shares in 2010 to 5.5 billion

Trading volume in Ericsson shares

shares in 2014. Over the same period,

decreased by approximately 4% on

trading of Ericsson ADS in the US has

decreased from 1.6 billion ADS to 1 bil-

Share trading on different market places (class B shares)

lion ADS. This development, with decreasing
share of trading volumes in Stockholm,

Shares traded, billions
8 7 6 5

is in line with the development for other Swedish Large Cap shares. Obs! Gjord med column design. Prata med Eva/Catta/Sanna om ev frågor.

4

OGthöerrså här: Färglägg inte från

3

Tuppriaqleleunto.tieVsnäel.jMOabrjkeecrta­Gstraapplhar­mCoeldumvinta.

2

BDoaätr väljer man färg och ev tint.

LoKnodllaonsärskilt att "Sliding" är valt på

1

BA"CToSluCmhni-Xtype".

0 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014

Stockholm

Changes in number of shares and capital stock 2010­2014

2010 2011 2012 2012 2013 2014

December 31 December 31 June 29, new issue (Class C shares, later converted to Class B) December 31 December 31 December 31

The Ericsson share
Share listings Nasdaq Stockholm NASDAQ New York

Share data

Total number of shares in issue

3,305,051,735

of which Class A shares, each carrying one vote 1)

261,755,983

of which Class B shares, each carrying one tenth of one vote 1)

3,043,295,752

Ericsson treasury shares, Class B

63,450,558

Quotient value

SEK 5.00

Market capitalization, December 31, 2014

approx. SEK 310 b.

ICB (Industry Classification Benchmark)

9500

1) Both classes of shares have the same rights of participation in the net assets and earnings.

Ticker codes Nasdaq Stockholm NASDAQ New York Bloomberg Nasdaq Stockholm Bloomberg NASDAQ Reuters Nasdaq Stockholm Reuters NASDAQ

ERIC A/ERIC B ERIC
ERICA SS/ERICB SS ERIC US
ERICa.ST/ERICb.ST ERIC.O

Number of shares 3,273,351,735 3,273,351,735 31,700,000 3,305,051,735 3,305,051,735 3,305,051,735

Share capital (SEK) 16,366,758,678 16,366,758,678 158,500,000 16,525,258,678 16,525,258,678 16,525,258,678

Share performance indicators
Earnings per share, diluted (SEK) 1) Earnings per share, diluted non-IFRS (SEK) 2) Operating income per share (SEK) 3) 4) Cash flow from operating activities per share (SEK) 3) Stockholders' equity per share, basic, end of period (SEK) 5) P/E ratio Total shareholder return (%) Dividend per share (SEK) 6)

2014 3.54 4.80 5.19 5.78 44.51
26 24 3.40

2013 3.69 5.62 5.53 5.39 43.39
21 25 3.00

2012 1.78 2.74 3.25 6.85 42.51
36 ­3 2.75

2011 3.77 4.72 5.58 3.11 44.57
19 ­7 2.50

1) Calculated on average number of shares outstanding, diluted.
2) EPS, diluted, excluding restructuring charges, amortizations and write-downs of acquired intangible assets, SEK.

3) Calculated on average number of shares outstanding, basic. 4) For 2010 excluding restructuring charges.

5) Calculated on number of shares, end of period. 6) For 2014 as proposed by the Board of Directors.

For definitions of the financial terms used, see Glossary, Financial Terminology and Exchange Rates.

2010 3.46 4.80 7.42 8.31 45.34
22 22 2.25

168

Ericsson | Annual Report 2014

Share trend
In 2014, Ericsson's total market capitalization increased by 20.1% to SEK 310 billion, compared to an increase by 20.3% reaching SEK 258 billion in 2013. The index, OMX Stockholm, on Nasdaq Stockholm increased by 11.9% in 2014 and the NASDAQ composite index increased by 13.4%. The S&P 500 Index increased by 11.4%.

Share turnover and price trend, Nasdaq Stockholm
Class A shares, SEK

120

100

80

60

40

20

0 2010

2011

2012

Class B shares, SEK

120

100

80

60

40

20

0 2010

2011

2012

 Volume traded, 000's  Ericsson share  OMX Stockholm Volumes reflect trading on Nasdaq Stockholm only.

Share turnover and price trend, US market
ADS, USD

18 15 12
9 6 3 0
2010

2011

2012

Volume traded, 000's  Ericsson ADS  S&P 500

2013 2013 2013

000's share traded 18,000 15,000 12,000 9,000 6,000 3,000 0
2014
000's share traded 600,000 500,000 400,000 300,000 200,000 100,000 0
2014

000's share traded

2014

300,000 250,000 200,000 150,000 100,000 50,000 0

Dividend per share

SEK

3.50

3.40

3.00

2.50

2.00

1.50

1.00

0.50

0.00 2010 2011 2012 2013 20141)

1) For 2014 as proposed by the Board of Directors.

Obs! Gjo design. Eva/Cat frågor.
Gör så här paletten. M pilen. Välj Där väljer Kolla särsk "Column t

Earnings per share, diluted

SEK

6

5

4.80

4

3.54

3

2

1

0 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014
Earnings per share, diluted Earnings per share, diluted (non-IFRS) 1) 1) EPS, diluted, excl. restructuring charges, amortizations and w rite-downs of acquired intangible assets, SEK.

Obs! Gjord design. Pra Eva/Catta/ frågor.
Gör så här: Fä paletten. Mar pilen. Välj Obj Där väljer ma Kolla särskilt a "Column type
Type­Option 1 stapel: 76% 2 staplar: 80%

Stockholders' equity per share, basic

SEK 50 40

44.51

30

20

10

0 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014

Obs! Gjor design. P Eva/Catta frågor.
Gör så här: F paletten. Ma pilen. Välj Ob Där väljer m Kolla särskilt "Column typ

For investors ­ Share information

Ericsson | Annual Report 2014

169

FOR INVESTORS ­ Share information

Share and ADS prices
Principal trading market ­ Nasdaq Stockholm ­ share prices The table below states the high and low share prices for the Class A and Class B shares as reported by Nasdaq Stockholm for the last five years. Trading on the exchange generally continues until 5:30 p.m. (CET) each business day. In addition to trading on the exchange, there is trading off the exchange and on alternative venues during trading hours and also after 5:30 p.m. (CET).
Nasdaq Stockholm publishes a daily Official Price List of Shares which includes the volume of recorded transactions in each listed stock, together with the prices of the highest and lowest recorded trades of the day. The Official Price List of Shares reflects price and volume information for trades completed by the members. The equity securities listed on the Nasdaq Stockholm Official Price List of Shares currently comprise the shares of 269 companies.
Host market NASDAQ New York ­ ADS prices The table below states the high and low share prices quoted for the ADSs on NASDAQ New York for the last five years. The N ASDAQ New York quotations represent prices between dealers, not including retail markups, markdowns or commissions, and do not necessarily represent actual transactions.

Share prices on Nasdaq Stockholm

(SEK)

2014

Class A at last day of trading

88.25

Class A high (December 29, 2014)

91.80

Class A low (January 23, 2014)

71.55

Class B at last day of trading

94.35

Class B high (December 29, 2014)

96.40

Class B low (January 24, 2014)

75.05

Source: Nasdaq Stockholm.

2013 74.50
86.95
50.00 78.50
90.95
64.50

2012 63.90
72.00
55.55 65.10
71.90
55.90

2011 69.55
93.60
59.05 70.40
96.65
61.70

2010 74.00
88.40
65.20 78.15
90.45
65.90

Share prices on NASDAQ New York

(USD)

2014

ADS at last day of trading

12.10

ADS high (April 9, 2014)

13.61

ADS low (October 27, 2013)

11.20

Source: NASDAQ New York.

2013 12.24 14.22
9.78

2012 10.10 10.60
8.23

2011 10.13 15.44
8.83

2010 11.53 12.39
9.40

Share prices on Nasdaq Stockholm and NASDAQ New York

Period Annual high and low 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014
Quarterly high and low 2013 First Quarter 2013 Second Quarter 2013 Third Quarter 2013 Fourth Quarter 2014 First Quarter 2014 Second Quarter 2014 Third Quarter 2014 Fourth Quarter
Monthly high and low August 2014 September 2014 October 2014 November 2014 December 2014 January 2015
1) One ADS = 1 Class B share.

170

Ericsson | Annual Report 2014

Nasdaq Stockholm

SEK per Class A share

SEK per Class B share

High

Low

High

Low

88.40 93.60 72.00 86.95 91.80

65.20 59.05 55.55 50.00 71.55

90.45 96.65 71.90 90.95 96.40

65.90 61.70 55.90 64.50 75.05

NASDAQ New York

USD per ADS 1)

High

Low

12.39 15.44 10.60 14.22 13.61

9.40 8.83 8.23 9.78 11.20

84.55 80.20 86.95 82.75 82.00 84.10 89.95 91.80

62.90 69.65 71.00 50.00 71.55 74.15 74.50 76.05

86.40 83.15 90.95 87.10 86.25 88.55 94.45 96.40

64.50 72.40 74.10 76.05 75.05 77.55 77.90 81.05

13.46 12.60 14.22 13.71 13.37 13.61 13.28 12.74

9.78 10.67 11.26 11.59 11.52 11.83 11.50 11.20

83.40 89.95 87.35 89.85 91.80 99.00

79.00 82.00 76.05 81.00 83.45 88.75

87.65 94.45 91.95 94.45 96.40 104.80

82.90 86.15 81.05 85.65 88.45 92.90

12.66 13.28 12.59 12.71 12.74 12.44

12.10 12.30 11.20 11.57 11.70 11.75

Source: Nasdag Stockholm and NASDAQ New York.

Shareholders
As of December 31, 2014, the Parent Company had 482,025 shareholders registered at Euroclear Sweden AB (the Central Securities Depository ­ CSD), of which 952 holders had a US address. According to information provided by the Company's depositary, Deutsche Bank, there were 233,146,314 ADSs outstanding as of December 31, 2014, and 4,127 registered holders of such ADSs. A significant number of Ericsson ADSs are held by banks, brokers and/or nominees for the accounts of their customers. As of January 15, 2015, the total number of bank, broker and/or nominee accounts holding Ericsson ADSs was 156,271.
According to information known at year-end 2014, approximately 87% of the Class A and Class B shares were owned by institutions, Swedish and international. The major shareholders do not have different voting rights than other shareholders holding the same classes of shares. As far as Ericsson knows, the Company is not directly or indirectly owned or controlled by another corporation, by any foreign government or by any other natural or legal person(s) separately or jointly.
The table shows the total number of shares in the Parent Company owned by the Executive Leadership Team and Board members (including Deputy employee representatives) as a group as of December 31, 2014.

The Executive Leadership Team and Board members, ownership

Number of

Number of Voting rights,

Class A shares Class B shares

p ercent

The Executive Leadership Team and Board members as a group (31 persons)

0

1,060,685

0.02%

Includes shares held via endowment insurance, for more info see page 144­145, note 2 For individual holdings, see Corporate Governance Report.

Geographical ownership breakdown of share capital including retail shareholders and treasury shares
Percent of capital

Sweden  United States  United Kingdom Norway Netherlands  Other countries

2014 37.75% 23.13% 10.52% 3.30% 1.77% 23.53%

2013 38.65% 21.67% 10.15% 3.26%
1.49% 24.80%

Source: Nasdaq

Ownership breakdown by type of owner
Percentage of voting rights

 Swedish institutions Of which: ­ Investor AB ­ AB Industrivärden 1)  Foreign institutions  Swedish retail investors Other

2014 54.65%
21.50% 20.05% 32.16%
5.44% 7.75%

2013 56.73%
21.50% 19.96% 25.38% 4.98% 12.91%

Source: Nasdaq
1) Together with SHB Pensionsstiftelse and Pensionskassan SHB Försäkringsförening.

Share distribution 1)

Holding 1­500 501­1,000 1,001­5,000 5,001­10,000 10,001­15,000 15,001­20,000 20,001­ Total, December 31, 2014 2)

No. of shareholders
383,779 45,662 43,524 5,019 1,260 593 2,188
482,027

1) Source: Euroclear 2) Includes a nominee reporting discrepancy of 113,649 shares.

No. of shares A 1,334,383 984,648 2,911,050 1,132,802 559,143 355,152 254,478,805 261,755,983

No. of shares B 51,676,575 33,135,228 90,255,636 34,349,148 14,946,325 10,165,451 2,808,653,740 3,043,295,752

Percentage of share capital
1.60% 1.03% 2.82% 1.07% 0.47% 0.32% 92.68% 100.00%

Percentage of voting rights
1.15% 0.76% 2.11% 0.81% 0.36% 0.24% 94.57% 100.00%

The following table shows share information, as of December 31, 2014, with respect to the 15 largest shareholders, ranked by voting rights, as well as their percentage of voting rights as of December 31, 2014, 2013 and 2012.

Market value (MSEK) 4,993 3,213 8,773 3,341 1,460 990 287,454 310,235

Largest shareholders, December 31, 2014 and percentage of voting rights, December 31, 2014, 2013 and 2012

Identity of person or group 1) Investor AB AB Industrivärden Handelsbankens Pensionsstiftelse Dodge & Cox, Inc. AFA Försäkring AB Swedbank Robur AB AMF Pensionsförsäkring AB Livförsäkringsbolaget Skandia BlackRock Fund Advisors Aberdeen Asset Managers Ltd. Norges Bank Investment Management Handelsbanken Asset Management OppenheimerFunds, Inc. State Street Global Advisors (US) The Vanguard Group, Inc. Others Total

Number of Class A shares
115,762,803 86,052,615 27,430,790 0 11,423,000 13,270 0 7,218,395 0 0 0 630,341 0 603 0 13,224,166
261,755,983

Of total

Class A shares, Number of Class

percent

B shares

44.23

59,284,545

32.88

0

10.48

0

0.00 117,579,896

4.36

2,171,761

0.01 107,803,564

0.00 104,826,878

2.76

16,539,057

0.00

82,330,468

0.00

67,308,122

0.00

64,394,664

0.24

51,612,963

0.00

57,884,322

0.00

51,819,852

0.00

43,488,591

5.05 2,216,251,069

100 3,043,295,752

Of total Class B shares,
percent 1.95 0.00 0.00 3.79 0.07 3.54 3.44 0.54 2.71 2.21 2.12 1.70 1.90 1.69 1.42
72.92 100

2014 Voting rights,
percent 21.50 15.20 4.85 2.08 2.06 1.91 1.85 1.57 1.45 1.19 1.14 1.02 1.02 0.92 0.77 41.49 100

1) Source: Nasdaq

2013 Voting rights,
percent 21.50 15.21 3.62 1.36 2.10 2.16 1.34 1.32 1.45 0.71 1.15 0.85 1.09 0.77 0.66 44.71 100

2012 Voting rights,
percent 21.37 14.96 3.72 1.14 2.18 2.71 1.26 1.31 1.37 1.16 1.36 1.07 1.10 0.07 0.53 44.69 100

For investors ­ Share information

Ericsson | Annual Report 2014

171

OTHER INFORMATION
Ten-year summary

For definitions of the financial terms used, see Glossary, Financial terminology and Exchange rates.
Ten-year summary SEK million Income statement items Net sales Operating income Financial net Net income
Year-end position Total assets Working capital Capital employed Gross cash Net cash Property, plant and equipment Stockholders' equity Non-controlling interest Interest-bearing liabilities and post-employment benefits
Per share indicators Earnings per share, basic, SEK Earnings per share, diluted, SEK Cash flow from operating activities per share, SEK Cash dividends per share, SEK Stockholders' equity per share, SEK Number of shares outstanding (in millions)
end of period, basic average, basic average, diluted
Other information Additions to property, plant and equipment Depreciation and write-downs/impairments of property, plant and equipment Acquisitions/capitalization of intangible assets Amortization and write-downs/impairments of intangible assets Research and development expenses
as percentage of net sales
Ratios Operating margin excluding joint ventures and associated companies Operating margin EBITA margin Cash conversion Return on equity Return on capital employed Equity ratio Capital turnover Inventory turnover days Trade receivables turnover Payment readiness, SEK million
as percentage of net sales
Statistical data, year-end Number of employees
of which in Sweden Export sales from Sweden, SEK million
1) For 2014, as proposed by the Board of Directors.

172

Ericsson | Annual Report 2014

2014
227,983 16,807 ­996 11,143
293,558 103,246 189,839
72,159 27,629 13,341 144,306
1,003 44,530
3.57 3.54 5.78 3.40 1) 44.51
3,242 3,237 3,270
5,322 4,316 6,184 5,629 36,308 15.9%
7.4% 7.4% 9.3% 84% 8.1% 9.8% 49.5%
1.2 64 3.1 85,465 37.5%
118,055 17,580
113,734

Change
0% ­6% 33% ­8%
9% ­3% 5% ­6% ­27% 17% 3% ­29% 13%
­4% ­4% 7% 13% 3%
­ ­ ­
18% 3%
30% ­5% 13%
­
­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ 3% ­
3% ­2%
4%

2013
227,376 17,845 ­747 12,174
269,190 106,940 180,903
77,089 37,809 11,433 140,204
1,419 39,280
3.72 3.69 5.39 3.00 43.39
3,231 3,226 3,257
4,503 4,209 4,759 5,928 32,236 14.2%
7.9% 7.8% 9.8% 79% 8.7% 10.7% 52.6%
1.3 62 3.4 82,631 36.3%
114,340 17,858
108,944

2012
227,779 10,458 ­276 5,938
274,996 100,619 176,653
76,708 38,538 11,493 136,883
1,600 38,170
1.80 1.78 6.85 2.75 42.51
3,220 3,216 3,247
5,429 4,012 13,247 5,877 32,833 14.4%
9.7% 4.6% 6.6% 116% 4.1% 6.7% 50.4%
1.3 73 3.6 84,951 37.3%
110,255 17,712
106,997

2011
226,921 17,900 221 12,569
280,349 109,552 186,307
80,542 39,505 10,788 143,105
2,165 41,037
3.80 3.77 3.11 2.50 44.57
3,211 3,206 3,233
4,994 3,546 2,748 5,490 32,638 14.4%
9.6% 7.9% 9.9% 40% 8.5% 11.3% 51.8%
1.2 78 3.6 86,570 38.1%
104,525 17,500
116,507

2010
203,348 16,455 ­672 11,235
281,815 105,488 182,640
87,150 51,295
9,434 145,106
1,679 35,855
3.49 3.46 8.31 2.25 45.34
3,200 3,197 3,226
3,686 3,296 7,246 6,657 31,558 15.5%
8.7% 8.1% 11.0% 112% 7.8% 9.6% 52.1%
1.1 74 3.2 96,951 47.7%
90,261 17,848 100,070

2009
206,477 5,918 325 4,127
269,809 99,079
181,680 76,724 36,071 9,606
139,870 1,157
40,653
1.15 1.14 7.67 2.00 43.79
3,194 3,190 3,212
4,006 3,502 11,413 8,621 33,055 16.0%
6.5% 2.9% 6.7% 117% 2.6% 4.3% 52.3%
1.1 68 2.9 88,960 43.1%
82,493 18,217 94,829

2008
208,930 16,252 974 11,667
285,684 99,951
182,439 75,005 34,651 9,995
140,823 1,261
40,354
3.54 3.52 7.54 1.85 44.21
3,185 3,183 3,202
4,133 3,105 1,287 5,568 33,584 16.1%
8.0% 7.8% 9.4% 92% 8.2% 11.3% 49.7%
1.2 68 3.1 84,917 40.6%
78,740 20,155 109,254

2007
187,780 30,646 83 22,135
245,117 86,327
168,456 57,716 24,312 9,304
134,112 940
33,404
6.87 6.84 6.04 2.50 42.17
3,180 3,178 3,193
4,319 2,914 29,838 5,459 28,842 15.4%
12.5% 16.3% 18.0%
66% 17.2% 20.9% 55.1%
1.2 70 3.4 64,678 34.4%
74,011 19,781 102,486

2006
179,821 35,828 165 26,436
214,940 82,926
142,447 62,280 40,728 7,881
120,113 782
21,552
8.27 8.23 5.83 2.50 37.82
3,176 3,174 3,189
3,827 3,038 18,319 4,479 27,533 15.3%
16.7% 19.9% 21.0%
57% 23.7% 27.4% 56.2%
1.3 71 3.9 67,454 37.5%
63,781 19,094 98,694

2005
153,222 33,084 251 24,460
209,336 86,184
133,332 81,505 50,645 6,966
101,622 850
30,860
7.67 7.64 5.26 2.25 32.03
3,173 3,169 3,181
3,365 2,438 2,250 3,364 24,059 15.7%
20.1% 21.6% 21.8%
47% 26.7% 28.7% 49.0%
1.2 74 4.1 78,647 51.3%
56,055 21,178 93,879

Other information ­ Ten-year summary

Ericsson | Annual Report 2014

173

OTHER INFORMATION
Glossary

2G The first digital generation of mobile systems. Includes GSM, TDMA, PDC and cdmaOne.
3G Third generation mobile system. Includes WCDMA/HSPA, CDMA2000 and TD-SCDMA.
4G See LTE.
All-IP A single, common IP infrastructure that can handle all network services, including fixed and mobile communications, for voice and data services as well as video services such as TV.
Backhaul Transmission between radio base stations and the core network.
BSS Business support systems.
CAGR Compound Annual Growth Rate.
Capex Capital expenditure.
Carrier grade (Also telecom grade) refers to a system, or a hardware or software component, with at least "five nines", i.e. 99.999%, availability.
CDMA Code Division Multiple Access. A radio technology on which the cdmaOne (2G) and CDMA2000 (3G) mobile communication standards are both based.
Cloud When data and applications reside in the network.
CO2e The amount of a particular greenhouse gas, expressed as the amount of carbon dioxide that gives the same greenhouse effect.
EDGE An enhancement of GSM. Enables the transmission of data at speeds up to 250 kbps (Evolved EDGE up to 1 Mbps.)
GSM Global System for Mobile Communications. A first digital generation mobile system.

EPC Evolved Packet Core. The core network of the LTE system.
Heterogeneous network Densification and enhancement of a network to increase capacity.
HSPA High Speed Packet Access. Enhancement of 3G/WCDMA that enables mobile broadband.
ICT Information and Communication Technology.
IMS IP Multimedia Subsystem. A standard for voice and multimedia services over mobile and fixed networks using IP.
IP Internet Protocol. Defines how information travels between n etwork elements across the internet.
IPR Intellectual Property Rights.
IPTV IP Television. A technology that delivers digital television via fixed broadband access.
JV Joint Venture.
LTE Long-Term Evolution. 4G; the evolutionary step of mobile technology beyond HSPA, allowing data rate above 100 Mbps.
M-commerce Mobile commerce.
M2M Machine-to-machine communication.
Managed services Management of operator networks and/or h osting of their services.
Mobile broadband Wireless high-speed internet access using the HSPA, LTE and CDMA2000EV-DO technologies.

Networked Society Ericsson's vision of what will happen when everything that can benefit from being connected is connected, empowering people, business and society.
NFV Network Functions Virtualization. Software implementation of network functions that can be deployed in virtualized infrastructure, offering efficient orchestration, automation and scalability.
OSS Operations Support Systems.
Penetration The number of subscriptions divided by the population in a geographical area.
RAN Radio Access Network.
SDN Software-Defined Network. A programmable network with physical separation of decisions about where network traffic is sent (control plane), from the underlying system that forward traffic to the selected destinations (data plane).
VoLTE (Voice over LTE) VoLTE, based on the IP Multimedia Subsystem (IMS), is a voice service delivered as data flows in LTE, over time replacing the legacy circuit-switched voice network.
WCDMA Wideband Code Division Multiple Access. A 3G mobile communication standard. WCDMA builds on the same core network infrastructure as GSM.
xDSL Digital Subscriber Line technologies for broadband multimedia communications in fixed-line networks. Examples: IP-DSL, ADSL and VDSL.

The terms "Ericsson", "the Company", "the Group", "us", "we", and "our" all refer to Telefonaktiebolaget LM Ericsson and its subsidiaries.

174

Ericsson | Annual Report 2014

Financial terminology

Capital employed Total assets less non-interest-bearing provisions and liabilities. (which includes: non-current provisions; deferred tax liabilities; other non-current liabilities; current provisions; trade payables; other current liabilities).
Capital turnover Net sales divided by average capital employed.
Cash conversion Cash flow from operating activities divided by the sum of net income and adjustments to reconcile net income to cash, expressed as percent.
Cash dividends per share Dividends paid divided by average number of basic shares.
Compound annual growth rate (CAGR) The year-over-year growth rate over a specified period of time.
Days sales outstanding (DSO) Trade receivables balance at quarter end divided by net sales in the quarter and multiplied by 90 days. If the amount of trade receivables is larger than last quarter's sales, the excess amount is divided by net sales in the previous quarter and multiplied by 90 days, and total DSO are the 90 days of the most c urrent quarter plus the additional days from the previous quarter.
Earnings per share (EPS) Basic earnings per share: profit or loss attributable to stockholders of the Parent Company divided by the weighted average number of ordinary shares outstanding during the period. Diluted earnings per share: the weighted average number of shares outstanding are adjusted for the effects of all dilutive potential ordinary shares.

EPS (non-IFRS) EPS, diluted, excluding amortizations and write-down of acquired intangible assets and including restructuring charges.
EBITA margin Earnings before interest, taxes, amortization and write-downs of acquired intangibles (intellectual property rights, trademarks and other intangible assets; see Note C10 "Intangible assets") as a percentage of net sales.
Equity ratio Equity, expressed as a percentage of total assets.
Gross cash Cash and cash equivalents plus short-term investments.
Inventory turnover days (ITO days) 365 divided by inventory turnover, calculated as total cost of sales divided by the average inventories for the year (net of advances from customers).
Net cash Cash and cash equivalents plus short-term investments less interest-bearing liabilities (which include: non-current borrowings and current borrowings) and post-employment benefits.
P/E ratio The P/E ratio is calculated as the price of a Class B share at last day of trading divided by Earnings per basic share.
Payable days The average balance of trade payables at the beginning and at the end of the year divided by cost of sales for the year, and multiplied by 365 days.

Payment readiness Cash and cash equivalents and short-term investments less short-term borrowings plus long-term unused credit commitments. Payment readiness is also shown as a percentage of net sales.
Return on capital employed The total of Operating income plus Financial income as a percentage of average capital employed (based on the amounts at January 1 and December 31).
Return on equity Net income attributable to stockholders of the Parent Company as a percentage of average Stockholders' equity (based on the amounts at January 1 and December 31).
Stockholders' equity per share Stockholders' equity divided by the number of shares outstanding at end of period, basic.
Total Shareholder Return (TSR) The increase or decrease in Class B share price during the period, including dividend, expressed as a percentage of the share price at the start of the period.
Trade receivables turnover Net sales divided by average trade receivables.
Value at Risk (VaR) A statistical method that expresses the maximum potential loss that can arise with a certain degree of probability during a certain period of time.
Working capital Current assets less current non-interest-bearing provisions and liabilities (which include: current provisions; trade payables; other current liabilities).

Other information ­ Financial terminology

Exchange rates

Exchange rates used in the consolidation

January­December

2014

2013

SEK/EUR

Average rate

9.11

8.67

Closing rate

9.47

8.90

SEK/USD

Average rate

6.89

6.52

Closing rate

7.79

6.46

Ericsson | Annual Report 2014

175

OTHER INFORMATION
SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION

Telefonaktiebolaget LM Ericsson's Annual General Meeting of shareholders 2015 will be held on Tuesday, April 14, 2015, at 3 p.m. at Stockholm Waterfront Congress Centre, Nils Ericsons Plan 4, Stockholm, Sweden.
Registration and notice of attendance Shareholders who wish to attend the Annual General Meeting must: >> Be recorded in the share register kept by
Euroclear Sweden AB (the Swedish Securities Registry) on Wednesday, April 8, 2015; and >> Give notice of attendance to the Company at the latest on Wednesday April 8, 2015. Notice of attendance can be given by telephone: +46 8 402 90 54 on weekdays between 10 a.m. and 4 p.m., or on Ericsson's website: www.ericsson.com
Notice of attendance may also be given in writing to: Telefonaktiebolaget LM Ericsson General Meeting of shareholders Box 7835, SE-103 98 Stockholm, Sweden
Notice of attendance can be given as from the publication of the notice convening the Annual General Meeting.
When giving notice of attendance, please state the name, date of birth or registration number, address, telephone number and number of assistants, if any.
The meeting will be conducted in Swedish and simultaneously translated into English.
Shares registered in the name of a nominee In addition to giving notice of attendance, shareholders having their shares registered in the name of a nominee, must request the nominee to temporarily enter the shareholder into the share register as per Wednesday, April 8, 2015,

in order to be entitled to attend the meeting. The shareholder should inform the nominee to that effect well before that day.
Proxy Shareholders represented by proxy shall issue and submit to the Company a power of attorney for the representative. A power of attorney issued by a legal entity must be accompanied by a copy of the entity's certificate of registration, or if no such certificate exists, a corresponding document of authority. Such documents must not be older than one year unless the power of attorney explicitly provides that it is valid for a longer period, up to a maximum of five years. In order to facilitate the registration at the Annual General Meeting, the original power of attorney, certificates of registration and other documents of authority should be sent to the Company in advance to the address above for receipt by Monday, April 13, 2015. Forms of power of a ttorney in Swedish and English are available on Ericsson's website: www.ericsson.com/investors.
Dividend The Board of Directors has decided to propose the Annual General Meeting to resolve on a d ividend of SEK 3.40 per share for the year 2014 and that Thursday, April 16, 2015 will be the record date for dividend.
Financial information from Ericsson 2014 Form 20-F for the US market: March 2015
Interim reports 2015: >> Q1, April 23, 2015 >> Q2, July 17, 2015 >> Q3, October 23, 2015 >> Q4, January 27, 2016
Annual Report 2015: March 2016

176

Ericsson | Annual Report 2014

Ericsson headquarters in Kista, Stockholm, Sweden.

For printed publications
A printed copy of the Annual Report is provided on request.

Where you can find out more
Information about Ericsson and its development is available on the website: www.ericsson.com

Strömberg Distribution SE-120 88 Stockholm, Sweden Phone: +46 8 449 89 57 Email: ericsson@strd.se
IN THE UNITED STATES: Ericsson's Transfer Agent Deutsche Bank, Deutsche Bank Shareholder Services American Stock Transfer & Trust Company
Registered holders: Toll-free number: +1 (800) 937-5449
Interested investors: Direct dial: +1 (718) 921-8124 Email: DB@amstock.com
Ordering a hard copy of the Annual Report: Phone: +1 (888) 301 2504

Annual and interim reports and other relevant s hareholder information can be found at: www.ericsson.com/investors
Ericsson headquarters Torshamnsgatan 21 Kista, Stockholm, Sweden
Registered office Telefonaktiebolaget LM Ericsson SE-164 83 Stockholm, Sweden
Investor relations For questions on the Company, please contact Investor Relations: Phone: +46 (10) 719 00 00 Email: investor.relations@ericsson.com

Ericsson Annual Report 2014:
Project management: Ericsson Investor Relations
Design and production: Hallvarsson & Halvarsson
Group Management, Board of Directors photography: Per Myrehed
Printing: Göteborgstryckeriet 2015
Printed on UPM Sol Matt and Munken Lynx

Other information ­ Shareholder information

Ericsson | Annual Report 2014

177

A Networked Society where every person and every industry is empowered to reach their full potential"

Telefonaktiebolaget LM Ericsson SE-164 83 Stockholm, Sweden Telephone +46 10 719 0000 www.ericsson.com

EN/LZT 138 1462 R1A ISSN1100-8962
© Telefonaktiebolaget LM Ericsson 2015

