Key Figures ­ Eurofins Scientific Group

Revenues in EUR million

Adjusted EBITDA in EUR million

Operating Cash Flow in EUR million

Average Number of Full Time Employees (FTE)

EUR = Euro 5Y CAGR = Five Year Compound Annual Growth Rate Average Number of Full Time Employees (FTE) = average weighted number of employees, expressed as full time equivalent (FTE)

Disclaimer
THIS DOCUMENT IS NEITHER A FINANCIAL PROSPECTUS NOR AN OFFICIAL AUTHORISED DOCUMENT, NOR A SWORN TRANSLATION THEREOF. THIS DOCUMENT DOES NOT CONSTITUTE OR FORM A PART OF ANY OFFER FOR SALE OR SUBSCRIPTION OF OR SOLICITATION OF ANY OFFER TO BUY OR SUBSCRIBE ANY SECURITIES OF EUROFINS SCIENTIFIC SE (HEREINAFTER THE "COMPANY" OR "EUROFINS SCIENTIFIC" NOR SHALL IT OR ANY PART OF IT FORM THE BASIS OF OR BE RELIED UPON IN CONNECTION WITH ANY DECISION TO PURCHASE SECURITIES OF THE COMPANY OR ENTER IN ANY CONTRACT WITH OR COMMITMENT TO THE COMPANY OR WHATSOEVER. IN ANY CASE AND FOR THE AVOIDANCE OF DOUBT, NEITHER THIS DOCUMENT NOR ANY COPY OF THIS DOCUMENT MAY BE TAKEN OR TRANSMITTED INTO THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA, ITS TERRITORIES OR POSSESSIONS (THE "UNITED STATES") OR DISTRIBUTED, DIRECTLY OR INDIRECTLY, IN THE UNITED STATES OR TO ANY NATIONAL OR ANY RESIDENT THEREOF OR ANY CORPORATION, PARTNERSHIP OR OTHER ENTITY CREATED OR ORGANISED UNDER THE LAWS OF THE UNITED STATES OR STATES THEREOF. NEITHER THIS DOCUMENT NOR ANY COPY OF THIS DOCUMENT MAY BE TAKEN OR TRANSMITTED INTO CANADA OR JAPAN OR DISTRIBUTED OR RE-DISTRIBUTED IN CANADA OR JAPAN OR TO ANY INDIVIDUAL OUTSIDE CANADA OR JAPAN WHO IS A RESIDENT OF CANADA OR JAPAN. ANY FAILURE TO COMPLY WITH THESE RESTRICTIONS MAY CONSTITUTE A VIOLATION OF THE SECURITIES LAWS OF THE UNITED STATES, CANADA OR JAPAN. IN THE UNITED KINGDOM, THIS DOCUMENT IS FOR DISTRIBUTION ONLY TO PERSONS WHO ARE AUTHORISED PERSONS OR EXEMPTED PERSONS WITHIN THE MEANING OF THE FINANCIAL SERVICES ACT 1986 OR ANY ORDER MADE THEREUNDER OR TO PERSONS OF A KIND DESCRIBED IN ARTICLE 11(3) OF THE FINANCIAL SERVICES ACT 1986, ORDER 1996 (AS AMENDED). IN THE REST OF THE WORLD, THIS DOCUMENT SHALL ONLY BE DISTRIBUTED AS AND IF PERMITTED BY LAW.
THE COMPANY HAS TAKEN REASONABLE CARE TO ENSURE THAT THE FACTS STATED IN THIS DOCUMENT ARE TRUE AND ACCURATE IN ALL MATERIAL RESPECTS BUT MAKES NO REPRESENTATIONS OR WARRANTIES REGARDING THE RELIABILITY OR ABSENCE OF MATERIAL ERRORS OR OMISSIONS IN OR FROM THIS DOCUMENT. INFORMATION CONTAINED HEREIN IS BASED ON SOURCES BELIEVED TO BE RELIABLE BUT IS NEITHER ALL INCLUSIVE NOR GUARANTEED BY OUR COMPANY. NO PERSON HAS BEEN AUTHORISED TO GIVE ANY INFORMATION OR MAKE ANY REPRESENTATION NOT CONTAINED IN THE COMPANY'S "ANNUAL REPORT" WHICH CAN BE OBTAINED FROM GROUP HEADQUARTERS AND ANY INFORMATION GIVEN OR REPRESENTATION MADE BY ANY PERSON WHICH IS NOT CONTAINED IN THE COMPANY'S "ANNUAL REPORT" MAY NOT BE RELIED UPON AS BEING AUTHORISED BY THE COMPANY OR ANY OF ITS SUBSIDIARIES OR ANY OF THEIR RESPECTIVE EMPLOYEES, OFFICERS OR AGENTS. THIS PUBLICATION CONTAINS FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS AND ESTIMATES THAT INVOLVE RISKS AND UNCERTAINTIES. THE FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS AND ESTIMATES CONTAINED HEREIN REPRESENT THE JUDGEMENT OF EUROFINS SCIENTIFIC AS OF THE DATE OF THE PUBLICATION. THESE FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS ARE NOT GUARANTEES FOR FUTURE PERFORMANCE AND THE EVENTS DISCUSSED IN THIS DOCUMENT MAY NOT OCCUR. EUROFINS SCIENTIFIC DISCLAIMS ANY INTENT OR OBLIGATION TO UPDATE ALL OR ONE OF THESE FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS AND ESTIMATES. BY ACCEPTING THIS DOCUMENT, YOU AGREE TO BE BOUND BY THE FOREGOING INSTRUCTIONS AND LIMITATIONS.

Shareholders' information
Listing Euronext Paris (IPO on 24.10.1997)
Segments/ Indexes Paris: MSCI Europe, Euronext 100, SBF 120, STOXX Europe 600, SRD & Compartment A Industry Group/ Prime Sector Healthcare/Healthcare Providers
International Securities Identification Code (ISIN) FR0000038259 Tickers Paris: Reuters EUFI.PA, Bloomberg ERF FP
Nominal Capital (at 31.12.2017) EUR 1,764,391.40 (17,643,914 x EUR 0.10) Simplified Ownership Structure Free Float 63.6% Martin Family 36.4%

2017 Share Price development
Eurofins Scientific: 25.3% SBF 120: 10.8% Next 150 Index: 20.3% CAC 40 Index: 9.3% Euro Stoxx 50 Index: 7.5% Nasdaq Composite Index: 27.6% Dow Jones Industrial Average Index: 24.9%
Since its IPO in 1997 Eurofins has been one of the best performing shares in Europe, with a CAGR (Compound Annual Growth Rate) of its share price of 32% between its IPO on October 24th, 1997, and December 31st, 2017.

Analyst coverage

Berenberg Bryan Garnier Exane BNP Paribas Gilbert Dupont Goldman Sachs HSBC Jefferies Kepler Cheuvreux Mainfirst Natixis Oddo Portzamparc Société Générale

Josh Puddle Bruno de La Rochebrochard Allen Wells Guillaume Cuvillier Suhasini Varanasi Murielle André-Pinard Will Kirkness Aymeric Poulain Nicolas Tabor Kathleen Gailliot Christophe-Raphaël Ganet Christophe Dombu Jean-Michel Belanger

Investor Relations

Eurofins Scientific Group Phone: +32 2 769 7383 E-mail: ir@eurofins.com

Internet

www.eurofins.com

2

Contents
I. MANAGEMENT REPORT as of 31/12/2017 .............................................................................................. 4 1 Key Performance Indicators (KPIs) ......................................................................................................... 4 2 Message from the CEO............................................................................................................................. 5 3 The Business............................................................................................................................................. 7 4 Financial and operating review................................................................................................................ 10 5 Non-Financial Statement .......................................................................................................................... 16 6 Risk Factors .............................................................................................................................................. 18 7 Eurofins Scientific SE, the Group Parent Company .............................................................................. 31 8 Corporate Governance ............................................................................................................................. 31 II. CORPORATE GOVERNANCE .................................................................................................................. 32 1 Corporate Governance Charter of Eurofins............................................................................................ 32 2 Corporate Governance Statements for the Period Ended on December 31st, 2017 ........................... 43 3 Statement of Persons Responsible for the Annual Report ................................................................... 55 III. ANNUAL FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ....................................................................................................... 56 1 Consolidated Financial Statements ........................................................................................................ 56 2 Auditor's Report on Eurofins Scientific SE's Consolidated Financial Statements ............................. 118 3 Annual accounts - EUROFINS SCIENTIFIC S.E. ..................................................................................... 125 4 Auditor's Report on Eurofins Scientific SE's Annual Accounts ........................................................... 137
3

I. MANAGEMENT REPORT as of 31/12/2017

1 Key Performance Indicators (KPIs)

Developments in some of Eurofins' Key Performance Indicators (KPIs), as illustrated by the charts below, are discussed in detail in later sections of this report.

Revenues EUR m

Adjusted EBITDA EUR m

Operating Cash Flow EUR m

Average Number of Full Time Employees (FTE)

Net Profit EUR m

Earnings Per Share EUR (Basic total)

Average Number of Full Time Employees = average weighted number of employees, expressed as full time equivalent (FTE) Net Profit ­ Net profit for equity holders after non-controlling interests but before payment to Hybrid capital holders
4

2 Message from the CEO

I am pleased to report another set of strong results for Eurofins in 2017, the second year of its 5 years growth acceleration programme. In 2017 Eurofins made very good progress towards its operational objectives for 2020 of building an unmatched state-of-the-art global laboratory infrastructure in its markets.
Some of the highlights of 2017 include:
 Close to 6% organic growth10 for the full year 2017 (FY 2017), above the Group's annual objective of 5%. Adjusted for public working days impact, sustained organic growth above 7% in Q4 and above 6.5% for the FY 2017.
 Adjusted1 EBITDA3 of EUR 557m in FY 2017, above the Group's objectives (EUR 550m), resulting in a margin of 18.7%. On a pro-forma basis, the adjusted EBITDA margin stands at 18.8% thanks to accretive acquisitions in 2017.
 Record M&A activity, with about 60 acquisitions closed during the year, and representing annual revenues of ca. EUR 700m in 2017 with an annual EBITDA margin of ca. 19%, for a total investment of about EUR 1.5bn.
 Massive acceleration of our laboratories start-up programme with a record 30 in the year 2017 alone, bringing the total number of start-ups opened since 2014 to 87 and to 130 since the year 2000. These start-ups had an accretive effect of more than 40bp on our organic growth in the FY 2017. In terms of profitability, the start-ups from the first two programmes (2000-2009, 2010-2013) were slightly above Group's average in FY 2017, while the 87 ones from our third programme (opened since 2014) were as a whole very dilutive. They represent significant investments for the future.

on a pro-forma basis), Eurofins' management is increasing its 2018 revenue objective to EUR 3.7bn, and setting a EUR 700m Adjusted EBITDA objective for 2018 (at 2017 currency exchange rates).
A record number of acquisitions were also completed throughout the year. Thanks to this and continued strong organic growth above peers, Eurofins has exceeded its recently-upgraded 2017 objectives of delivering reported revenues in excess of EUR 2.9bn and EUR 3.35bn on a pro-forma basis.
2017 was a record year for Eurofins with about 60 acquisitions closed, representing annual revenues of ca. EUR 700m, and 30 start-up laboratories launched. We have substantially surpassed our annual M&A revenue objective of EUR 200m and our initial plan to open 20 laboratories in 2017. Overall the acquisitions closed in 2017 are margin accretive, contributing with a ca. 19% EBITDA margin to FY 2017 pro-forma consolidated accounts. The acceleration in the Group's M&A activity widens the portfolio of services we offer to our clients and should expand the margins of newly acquired firms that gain access to Eurofins' fast growing portfolio of competencies, logistics and clients.
Eurofins has achieved four new leadership positions in its markets in 2017. With the acquisitions of Villapharma and DiscoverX, Eurofins further enhanced its global leadership position in discovery pharmacology. Through the acquisition of GATC, one of Europe's specialists in DNA sequencing, Eurofins strengthened its market position as a global leader in genomics services. The acquisitions of JACC and Ecopro provided an entry into the Japanese agroscience market, which together with the takeover of EAG Laboratories, the largest acquisition in Eurofins' history, helped the Group achieve a global leadership position in agroscience services. Finally, the acquisition of LGC Forensics provided Eurofins with a European leadership position in forensics services.

 Strong increase of the net profit5 in FY 2017 (+25% at EUR 217m) thanks to lower finance costs and reduced income tax expenses (following the US tax reform).
 Free cash flow to equity9 of EUR 147m, +17% vs. last year, in line with the revenue growth for the year in spite of investment in start-ups and cost of extra cash on the balance sheet for future growth.
 Strong uplift of 21% in basic earnings per share attributable to equity holders at EUR 10.49, despite these dilutive investments for the future and the equity and hybrid issuances of the last 18 months.
 Strong balance sheet with a 2.14x pro-forma net debt/adjusted EBITDA leverage, well below the Group's covenant of 3.50x.
 Proposal to increase the annual dividend for 2017 by 20%, (10th consecutive yearly increase representing a +37.4% 10-year CAGR), to EUR 2.40 per share.
 Outlook: on the back of strong FY 2017 revenues (EUR 2.97bn, +17.1% vs. previous year, EUR 3.44bn

Additionally, Eurofins has also created three new significant business lines in 2017. With the acquisitions of Advinus, Amatsigroup and Alphora, Eurofins entered the dynamic and growing contract development and manufacturing organization (CDMO) market. The acquisition of EAG Laboratories provided Eurofins with a strong entry in the growing advanced materials sciences market, where EAG is already a leader in its core markets. The acquisitions of Genoma and LifeCodexx, two pioneers of non-invasive prenatal testing (NIPT) in Europe, significantly reinforced Eurofins' position in the clinical genetics market.
This year's record investment of about EUR 1.5bn in acquisitions, demonstrates Eurofins' sustained commitment to expand its portfolio of state-of-the-art analytical services and its geographic reach by acquiring leading laboratories. During the year, with about 60 acquisitions, Eurofins continued to increase the quality and breadth of services offered to its clients, and expanded into 5 new countries: Argentina, Estonia, Lithuania, Slovenia and South Korea. Strong FY 2017 performance, combined with increasing successful efforts to lead consolidation in our markets, make Eurofins' management confident of achieving its

5

recently-upgraded mid-term objective of delivering EUR 4bn revenues by 2019. In conjunction with the acceleration of the Group's M&A activity and its start-up programme, we have made important progress towards optimizing our balance sheet position and ensuring that we maintain access to future funding at attractive conditions. In 2017, Eurofins issued a EUR 650m 7-year senior bond and a PerpNC8 EUR 400m hybrid instrument, at the lowest ever coupons in Eurofins' history (2.125% and 3.25% respectively). Furthermore, November's EUR 400m hybrid issue was structured for optimum equity qualification by rating agencies should the company opt for a credit rating in the next 3 years. As a result, the Group had a significant 21.7% reduction in finance costs vs. FY 2016, and enjoys significant headroom for future investments with EUR 820.4m cash and cash equivalents at year-end. In spite of all its investments, the Group continues to maintain financial flexibility with a pro-forma net debt/adjusted EBITDA leverage of 2.14x (3.5x debt covenant limit), allowing Eurofins to continue to fund its growth opportunities above and beyond its EUR 4bn revenues objective for 2019. Sincerely,
Dr. Gilles G. Martin CEO Dated February 27, 2018 (See definitions of the financial terms discussed on page 15).
6

3 The Business

Eurofins Scientific ­ A Global Leader in Bioanalysis
Eurofins Scientific through its subsidiaries (hereinafter sometimes "Eurofins" or "the Group") believes it is the world leader in food, environment and pharmaceutical products testing as well as in agroscience CRO services. It is also one of the global independent market leaders in certain testing and laboratory services for genomics, discovery pharmacology, forensics, advanced materials sciences and for supporting clinical studies. In addition, Eurofins is one of the key emerging players in specialty clinical diagnostic testing in Europe and the USA.
With more than 35,000 staff in a network of companies operating in more than 400 laboratories across 44 countries, Eurofins offers a portfolio of over 150,000 analytical methods for evaluating the safety, identity, composition, authenticity, origin, traceability and purity of biological substances and products, as well as for clinical diagnostic. The Group provides its customers with high-quality services, accurate results on time, and expert advice by its highly qualified staff.
Eurofins is committed to pursuing its dynamic growth strategy by expanding both its technology portfolio and its geographic reach. Through R&D and acquisitions, the Group draws on the latest developments in the field of biotechnology and analytical chemistry to offer its clients unique analytical solutions and a very comprehensive range of testing methods.
As one of the most innovative and quality oriented international companies in its industry, Eurofins believes it is ideally positioned to support its clients' increasingly stringent quality and safety standards and the expanding demands of regulatory authorities and healthcare practitioners around the world.
Our Vision: To be the world leader in Testing for Life.
Our Mission: To contribute to global health and safety by providing our customers with high quality laboratory and advisory services whilst creating opportunities for our employees and generating sustainable shareholder value.
Our Values: Achievement of our Mission is based on Eurofins "Core Values", which commit us to Customer Focus, Quality, Competence & Team Spirit and Integrity.
History and Strategy of Eurofins
Eurofins was founded in 1987 with 4 employees to market the SNIF-NMR technology, a patented analytical method used to verify the origin and purity of several types of food and beverages and identify sophisticated fraud not detectable by other methods. Today Eurofins operates a network of more than 400 state-of-the-art laboratories across 44 countries in Europe, North and South America and Asia-Pacific employing more than 35,000 staff, and offering a portfolio of over 150,000 reliable analytical methods.
Investments in start-up laboratories in several countries, including in emerging markets, along with focused acquisitions, have substantially increased the range of Eurofins' offerings in its customers' key

markets around the world. Eurofins has also started seeing the benefits from its intensive past investment programmes. The results have been reflected in a significantly enlarged network of state-of-the-art laboratories and Competence Centres, increased efficiency across the Group, and higher shares in most of the markets where the Group historicaly operates.
Eurofins is committed to supporting its clients' objectives of ensuring that their products reach the best possible quality and safety levels in all markets in which they operate and supporting medical practitioners and patients with innovative diagnostic services. Eurofins intends to continue to develop and acquire a unique range of state-of-the-art analytical technologies as well as expand its geographical reach in order to support its clients' increasingly stringent quality and safety standards and the expanding demands of regulatory authorities and its customers, including healthcare practitioners, around the world.
Eurofins operates in a range of clearly defined markets that are considered to have high growth potential and where competition is generally fragmented.
Eurofins is structured as a decentralised network of independent companies. Each of the Group's businesses develops plans to enable it to fulfil its mission and objectives. The Group does not operate under one single strategy, but with several that are specific to each market in which its subsidiary companies operate. In general, Eurofins companies and groups thereof constituting regional or global business lines employ all or a combination of the following to build strong positions and defendable barriers-to entry:
 Use advanced technologies, supported by a high level of R&D and bespoke IT solutions;
 Deliver standardised, accredited services of high quality;
 Leverage Eurofins' growing global network of laboratories and service/product portfolio to generate scale effects and be a first choice provider; and
 Strive to become, over time, and remain the number one or number two service provider in every market in which the Group operates.
Each laboratory strives for operational excellence and aspires to be the best partner for its clients by leveraging the Group's network capabilities, through sharing of know-how and best practices, IT infrastructure and solutions, logistics and financial resources. This has been achieved and successfully replicated across many countries and market segments to date. The Group aims to achieve growth through organic development (selling more to existing customers and attracting new customers) and acquisitions which give access to new customers, geographic markets, technologies, and innovation.

7

Industry Overview
The Market for Testing, Inspection and Certification Services (TICS)
Bioanalytical testing (defined by Eurofins as testing all products or substances that we eat, drink, ingest, inhale or come in contact with our bodies) is a relatively new market that started expanding significantly only a few decades ago, particularly for third party service providers. Despite the ongoing consolidation process, the market is still highly fragmented with a large number of smaller and medium sized laboratories offering a limited technological portfolio, regional presence and customer reacha. In contrast, the Eurofins Group and a few large international peers offer customers a large range of analytical services, as well as support across multiple countries around the world.
Given the fragmentation and complexity of the bioanalytical testing market, many companies provide services addressing various subsegments of the market. However, Eurofins does not consider any other company to be an exact competitor in all the segments and geographies in which it operates. Equity and credit research analysts often cite Intertek, Bureau Veritas and SGS as comparable listed TICS companies for their valuation purposesb. In the pharmaceutical area, Quintiles and Charles River are sometimes cited.
The Clinical Diagnostics Market
The clinical diagnostics market comprises assays, instruments, and services that help in the diagnosis and treatment of diseases. Since 2014 Eurofins has been focusing a large part of its investments in this sector with a special focus, on innovative specialized diagnostic services with a growing genetic and genomic component. As further detailed below under paragraph "Global Clinical Diagnostics market growth drivers" the market is expected to growc as effective diagnosis enables a more personalized medicine ­ i.e., allow healthcare professionals to better diagnose and prescribe more accurate treatment for each patient.
Multiple companies provide either specialized or routine clinical diagnostic testing services, or both, depending on their technologies, or scientific expertise, or the relevant regulations. The competitive landscape is therefore highly localized, and in certain geographies, competition is along the lines of specialization or branches of medical science. Financial analysts typically cite Labcorp, Quest Diagnostics, Sonic Healthcare, among others, as comparable peers to Eurofins' clinical diagnostics activities. Those companies are larger and may have a larger part of their revenues from routine testing.
a KPMG Corporate Finance, Test and Measurement newsletter Q1 2017 b More generally, the Group considers the following international companies to have activities in competition with its activities, even if only partially : ALS Global, Aptuit, Bureau Veritas, Charles River, Dekra, DNV-GL, Icon, Idexx, Intertek, Labcorp/Covance, LGC, Merieux Nutrisciences/Silliker, MIRACA, Quest Diagnostics, Quintiles, SGS, SRL, the TÜV group, UL. This list is by nature non exhaustive, and evolutive over time. It is provided for illustration purposes only c http://www.transparencymarketresearch.com/clinical-laboratory-services-market.html says they expect 6.4% CAGR 2017-2025
8

Growth Drivers
Eurofins management believes that several significant trends and factors are supportive of the continued growth of the market in which it operates. Some of these trends include:
The Broader Bioanalytical Testing Market Growth Drivers
Wealth & Life Expectation
Thanks to sufficient food, modern technology, healthcare, and medical coverage in industrialised countries, most people can live comfortably and grow old healthily. As the average wealth in these countries increases, the demand even for expensive pharmaceuticals enabling people to enjoy better lives is growing. The aversion to risk that may be associated with some food and consumer products and contamination of the environment is also increasing as people become more aware of the issues that surround them.
New Technologies
New technologies open new perspectives for applications in the pharmaceutical, food, and environmental markets. In recent years, the food industry has developed many new products which apply new technologies and processes, such as "functional food", a food given an additional function (often one related to health promotion or disease prevention) by adding new ingredients or more of existing ingredients.
Eurofins benefits from both the needs of its customers to test the application of new technologies and to test and control their products. The Group is capable of developing new methods to help develop and register new pharmaceutical products and to track and analyse, for example, residues of pesticides, pharmaceutical substances, allergens or GMOs in a wide range of food products. Increasingly sensitive analytical equipment and methods also act as a driver for better quality assurance and to detect substances that people were not previously aware of or able to measure.
Consumer Protection
Along with the development of new technologies and a rising standard of living in the industrialised countries, consumers are becoming increasingly aware of product safety and quality and are averse to any health risks linked with food, pharmaceuticals or the environment. The demand for higher quality goods and services, and the associated requirement for testing, are also driven by increasingly strict regulations introduced by governmental authorities, the European Commission, the US Food and Drug Administration or worldwide standardisation bodies in the pharmaceutical, food and environmental markets.
Globalisation
As businesses increasingly look to global markets for their suppliers, they also become more exposed to the additional risks that are created by this global sourcing. The wider the supply chain becomes, the greater and more complex the risk of quality divergence across the chain becomes and hence the need for testing.

In addition to Europe and North America, Eurofins is able to meet clients' needs across the globe including in an increasing number of supply chain locations in South America, Eastern Europe, and Asia. By operating laboratories in many of the countries where suppliers of food ingredients or agriculture commodities exist, Eurofins has a clear understanding of the global conditions and regulations and possibilities to test at source. Furthermore, Eurofins also offers a reliable standard of high quality and extensive expertise in those local markets for global customers with worldwide operations.
One-Stop-Service Provider
Eurofins aims to provide its customers with as wide a range of analytical services as possible. The main way in which this is achieved is through Eurofins market-leading testing portfolio of over 150,000 tests. In addition, most large customers benefit from having dedicated account managers. This account manager can draw on the possibility of a large number of Eurofins laboratories, some being very specialized. Eurofins in turn is able to allow each laboratory in the Group to focus on their own area of expertise and yet retain customers through being able to offer the complete range of tests provided by most laboratories in the Group or in one Business Line.
Brand Protection
In times of enhanced quality and safety consciousness of consumers, global marketing of products and international media coverage, brands are very valuable and highly vulnerable assets that need constant protection. By carrying out a large range of analyses as part of pro-active quality assurance programmes, Eurofins supports its global customers in maintaining the integrity of their brands.
Outsourcing
To run in-house or government/public laboratories, as a rule, is seldom cost effective and therefore outsourcing to a global supplier, such as Eurofins, is becoming increasingly common. An outsourcing deal can represent a win-win situation for both sides. It allows the outsourcing partner to use its capital more efficiently, turn fixed costs into variable costs, and to benefit from Eurofins' expertise in operating laboratories. On the other hand, Eurofins gains a longterm partnership with the customer, allowing both parties to concentrate on their core businesses.
The Clinical Diagnostics Market Growth Drivers
Demographics
Eurofins believes that as world population grows and ages, the need for earlier and more sophisticated diagnosis and treatment of diseases will likely drive up the demand for laboratory diagnostic services. According to a recent market study, the global clinical laboratory services market is estimated to grow at a CAGR of 6.4% per annum from USD 196.9bn in 2015 to USD 342.3bn by 2024d.
Medical/Scientific Innovations
d https://www.gminsights.com/pressrelease/clinical-laboratory-services-market
9

Technological innovations relevant to medicine could lead to earlier or more accurate diagnosis and treatment of diseasese. Advances in genomics, for example, are expected to lead to advanced diagnostic tests, which in turn could bring the healthcare system closer to personalized medicine, which relies on individualised diagnostic and prognostic testingf. Based on such individualised testing physicians may prescribe the most effective healthcare treatments or lifestyle changes for individual patients. Personalized health care should also increase the efficiency of the health care system by improving quality, accessibility and affordabilityg. The increased availability of healthcare data, including those resulting from modern sequencing technologies frequently referred to as "next generation DNA sequencing" and continually improving ability to analyze such data at the patient level is likely to open new possibilities to positively impact diagnosis and treatment of diseases. Prevention and Wellness The increasing burden of healthcare costs on government and healthcare agencies has advanced the case for better control of medical and laboratory diagnostic costs but also for greater focus on early diagnosis and prevention. In some cases, healthcare providers and payers (governments or insurance agencies) increasingly recognize the value of diagnostics as a means to improve health and reduce the cost of healthcare through early detection, prevention, and more effective treatment.
There is no guarantee that these growth trends will remain or materialize, or that the industry, or indeed Eurofins' businesses and operations may not be negatively influenced or impacted by a variety of factors and possible events. Please refer to the Risk Factors Section on Commercial risks, Technological risks, Industrial risks and other factors that could have a negative impact on the laboratory testing industry and Eurofins' growth and financial results.
e http://www.marketsandmarkets.com/Market-Reports/ivd-in-vitro-diagnostics-market703.html f http://www.mordorintelligence.com/industry-reports/global-in-vitro-diagnosticsmarket-growth-trends-and-forecasts-2014-2020-industry?gclid=CNnSio6YMwCFY5ZhgodQuMJEA g http://www.personalizedmedicinecoalition.org/Userfiles/PMC-Corporate/file/ThePersonalized-Medicine-Report1.pdf

4 Financial and operating review
Revenues
21Revenues EUR m

Revenues grew 20.6% (+24.6% at constant currency rates) to EUR 843.5m in the fourth quarter, bringing revenues for the full year 2017 to EUR 2,971.4m, representing a year-on-year increase of 17.1% (+18.1% at constant currency rates). Organic growth was close to 6% in 2017, adjusted for public working days impact, organic growth was above 7% in Q4 and above 6.5% for the FY 2017. Market share gains in most geographies, increased customer penetration, as well as continued growth in the markets where Eurofins operates support the robust growth across the Group. Currency translation had a limited impact on revenues of -0.8% during the year. Taking the annualized revenues of all the acquisitions completed during the year, 2017 pro-forma revenues would have been EUR 3.44bn. Thus, the Group has exceeded its latest 2017 objectives, upgraded on the 24th October 2017, to deliver EUR 2.9bn revenues and EUR 3.35bn revenues on a pro-forma basis.

Revenues : Geographical Breakdown

EUR million
North America France Germany Benelux Nordic Region UK & Ireland Other Total

2017
902.8 677.8 342.5 214.8 212.4 161.6 459.5 2,971.4

% of Group
30.4 22.8 11.5
7.2 7.1 5.4 15.6 100.0

2016
803.6 625.9 279.4 191.2 172.4 122.0 342.1 2,536.6

% of Group
31.7 24.7 11.0
7.5 6.8 4.8 13.5 100.0

(note 4.1 of the notes to the consolidated financial statement)
Positive trends continue to drive the growth in Eurofins' businesses in North America, where revenues increased 12.3% to EUR 903m, amounting to over 30% of total Group revenues. Organic growth for FY 2017 in North America was above the Group average. In the US, Eurofins laboratories active in BioPharma services delivered outstanding organic growth during the year. 2017 was a record year in the number of novel drug approvals by the US Food and Drug Administration (FDA). Eurofins Pharma Discovery Services launched a new website providing customers worldwide with a single fully integrated ecommerce platform that hosts its entire assay catalog. Regulatory catch-up remains a strong growth driver

10

for the food testing market. The Food and Drug Administration's (FDA) Food Safety and Modernization Act (FSMA) continues to influence the food safety testing decisions of the largest US food manufacturers with increasingly stringent regulations. Eurofins' strong commitment towards expanding its technology portfolio through R&D and acquisitions, increasing the number and quality of analytical tests offered to its clients, should strengthen its position as a laboratory of choice for its customers. The Group continues to expand its presence in BioPharma services in the US, where Eurofins Central Laboratory had a record year of new bookings while improving the diversification of its client base. Eurofins Central Laboratory has also built new relationships with some of the largest players in the veterinary drug industry, significantly enlarging its testing portfolio for medicated animal feed assays.
In France, Eurofins' second largest market with nearly 23% of total Group sales, revenues increased 8.3% to EUR 678m. Organic growth was below Group average in France in 2017 mainly resulting from the French clinical diagnostics market where total laboratory spend is capped by healthcare authorities. However, despite this constraint, Eurofins has continued to improve its margin and significantly increased its revenues on prenatal diagnostics tests in France in 2017 reflecting successful cross-selling efforts following the acquisitions of Genoma and LifeCodexx. In 2017, Eurofins laboratories active in Food testing services were awarded a new European project focusing on testing and breeding for sustainability and resilience in crops. During the year, Eurofins Microbiology testing France implemented its new real-time PCR Kit BACGene Listeria, the first multiplex assay for parallel detection of Listeria monocytogenes and Listeria spp., an effective new test for the quality assurance of food. Eurofins Environment testing laboratories in France have been selected as the main laboratory to conduct environmental analyses on waste materials for 9 out of the 11 main work packages that constitute the first testing phase of the EUR 30bn Grand Paris Project. They were also selected as the preferred analytical partner for most of the engineering firms working on the Grand Paris Project. Eurofins' genomics services business had robust organic growth above the Group's objectives.
Revenue contribution from Germany, which makes up 12% of Group revenues, was EUR 343m in 2017, representing robust growth of 23% with double-digit organic growth in Q4 2017. The food testing business continues its strong growth. In Germany, Eurofins laboratories active in BioPharma services delivered strong revenue growth during the year, all of which was organic. In Genomics services, Eurofins achieved double digit organic growth during the year significantly developing its market position by expanding its technological portfolio and offering overnight sequencing services, leading to the acquisition of many new customers including contracts with five new hospitals.
The Group's laboratories in the Benelux achieved revenues of EUR 215m, representing 7% of total Group revenues, and an increase of 12% compared to

2016. In 2017, Eurofins' Carbohydrate Competence Centre (CCC) in The Netherlands announced availability of the analytical method necessary to conform to the national standard of the People's Republic of China for the determination of fructan in foods, CCC's test has received ISO 17025 accreditation. Eurofins' laboratories in the Nordic Region grew 23% to EUR 212m of revenues in 2017, making up 7.1% of total sales. Eurofins became in 2017 the market leader for environmental testing in Finland. Revenues from the UK & Ireland grew 32% to EUR 162m. In the first quarter of 2018, Eurofins Environment testing is implementing the Irish Water Framework for laboratories for potable water and waste water testing. Eurofins Clinical Diagnostics had a 100% success rate in the Irish National Health Service (HSE) and in private hospital procurement tenders during 2017, featuring a 5 year agreement with Ireland's largest private hospital group, to provide specialized testing to their hospitals, and a 7 year contract with one of the world's leading providers of renal care services. In Q3 2017, Eurofins Biomnis Ireland was awarded a flexible scope of accreditation according to ISO 15189 standard for its clinical diagnostics testing portfolio.
Eurofins continues to expand its operations and footprint in emerging markets and Asia Pacific, which contributed revenues of EUR 272m, an increase of 19% versus 2016. Eurofins' food testing laboratory in Bangalore obtained Export Inspection Council (EIC) approval opening up two major opportunities, sea food testing for exports and testing of milk products for exports. Eurofins Agroscience Services (EAS) expanded to Malaysia. Field activities in Malaysia will further strengthen Eurofins' Asian residue testing network in, for example, palm oil. In 2017, EAS hired a nematode specialist in Thailand. Nematodes affect many crops in the tropics, and in South East Asia, vegetables and sugarcane yields can be significantly reduced by the presence of nematodes. EAS Thailand can now offer high quality and reliable expertise for testing new solutions against this important pest complex. Consumer Product Testing in India started its operations in March 2017 and acquired ISO 17025 accreditation in November.
During the year, Eurofins expanded its market presence into five new geographies, launching operations in Argentina, Estonia, Lithuania, Slovenia and South Korea. As a result, Eurofins has significantly strengthened its portfolio of services in Central and Eastern Europe, where government regulation is developing fast in with the objective to catch-up with the EU regulatory environment. It is also gradually expanding its footprint in Latin America and Asia Pacific.
Overall, the Group delivered strong revenue growth across all geographic areas and businesses, supported by the Group's investments to build the best laboratory network infrastructure in its markets through acquisitions and start-up laboratories. The strong results achieved in 2017 reflect Eurofins' commitment towards securing leadership and strengthening its market presence in each of its areas of competence.
11

Profitability
Adjusted EBITDA EUR m
Group adjusted EBITDA increased 16% to EUR 557m thanks to a strong revenue growth from our mature businesses, our start-up laboratories, and the acquisitions made during the year (slightly above EUR 200m of revenues consolidated in 2017 representing a full year pro-forma basis of ca. EUR 700m). The slight margin contraction (-20bp vs. previous year) is due to a small dilution impact from 2016 acquisitions. The mature businesses of the Group (excluding startups and acquisitions in significant restructuring) generated revenues of EUR 2,714m during the period with an EBITDA margin of 20.5%, slightly lower than the previous year due to a dilutive impact from the 2016 acquisitions. Start-ups and businesses in restructuring or reorganization generated EUR 258m of revenues, which means that these businesses now account for only 8.7% of the Group's total revenues, compared to 11.1% in the previous year.
Start-up losses and restructuring costs as disclosed in the separately disclosed items2 (SDI) amounted to EUR 43.5m, representing 7.8% of the total EBITDA generated by the mature businesses of the Group. These were mostly linked to the losses incurred via the massive acceleration of our start-up programme (30 new start-ups in 2017 alone), while restructuring and one-off costs linked to reorganization and discontinuations reduced slightly vs. the previous year. Overall our reported EBITDA amounted to EUR 513m, a +11% increase vs. the previous year. Adjusted EBITAS4 amounted to EUR 400m, +12% vs. the previous year, despite an increase in depreciation and amortization (EUR 176m, 5.9% of our revenues) related to the elevated capital expenditures realized in recent years in order to build a hard to replicate global laboratories platform. Shared-based payment charges and net acquisition-related expenses decreased by 10bp vs. our revenues to 1.4% and EUR 41m, enabling us to generate a reported EBIT of EUR 297m.
Finance costs decreased by 22% to EUR 55m, thanks to the early repayment of expensive debt instruments in the previous year and the issuance of a EUR 650m 7-year senior bond in July 2017 at the lowest coupon in the Group's history (2.125%).
The income tax expense for the FY 2017 is particularly low at EUR 31m, namely 12.5% of the profit before tax, mostly thanks to the one-time effect of fiscal reforms in the US and France, which created one-time adjustments on deferred tax liabilities.

Income tax paid was EUR 79m in 2017, a year-onyear increase of 8%. The reduction of income tax rates in the US and France should also be beneficial to Eurofins' cash paid taxes in the future.
Net Profit EUR m

Operating Cash Flow EUR m

Net profit increased by over 25% to EUR 217m in the FY 2017. As a consequence, the basic reported earnings per share6 (EPS) increased to EUR 12.68, a +16.5% year-on-year increase, and the basic reported EPS attributable to equity holders increased by over 21% to EUR 10.49.
Earnings Per Share EUR (Basic total)
Cash Flow and Financing Operating cash flow7 in the year 2017 grew by 9% to EUR 405m. Our net working capital represented 4.4% of the 2017 revenues, an increase of 70bp vs. the previous year, due to higher net working capital of companies acquired in 2017. On a like-for-like basis, our net working capital improved to 3.3% of our revenues in 2017.
12

Capital expenditures for 2017 amounted to EUR 213m, whereas net capex/sales ratio has decreased by 50bp to 7.2% of 2017 revenues due to the sale of one unneeded building obtained from an acquisition in prior years. Overall the Group objective remains to bring down its capex ratio to 6% of sales by 2020 after it completes its 2016-2020 global growth plan. Capital expenditures during the year were, among others, related to over 53,000m2 of additional state-of-the-art laboratory surface, the launch of 30 new start-up laboratories, as well as continued development and deployment of the Group's new generation of IT solutions. The Group's high levels of capital spending in recent years are consistent with its commitment to strengthen its long-term competitive advantage by building a global state-of-the-art laboratory network and bespoke IT solutions.
Strong revenue and profit growth offset the increase in net capex, allowing Eurofins to generate robust cash flows in 2017, with free cash flow to the firm8 (before interest paid) increasing by 8.3% to EUR 192m, and free cash flow to equity (after interest paid) increasing by 16.6% to EUR 147m.
The Group significantly strengthened its capital structure in 2017 with the issuance of EUR 299m new shares at a zero discount vs the 1-month volume weighted average price (VWAP) in early November at EUR 543 per share and the issuance of a EUR 400m Hybrid instrument, structured for optimum equity qualification by rating agencies, bearing the lowestever hybrid coupon achieved by Eurofins (3.25%), shortly there-after.
At the end of December 2017, the Group's leverage ratio stood at 2.14x net debt/pro-forma adjusted EBITDA, with a net debt of EUR 1,395m, well below its debt covenant limit of 3.5x. The Group closed the year with a strong liquidity position, with EUR 820m of cash and cash equivalents on its balance sheet, and significant undrawn credit facilities, providing Eurofins with ample financial flexibility to respond to future attractive M&A opportunities, even above and beyond those included in its objectives to reach EUR 4bn revenues by 2019.
Business Developments
Acquisitions & Outsourcing
In 2017, Eurofins completed about 60 acquisitions to strengthen its leadership in existing markets, to further develop the Group's footprint in new geographies, and to enter new market segments within the Group's

areas of competency. Some of Eurofins' acquisitions during the year are discussed below.
In February, Eurofins acquired Ahma Ymparisto Oy, the second-largest environment testing laboratory in Finland.In the same month, Eurofins closed the acquisition of Villapharma in Spain, a provider of organic synthesis and medicinal chemistry services for the discovery and optimization of potential new drug candidates, reinforcing the Group's footprint in discovery pharmacology.
In March, Eurofins acquired Mechem Laboratories in Singapore, expanding the Group's food and environment testing footprints in Asia Pacific. In the same month, Eurofins acquired VBM Laboratoriet A/S, one of the leading laboratories for testing for the environment and construction materials sectors in Denmark, strengthening Eurofins' leadership in the Danish environmental testing market. Also, Eurofins acquired Gözlem Gýda Kontrol ve Araþtýrma Laboratuvarlarý ("Gözlem"), one of the leading food testing laboratories in Turkey. Gözlem provided Eurofins with a strong platform to accelerate the rollout of its capabilities to serve the thriving food and beverage industry in Turkey.
In April, Eurofins acquired the analytical laboratory business of Ramboll Group, the environment testing market leader in Finland, comprising 5 laboratories specialized in environment testing. In May, Eurofins acquired Nab Labs Group Oy, one of the largest independent environment testing laboratories in Finland. As a result, together with the prior acquisitions of Ahma and the analytical businesses of Ramboll Group, Eurofins achieved a solid market leadership position in environment testing in Finland.
In June, Eurofins acquired Alphora Research Inc., a full service contract research, development and manufacturing organization (CRDMO) for complex and niche small molecule active pharmaceutical ingredients (APIs), based in Ontario, Canada. This transaction provided Eurofins with an entry into the dynamic and growing CDMO market and expanded Eurofins' leadership in biopharmaceutical services. In July, Eurofins acquired MVZ für Laboratoriumsmedizin am Hygiene-Institut GmbH, one of the largest clinical diagnostic providers in North Rhine-Westphalia, Germany. This acquisition provided Eurofins with an entry into the clinical diagnostic testing market in Germany. In the same month, Eurofins acquired Genoma Group Srl, one of the leading clinical genetics testing providers in Italy, strengthening Eurofins' specialty clinical diagnostics footprint. Moreover, Eurofins acquired GATC Biotech AG, one of Europe's main specialists in DNA sequencing. This transaction included the acquisition of the shares owned by GATC in LifeCodexx AG, Europe's first noninvasive prenatal testing (NIPT) provider. The acquisitions of Genoma and LifeCodexx, two pioneers of NIPT in Europe, reinforced Eurofins' significant emerging global market position in Clinical Genetics.
In August, Eurofins acquired DiscoverX, a leader in drug discovery products and services across all stages of discovery from target identification and lead discovery to preclinical and beyond. Together with the acquisition of Villapharma in February, DiscoverX helped Eurofins achieve a leadership position in
13

Discovery Pharmacology, a market that is experiencing a growing outsourcing trend.

In September, Eurofins completed the acquisition of Amatsigroup, a leading international contract development and manufacturing organization (CDMO) providing preclinical and clinical phase services for the development of human and veterinary drugs. The acquisition of Amatsigroup further expanded Eurofins' leadership in biopharmaceutical services.

In October, Eurofins acquired Advinus, a leading

preclinical and clinical phase contract research

company serving diverse industries including Biotech,

Pharmaceuticals,

Biologics,

Agrochemicals,

Nutraceuticals and Cosmetics. This transaction

provides Eurofins with an entry into the Pharma and

Agroscience testing markets in India. The acquisitions

of Alphora in June, Amatsigroup in September and

Advinus in October, led to the creation of a new

business line for Eurofins: Pharma Contract

Development and Manufacturing Organization

(CDMO). Also in October, Eurofins acquired the

Forensics and Security division of LGC ("LGC

Forensics"), the largest player in the UK forensics

market. LGC Forensics provides the most

comprehensive range of forensic science services

including casework, DNA testing, digital forensics,

drugs and toxicology and firearms. As a result of this

transaction, Eurofins achieved a leadership position in

the European forensics market.

In November, Eurofins acquired Spectro Analytical Labs Ltd. ("Spectro"), a leading environment, analytical product testing and inspection company in India. The acquisition of Spectro provided Eurofins with a strong entry into the environment testing market in India.

In December, Eurofins successfully completed the acquisition of EAG Laboratories ("EAG") for USD 780m, the largest acquisition in Eurofins' history. EAG believes it is the largest independent US-centric platform in the testing, inspection and certification (TIC) market, and is a highly differentiated player in high-science analytical testing and consulting solutions. EAG serves three main markets, namely Material and Engineering Sciences, Agroscience and Biopharmaceuticals. The acquisition of EAG provides Eurofins an entry into the dynamic and growing Materials Sciences market, where EAG is number one in its core markets. Eurofins and EAG have almost no geographic overlap, and EAG has an EBITDA margin close to 30%. Therefore, the transaction is margin accretive for Eurofins.

End of December, Eurofins acquired Selcia Limited, a contract research provider of radiolabeling services in the UK and MET Laboratories, Inc., an independent National Recognized Testing Laboratory (NTRL) providing electrical testing, certifications, listing and labeling mark in the US (Baltimore, Santa Clara, Austin, Union City), China (Shenzhen), Taiwan (Taipei) and Korea (Seoul).

Total acquisition spend in 2017 was about EUR 1.5bn for combined total annualized revenues of ca. EUR 700m, with an annual EBITDA margin of ca. 19%.

As stated above, all acquisitions completed in 2017 taken as a whole should be immediately accretive to the Group's EBITDA margin.

Post-closing events
In January 2018, Eurofins completed 3 further acquisitions: Tsing Hua, one of the leading players in environment testing in Taiwan, Food Analytica, a leading group of food testing laboratories in Hungary, and Craft Technologies, a leading contract laboratory providing analysis of nutrients, vitamins, carotenoids, bioflavonoids and phytochemicals in the US.
In February 2018, Eurofins completed 3 further acquisitions: Labo Van Poucke, a leading Belgian laboratory performing human medical testing covering all branches of clinical biology, City Analysts Ltd., a leading provider of accredited water chemistry and microbiological testing in Ireland, and NMDL-LCPL, a specialized medical testing business providing molecular diagnostics and pathology laboratory services in the Netherlands.
Infrastructure
Between 2005 and 2017, Eurofins has added or brought to the most modern standards over 430,000m2 of laboratory space. In 2017 only, Eurofins delivered over 53,000m2 of new state-of-the-art laboratory surface, exceeding its objective to deliver 49,000m2. This is a clear demonstration of Eurofins' commitment to continue to invest significantly in new buildings, extensions and renovations to build the largest and most efficient state-of-the-art laboratory network in its industry. Eurofins has planned an additional ca. 99,000m2 of expansion and modernization of its laboratory network for 2018 and another ca. 90,000m² in 2019. This should finalize the upgrade/extension of its historic perimeter.
In-line with the positive outlook in the US Biopharmaceutical testing market, plans to further expand Eurofins' laboratory campus in Lancaster are well underway. A new building with 15,500m2 of surface area is expected to be completed by November 2018. A strategic expansion of Eurofins' global network of data centres is underway with two additional US locations planned to come on line in Atlanta, Georgia. These new data centers will bring better connectivity, enhanced scalability and capacity to accommodate the network demands of Eurofins American businesses. Additionally, in 2017, two Eurofins Microbiology sites were opened in Dallas (Texas) and North Kingstown (Rhode Island), Eurofins Food Microbiology expanded to Quebec (Canada), construction commenced for Eurofins Microbiology laboratories in Atlanta (Georgia), Fresno (California) and Colorado (Denver), and for a new dairy and contaminants laboratory in Fresno (California).
Eurofins Agroscience Services opened a new field base facility in the O'Higgins region of Chile; the new facility is located in a prime position to offer trials on the region's most significant agricultural crops. Expansion is underway to build a service delivery centre in San Jose, Costa Rica, to deliver offshore IT services for North and South America. This will be Eurofins' third service delivery centre, following one in Bangalore (India) and one in Penang (Malaysia).
Following the acquisition of Gözlem in March, all of Eurofins' operations in Turkey were transferred to Gözlem's food control laboratory in Istanbul. This move to consolidate several small sites in Turkey has united all of Eurofins Turkey sales capabilities under
14

one roof, with the objective to increase Eurofins' penetration in to the Turkish food testing market.
Eurofins successfully completed the relocation of its main Chinese food testing laboratory in Suzhou to a new site with over 3,600m2 of surface area. The new laboratory was designed using the Group's lean concepts which are applied across its modernized laboratory network. Moreover, Eurofins also completed the expansion of its product testing laboratory in Hangzhou, China.
In India, Eurofins Advinus has ambitious expansion plans, planning a new bio-analysis laboratory of 1,400m2 to double their existing capacity, as well as an expansion of its chemistry and manufacturing control services laboratory and an expansion of its agro chemical services analytical R&D laboratory.
In Australia and New Zealand, Eurofins successfully opened an air toxics laboratory to expand the Group's portfolio of environment testing services in this geography by transferring proprietary technologies from its US operations. Eurofins also opened a new Asbestos testing laboratory in Q4 2017 in Christchurch, New Zealand. In October 2017, Eurofins has begun the construction project of a new laboratory in Melbourne, Australia, which will become Eurofins' largest campus in Australia and New Zealand. In Q4 2018, this new 6,000m2 laboratory will consolidate, under one roof, all of Eurofins' food and environment testing businesses in Melbourne. The campus can potentially be expanded to 12,500m2. Eurofins Agrotesting in New Zealand is undergoing redesign efforts of its laboratories in Katikati and Te Puke. Three water testing satellite laboratories were opened in New Zealand, in Auckland, Christchurch and Dunedin. Finally, all of Eurofins' animal health businesses in the region were consolidated into one single entity in Australia, becoming the premier contract research organization (CRO) entirely dedicated to veterinary projects.
In the UK & Ireland, Eurofins opened a new pharmaceutical chemistry, microbiology and water microbiology facility in Livingston, Scotland, following a GBP 4m investment. The testing capacity and capabilities of Eurofins' Grimsby food facility, acquired from Exova in 2016, underwent a significant expansion in 2017. Furthermore, Eurofins York, acquired earlier this year in July, officially opened in December its brand new state-of-the-art testing laboratory in Castleford near Leeds. Eurofins Biomnis expanded its clinical diagnostics operations in the UK, with the development of a new laboratory that will be located in the existing Eurofins site in Camberley. Finally, consolidation efforts led to Eurofins' Birmingham activities being transferred to the large site in Wolverhampton.
In Belgium, Ghent forensics activities have been successfully transferred to our main forensics laboratory in Bruges. In France, Eurofins inaugurated a 9,500m2 extension to its first-ever laboratory in Nantes, bringing total size of the campus to 23,640m2 making it the largest independent food testing laboratory site in Europe and one of the largest worldwide alongside Eurofins Hamburg. The new laboratory layout is expected to significantly improve efficiency, scalability and turn-around-times, as well as increase the breadth of service offerings in Nantes.

Start-ups
Start-ups or green-field laboratories are generally undertaken in new markets, and in particular emerging markets, where there are often limited viable options for acquisitions or in developed markets when Eurofins transfers technology developed by its R&D and Competence Centers abroad or expands geographically.
Eurofins made record investments in 2017 in its laboratories start-up programme with 30 new start-ups launched in the year 2017 alone, bringing the total number of start-up laboratories opened since 2014 to 87 and to 130 since the year 2000.
These start-up laboratories had a strong accretive effect of more than 40bp on Eurofins' organic growth in 2017, representing a revenue contribution of almost EUR 190m ie. more than 6% of the Group's consolidated revenue.
During their ramp-up phase, start-up activities go through various stages of development before reaching optimal efficiency levels. On average, startup periods last for 2 to 3 years in mature markets and 2 to 5 years in emerging markets in order to reach breakeven before they become profitable. The development process includes the creation or construction of the laboratory, hiring the appropriate staff, obtaining relevant accreditations and clients' approval, deployment of the Group's proprietary IT infrastructure and dedicated IT solutions, developing the sales and marketing channels, and building up volumes and the revenue base.
Consequently, in terms of profitability, the start-ups from the first two programmes (2000-2009, 20102013) were slightly above the Group's average in 2017, while the ones from our third programme (20142017) were very dilutive.
From Eurofins third start-up programme, out of the 87 start-up laboratories opened since 2014:
 24 were opened in Asia Pacific (Australia, China, India, New Zealand, Singapore, Taiwan to name a few), 40 in Europe (France, Belgium, Netherlands, Hungary, Poland, Turkey, Ukraine etc.), 4 in Latin America (Brazil, Chile, Argentina) and 19 in North America (US, Canada);
 35 were opened to enhance Eurofins Food testing capabilities across all geographies, 27 in Environment testing, 12 in Biopharma, Agroscience and Genomics services and 13 in other business lines such as Clinical diagnostics and Consumer Product testing services.
Eurofins start-up programme represents a significant investment for the future and has a short-term dilutive impact on the Group's margins and cash flows. However these long-term oriented investments complement the Group's acquisition strategy in highgrowth markets or where acquisition prices are too high for acquisitions to provide appropriate returns.
Outlook
Eurofins' management raises once again its objectives for 2018, which were already raised once in October 2017, from annual revenues of EUR 3.6bn to
15

EUR 3.7bn, and sets its adjusted EBITDA objective to EUR 700m in 2018, at 2017 currency exchange rates, assuming the Group reaches its objectives of generating 5% organic growth and EUR 200m annual revenues from new acquisitions (on an annual proforma basis, only partially consolidated in 2018, at mid-year on average).
Underlying trends remain positive across the Group's businesses, and Eurofins' management believes that the Group is on track to achieve its recently-upgraded mid-term objective of reaching EUR 4bn revenues by 2019. Should this be achieved, Eurofins would have doubled in size once again in only 4 years.
1 Adjusted ­ reflects the ongoing performance of the mature and recurring activities excluding "separately disclosed items". 2 Separately disclosed items - includes one-off costs from integration, reorganisation, discontinued operations and other non-recurring income and costs, temporary losses and other costs related to network expansion, start-ups and new acquisitions undergoing significant restructuring, share-based payment charge, impairment of goodwill, amortisation of acquired intangible assets, negative goodwill, discontinued activities, loss/gain on disposal and transaction costs related to acquisitions as well as income from reversal of such costs and from unused amounts due for business acquisitions, net finance costs related to borrowing and investing excess cash and oneoff financial effects and the related tax effects. (Details in Note 2.3 of the 2017 Consolidated Financial Statements). 3 EBITDA ­ Earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortisation, share-based payment charge, impairment of goodwill, amortisation of acquired intangible assets, negative goodwill, discontinued activities, loss/gain on disposal and transaction costs related to acquisitions as well as income from reversal of such costs and from unused amounts due for business acquisitions. 4 EBITAS ­ Earnings before interest, taxes, share-based payment charge, impairment of goodwill, amortisation of acquired intangible assets, negative goodwill, discontinued activities, loss/gain on disposal and transaction costs related to acquisitions as well as income from reversal of such costs and from unused amounts due for business acquisitions. 5 Net Profit ­ Net profit for equity holders after non-controlling interests but before payment to Hybrid capital holders 6 Basic EPS ­ earnings per share (basic) total (to equity holders before payment of dividends to Hybrid capital holders) 7 Operating Cash Flow ­ Net cash provided by operating activities (after tax) 8 Free Cash Flow to the Firm ­Operating Cash Flow, less Net capex 9 Free Cash Flow to equity ­ Free Cash Flow to the Firm, less Change in investments and financial assets, net and, interest paid net of interest received 10 Organic growth for a given period (Q1, Q2, Q3, Half Year, Nine Months or Full Year) non-IFRS measure calculating the growth in revenues during that period between 2 successive years for the same scope of businesses using the same exchange rates but excluding discontinued activities. For the purpose of organic growth calculation for year Y, the relevant scope used is the scope of businesses that have been consolidated in the Group's income statement of the previous financial year (Y-1). Revenue contribution from companies acquired in the course of Y-1 but not consolidated for the full year are adjusted as if they had been consolidated as from 1st January Y-1. All revenues from businesses acquired since 1st January Y are excluded from the calculation.
Eurofins provides in the Income Statement certain alternative performance measures (non-IFRS information such as "Adjusted Results and Separately Disclosed Items") that exclude certain items because of the nature of these items and the impact they have on the analysis of underlying business performance and trends. (Refer to description of Separately Disclosed Items).
In addition, Eurofins shows the following two earnings measures in the Income Statement with the objective to be close and consistent with the information used in internal Group reporting to measure the performance of Group companies and information published by other companies in the sector: EBITDA3 & EBITAS4 and provides as non-IFRS measure the Organic growth10, the Free Cash Flow to the Firm8, the Free Cash Flow to equity9 for a given period.
Management believes that providing these alternative performance measures enhances investors' understanding of the company's core operating results and future prospects, consistent with how management measures and forecasts the company's performance, especially when comparing such results to previous periods or forecasts and to the performance of our competitors. This information should be considered in addition to, but not in lieu of, information prepared in accordance with IFRS.
Dated February 27, 2018

5 Non-Financial Statement

Eurofins' business model is described in detail in section I.3 "The business". In pursuing this business model, Eurofins is committed to the highest ethical standards in conducting its business and to operating in a socially responsible manner.
As described in section II.1.1.7 "Compliance: the Group Code of Ethics", the Group's mission, vision, leadership charter, key policies and values and the "Group Code of Ethics" determine the behaviours and professional conduct expected from employees and leaders of the Group's companies. These documents represent key Eurofins' standards for all Directors and employees of Eurofins companies and make compliance a core responsibility for everyone within the Eurofins Group.
Environmental Matters
We strive to meet the challenges presented by environmental impact. Wherever possible we will prevent, or otherwise minimise, mitigate and remediate, harmful effects of our operations on the environment. We will promote, encourage and prioritise re-use and re-cycling methods throughout our business.
At Eurofins, we are committed to identifying and encouraging adoption of best practices for environmental protection and sustainability across our sites. In general, the activity of Eurofins as a provider of testing and analysis services necessitates the use of limited amounts of water, raw material and energy (principally electricity).
Several Eurofins laboratories have developed and set up dedicated training programmes to good practice in terms of environmental risk management (e.g. safe use of chemicals and their application, proper waste disposal, autoclaving systems for decontamination, etc.).
Eurofins actively encourages its business leaders to introduce and adopt best practices to ensure that our sites and operations are consistent with our mission of contributing to health and safety, which includes protection of the environment. Our flagship laboratory in Lancaster, PA, for example, has undertaken the following commitments:
 Reduction of carbon footprint by over 25,000 pounds of CO2 annually.
 Procurement of 100% renewable electricity for its 259,000 square-foot facility.
 Efforts to update lab equipment with new ENERGY STAR® rated equipment when possible.
 Water monitoring programmes that have already led to significant reduction in water consumption at the site.
 Energy conservation efforts such as the use of CFL, T8 replacements and LED lightning; installation of motion sensors in offices, restrooms and hallways to turn off lights during times of inactivity; signage on fume hoods to prompt employees to lower sashes when not in use and reminders to turn off
16

computers/monitors when not in use. These measures have reduced the overall heat load in the buildings by approximately 40 tons/year.
 Implementation of a user-friendly, campus-wide recycling programme. In addition to recycling aluminium, plastic and glass, Eurofins Lancaster Laboratories also recycles cardboard, batteries, magazines and stainless steel/HPLC columns. The company also partners with a local organization to recycle electronics.
The principal risks related to environmental matters and Eurofins' operations are described in detail in section I.6.4 "Risk Factors ­ Industrial risks", including how Eurofins manages those risks.
As a result of the decentralized structure of the Group, there is no central monitoring or measurements in place to determine the outcome of our policies. Local business unit leaders are encouraged to implement policies and measurement systems locally. Across our businesses, we strongly encourage environmentally conscious choices in an effort to reduce our impact on the environment.
Several sites have established teams of environmentally conscious employees who work together to reduce consumption, encourage recycling, promote conservation and educate the workforce for the goals of improving the efficiency, reducing costs and minimizing the environmental impact of our operations. Some of the laboratories have their own department or person responsible for safety ("Safety Officer") which carries out regular inspection and internal training on the issues of safety and the protection of the environment.
Eurofins' food and environmental testing services directly support the responsible use and minimisation of such things as pesticides, heavy metals, dioxins, persistent organic pollutants and chemical contaminants that are harmful to humans and the planet.
Some of the Group's companies in Brazil and Northern Europe already use renewable energy wherever possible such as that generated by wind, water or sun. Several laboratories also use energy created by recycled heat or from waste-fired energy generators.
For more information on this topic, please visit http://www.eurofins.com/about-us/corporate-socialresponsibility/environment/
Social & Employee Matters
We work to encourage leaders of Eurofins' companies to ensure that the relationships with and between their employees are respectful, honest, safe and professional. Our businesses and all their employees should respect the different cultures, traditions, laws and employment practices of the communities they do business in. We share common goals in this matter and are committed to good corporate values and ethical behaviour. We strive to recognise achievement and to create equal opportunities for all employees at all levels of our businesses. In dealing with our

employees we strive to act in compliance with national regulatory requirements and our obligations under the relevant national/international laws.
The principal risks related to social & employee matters and Eurofins' operations are described in detail in section I.6.5 "Risk Factors ­ Other risks", including how Eurofins manages those risks.
Average Number of Full Time Employees (FTE)

The Group's total headcount at the end of the year was 34,651, with more than 85% on permanent contracts. The average weighted number of employees, expressed as full time equivalent (FTE), was 28,259, a 21% increase from 2016, primarily due to the increase in the total size of the Group, and in particular the multiple acquisitions during the course of the year. The geographical distribution of Eurofins' FTEs is as follows:
FTE by Region

2017

2016

North America France Germany

6,660 5,768 3,585

5,763 5,189 2,988

Benelux Nordic Region

2,256 1,633

1,983 1,259

UK & Ireland Other

1,739 6,619

1,253 4,966

Total

28,259

23,401

Eurofins believes one of its most important assets is its employees, and continuously invests in training and development for its personnel. In addition, the Group has developed an internal infrastructure for employees to access and share competencies across the Group.

One of the internal communications tools, in the food, environment and part of the pharmaceutical products testing laboratories, ComLIMS, is continually upgraded, in order to give access to and speed up the dissemination of scientific, technical and commercial information about the Group's portfolio of services. ComLIMS now has around 4,000 trained users with regular access within the Group. Eurofins also operates various other electronic document management systems to disseminate information to its targeted internal audience.

From its new recruitments, the Group welcomes every year new experienced leaders during a week-long training programme called New Leaders Introduction Tour, in order to give them some of the necessary tools and understanding to succeed in the Group. Eurofins also launched its High Potential (HP) and Top Graduate (TG) programme in 2010, designed to attract, train and develop management skills of young talented individuals who may become future top leaders at Eurofins. Since inception, as many as 1,400 young leaders have been through the Group's HP-TG programme, which has produced some 200 leaders involved in managing a total of EUR 1.5bn of revenues for the Group.

Human Rights

We strive to support human rights consistent with the stipulations contained within the Universal Declaration of Human Rights, and we remain committed to upholding these principles through the conduct of our activities throughout the world.

We will encourage the leaders of Eurofins' companies to endeavour to ensure that these commitments extend to all of their supply chains, and that they work with their suppliers and customers to include them in their contractual requirements.

Beyond the Group's business activities, several Eurofins companies also contribute to various social projects and charitable work as part of their continuous commitment to contribute to the improvement of health and social conditions of everyone.

Locally, many of Eurofins' subsidiaries and laboratories engage in social activities and donate to charitable organisations independently, over and above those undertaken at Group level.

Eurofins has been a long-term contributor to Plan

International (https://plan-international.org) whose

objective is to alleviate child poverty, and ProGreffe

(http://www.progreffe.com), an organisation dedicated

to research to improve organ transplants. Eurofins is

also

a

supporter

of

Unicef

(http://www.unicef.org/index.php), whose mission is to

enhance children's rights, their development and

survival. Eurofins also did contribute to the Red Cross

(http://www.icrc.org/eng/), an organisation focused on

providing humanitarian help for people affected by

conflict and armed violence worldwide.

For more information on this topic, please visit https://www.eurofins.com/about-us/corporate-socialresponsibility/charitable-donations/.
In 2017, as part of the Group's 30th Anniversary, our employees picked over 40 charities in many countries that align to Eurofins' mission of `contributing to a safer and healthier world for all, across the following five areas: better nutrition, protecting ecosystems, improving health, social entrepreneurship and local communities.

For more information on this topic, please visit https://www.eurofins.com/30th-anniversary/charitabledonations/

17

6 Risk Factors
Eurofins' decisions, plans and objectives for the future are based on its management's current views and expectations of the risks facing the business. Eurofins' management considers the following list to be as comprehensive as can reasonably be expected and does not consider there to be any other significant risks than those listed, given the current operating environment and without prejudice to any new or highly unusual events taking place. Nevertheless, Eurofins may be significantly affected by risks that its management has not identified or considered not to be material or the measures it undertook to avoid or limit those risks may not prove effective.
Some risks faced by Eurofins, whether they are mentioned in the following list or not, may arise from external factors beyond Eurofins' control.
Where mitigations are mentioned in the following list, there is no guarantee that such mitigation actions will be effective, in whole or in part, to remove or reduce the effect of the risk. Some specific risks are also mentioned in the notes to the periodical financial statements.
1. Commercial Risks
Changes in the Market
Eurofins operates mainly in the food, pharmaceutical, environmental and clinical testing markets as well as individual testing, which are relatively less cyclical and less susceptible to the full impact of economic downturns than many other sectors. This is because of the basic underlying human need to consume food and drink and the consumer and governmental demands, certainly in more affluent and developed countries, that food and drink be safe for consumption. The pharmaceutical testing business is supported by the growth in pharmaceutical products development and use as well as by the search for new and more effective drugs within the framework of new drug development programmes. The environmental testing market is driven by regulations that are enforced in an increasing number of countries around the world. In 2017, the global economy, especially in Europe, continued to struggle with sluggish growth and persistent uncertainty. The slower growth and consequent funding squeeze may negatively impact some of Eurofins' customers, or governments may be forced to suspend or revoke regulations and reduce testing frequency to ease financial burden, which would directly impact our industry. If this were to be the case then the impact on Eurofins' net worth, financial position and operating results could be severe, including the remote possibility of a cessation of the business.
Regulations and the Regulatory Environment
Eurofins also has businesses where regulatory supervision extends not only to the analytical process, but also to fee structures and/or schedules.

This is particularly relevant in the clinical diagnostics market, where third-party payers, such as government/healthcare agencies and insurers have increased their efforts to control the cost, utilization and delivery of health care services. Reductions of reimbursement from these third-party payers, changes in policy regarding coverage of tests or other requirements for payment, such as prior authorization from a physician or the payer or qualified practitioner's signature on test requisitions, may have a material adverse impact on the Company's business.
General Regulatory Risk
Many of the services Eurofins provides and the conduct of such services are subject to or influenced by laws and regulations that highly regulate the Group's business or the businesses of the Group's customers. Future government policies may adversely affect the supply of, demand for, and prices of Group services; restrict Eurofins' ability to do business in its existing and target markets; and adversely affect the Group's revenues and operating results. Eurofins' operating results could be affected by changes in other governmental policies, mandates, and regulations including monetary, fiscal and environmental policies, laws, regulations, acquisition approvals, and other activities of governments, agencies, and similar organizations. These risks include but are not limited to changes in a country's or region's economic or political conditions, local labor conditions and regulations, reduced protection of intellectual property rights, changes in the regulatory or legal environment, restrictions on currency exchange activities, currency exchange fluctuations, burdensome taxes, enforceability of legal agreements and judgments, and adverse tax, administrative agency or judicial outcomes. International risks and uncertainties, including changing social and economic conditions as well as terrorism, political hostilities, and war, could limit our ability to transact business in individual markets and could adversely affect our revenues and operating results.
Certain Service Line Regulatory Risk
Certain of the Group's service lines are subject to more stringent legal and regulatory requirements governing such activities, and the Group or its subsidiaries may face substantial fines and penalties, and such service line business activities may be impacted, if we fail to comply. In particular, the Group's medical diagnostic business is subject to or impacted by extensive and frequently changing healthcare laws and regulations, (especially in the United States at both the federal and state levels and in France), as well as in other jurisdictions in which the Group engages in such business. While Eurofins seek to conduct our medical diagnostic business in compliance with all applicable laws regulating such business, many of the laws and regulations applicable to such business, especially in the US and France, are vague or indefinite and have not always been fully or partly interpreted by courts, including many of those relating to:

18

 billing and reimbursement of clinical testing;
 certification or licensure of clinical laboratories;
 the anti-self-referral and anti-kickback laws and regulations;
 the laws and regulations administered by the Food and Drug Administration ("FDA");
 the corporate practice of medicine;
 operational, personnel and quality requirements intended to ensure that clinical testing services are accurate, reliable and timely;
 physician fee splitting;
 relationships with physicians and hospitals;
 safety and health of laboratory employees;
 protection of patient's data;
 handling, transportation and disposal of medical specimens, infectious and hazardous waste and radioactive materials; and
 the control of laboratories by medical "biologists" practitioners in France.
These laws and regulations applicable to Eurofins activity may be interpreted or applied by a prosecutorial, regulatory or judicial authority in a manner that could require us to make changes in our operations, including our pricing and/or billing practices. We may not be able to maintain, renew or secure required permits, licenses or any other regulatory approvals needed to operate our medical diagnostic or other businesses. If we fail to comply with applicable laws and regulations, or if we fail to maintain, renew or obtain necessary permits, licenses and approvals, we could suffer civil and criminal penalties, fines, financial claims, exclusion from participation in governmental healthcare programmes and the loss of various licenses, certificates and authorizations necessary to operate our medical diagnostic and/or other businesses, as well as incur additional liabilities from third-party claims. If any of the foregoing were to occur, our reputation could be damaged and important business relationships with third parties could be adversely affected.
Some of our businesses may from time to time receive requests for information from governmental authorities (and occasionally subpoenas in US). For example, several companies in the cardiac biomarker laboratory services business, including the Group's Boston Heart Diagnostics (BHD) subsidiary, are currently cooperating with investigations that the US Department of Health and

Human Services, Office of Inspector General (OIG), is conducting in conjunction with the US Department of Justice (DOJ) related, in part, to payments made to physicians for services performed in connection with blood specimen processing and handling services. Two qui tam cases were filed against BHD. The US government declined to intervene in these for the time being but one or both of these cases may continue for a long time and may create a liability / cost in excess of the indemnified recoverable values from the acquisition of BHD. Although BHD is fully cooperating with the OIG and DOJ and vigorously defending the qui tam suits, neither BHD nor the Group can at this time estimate what, if any, impact these matters and any results from these matters could have on our bioanalytics business in general or our medical diagnostics business in particular. We also are subject in the US from time to time to qui tam claims brought by former employees or other "whistleblowers." The governments and insurance companies continue to strengthen their scrutiny and enforcement efforts against perceived healthcare fraud. Legislative provisions relating to healthcare fraud and abuse provide government enforcement personnel substantially increased funding, powers, penalties, and remedies to pursue suspected cases of fraud and abuse. In addition, the US Government has substantial leverage in negotiating settlements since the amount of potential damages far exceeds the rates at which we are reimbursed for our services, and the government has the remedy of excluding a non-compliant provider from participation in the Medicare and Medicaid programmes. Regardless of merit or eventual outcome, these types of investigations and related litigation can result in:
 diversion of management time and attention;
 expenditure of large amounts of cash on legal fees, costs and payment of damages;
 limitations on our ability to continue some of our operations;
 enforcement actions, fines and penalties or the assertion of private litigation claims and damages;
 decreased demand for our services ; and/or
 injury to our reputation.
Although Eurofins believes that Group companies are in compliance, in all material respects, with applicable laws and regulations with respect to our medical diagnostic services, both in the US and in other countries where Eurofins operate, there can be no assurance that a regulatory agency or court would not reach a different conclusion. Moreover, even when an investigation is resolved favorably, the process may be time-consuming and the legal costs and diversion of management focus may be extensive. Insurance companies covering health care costs may also refuse payments to Eurofins

19

companies, threaten or launch legal actions, in connection to violation of laws or their policies. Changes in applicable laws and regulations with respect to our medical diagnostic business or our other service lines may result in existing practices becoming more restricted, or subject existing or proposed services to additional costs, delay, modification, withdrawal or reconsideration. Such changes also could require Eurofins' companies to modify their business objectives.
Regulatory Approval, Accreditation and Professional Licensing Risks
Eurofins is required to obtain and hold permits, licenses and other regulatory approvals from, and to comply with operating and security standards of, numerous governmental bodies. Failure to maintain or renew necessary permits, licenses or approvals, or to comply with required standards, could have an adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. Group customers may require evidence of various professional licensing and accreditation as part of their selection of a provider of bioanalytical services and various governmental and regulatory authorities may mandate certain accreditations and professional licensing in connection with the performance of various services, especially with regard to the medical diagnostics market. Although Eurofins believe its operations are in compliance with all material accreditation and professional licensing requirements, there can be no assurance that it will always be able to obtain accreditations and professional licenses necessary or desirable for its business in each jurisdiction in which it operates or seeks to operate. A material delay in obtaining, the failure to obtain, or the withdrawal or revocation of material licenses, approvals, or other authorizations could have a material adverse effect on individual operations within the Group or, more broadly, could have a negative effect on the Group's overall operations.
Deregulation Risk
From time to time efforts are made to limit or prohibit the disclosure of information that might be revealed by various bioanalytical testing we offer or may offer in the future. For example, in the United States various groups oppose mandatory and/or voluntarily labeling of genetically modified (GMO) foods. Likewise various groups and governments have opposed mandatory and/or voluntarily labeling of the country of origin for assorted foods, including pursuant to various international trade agreements. Although Eurofins deems it to be unlikely, a material relaxation of certain regulations or a prohibition on certain types of disclosure could have a negative impact on the demand for, or growth of, certain of our services. Likewise, our toxicology testing businesses, which currently compose a small part of the Group's overall business, could be negatively affected by a ban on or limitations on this type of testing in specific jurisdictions or by other successful actions taken by groups opposed to such testing. Changes in regulations that, for example, streamline procedures or relax approval standards with respect

to pharmaceuticals could reduce the need for our pharmaceutical bioanalytics services. If companies regulated by the FDA and other national regulatory authorities where Eurofins operates were subject to such deregulation, we could have fewer business opportunities and our revenues could decrease, possibly materially. Despite the foregoing and similar actions, Eurofins believes the current trend of increasing demand for verification and security is more likely to lead to greater regulation of, and disclosure with respect to, products subject to bioanalytical testing.
Customer and Credit Risk
The clients of Eurofins are very varied in number, in size and in location. They belong to top global companies (e.g. global food & beverages producers, or retailers for our Food & Feed testing activities; 9 out of the top 10 global pharmaceutical companies for our Biopharma testing activities; consulting and sampling companies for our Environmental testing activities) as well as small independent companies in each segment.
Eurofins' performance and value are influenced by many stakeholders, including employees, customers, suppliers and strategic partners. To minimise risk and exposure Eurofins does not rely on a single customer or supplier contract. There are at present no significant dependencies on suppliers or individual customers. Nonetheless, whilst the Eurofins Group is not dependent on any one external entity, certain subsidiaries may have more significant exposure to one client, or a small group of clients, relative to the size of those subsidiaries. In 2017, no customer was responsible for more than 2% of overall Group sales.
The majority of our customers' contracts can be terminated upon short notice. Customers terminate or delay their contracts for a variety of reasons. The loss, reduction in scope or delay of a large contract or the loss or delay of multiple contracts could adversely affect our business, although our contracts frequently entitle us to receive the costs of winding down the terminated projects, as well as all fees earned by us up to the time of termination. Some contracts also entitle us to a termination fee but this is not always or often the case. Eurofins believes its customer base is diverse. Furthermore, based on the general credit profile and quality of the Group's customers, Eurofins believes the risk of bad debts or the insolvency of its customers is generally low. Eurofins periodically reviews its customer accounts and considers its provision for doubtful accounts and bad debts to be appropriate. Severe or long-lasting adverse changes in the global economy in general or in particular individual markets could have an adverse effect on our customers and, in turn, increase the Group's credit risk or decrease the demand for its services.
Contractor and Supplier Risks
Successful delivery of Eurofins' services to its customers is dependent on complex technologies utilizing equipment and materials from multiple

20

suppliers. Failure to deliver services may lead to a reduction in Eurofin's expected revenue and could impact the Company's credibility to both existing and potential customers. Therefore stability in the business strategies of the Company's suppliers is also important to the successful functioning of Eurofins.
The Company utilizes certain third party contractors, vendors, and suppliers in the ordinary course of its business. Individual laboratories subcontract on an ad hoc basis for specific technical know-how or services, to address production capacity demands or limitations or for other reasons related to specific applications or services. The main suppliers to the business are in the following main categories: laboratory equipment, laboratory consumables (these first two often overlap), information technology (IT), and logistics. In each category, the Group utilizes multiple suppliers and does not believe it is dependent on any major supplier.
The Group believes there are currently additional available subcontractors, vendors, and suppliers for all of our subcontracted service needs, laboratory equipment and consumables supply needs, and contracted IT needs. However, a full range of subcontract services, suppliers, and vendors may not be locally available in all of the Group's markets and localized disruptions could adversely affect our operations for a limited period of time. The Group seeks to minimize its subcontractor, vendor, and supplier risk through a professional sourcing and contracting process and in-house production capacity for some critical items. During the sourcing process, the Group reviews the risk profile of most major vendors and assesses the criticality and availability of their services and supplies to the Group Business. Despite these initiatives, plans, and procedures, such measures may not be adequate or implemented properly or sufficiently to prevent business disruption in every instance or major price increase by or dependency from certain suppliers, and Eurofins is subject to various risks and potential liability in the case of errors by its subcontractors.
Market Expansion, Establishment of New Companies and Business Segments, Internationalisation
Eurofins bases a large part of its future growth on expected penetration of new regional markets. Even though Eurofins has been able to accumulate extensive experience in doing business internationally in the past and already has contacts in the various target regions for its international growth strategy, the risks in executing the Group's business strategy in and for new markets could lead to a delay or even a failure in implementation of Eurofins' international growth strategy, attempts at market development, and entry into new markets. Such failure could have a material adverse effect on Eurofins' net worth, financial position and operating results.

Expansion and Acquisition Risks
It is the strategic approach of Eurofins to acquire companies, new laboratories, and technologies in order to obtain access to complementary technologies and to expand the Group's market position in Europe, North America, and Asia as well as in other parts of the world. Our business has experienced substantial expansion in the past and such expansion and any future expansion could strain Group resources if not properly managed. Future rapid expansion could strain Group operational, human, and financial resources. In order to manage expansion, Eurofins must:
 continue to improve operating, administrative, and information systems;
 accurately predict future personnel and resource needs to meet customer commitments;
 track the progress of ongoing client projects; and
 attract and retain qualified management, sales, professional, scientific, and technical operating personnel.
If Eurofins does not take these actions and is not able to manage the expanded business, the expanded business may be less successful than anticipated. Eurofins may be required to allocate existing or future resources to the expanded business, that in either case, the Group would have otherwise allocated to another part of our business. Some of the companies we acquire may not develop as planned, breach agreements with clients or regulatory or accounting rules and even ultimately fail. This could cause major financial losses and the need for substantial write offs for Eurofins.
If Eurofins is unable to successfully execute its acquisition strategies and successfully integrate acquired businesses, our business, results of operations and financial condition could be adversely impacted. Historically, Eurofins' growth strategy has been based in part on our ability to acquire existing businesses, services or technologies. We do not know whether in the future we will be able to:
 identify suitable businesses or technologies to buy;
 successfully perform business diligence and identify all materials risks associated with the acquisition;
 complete the purchase of any such businesses or technologies on terms acceptable to Eurofins;
 successfully integrate the operations of acquired businesses into the Group;

21

 obtain financing necessary for an acquisition at all or on commercially acceptable terms; or
 retain key personnel and customers of acquired businesses.
We compete with other potential buyers for the acquisition of existing businesses and technology. This competition may result in fewer opportunities to purchase companies that are for sale. It may also result in higher purchase prices for the businesses that we want to purchase. We may also spend time and money investigating and negotiating with potential acquisition targets but not complete the transaction. Any future or past acquisition could involve other risks, including liability risks and reputational damage to the Group as a result of unprofessional or lower quality business practices of acquired operations, the assumption of additional liabilities and expenses, issuances of potentially dilutive securities or interest-bearing debt, transaction costs, and diversion of management's attention from other business concerns.
From time to time, Eurofins may enter into contingent agreements such as an earn-out agreement with the sellers of acquired companies for which calculations are typically based on the fulfilment of certain conditions by a pre-determined date. From time to time, such agreements lead to disputes, or even litigation. It cannot be excluded that in the future that one or more of these disputes could cause costs above those provisioned in the Group accounts. For more information on such risks, please see the notes to the 2017 consolidated financial statements (note 3.14).
Competition
The bioanalytics industry is highly competitive. We often compete for business not only with other, often independent bioanalytics companies, but also with internal analytics departments within some of our customers or governments. If we do not compete successfully, especially with respect to the competitive advantage of outsourcing analytics requirements to companies such as ours, our business will suffer. The industry is highly fragmented, with numerous smaller specialized companies and a handful of full-service companies with global capabilities similar to ours. Increased competition might lead to price and other forms of competition that might adversely affect our operating results. As a result of competitive pressures, our industry has experienced consolidation in recent years and we expect such trend toward consolidation to continue. This trend is likely to produce more competition among the larger companies for both customers and acquisition candidates. Bioanalytic testing companies generally compete on:
 regulatory compliance record;
 reputation for on-time quality performance;
 quality systems;
22

 previous experience;
 medical and scientific expertise in specific testing and diagnostic areas;
 scope of services;
 quality of data and related services;
 financial viability;
 database management;
 statistical and regulatory services;
 ability to recruit scientists and other personnel;
 ability to integrate information technology with systems to optimize research efficiency;
 accreditation and quality of facilities;
 international presence with strategically located facilities; and
 price.
Eurofins is confident in its know-how and expertise accumulated by its scientific teams, in particular in its database of methods and test results. Nevertheless, there is no certainty that it will have the necessary resources in order to successfully deal with changes in the market, a process of consolidation, or the entry of new competitors into its markets.
Some of the current and potential competitors have longer business experience or greater financial resources or marketing capacities at their disposal than Eurofins. Some have a better-known name in their market segment and a larger customer base. Eurofins proceeds from the assumption that the market for the supply of analytical testing methods will become more concentrated.
It also cannot be ruled out that financially powerful market participants, such as food or water companies or other large corporations may enter into competition with Eurofins and create challenges that Eurofins will have to overcome.
Cost Pressures, Price Falls and Profit Margins
As a result of competition and improvement of testing technologies, test prices do and can fall, especially for the most common and standard tests. It is impossible to rule out further significant price reductions in the market for food, pharmaceutical, clinical, environmental analysis or other markets Eurofins is operating in. At the same time, due to factors such as inflation, Eurofins' costs could grow due to increased expenses for personnel, materials and other supplies/resources. Although Eurofins will attempt to maintain or improve profit margins

through measures to increase scale and cost efficiency, there can be no certainty that Eurofins' profit margins may not significantly decrease in the future. Sustained erosion of its margins would have adverse effects on Eurofins' net worth, financial position and operating results and even its very existence.
2. Financial Risks
Liquidity Risk
Eurofins has entered into several loan and credit facility agreements to ensure the Group has sufficient financial liquidity to be able to respond swiftly to strategic opportunities. In addition, Eurofins has successfully launched in September 2017 its NEU-CP (commercial paper) programme on the French market, giving it access to very competitive short-term funding.
Eurofins periodically carries out reviews of the liquidity risk and considers itself able to face its current financial obligations. In regards to the current economic environment it should be noted that Eurofins and its subsidiaries are compliant with the criteria of the most important respective lines of credit and at this time do not anticipate any particular liquidity problems or issues regarding the financial covenants within the near future.
The Group's ability to generate sufficient cash flows from operations to make scheduled payments on our debt obligations will depend on our future financial performance, which will be affected by a range of economic, competitive, regulatory, legislative, and business factors, many of which are outside of our control. If Eurofins is unable to meet debt service obligations or comply with covenants, a default under debt agreements would occur. To avoid a possible default or upon a default, Eurofins could be forced to reduce or delay the completion or expansion of new laboratories and technologies, sell assets, obtain additional equity capital, or refinance or restructure its debt.
In order to finance parts of the acquisition and expansion costs, the Company and its subsidiaries have entered into several loan and credit facility agreements as described in this report. Such loans and facilities are either based on a fixed rate or on a variable rate. The variation risk of some loans and facilities with a variable interest rate in the Company and in some of its subsidiaries are from time to time hedged by various financial instruments (e.g., swap with a fixed rate or cap with a maximum interest rate covering a certain period). However, as there are certain lines of credit that are still based on a variable rate, it cannot be excluded that the interest rate concerning these loans will rise in the future. This could have an adverse effect on the Company's liquidity, financial position, and operating results.
For more information on financial risk management, please see the notes to the 2017 consolidated financial statements (note 4.2).

Future Capital Requirements Risk
Eurofins' strategic growth, particularly the acquisition of new laboratories and technologies in order to obtain access to complementary technologies and to expand Eurofins' market position in different continents, requires the extensive use of resources. Eurofins believes that it has sufficient internal funds for its current needs. It cannot be ruled out, however, that Eurofins may determine that it is necessary or desirable to acquire additional funds through public or private financing, including external and equity capital financing or other agreements. Any additional acquisition of equity capital may have a dilutive effect for shareholders, while external financing may subject Eurofins to restrictions in dividend payouts or other restrictions.
In light of the current economic uncertainty, and the volatility in the capital markets, particularly in Europe, it is also possible that adequate funds may not be available at all, at the proper time, or under acceptable conditions, either through procurement via the capital markets or other means. If additional financing is limited or unavailable, Eurofins could be forced to limit the planned expansion of its business activities. Furthermore, if Eurofins' business activities are incurring deficits at that point in time, and should additional Eurofins funds be unavailable to finance its business activity, it cannot be ruled out that Eurofins will be unable to maintain its operational business activity.
Interest Rate Risk
Eurofins' exposure to the risk of changes in market interest rates relates to variable interest rate indebtedness and hedging activities. To mitigate the Group's exposure to interest rates changes, Eurofins entered in the past into several and in the future might enter into additional hedging contracts in order to limit the potential impact of adverse changes in interest rates. However, there are no guarantees that such contracts would be sufficient to fully protect the Group in the event of large interest rate volatility. Also hedging contracts entered into may have negative consequences on its income statement (paying interests based on higher rates than market in a given period) and balance sheet (derivative accounting on hedging instruments) which could have a material adverse effect on the Group's net worth, financial position and operating results.
Foreign Currency Risk
Eurofins' reported financial performance can be impacted by changes in foreign currencies (both transaction and translation related). To mitigate the Group's exposure to currency fluctuations, Eurofins might enter into several hedging contracts in order to limit the potential impact of adverse changes in foreign currency fluctuations. However, there are no guarantees that such contracts would be sufficient to fully protect the Group in the event of large volatility in one or more foreign currencies. Also hedging contracts entered into may have negative

23

consequences on its income statement and balance sheet (derivative accounting on hedging instruments) which could have a material adverse effect on the Group's net worth, financial position and operating results.
Counterparty Risk
Eurofins exposure relates to the potential default of a counterparty holding financial assets (cash and cash equivalents held for trading financial assets, loans receivable and derivative instruments), with the maximum exposure being equal to the carrying amount of these instruments. The counterparty risk from a cash management perspective is sometimes reduced by the implementation of several cash pools, accounts and related paying platforms with different counterparties.
To mitigate the counterparty risk, Eurofins endeavours to mainly deal with recognised financial institutions with an appropriate credit rating. All counterparties are generally financial institutions which are regulated and controlled by the national financial supervisory authorities in their respective countries.
For more information on market and counterparty risks, please see the notes to the 2017 consolidated financial statements (note 4.5).
Revenues and Results Variability
Revenues and results depend on many factors and may not reach the level expected by the Group or by analysts or even already reached on previous results. Eurofins' revenues vary from one quarter to another because of the seasonality of its activities (with a traditionally low cycle at the beginning of the year) and it is expected that these fluctuations shall carry on. Eurofins' revenues may also vary from one accounting year to another. Fluctuations in Eurofins' revenues can have a strong impact on various factors within the business. These factors include the continued acceptance of the existing services offered by the Group, the acceptance of future services offered by the Group, changes in the prices of services, changes in terms of staff and employees, increasing competition, economic and market conditions, the financial health of or consolidation between Eurofins' customers, legal changes that could have an impact on Eurofins' activities, and other economic factors. Fluctuations in Eurofins' revenues and results may have an additional significant impact on the level and volatility of Eurofins' stock price.
3. Technological Risks
Rapid Technological Change Risks
The Group's future success depends on our ability to keep pace with rapid technological changes that could make our services and products less competitive or obsolete. The bioanalytics industry generally and, more specifically, biologic, genomics, and medical testing are subject to increasingly rapid technological changes. Our competitors or others

might develop technologies, services or products that are more effective or commercially attractive than our current or future technologies, services or products, or that render our technologies, services or products less competitive or obsolete. If competitors introduce superior technologies, services or products and we cannot make enhancements to ours to remain competitive, our competitive position and, in turn, our business, revenues, and financial condition, would be materially and adversely affected.
Patents
Our bioanalytics business is dependent, in part, on our ability to obtain patents in various jurisdictions on our current and future technologies and services, to defend our patents and protect our trade secrets and to operate without infringing on the proprietary rights of others. There can be no assurance that our patents will not be challenged by third parties or that, if challenged, those patents will be held valid. In addition, there can be no assurance that any technologies or products developed by us will not be challenged by third parties owning patent rights and, if challenged, will be held not to infringe on those patent rights. The expense involved in any patent litigation can be significant. We also rely on unpatented proprietary technology, and there can be no assurance that others will not independently develop or obtain similar products or technologies. Eurofins attempts to obtain patent protection as deemed appropriate for its inventions from the appropriate patent offices. The prosecution and/or defence of this protection can involve a great deal of time and entail significant costs. There is no guarantee that all of the applications for patents filed will successfully pass the examination process. As noted above, there is a risk that Eurofins could be subjected to patent litigation with third parties and that an examination process could end with a negative result for Eurofins. The loss of material patents, material successful infringement claims or the costs of litigation, all could have a negative effect on the net worth, financial position and operating results of Eurofins.
In addition, it cannot be ruled out that patent rights will not be identified in the future that can significantly impair Eurofins' business activities. For example, no guarantee can be given that the research conducted by Eurofins and its patent attorneys has actually uncovered all relevant patents/patent applications. Likewise, it is possible for competitors to develop technology processes that Eurofins would like to use, but with respect to which Eurofins cannot obtain a license nor have the rights thereto invalidated. Eurofins is aware and has been aware from time to time of various potential infringements of its patents or copies of its technology but in view of the limited impact of these on Eurofins' markets so far and the cost, duration and uncertainty of legal action, Eurofins has not generally deemed necessary to take legal actions. It cannot be ruled out that these infringements or copies make a larger impact on existing or future markets in which Eurofins operates or may seek to

24

operate with a corresponding negative impact on Eurofins' operations or results of operations.
Infringement of Property Rights
Industrial property rights allow patent infringement litigation to be initiated to obtain injunctive relief and compensatory damages. Claims for commensurate compensation can be asserted in legal action based on published patent applications. Competitors can be prevented from using the patented technology based on an enforceable judgment. It may also become necessary to take legal action against third parties that infringe upon the (licensed) patents of Eurofins or patents Eurofins will receive in the future, and to defend against patent infringement litigation brought by third parties. Furthermore, if a completely or partially legally valid patent of a third party or a patent subject to an opposition procedure or national invalidity proceedings is the subject of patent infringement litigation brought by a third party against Eurofins, and if the court hearing the case were to decide that Eurofins has infringed upon the patent, the court could prohibit the further use of the analytical method and could award the third party compensatory damages for the past patent infringement. In addition, Eurofins could be a plaintiff in litigation concerning its own patents and not win the case or fail to be successful to the extent necessary. In this case, for example, a third party could bring competing technologies to market, resulting in a negative effect on Eurofins' business activities and its net worth, financial position and operating results. Such patent disputes can extend over long periods of time and tie up significant Eurofins personnel and its financial potential.
Neither Eurofins nor its patent attorneys can guarantee that patent rights of third parties do not exist that could impair the business operations of Eurofins. In addition, there is no certainty that a national court will not interpret the scope of protection offered by the patent of a third party differently than Eurofins and its patent attorneys. This could result in Eurofins or one of its business partners being charged with patent infringement and not succeeding in invalidating the patent alleged to be infringed, although neither Eurofins nor its patent attorneys had viewed the corresponding action in this document as a patent infringement or had viewed the patent not strong enough to withstand legal proceedings.
Licenses and Research Contracts
Eurofins' business involves entering into license, collaboration and other agreements with third parties relating to the development of the technologies and products both as licensor and licensee. There is no guarantee that Eurofins will be able to negotiate commercially acceptable licenses or other agreements necessary for the future exploitation of its technologies and products or that any of its licenses or other agreements will be successful. In addition, there is no guarantee that Eurofins' collaborative partners will not pursue or develop competing technologies or products, either

on their own or in collaboration with others. Eurofins' license agreements are generally for a fixed term and, prior to the expiry of such term, may be terminated in certain circumstances, some of which may be beyond the control of Eurofins. There is no certainty that license agreements that expire or are terminated will be renewed or replaced which could have an adverse effect on Eurofins' business, financial condition, operating results and prospects.
Information Security Risks
Attacks on our IT systems, or failure or delays in these systems or their interconnections, including failures resulting from our systems could disrupt our operations and cause the loss of confidential information, customers and business opportunities or otherwise adversely impact our business.
IT systems are used extensively in virtually all aspects of our business, including clinical testing, test reporting, billing, customer service, logistics, and management of data. Our success depends, in part, on the continued and uninterrupted performance of our IT systems. IT systems may be vulnerable to damage, disruptions and shutdown from a variety of sources, including telecommunications or network failures, human acts, and natural disasters. Unauthorized persons may seek to obtain intellectual property and other confidential information like client or patient data that we house on our IT systems. Moreover, despite the security measures we have implemented, our IT systems may be subject to physical or electronic intrusions, computer viruses, unauthorized tampering and similar disruptive problems. A failure of our network or data gathering procedures could impede the processing of data, delivery of databases and services, customer orders and dayto-day management of our business and could result in the corruption or loss of data and ultimately to the failure of our operations.
While we have disaster recovery plans for parts of our operations, and are continuously extending those plans and updating our methodologies and have taken precautionary measures to prevent or minimize vulnerabilities in our IT systems, including the loss or theft of intellectual property and other confidential information that we house on our systems, they might not adequately protect us. Since 2013, we have continued to update and upgrade our IT systems and strengthen precautionary measures to reduce the risk of, and to detect and respond to, future cyber threats including through regular monitoring of our systems and implementation of various "best practices". Since 2017 we have elevated the resilience of our global infrastructure with the introduction of Intrusion Detection Systems (IDS) and Security Information and Event Management systems (SIEM). Monitoring and operations of many of our systems is ensured 24x7 from multiple IT service delivery centers around the globe. However, cyber threats and the consequences of human error or system failures are constantly evolving, thereby increasing the difficulty of detecting and successfully defending against them. Breaches of our network or data security

25

could disrupt the security of our internal systems and business applications, impair our ability to provide services to our customers, compromise intellectual property or confidential information or otherwise adversely impact our business. There can be no assurances that our precautionary measures will prevent or successfully defend against cyber threats, human errors or system failures that could have a significant impact on our business. Despite any precautions we take, damage from fire, floods, hurricanes, power loss, telecommunications failures, computer viruses, break-ins and similar events at our computer facilities could result in interruptions in the flow of data to our servers and from our servers to our customers. In addition, any failure by our computer environment to provide our required data communications capacity could result in interruptions in our service. In the event of a delay in the delivery of data, we could be required to transfer our data collection operations to an alternative provider of server hosting services. Such a transfer could result in delays in our ability to deliver our products and services to our customers. Additionally, significant delays in the planned delivery of system enhancements, improvements and inadequate performance of the systems once they are completed could damage our reputation and harm our business. Finally, long-term disruptions in the infrastructure caused by events such as natural disasters, sabotage, cyber crime, the outbreak of war, the escalation of hostilities and acts of terrorism, particularly involving cities in which we have offices, could adversely and fatally affect our businesses. Although we carry cybercrime insurance, our coverage might not be adequate to compensate us for all risks and losses that may occur.
Confidential Information
Eurofins has confidentiality agreements with numerous customers not to disclose the results of analyses or other confidential information. If Eurofins were to fail to comply with these agreements or laws concerning patient data privacy, Eurofins could suffer financial penalties. As a mitigating measure, it is a general rule that new staff members are contractually committed not to reveal any technology or any results of analysis; access to the whole database is limited to a low number of staff. Staff in sensitive positions are often contractually bound by post-contractual noncompete clauses in those countries where these are generally practised and permitted by law.
Nonetheless, it is impossible to categorically rule out detrimental risk to Eurofins from the disclosure of confidential information to outside parties. Unauthorized access to Eurofins' proprietary information or to clients' or patients' data in the Group's computers or online tools could cause significant damage.
Research & Development Projects
In the past Eurofins has participated in various research and development (R&D) projects. Currently, there are several internal and

collaborative research and development projects running including projects with the European Union. In the past, the majority of research projects undertaken by Eurofins have led to the successful application of new analytical methods. However, investment in R&D by its very nature presents a risk. The potential products and services to which we devote R&D resources might never be successfully developed or commercialized by the Group for numerous reasons, including:
 inability to develop products or services that address our customers' needs;
 inability to bring the products or services to market in a cost-effective or competitive manner;
 inability to obtain regulatory approvals in a timely manner or at all;
 competitive products or services with superior performance;
 patent conflicts or unenforceable intellectual property rights;
 lack of demand for the particular product or services; and
 other factors that could make the product uneconomical or infeasible.
Incurring material R&D expenses for potential products or services that are not successfully developed and/or commercialised could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, prospects and stock price, especially in light of the fact that returns on investment may only be realized over an extended period of time or not at all.
4. Industrial Risks
Partial or Total Destruction of the Testing Databases
Eurofins maintains databases containing information on almost all of its available tests, in addition to data such as isotopic and other analytical fingerprints on products capable of analysis by Eurofins, and which represent an integral part of its technological advance.
If the databases were to be corrupted, damaged, or destroyed, Eurofins' business could be adversely affected. To limit the risk of a partial or total destruction, the main databases are kept in clusters of high availability datacentres interconnected via high-speed communication lines. To further ensure availability, Eurofins and its subsidiaries systematically apply off-site back-ups of the databases.

26

Environmental Contamination Risks
Our business uses biological and hazardous materials, which could injure people or violate laws, resulting in liability that could adversely impact our financial condition and business. Our activities involve the controlled use of potentially harmful biological materials, as well as hazardous materials, solvents and other chemicals, and various radioactive compounds. While our risk may be mitigated by the relatively small quantities of such materials used, we cannot completely eliminate the risk of accidental contamination or injury from the use, storage, handling or disposal of these materials including in the case of error, accident, fire or other damage to our facilities or in the case of the failure of specialized companies which often dispose of such materials for us to comply with their contractual and regulatory obligations. While Eurofins maintains insurance for environmental liabilities at levels which the Group believes are appropriate, in the event of contamination or injury, we could be held liable for damages that result, and any liability could exceed our insurance coverage and ability to pay. Any contamination or injury could also damage our image and reputation, which is critical to obtaining new business. In addition, we are subject to one or more levels of laws and regulations in the countries in which we operate governing the use, storage, handling and disposal of these materials and specified waste products as well as the remediation to be taken in the event of an environmental incident or damage to bio-diversity. The cost of compliance with these laws and regulations is significant and if changes are made to impose additional requirements, these costs could increase and have an adverse impact on our financial condition and results of operations.
Professional Liability
As a general matter, providers of (bio)analytical services may be subject to lawsuits alleging negligence, errors and omissions or other similar legal claims. These lawsuits could involve claims for substantial damages. For example, Eurofins' business contains the potential risk of substantial liability for damages in the event of analytical errors where Eurofins and its subsidiaries not only verify the authenticity of the products analysed, but also look to detect dangerous components (pathogens, prions, pesticides, asbestos, mycotoxins, dioxins, toxic substances, etc.). Since these results may be relied upon and used in the marketing activities of Eurofins' clients, such negligence, errors or omissions in the (reporting of the results of the) analyses could potentially lead to Eurofins' clients being forced to organise a product recall or suffering other financial losses.Potential errors could even have a wider impact on consumers' health or property. In the event that Eurofins would be found responsible for these damages, its liability could be very large. Errors or omissions in the analyses performed by Eurofins' clinical diagnostics division could also potentially impact patients' health. Although Eurofins practices quality assurance programmes and staff training designed to prevent

errors in its laboratories, the risk of human error or accident can never be totally ruled out.
As a first line of defence however, the service contracts entered into by Eurofins for the analysis of samples and products generally provide that Eurofins' liability for damages is limited to circumstances directly arising from the samples or products that have been examined by Eurofins. Eurofins believes that these clauses when applicable and enforceable by law substantially limit the liability in case of an analytical error. However, any professional liability litigation could also have an adverse impact on our client base and reputation.
The second line of defence in place is part of Eurofins' business and risk management policy, where a global and centralised general and professional liability insurance programme has been set up.
Insurances
As part of Eurofins' risk management policy,various global and centralised insurance policies have been rolled out, covering different types of risks, such as damage to Eurofins' assets and associated financial losses, liabilities as well as other insurance policies required for its activities. In 2017, Eurofins continued its policy of centralising insurance programmes, enabling it to improve and increase coverage, while gaining more visibility on the different local insurances and keeping overall insurance costs under control. For confidentiality reasons, insurers and insured limits cannot be disclosed.
In the frame of its global insurance programmes, the Group has taken out for some or most of its companies the following insurance policies among other coverage:
 Property Damage & Business Interruption Insurance, including terrorism coverage;
 General, Products and Professional Liability Insurance;
 Environmental Liability Insurance;
 Employment Practices Liability Insurance;
 Directors and Officers Liability Insurance (D&O);
 Cyber Insurance.
The subject of the D&O policy is to cover the insured Eurofins' Directors and Officers including some key managers (such as the Chief Executive Officer, the main operating and scientific directors, and some other executive managers), as well as the Directors and Officers of companies controlled by the Group, for any pecuniary consequences of loss or damage resulting from any claims brought against them, binding their civil liability whether individual or joint, and attributable to any professional misconduct, whether actual or alleged,

27

committed by them in performing their managerial duties.
This policy is also subject to certain conditions and restrictions of common practice for similar contracts.
In addition, the Group's subsidiaries have subscribed to relevant insurance policies according to local regulations and practices. These policies particularly aim to cover the insured company for the financial consequences of:
 damage affecting its assets and properties;
 business interruption resulting therefrom;
 third party liabilities;
 worker's compensation / employer's liability where applicable;
 motor third party liability;
 as well as any other mandatory local insurance cover.
As noted above, Eurofins believes it has procured sufficient insurance coverage at reasonable terms and conditions and that save for catastrophic damages, its insurance policies and coverage limits provide sufficient protection for Eurofins' present requirements. Insured limits are being reviewed by Eurofins and its insurance brokers on a regular basis (taking into account the insurance market evolution, historical claims within Eurofins' industry practice as well as Eurofins' growth and exposure to potential claims) and where needed, amended. Up to the present time, Eurofins has very rarely been subject to substantial proven liability. However, it cannot be guaranteed that claims for damages will not be asserted against Eurofins in the future, that Eurofins' insurance coverage will prove to be sufficient in all cases or that Eurofins will not sustain losses outside the scope or limits of its insurance coverage.
Although Eurofins believes that the present reserves if any for professional liability claims are sufficient to cover currently estimated exposures, it is possible that the Group or individual subsidiaries may incur liabilities in excess of these recorded reserves where they exist.
Claims in excess of recorded reserves if any and/or applicable insurance coverage could have adverse effects on Eurofins' net worth, financial position, operating results (principally costs of services) and cash flows in the period that reserve estimates are adjusted or paid. In addition, successful major claims could also have a negative impact on Eurofins' image and reputation.

5. Other Risks
Risk of Loss of Key Employees
Eurofins has a number of key employees with highly specialised skills or leadership talent and extensive experience in their fields. If one or more of these key employees were to leave, Eurofins may have difficulty replacing them. Eurofins attempts to mitigate the risk of losing key employees by retention programmes, succession planning, and long-term incentive plans. Eurofins may be unable to retain key employees or attract new highly qualified employees which could have a negative impact on Eurofins' business, financial situation or results of operations.
Tax Risks
Eurofins conducts its business activities in many different countries and is potentially subject to tax liabilities in multiple tax jurisdictions. Eurofins believes its tax returns, which it prepares in cooperation with its local tax advisers/ accountants, are accurate and complete and that the Group has established adequate tax provisions and reserves. Accordingly, in the event of an external tax audit, Eurofins does not expect any material changes to its tax assessment notices or any additional tax liability. However, Eurofins may be subject to additional tax liability, including late payment interest and/or penalties, in particular if the tax authorities' interpretation of the facts or laws should differ.
These unforeseen tax claims may arise through a large number of reasons including identification of a taxable presence of a non-indigenous group company in a taxing jurisdiction, transfer pricing adjustments, revision of allowable expenses, application of indirect taxes on certain business transactions after the event, and disallowance of the benefits of a tax treaty. In addition, Eurofins may be subject to tax law changes in a taxing jurisdiction leading to retroactive tax claims.
Unforeseen tax claims or tax liabilities could have adverse effects on Eurofins' cash flow and thereby have adverse effects on its net worth, financial position and operating results.
Risks of Litigation
Disputes in relation to Eurofins' business arise from time to time and can result in legal or arbitration proceedings. The outcome of these proceedings cannot be predicted. A negative outcome in a substantial litigation or arbitration case could have a material impact on Eurofins' business and financial position.
Currently there are a few claims which have been threatened or asserted in pending litigation or arbitration proceedings concerning Eurofins and/or its subsidiaries and affiliates in the ordinary course of business or as a result of acquisitions.
For example, in 2007 Spin Master Ltd., a Canadian corporation, sued in various US jurisdictions several

28

Eurofins Group companies questioning the correctness of tests performed by one company of the Group. The defence of that company in this litigation is handled by its Professional Liability Insurers and lawyers. A court decision is expected in 2018 or 2019.
As quoted in the paragraph "Certain Service Line Regulatory Risk" of the Report, the Group's Boston Heart Diagnostics (BHD) subsidiary is currently cooperating with an investigation that the US Department of Health and Human Services, Office of Inspector General (OIG), is conducting in conjunction with the US Department of Justice (DOJ) related in part, to payments made to physicians for services performed in connection with blood specimen processing and handling services and vigorously defending two associated qui tam lawsuits. Please refer to said paragraph for more details.
Internal Controls Risks
Eurofins is enhancing its Internal Control platform to deploy necessary measures to manage existing and potential financial and operational risks, including measures aimed at limiting incidents that could lead to claims against Eurofins and its subsidiaries (see Section II.1.1.5 Internal Control).
If we are unable to maintain effective internal control over financial reporting or disclosure controls and procedures, the accuracy and timeliness of our financial reporting may be adversely affected. Maintaining effective internal controls over financial reporting is necessary for us to produce reliable financial statements. Moreover, we must maintain effective disclosure controls and procedures in order to provide reasonable assurance that the information required to be reported in our reports is recorded, processed, summarized and reported on a timely basis and that such information is accumulated and communicated to our management to allow timely decisions regarding required disclosure. If we are unable to maintain effective internal controls over financial reporting or disclosure controls and procedures or remediate any material weakness, it could result in a material misstatement of our consolidated financial statements that could require a restatement or other disclosures in which event investor confidence in the accuracy and timeliness of our financial reports and other disclosures could be adversely impacted, and the market price of our securities could be negatively impacted.
Fraud/Ethical risks
Eurofins has implemented various systems of quality assurance in the largest part of its laboratories that are designed to ensure consistent procedures and traceability of results. Additionally, both local finance departments, Group finance teams, and Group Internal Audit as well as external auditors, perform regular controls and audit checks. Eurofins also encourages all internal and external parties to report in a confidential and secure manner suspicious situations and facts. One of Eurofins'

core values is integrity, which states that it is committed to ethics as one of its highest values. Attempts to incite customers or partners to commit unethical steps are not permitted in the Group. However, it is not possible to rule out the possibility of employee fraud or corruption. These could have a very damaging impact on Eurofins and even put its existence at risk.
Volatility of the Market Price of Shares
The shares of Eurofins have been listed on Euronext Paris since 25 October 1997. The market price of Eurofins' securities may be volatile. Any securities traded on a securities exchange are subject to risk factors which affect their price. Over time, global securities markets have experienced price fluctuations, which have been unrelated to the operating performance of the affected companies. Some of the factors that could negatively affect the price of Eurofins' securities include:
 general market and economic conditions, including disruptions, downgrades, credit events and perceived problems in the credit markets;
 actual or anticipated variations in the quarterly operating results or distributions;
 changes in the investments or asset composition of Eurofins;
 write-downs or perceived credit or liquidity issues affecting the assets of Eurofins;
 market perception of Eurofins, its business and assets;
 the level of indebtedness of Eurofins and/or adverse market reaction to any indebtedness incurred in the future;
 additions or departures of Eurofins' key personnel;
 changes in market valuations of similar companies;
 litigation or regulatory actions and  speculation in the press or investment
community.
These risk factors are generally unpredictable and may have implications that are unrelated or disproportionate to the operating performance of the listed entity. There can be no assurance that the market price of Eurofins' securities will not experience significant fluctuations in the future, including fluctuations that are unrelated to the performance of Eurofins.
Significant Shareholding
The current shareholders Dr. Gilles G. Martin and family and Dr. Yves-Loïc Martin, directly or through their holdings in Analytical Bioventures SCA, together hold a total of 36.4% of the shares of Eurofins and 56.6% of the voting rights as of 31 December 2017. Free float is 63.6% of Eurofins' capital stock and 43.4% of the voting rights.
Due to the significant shareholding of the current shareholders, Dr. Gilles G. Martin and family, Dr. Yves-Loïc Martin and Analytical Bioventures

29

SCA are together in a position to control the outcome of important business decisions that require shareholders consent, regardless of the voting behaviour of other shareholders and may further increase their percentage of voting rights in the Company due to issuance of more beneficiary units. This or some decisions taken could have a material adverse impact on the results and value of the company and the minority shares and reduces the liquidity of the shares.
Future sales or issuances of a substantial number of Eurofins' securities in the public markets, or the perception of such sales or issuances, could depress the trading price of Eurofins' securities. Eurofins cannot predict the effect that future sales or issuances of Eurofins' securities or other equity related securities would have on the market price of Eurofins' securities. Eurofins may need additional funds in the future and Eurofins may issue additional Eurofins securities in lieu of incurring indebtedness which may dilute existing holders of Eurofins securities or Eurofins may issue securities that have rights and privileges that are more favourable than the rights and privileges accorded to holders of Eurofins shares.
Unforeseen High Impact Risk
Eurofins' operations may be subject to unforeseen events which are highly improbable and may have a significant negative impact on its business activities, financial situation and operating performance. Due to the unforeseen nature of such events, it is difficult to mitigate the impact of such events or predict the nature or extent of the damage. Such unforeseen events may have a material adverse effect on the Group's net worth, financial position and operating results.
Reliability of Opinions and Predictions
All assumptions, opinions and expectations that do not represent facts based upon the past are expressly the opinions and predictions of Eurofins' management. Opinions and forward-looking statements, are identified by expressions such as "planned", "expected", "believes", "assumes", "holds the view", "to the extent known" and similar formulations. Such statements reflect the management's current opinions regarding possible future events, which are by their nature uncertain and thus subject to risks. All forward-looking statements are subject to various risks and uncertainties. Actual events and results may differ substantially from expectations due to a variety of factors. Eurofins undertakes neither obligation nor commitment to revise or update these opinions or forward-looking statements as a result of new information rendering these statements no longer accurate or timely.
Dated February 27, 2018
30

7 Eurofins Scientific SE, the Group Parent Company
Eurofins Scientific SE ("Eurofins" or the "Company") is the parent company at the head of the Eurofins Group. The Company is governed by Luxembourg law and has its registered office located at 23 Val Fleuri, L-1526 Luxembourg - Grand-Duchy of Luxembourg and registered under number RCS Luxembourg B 167775. An important role of Eurofins as a holding company is to manage its investments and the financing of the activities of its subsidiaries. In 2017, Eurofins recorded total financial income of EUR 86.5m, compared to EUR 87.6m in the previous year, of which the dividends received from its direct subsidiaries amount to EUR 71.0m in 2017 versus EUR 70.1m in 2016. Operating expenses including staff costs amounted to EUR 2.4m in 2017 compared to EUR 2.6m in 2016. Interest payable and similar expenses decreased to EUR 90.5m compared to EUR 91.9m in the previous year. The tax expense in 2017 is an income of EUR 1.6m. Therefore, Eurofins' loss for 2017 stood at EUR 3.7m, versus a loss of EUR 5.6m in 2016. The documents that can be legally required by authorized persons (such as shareholders, directors, etc.) are available at the registered office.
8 Corporate Governance
The corporate governance statements that shall legally be included in the management report and notably those as set forth in the law of 19 May 2006 on takeover bids, as amended (the "Takeover Law") are disclosed in Part II of this management report and shall be deemed to be part of it.
31

II. CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
This first part of Section II shows a verbatim version of the Corporate Governance Charter of Eurofins as adopted on February 27, 2018, which reads as follows:.

1 Corporate Governance Charter of Eurofins

Eurofins Scientific S.E. has its registered office located in Luxembourg and its shares are listed in France on the regulated market of Euronext (hereinafter referred to as "Eurofins" or the "Company"). Together with its direct and indirect controlled subsidiaries and affiliates, Eurofins Scientific S.E. is the parent company of the Eurofins Group (the "Group"). Eurofins falls under the supervision of the Commission de Surveillance du Secteur Financier (the "CSSF") in accordance with the law of 11 January 2008 on transparency requirements for issuers of securities, as amended (the "Transparency Law") and is also supervised by the Autorité des Marchés Financiers ("AMF") for the purpose of the Market Abuse Regulation (EU) No 596/2014 on insider dealing and market manipulation that came into effect on July 3, 2016 (the "Market Abuse Regulation").

Eurofins' corporate governance practices are governed by Luxembourg laws and its articles of association (the "Articles").

Eurofins makes efforts to orient its corporate governance towards the general principles of corporate governance set forth in the Ten Principles of Corporate Governance of the Luxembourg Stock Exchange (available at https://www.bourse.lu/corporate-governance) (the "Ten Principles").

The primary purpose of the present Corporate Governance Charter is to consolidate the corporate governance

rules and procedures applied by Eurofins into a single document. The Corporate Governance Charter shall be

updated as often as necessary in order to provide an accurate reflection of Eurofins' corporate governance

framework and to reflect new rules which may be adopted from time to time by Eurofins in order to enhance its

corporate governance.

initiatives, and material investments or

1.1 Management Structure

divestments, and monitors the Group

performance;

The governance structure of Eurofins is composed of the Board of Directors which is assisted by the Group Operating Council (as defined below) and a series of committees including an audit committee (the "Audit Committee") and a corporate governance committee (the "Corporate Governance Committee"). The role of the Board of Directors is one of stewardship, providing the framework for the operations of the Group Operating Council's activities.
Once a year, the Board of Directors, as well as its committees, shall conduct a self-evaluation of their composition, organization, operations and diversification in order to identify potential areas for improvement.
1.1.1 The Board of Directors
Under the Eurofins' Articles, as supplemented by the internal regulations of the Board of Directors, the Board of Directors is composed of, and functions, as follows.
a. Role
The Board of Directors shall be responsible for the management of Eurofins. It is responsible for the performance of all acts of administration necessary or useful to further the corporate purpose of Eurofins, except for matters reserved by Luxembourg law or the Articles to the general meeting of shareholders.
The core mission of the Board of Directors is the following (non-exhaustive list):
- The Board of Directors shall discuss the Group strategy, significant operational

The Board of Directors shall ensure the quality of the information provided to the shareholders as well as to the financial markets through the Company's accounts and the financial communication;
- The Board of Directors shall specifically decide on the values and objectives of Eurofins, its strategy and the key policies required for implementation and the level of risk acceptable to Eurofins. It draws up the annual, periodic and consolidated accounts and budget;
- The Board of Directors shall endeavour to ensure that the necessary financial and human resources are available, in order to enable Eurofins to reach its objectives;
- The Board of Directors shall draw up the main categories of risks faced by Eurofins, such as financial risk, strategic risk, operational risk, legal and regulatory risk, reputational risk, and other risks. The Board of Directors shall determine the risks that require particularly close monitoring;
- The Board of Directors shall draw up a code of business ethics; and
- The Board of Directors shall select the Directors for their nomination at the general meeting of shareholders.
b. Composition and Appointment
The Articles provide that the Directors are elected, renewed or removed by the ordinary general

32

meeting of shareholders by a simple majority of votes cast. The term of office of the Directors shall be determined by the general meeting of the shareholders of the Company at the time of their appointment. The Directors may always be reelected.
Other than as set out in the Articles, no shareholder has any specific right to elect, renew or remove Directors. In case of a vacancy of the office of a Director appointed by the general meeting of shareholders, the remaining Directors so appointed may fill the vacancy on a provisional basis. In such circumstances, the next general meeting of shareholders shall appoint a Director to fill the vacancy.
The Articles do not require Directors to be shareholders of Eurofins.
The Directors are bound by the code of ethics of the Company and the insider dealing policy of the Company.
The Board of Directors shall include at least two independent Directors.
The Directors shall be selected on the basis of their knowledge, experience and qualification to carry out their mandate.
The Board of Directors shall appoint a Chairman, who shall prepare the agenda for board meetings. The Chairman shall ensure that the procedures relating to the Board meetings, including the preparation of meetings, deliberations, and the taking and implementing of decisions, are correctly applied.
The Board of Directors may decide to set up committees entrusted with matters submitted by the Board of Directors, including an audit committee, a nomination committee, a remuneration committee and a corporate governance committee, when necessary.
c. Functioning
The Board of Directors meets when convened by the Chairman by any means, including verbally or by telephone in urgent cases. The Board of Directors meets as often as required in the interest of Eurofins and with the frequency that it deems appropriate, but at least every three months. It meets on the notice of its Chairman at the registered office or at any other place indicated in the notice. The Board of Directors shall dedicate an item on the agenda of one of its meetings to discussing its operation, the effective fulfilment of its remit, and compliance with good governance rules at least once every two years.
If the Board of Directors has not met for more than two months, one third of the Directors may request the Chairman to convene a meeting with a specific agenda. In cases of urgency, any Director is entitled to convene a meeting. In order for a meeting of the Board of Directors to be validly held, a majority of the Directors must be present or represented.
In the absence of the Chairman, the Board of Directors will appoint, by majority vote of the Directors present or represented at the meeting, a

chairman for the meeting in question. For any meeting of the Board of Directors, a Director may designate another Director to represent him or her and vote in his or her name, provided that the Director so designated may not represent more than one of his or her colleagues at any time.
Meetings of the Board of Directors can be held by means of video conference or other telecommunications technologies permitting the identification of the Directors. Board of Directors' meetings held by such means of communication shall be deemed to be held at the registered office of the Company.
Prior to each meeting, the Directors are entitled to receive all information required for the performance of their duties and may obtain any documents they consider useful.
The performance of the Directors is discussed at Board of Directors' meetings within the context of the performance of each of the business lines that these Directors are responsible for, if applicable.
Decisions of the Board of Directors are made by a majority of the Directors present and represented at a validly constituted meeting. Each Director has one voting right and in case of a division of votes, the Chairman shall have a casting vote.
d. Conflict of Interest and Confidentiality
(i) Conflict of Interest
Each Director shall comply with the Group Code of Ethics as further detailed in section 1.1.7 below and more particularly shall take care to avoid any direct or indirect conflict of interest with Eurofins or any subsidiary directly or indirectly controlled by Eurofins. Directors shall inform the Board of Directors of a real or potential risk of conflict of interest with Eurofins or its direct or indirect controlled subsidiaries. In the presence of a direct or indirect financial interest conflicting with that of Eurofins in a transaction which has to be considered by the Board of Directors, the concerned directors must advise the Board of Directors thereof and cause a record of his/her statement to be included in the minutes of the meeting. The director shall abstain from deliberating or voting on the issue concerned in accordance with applicable legal provisions.Each Director shall consult the chairman of the Corporate Governance Committee or the Chairman of the Board of Directors in the event of uncertainty as to the nature of an operation or transaction likely to create a conflict of interest for him/her.
Each Director shall undertake to dedicate the time and attention required to his/her duties, and to limit the number of his/her other professional commitments (especially offices held at other companies) to the extent required for him/her to be able to fulfil his/her duties properly.
(ii) Confidentiality
During and after their functions, the Directors are strictly bound by a confidentiality commitment regarding the content of any debates and deliberations of the Board of Directors as well as

33

any information they have been provided by reason of their functions, excluding where such disclosure is required by a legal provision.
As regards information obtained in the course of their duties that have not yet been made public, Directors shall regard themselves as bound by an obligation of professional secrecy that goes beyond the mere duty of discretion as stipulated by the relevant laws.

1.1.2 Executive Management of Eurofins

a. Role

The day-to-day management of Eurofins is

entrusted to an executive committee (the "Group

Operating Council") composed of the operational

and functional international business leaders of the

Group as listed on the Eurofins Group corporate

website

http://www.eurofins.com/investor-

relations/corporate-governance/group-operating-

council/, and presided by a chief executive officer

(the "Chief Executive Officer").The Group Operating

Council provides assistance to the Board of

Directors in different specialised areas of expertise.

b. Composition and Appointment

The Chief Executive Officer is appointed by the Board of Directors. For swift decision making process in a relatively young organisation like Eurofins operating in a rapidly moving industry, the Board of Directors has decided not to separate the functions of Chief Executive Officer and Chairman of the Board of Directors. The Board of Directors sets the duration of his/her term of office, provided that such period shall not exceed the term of office of the Directors. The Chief Executive Officer may be removed at any time by the Board of Directors. The Board of Directors shall ensure that the members of the Group Operating Council have the skills required to fulfil their responsibilities.

c. Approval of certain significant matters

The Group Operating Council meets with the Board of Directors at least once every quarter.

The functions of the members of the Group Operating Council are framed by their objectives, annual budgetary limits and a monitoring procedure for important decisions which are cascaded throughout the Group.

In the decentralized model used by Eurofins certain important or non-customary decisions are governed by an approval system. For each level of decision, the approver of important decisions is precisely defined and signatures are required.

These important decisions pertain to M&A, sites expansion, non-budgeted investments, key personnel compensation, financing and insurance policies, net working capital management, and certain large transactions with other companies outside the Group, the Group legal organisation as well as certain general commercial terms.

1.1.3 The Audit Committee

The Audit Committee shall be composed and shall function in accordance with its internal regulations which are summarized as follows.
a. Role

The Audit Committee assists the Board of Directors in carrying out its responsibilities in relation to corporate policies, internal control, risk monitoring, and financial and regulatory reporting practices. The Audit Committee has an oversight function and provides a link between the internal and external auditors ("réviseurs d'entreprises agréés"), and the Board of Directors. The Audit Committee is assisted as appropriate by the Group Finance and Administration teams.

(i)

Financial Reporting

The Audit Committee monitors and discusses with the Board of Directors and the external auditor ("réviseur d'entreprises agréé") the integrity of the preliminary results, the half-year information and the annual financial statements reviewing significant financial and reporting judgments which they contain before reporting to the Board of Directors focusing particularly on the quality and appropriateness of:

- critical accounting policies and practices; - financial reporting disclosures and changes
thereto; - areas involving significant judgment,
estimation or uncertainty in the Group's financial results; - the clarity of disclosures; - significant implemented adjustments resulting from the audit or review; - compliance with financial reporting standards and relevant financial and governance reporting requirements; - monitoring of the integrity of other formal announcements relating to Eurofins' financial performance, reviewing significant financial reporting judgments contained in them; and - monitoring of the compliance with statutory and stock exchange requirements for financial reporting.

ii)

Internal controls and risk

management systems

The Audit Committee reviews and makes recommendations to the Board of Directors on the nature and extent of the significant risks Eurofins is willing to take in achieving its strategic objectives. It shall assist the Board of Directors to establish a "risk control system".

The Audit Committee also reviews Eurofins' internal financial controls and internal control and risk management systems, and reviews and reports to the Board of Directors on the statements to be included in the annual report concerning internal control and risk management.

34

It monitors and reviews the scope, extent and effectiveness of the activity of the Group in relation to compliance before reporting to the Board of Directors.

The Audit Committee may also consider management's response to any material external or internal audit recommendations; and review management's and the internal auditor's reports on the effectiveness of systems for internal control, financial reporting and risk management.

iii)

Risk

The Audit Committee shall advise the Board of Directors on Eurofins' overall risk appetite, tolerance and strategy, taking account of the current and prospective macroeconomic and financial environment. This includes overseeing and advising the Board of Directors on the current risk exposures of Eurofins and future risk strategy.
The Audit Committee reviews regularly Eurofins' capability to identify and manage new risk types, and keeps under review Eurofins' overall risk assessment processes.

iv)

Compliance, whistle blowing and

fraud

The Audit Committee shall ensure that Eurofins' guidelines on whistleblowing are observed and shall review Eurofins' procedures for detecting fraud. The Audit Committee shall keep under review the adequacy and effectiveness of Eurofins' compliance function.

v)

Internal Audit

The Group Internal Audit Team (the "GIAT") mission, authority and responsibility is defined by the Internal Audit Charter (the "IA Charter").

The Audit Committee reviews and assesses the annual internal audit plan, and ensures that the GIAT has adequate resources to perform the tasks outlined in the annual plan and any additional ad hoc missions, and has appropriate access to information to perform its role effectively. It receives periodic updates on the outcomes and status of internal audit missions.

The Audit Committee shall be informed of the GIAT's work programme and shall receive periodic summaries of its work. The Audit Committee may make recommendations regarding the GIAT's work programme. It shall monitor the effectiveness of the internal audit function and make sure that the internal auditor(s) has/have adequate resources to perform the tasks entrusted to it/him/them.

The Audit Committee shall make recommendations regarding the selection, appointment, and dismissal of the Head of the Internal Audit team. In the event that the Head of the Internal Audit team resigns, the Audit Committee shall investigate the reasons for that resignation, and shall make recommendations regarding any measures that are needed.

vi)

External Audit

The Audit Committee reviews and makes recommendations to the Board of Directors for it to put to the shareholders for their approval at the general meeting in relation to the appointment, reappointment and removal of the external auditor ("réviseur d'entreprises agréé").

The Audit Committee has oversight with regards to the relationship with the external auditor ("réviseur d'entreprises agréé") including discussions about the nature and scope of the audit (including any significant ventures, investments or operations which are not subject to audit).

The Audit Committee reviews and monitors the external auditor's ("réviseur d'entreprises agréé") independence and objectivity including its involvement in rendering non-audit services and the effectiveness of the audit process, taking into account relevant professional and regulatory requirements. This includes reviewing and monitoring the external auditor's ("réviseur d'entreprises agréé") quality control procedures and steps taken by the external auditor ("réviseur d'entreprises agréé") to respond to changes in regulatory and other requirements.

The Audit Committee is informed by the external auditor ("réviseur d'entreprises agréé") on key provisions of the interim and year end audit plans, and receives summary of findings and significant matters related to the audit procedures. The Audit Committee is also informed on existing relationship between the external auditor ("réviseur d'entreprises agréé") and the Company and monitors compliance with the rules of the Eurofins Non-Audit Services Policy.

The Audit Committee shall be informed of the external auditor's ("réviseur d'entreprises agréé") work programme and shall receive a report from the latter describing all existing relationships between the external auditor ("réviseur d'entreprises agréé") on the one hand and Eurofins and its group on the other hand. It may submit recommendations regarding the external auditor's ("réviseur d'entreprises agréé") work programme.

b. Composition and Appointment
The Audit Committee is composed of at least three members who are appointed by the Board of Directors for a period of up to three years, and which may be extended for further periods of up to three years. All members of the Audit Committee shall be independent and non-executive Directors, at least one of the members of the Audit Committee shall have recent and relevant accounting experience, and at least one of the members of the Audit Committee shall have auditing experience. The Board of Directors shall appoint the Audit Committee's chairman.

35

c. Functioning
The Audit Committee shall meet at least three times a year at appropriate times in the reporting and audit cycle, and otherwise as required. The quorum necessary for the transaction of business shall be two. A duly convened meeting of the Audit Committee at which a quorum is present shall be competent to exercise any or all of the authorities, powers and discretions vested in or exercisable by the Audit Committee. The Head of the Internal Audit team or his or her representative shall act as the Secretary of the Audit Committee (the "Audit Committee's Secretary").
Meetings of the Audit Committee shall be called by the Audit Committee's Secretary at the request of any of its members or of the external auditor ("réviseur d'entreprises agréé"), or of the Chairman of the Board of the Directors if deemed necessary.
Only members of the Audit Committee have the right to attend Audit Committee meetings. However, the Audit Committee may invite any other person whose collaboration it considers to be beneficial to assist it in its work to attend its meetings. The external auditor ("réviseur d'entreprises agréé") may be invited to attend meetings of the Audit Committee on a regular basis. If deemed appropriate, it shall meet with the internal and external auditor ("réviseur d'entreprises agréé") at least once a year without the presence of any executives of the Company.
The Audit Committee's Secretary shall record the minutes of the proceedings and decisions of all meetings, including the names of those in attendance. The draft minutes of meetings shall be promptly circulated to all members of the Audit Committee, and circulated to all members of the Board of Directors once approved.
The Audit Committee shall make whatever recommendations to the Board of Directors it deems appropriate on any area within its remit where action or improvement is needed.
The Audit Committee shall assess the efficiency of its work on a regular basis, and shall make recommendations to the Board of Directors regarding the necessary adjustments in its internal regulations. Such efficiency assessment was performed in February 2018.
1.1.4 Corporate Governance Committee
In the meeting of the Board of Directors held on June 21, 2017, the Board of Directors decided to set up a Corporate Governance Committee
a. Role
The Corporate Governance Committee shall assist the Board of Directors in carrying out its responsibilities in relation to good corporate governance.
The Corporate Governance Committee shall assess and evaluate the implementation of key corporate governance principles and instruments set out in the Eurofins Corporate Governance Charter

(http://www.eurofins.com/media/12142716/corporat

e-governance-charter-of-eurofins-29072016-

final.pdf) on the one hand as well as Eurofins'

Mission,

Vision

and

Values

(https://www.eurofins.com/about-us/vision-mission-

and-values/) and Eurofins' Group Code of Ethics

(http://www.eurofins.com/media/12142715/code-of-

ethics-final-29072016.pdf).

It shall review and make recommendations to the Board of Directors on general corporate governance related matters, assess and evaluate policies, structures and processes implemented to safeguard compliance with laws and assess and approve any material transaction where a conflict of interest or a potential conflict of interest may arise between the Company's affiliated entities and their employees or Directors. As a general role, the Corporate Governance Committee shall prevent that conflicts of interest affect decisions taken by the Board of Directors or individual Board of Directors' members.

b. Composition and Appointment

The Corporate Governance Committee is composed of at least two members who are appointed by the Board of Directors for a period of up to three years, and which may be extended for further periods of up to three years. All members of the Corporate Governance Committee shall be independent and non-executive Directors. The Board of Directors shall appoint the Corporate Governance Committee's chairman.
c. Functioning
The Corporate Governance Committee shall meet at least once a quarter, and otherwise as required.
The quorum necessary for the transaction of business shall be two. A duly convened meeting of the Corporate Governance Committee at which a quorum is present shall be competent to exercise any or all of the authorities, powers and discretions vested in or exercisable by the Corporate Governance Committee.
The Company secretary or his or her representative shall act as the Secretary of the Corporate Governance Committee (the "Corporate Governance Committee's Secretary").
Meetings of the Corporate Governance Committee shall be called by the Committee' Chairperson or at the request of any of its members.
Only members of the Corporate Governance Committee have the right to attend Corporate Governance Committee meetings. However, the Corporate Governance Committee may invite any other person whose collaboration it considers to be beneficial to assist it in its work to attend its meetings.
The Corporate Governance Committee's Secretary shall record the minutes of the proceedings and decisions of all meetings, including the names of those in attendance. The draft minutes of meetings shall be promptly circulated to all members of the Corporate Governance Committee, and circulated to

36

all members of the Board of Directors once approved.
The Corporate Governance Committee shall make whatever recommendations to the Board of Directors it deems appropriate on any area within its remit where action or improvement is needed.
The Corporate Governance Committee shall assess the efficiency of its work on a regular basis, and shall make recommendations to the Board regarding the necessary adjustments to its internal regulations.
To date, no other committees than the Audit Committee and the Corporate Governance Committee, have been set up.
1.1.5 Internal Control and Internal Audit a. Role
Internal control in Eurofins balances the objectives of the Group, such as maximising shareholder returns through strong growth in revenues and profits, both organically and by acquisitions, building barriers to entry through investment in state-of-theart technology, all at the same time as managing the risks inherent in the business and the protection of shareholders' interests.
Internal control aims at achieving the following objectives:
- Reliability of the accounting and financial information;
- Realisation and optimisation of operational decisions;
- Compliance with rules and regulations; and
- Safeguarding the assets of the Group.
Eurofins is the holding company at the head of the Group and has an important role to manage its investments and the financing of the activities of its subsidiaries, to provide support, to facilitate communication and to develop resources that are available Group-wide.
The decentralised organisation of the Group in autonomous clusters and business units enables the subsidiaries to make decisions at the ground level and to maintain some independence. Strategic choices are determined and approved at a central level. The internal control process falls within this framework of a decentralised organisation in terms of roles and responsibilities, policies and procedures. This aims to assure that the Group takes the necessary measures to manage the existing and potential risks for the Group's financial position and objectives. At an operational level, the internal control procedures are disseminated by the local managers to their teams.
At a functional level, internal control aims at:
- Assuring reliable financial statements that provide a true and fair view of Eurofins' activities, liabilities and assets;

- Promoting better effectiveness by seeking and deploying best practices within the Group and by defining the directors' role and responsibilities as part of the control environment of the Group;
- Encouraging support for the managerial guidelines, the Group's procedures and any other compulsory or statutory obligation; and
- Assuring the protection of the Group's assets by spot checking the accuracy and the reliability of the accounting information during the internal audit reviews: the controls notably focus on the protection of the assets, the separation of the tasks, the respect of the internal procedures in terms of approval of investing and updating the property, plant and equipment database

b. Functioning
Compliance with the Group's internal policies and procedures is overseen by the internal audit team. Their role is to ensure that the operations are conducted according to high standards by providing an independent, objective assurance and by advising on best practices. The Group's internal control and financial procedures are reviewed and updated on a regular basis, and are readily accessible to the relevant employees via Eurofins' intranet. The internal audit function supports the Group in accomplishing its objectives by evaluating and improving the effectiveness of risk management, controls and governance process.
1.1.6 Financial Information

a.

Production of Financial Information

One of the main functions of internal control and the Audit Committee is to ensure that financial statements provide a true and fair view of Eurofins' activities. The financial reporting process is managed according to the Group's internal reporting systems using a dedicated software by the financial controlling team.
Regular reporting

Each subsidiary or business unit submits a proforma financial report on a monthly basis (income statement, balance sheet and cash flow), with additional key business metrics highlighted, such as comparable data (budget and prior periods), working capital ratios and free cash generation.
As well as being able to monitor each business units' performance, the controlling and internal control functions check the consistency and reliability of the results, along with the consistent application of the correct accounting principles applied by the different national finance directors in accordance with the Group's accounting policies.
Quarterly statutory consolidation

In addition to the monthly reporting, each subsidiary has to produce:

37

- a quarterly consolidation manual;
- a quarterly review of budgeted KPIs per business unit;
- a quarterly review of the overhead costs (management, sales and marketing, IT, etc) and of the capital expenditures; and
- from time to time (at least on an annual basis), a report - containing profit and loss, balance sheet, cashflow and change in equity statements - which has been subject to a limited review by the external auditors ("réviseur d'entreprises agréé").
The consolidation documents are approved by the finance directors of each country, having vouched for their accuracy and the reliability of the information contained therein. A dedicated software is used in the consolidation of this information and the production of the financial statements.

b.

Publication of Financial Information

Eurofins publishes its half-year and annual financial reports with a press release discussing the operating and financial developments in detail, with a full income statement, balance sheet and cash flow statement, as well as the relevant interim notes. In the interest of transparency and to provide sufficient visibility in terms of its progress, Eurofins also publishes revenue developments for the first and third quarter of the year, as well as some information on the trading patterns for the period.

c.

Annual Budget Process

Eurofins prepares a formal budget each year, which encourages financial discipline and helps management plan activities and allocate resources accordingly. Each business unit submits the following information, which has to be authorized by the Group Operating Council and the Board of Directors:
- an analysis of the competitive landscape and Key Success Factors.
- an estimated monthly and yearly income statement for the coming year containing:
- revenue and cost projections;
- a detailed plan to monitor the development of personnel costs;
- an itemised budget for capital expenditure;
- operational KPIs;
- a balance sheet and cash flow statement per legal entity with a strong focus on the Days of Sales Outstanding and Net Working Capital in % of Revenues
A mid-term plan with a three year horizon is drawn up at the same time with a simplified income statement and specific indicators for each business unit.

1.1.7 Compliance: the Group Code of Ethics
The Group's mission, vision, leadership charter, key policies and values and the "Group Code of Ethics" determine the behaviours and professional conduct expected from employees and leaders of the Group's companies. These documents represent key Eurofins' standards for all the Directors and employees of Eurofins companies and make compliance a core responsibility for everyone within the Eurofins Group.
1.1.7.1 Group's Mission, Vision, and Values
The Group's mission, vision, and values are made available to all Eurofins' employees through the Company's website and intranet.
Eurofins Mission To contribute to global health and safety by providing our customers with high quality laboratory and advisory services whilst creating opportunities for our employees and generating sustainable shareholder value.
Eurofins Values (what we stand for / what is important to us)
Customer Focus
- Delivering customer satisfaction by listening to and exceeding customer expectations
- Adding value for our customers through our services
- Seeking innovative solutions to help our customers achieve their goals
Quality
- Delivering quality in all our work; providing accurate results on time
- Using the best appropriate technology and methods
- Seeking to improve or change our processes for the better
Competence and Team Spirit
- Employing a team of talented and competent staff
- Investing in training and creating good career opportunities
- Recognising and encouraging outstanding performance
Integrity
- Behaving ethically in all our business and financial activities
- Demonstrating respect towards our customers and our staff
- Operating responsible environmental policies

38

1.1.7.2 Anti-Corruption and Integrity
Eurofins takes a clear stance against bribery and corruption in any form. In the Group Code of Ethics, the section dedicated to corruption and bribery is built on the following commitments:
"We are resolutely opposed to bribery and
corruption in whatever forms it may take. (...)
It is our policy that sales of the company's products or services, and purchases and services from suppliers, are made solely on the basis of price, quality, performance, value, and for the benefit of our company. Sales or purchases should never be made as the result of giving or receiving inducement in the form of gifts, money, or entertainment from third parties, or favours in any other form. (...)"
Therefore, Eurofins, its subsidiaries and affiliates shall comply with all applicable local, national and international laws and regulations on anti-corruption wherever it does business. The same will apply to every director, officer and employee in the Group, and any third party acting on behalf of Eurofins.
1.1.7.3 Whistleblowing Point of Contact
Eurofins also has a whistleblowing point of contact that is readily accessible for all employees via Eurofins' intranet and also on Eurofins corporate website. This point of contact is intended to encourage and enable employees and/or external parties to confidentially raise serious concerns so that Eurofins can address and correct inappropriate conduct and actions that are not in line with Eurofins values or the Group Code of Ethics. In order to safeguard confidentiality and to operate at the highest level of trust, external attorneys have been commissioned to serve as the initial point of contact for any whistleblowing.
1.1.8 Corporate Social Responsibility
Eurofins' understanding of compliance reaches farther than mere legal compliance, and is understood in a way also comprising social and environmental aspects, as set out in the Ten Principles of the United Nations Global Compact. Therefore, Eurofins is determined to further orient its compliance efforts towards the requirements defined in the Ten Principles of Corporate Governance of the Luxembourg Stock Exchange. In its 4th version newly issued in December 2017, its 9th Principle has been dedicated to Corporate Social Responsibility as follows:
The company shall define its corporate social responsibility with respect, including to it those responsibilities related to social and environmental aspects. It shall set out the measures taken for its implementation of that policy and shall provide for these to be adequately published.

1.1.9 Diversity
In line with the worldwide effort to increase gender diversity on the boards of directors of listed and unlisted companies, the Board of Directors increased the number of women on the Board of Directors to three during the financial year ending on 31 December 2017.
Currently, the Board of Directors is composed of three men and three women.
The Board of Directors diversity not only relates to gender, but also to the experience and nationality of its members.
For the Company and the Group, diversity means a workforce reflective of different genders, generations, cultures, professional experiences, nationalities, race, origins and all the other unique differences that make each of its employees' individuals.
To support this, Eurofins is committed to: - having the Board of Directors composed of both men and women;
- encouraging the leaders of all Group companies to create an understanding and supportive workplace environment in which all individuals feel heard and respected, and where they can realize their personal potential regardless of their sex, age, race, colour, religion, origin and disability.
1.1.10 External Control
As required, pursuant to Article 69 of the Luxembourg law of 19 of December 2002 on the register of commerce and companies and the accounting and the annual accounts of undertakings, as amended (the "Trade and Companies Register Law"), the general meeting of the shareholders of Eurofins shall appoint an external auditor ("réviseur d'entreprises agréé") for the statutory audit of the annual accounts of Eurofins.
1.2 Shareholders' Meetings
The general meeting of shareholders shall have the widest powers to adopt or ratify any action relating to Eurofins.
Ordinary and extraordinary Shareholders' Meetings deliberate in accordance with the conditions of quorum and majority set forth and the powers expressly granted by law and the Articles.
a. Ordinary Shareholders' Meetings
An ordinary meeting of shareholders (the "Annual General Meeting") shall be held annually at the date and time specified in the convening notice and shall approve the stand-alone and consolidated financial statements. It shall determine the allocation of profits and grant discharge to the Directors for the

39

performance of their duties for the previous financial year.
b. Extraordinary Shareholders' Meetings
Extraordinary general meetings of shareholders shall be called to deliberate on any decision having as a direct or indirect effect to amend the Articles of Eurofins.
c. Notices and Agenda
Shareholders' meetings are convened by the Board of Directors, or by any person empowered to do so as set forth by law.
The Shareholders' meetings are convened and held in accordance with the conditions set forth by law and the Articles. The meetings are convened at the registered office or in any other location indicated in the notice.
d. Access to meetings and voting rights
i. Access to meetings
All shareholders, regardless of the number of shares they own, may attend Shareholders' meetings and deliberations in person or via proxy, by providing proof of their identity. Vote by correspondence is also permitted under the terms and conditions provided for in the Articles. The rights of shareholders to participate and vote at Shareholders' meeting are determined in relation to the number of shares held on the date falling 14 days preceding the Shareholders' meeting at midnight (Luxembourg time) (the "Registration Date"). To be able to participate to the Shareholders' meeting each shareholder shall notify the Company of its intention to take part in the Shareholders' meeting and shall communicate by post or e-mail to the postal or electronic address indicated in the convening notice, not later than the date specified by the Board of Directors. In case the shares are held by the shareholder through a system of payment and delivery of financial instruments, or in case of the shares are held by a financial intermediary acting as a professional depositary, the shareholder who intends to participate to the Shareholders' meeting is required to request a certificate certifying the number of shares it/he/she holds at the Registration Date from its intermediary and the shareholder must present the certificate to Eurofins within the deadlines indicated in the convening notice.
The holder of shares may be represented at the general meeting by any intermediary subject to the appointment of the intermediary by written notification to Eurofins by electronic means or by post as specified in the notice convening the General Meeting.
The Shareholders' meetings can be held by way of video-conferencing or any other means of telecommunication, like the internet, that must enable the identification of shareholders under the terms and conditions set forth by law then currently in force.
Shareholders attending the meeting by videoconferencing or any other means of

telecommunication that enables them to be identified, under the terms and conditions set forth by law, are considered as present to determine the quorum and majority.
ii. Voting rights
Each share entitles its holder to one vote.
In addition to shares representing Eurofins' issued share capital, class A beneficiary units ("parts bénéficiaires de catégorie A") and class B beneficiary units ("parts bénéficiaires de catégorie B") conferring no right to dividends but a right to one vote will be allocated under certain conditions to holders of fully paid-up shares as provided for in the Company's Articles of Associationh (articles 12bis.2 and 12bis.3).
Article 12bis.2: One Class A beneficiary unit granting one voting right per share shall be allocated to holders of fully paid-up share that demonstrate that this share has been registered directly or indirectly (through a Depositary or sub-depositary) in a register made available by the Company for at least three years in the name of the same holder.
The consideration of the issuance of such Class A beneficiary unit shall be a contribution in kind evidenced by the registration in a registered account for three consecutive years preceding the issuance date.
Furthermore, the extraordinary General Meeting has amended on 20 April 2017 the conditions for granting one Class A beneficiary unit as from 1st July 2017 (included) as follows:
- the shareholder interested by the issuance of Class A beneficiary units up to the number of his/her/its shares held in a registered account shall apply in writing to the Board of Directors by evidencing such entry for three consecutive years in the name of the same holder. This request shall be made to the Board of Directors of the Company not later than on 30 June 2020; and
- the consideration of an issuance of Class A beneficiary unit shall be a contribution in cash of EUR 0.10 (zero euro and ten cents) per Class A beneficiary unit and a contribution in kind evidenced by the entry in a registered account of three consecutive years preceding the issuance date.
Furthermore, it shall be stated that shareholders who already own Class A beneficiary units on 30 June 2017 may decide to keep them under the same conditions or to apply the new conditions applicable as from 1st July 2017 as detailed above.
h Please note that any quotes from the Articles of Association in English language are non-binding convenience translations only. For legal purposes, only the French version of the Articles of Association shall be binding.

40

In any case, the voting right related to Class A beneficiary units shall cease automatically following the cancellation of the registration in a registered account by the shareholder concerned or the transfer of ownership (other than following succession, liquidation of community property between spouses or inter vivos gifts to a spouse or relative entitled to inherit or a merger or demerger of a shareholder company) of the share for which a beneficiary unit has been allocated. A beneficiary unit having lost its voting right is automatically cancelled.
Article 12bis.3: One Class B beneficiary unit may be granted to any holder of a fully paid-up share for which there is evidence of a direct or indirect entry (through a Depositary or sub-depositary) in a registered account notified to the Company for five consecutive years in the name of the same holder.

1.3 Remuneration
The rules and principles used to determine the remuneration, benefits-in-kind and bonuses of the Directors and the Chief Executive Officer are determined by the Board of Directors on an individual basis.
The evolution from year to year of the remuneration, benefits in kind and bonuses of the Chief Executive Officer and the other members of the Board of Directors are based on their functions, duties and responsibilities and on the results and performance of the Group, as well as on the individual achievement of annual objectives.
For competitive reasons, the Board of Directors has decided not to disclose publicly the criteria for remuneration or compensation (including in the event of redundancy) of members of the Board of Directors and of the Group Operating Council.

The shareholder interested by the issuance of Class B beneficiary units up to the number of his/her/its shares entered into a registered account shall apply in writing to the Board of Directors by evidencing such entry for five consecutive years on behalf of the same holder. This request shall be made to the Board of Directors of the Company not later than on 30 June 2021.
The consideration of this issuance shall be a contribution in cash of EUR 0.10 (zero euro and ten cents) per Class B beneficiary unit and a contribution in kind evidenced by the entry in a registered account for five consecutive years preceding the issuance date.
The extraordinary General Meeting of shareholders has delegated, with power of sub-delegation, to the Board of Directors all necessary power to verify the existence of the right to receive Class B beneficiary units, ascertain the full payment in cash and proceed with their issuance in accordance with the conditions laid down in the present articles of association.
The Class B beneficiary units shall have the same rights and obligations as the Class A beneficiary units and, in particular, shall carry one voting right per beneficiary unit without any financial entitlements. Subject to compliance with the respective conditions of issuance, the same shareholder can be granted both one Class A and one Class B beneficiary unit.
The voting right attached to the Class B beneficiary units shall expire automatically following the cancellation of the entry into the registered account by the relevant shareholder or the transfer of ownership (other than as a result of inheritance, liquidation of marital property between spouses or donation inter vivos in favour of a spouse or relative entitled to inherit or as a result of a merger or demerger of a shareholder company) of the share for which such beneficiary unit has been granted. A beneficiary unit which has lost its voting right shall be automatically cancelled.

1.4 Share Dealings
Eurofins has enacted a strict policy prohibiting insider dealing (the Eurofins Insider Dealing Policy) applicable to any employees, Directors and Officers, which aims at ensuring Eurofins' compliance with the applicable rules of the Market Abuse Regulation.
Under this policy, Directors, Officers and employees who are in possession of inside information must, for as long as this information has not been made public, refrain from directly or indirectly entering into (or recommending others to enter into) any transaction involving the financial instruments of Eurofins and from disclosing such information to third parties: In addition, Directors and permanent insiders may not trade Eurofins securities during the following black-out periods:
(i) the continual period starting 30 calendar days before the publication of the annual or half-yearly financial information and ending the day after the publication of the relevant information;
(ii) the continual period starting 15 calendar days before the publication of the quarterly financial information and ending the day after the publication of the relevant information;
(iii) the continual period starting on the date on which the relevant person becomes aware of inside information and ending the day after Eurofins publicly releases this information.
The policy defines Inside information as "any information of a precise nature that has not been made public, relating directly or indirectly to the Eurofins Group or one or more of its Companies, the Company, or one or more Company Securities, and which, if it were made public, would be likely to have a significant effect on the price of any of the Company Securities.".
Pursuant to Article 19 of the Market Abuse Regulation and the provisions of the Luxembourg law dated 23 December 2016 on market abuse, the

41

persons discharging managerial responsibilities (and persons closely associated with them) must declare within three working days to the CSSF and to Eurofins the existence of any and all transactions conducted on their account, such as the acquisition, transfer, subscription or trading, of Eurofins' financial instruments. Such obligation is also outlined in more detail in the Eurofins Insider Dealing Policy. The current version of the Corporate Governance Charter was approved by the Board of Directors meeting held on February 27, 2018.
42

2 Corporate

Governance

Statements for the Period Ended

on December 31st, 2017

2.1 Management

2.1.1 Board of Directors

a.

Composition

The Board of Directors is currently composed of six members, three of whom are Non-executive, Independent Directors. Each year, the Board of Directors reviews the suitability of each of its independent members according to the Ten Principles.

The members of the Board of Directors are:
- Dr. Gilles Martin: Chairman of the Board and Chief Executive Officer of the Eurofins Scientific Group, graduated from Ecole Centrale in Paris. He subsequently obtained a Master of Science from Syracuse University (New York) and a PhD in Statistics and Applied Mathematics. Founding the original Eurofins Scientific Nantes food authenticity laboratory in 1987, Dr. Martin has expanded this company into a global bioanalytical group of more than 400 laboratories employing over 35,000 people in 44 countries. He is a member of the Board of Directors of Bruker Corp. (NASDAQ: BRKR), serving as an independent director. Dr. Martin is also a past President of the French Association of private analytical laboratories APROLAB, and of the North American Technical Committee for Juice and Juice Products (TCJJP) and of public bodies supporting innovation and entrepreneurship.
- Yves-Loïc Martin: Executive Director, graduated from Ecole Polytechnique, in Paris, France, and holds a Master's Degree in Applied Mathematics from University Paris VI and a PhD in Chemometrics from Institut National Paris Grignon. Dr. Yves-Loic Martin joined Eurofins as Quality Assurance Manager in 1992, and assumed the role of Chief Technology Officer in 1998 until 2015, where he was instrumental in setting up the Group's IT infrastructure and solutions. Beyond his strategic role on Group innovation, he is now responsible for the documentation of some Eurofins important processes and policies, and continues to drive overall improvement of cooperation between IT and operational entities.
- Valérie Hanote: Executive Director, is responsible for the Group's internal Commercial Laboratory Information Management System (ComLIMS). Mrs Hanote graduated from the Paris Institute of technology for life, food and environmental sciences (AgroParisTech), and has been active for Eurofins since 1991.
- Stuart Anderson was appointed an Independent Non-Executive member of the Board of Directors of Eurofins in 2010. Mr. Anderson is a seasoned professional with many years experience in consumer goods, the food industry and private equity, having previously served as CEO at Wilkinson Sword, Del Monte Fresh Fruit, and at Geest Europe. He is currently a Partner at

Pemberton Capital LLP, as well as chairman of two of Pemberton's investments. Mr. Anderson obtained a degree in Law from the University of Cambridge in the UK, and originally qualified as a solicitor with Freshfields before following an international career in Europe, US and the Middle East.
- Fereshteh Pouchantchi. Ms. Pouchantchi was appointed as an Independent Non-Executive member of the Board of Directors at the Annual General Meeting held in April 2014. Ms. Pouchantchi is a finance professional with extensive experience in audit, finance processes and financial administration and compliance. She worked at the Société Européenne de Banque (Luxembourg) for more than 20 years, where she headed up various teams, including the bank's compliance department. She is currently a director in charge of client relations at Fiduconseil S.àr.l.. Mrs. Pouchantchi holds a doctorate degree in economics from the Université de Paris II and a master in European private Law.
- During the Annual General Meeting of shareholders held on 20 April 2017, Ms. Patrizia Luchetta was appointed as a new independent member of the Board of Directors. Patrizia Luchetta, Luxembourgish, has worked several years for the Luxembourg Ministry of Economy and Trade, as Head of the Life Sciences and Technologies Directorate. In this capacity, she has been instrumental in developing a national strategy in the field of biomedical sciences as well as in refining the country's strategic focus regarding environmental technologies. Her prior working experience includes positions in the food industry, environmental services, and financial services in Luxembourg, Germany and the US. She currently sits on the board of BioTechCube Luxembourg (BTC) S.A. and of the Luxembourg Institute for Health (LIH). Patrizia holds a Bsc(Hon) in Human Geography and an MA in Social Sciences from the Open University (UK), as well as a Master in Biotech Management from IE Business School (Madrid).
No legal or disciplinary actions against any of the Directors of the Board (or against companies that the person was a director of at the relevant time), and that would be relevant to the role that the Directors have undertaken for the Group, has been taken in the last five years. In the last five years, none of the Directors of the Board has been an officer of a company that entered into a form of external administration because of insolvency during their time as an officer in that company or within a 12-month period afterwards except for Mr. Stuart Anderson.

43

Board of Directors in 2017

Name
Gilles Martin
Yves-Loïc Martin Valérie Hanote Stuart Anderson

Mandate
Chairman of the Board and Chief Executive Officer Board Member Board Member Independent Non-Executive Board Member

Committee membership
N/A
Audit committee** N/A Audit committee and Corporate Governance committee (chair)

Appointment Renewal date 19/04/2016
19/04/2016 19/04/2016 19/04/2016

or expiry in year Y (*) 2020
2020 2020 2020

Fereshteh Pouchantchi
Patrizia Luchetta

Independent Non-Executive Board Member
Independent Non-Executive Board Member

Audit committee (chair) and Corporate Governance committee
Audit committee and Corporate Governance committee

24/04/2014 20/04/2017

2018 2018

* His/Her term of office will expire at the end of the Annual Shareholders' Meeting called in year Y (see date in the table) to approve the financial statements for fiscal year ending December 31, Y-1
** Mr Yves-Loïc Martin resigned from the Audit Committee on 21 June 2017

b. Board of Directors' Meetings for the Period Ended on 31 December 2017
The Board of Directors held 15 meetings in 2017 and the average attendance rate of the Directors at the Board of Directors' meetings was 80%.
In the course of the meetings held in 2017, discussions concerned among other topics the approval of the consolidated accounts and the parent company's financial statements, net profit allocation, dividends, capital increase in relation to stock option exercises, drafting the management report and resolutions to be submitted to the Annual General Meeting, convening of the Annual General Meeting, the grant of some corporate guarantees and the preparation of all relevant documents. The discussions also included the appointment and remuneration of the Directors and executives, as well as allocation of stock options, and Directors' fees.
During the year 2017, the Board of Directors held discussions on the corporate governance of the Group and the Group Operating Council. Following those discussions, it was decided to set up a new Corporate Governance committee whose role and internal rules are outlined in section 1.1.4 above.
During the year 2017, the Board of Directors also held discussions regarding its decision that a nomination committee and a remuneration committee are not needed at this stage in Eurofins, and that it is for the Board of Directors to perform the duties of such committees.
Additionally, the Board of Directors held discussions on a number of topics such as:
- In March 2017: amending the agenda of the AGM to be held on 20 April 2017 by adding the appointment of a new independent director;
- In April 2017: allocation of an employee stock option and free share plan;
- In May 2017: fixing of the dividend payment date; approval of various borrowings;
- In June 2017: amending the internal rules of the audit committee, approving changes in

the composition of the audit committee; setting up a new corporate governance committee and appointing members; authorisation for a reserved capital increase by way of a contribution in kind of some shares held by medical biologists in France Biologie Management as part of the buy-out of minority interest in Bio-Access Group;
- In July 2017: authorisation of a new Senior public Eurobond offering; in September 2017: authorisation of a new commercial paper programme; approval of various borrowings; approval of delegations in relation to existing and new banking facilities;
- In October 2017: authorisation for a capital increase by way of an accelerated offmarket offering of newly-issued shares subscribed by qualified institutional investors; authorisation for a potential new Hybrid bond issuance;
- In December 2017: acknowledging receipt of subscription price from Analytical Bioventures SCA for its existing class A beneficiary units; approval of various borrowings; allocation of an employee stock option and free share plan.
Most importantly, decisions and debates were held on the strategic direction of Eurofins. Following such discussions, the Group's mid-term objectives were reaffirmed.
All of these decisions were made unanimously by the members of the Board of Directors present or represented.
c. Remuneration
The remuneration of the Board of Directors is determined on a yearly basis by the annual general meeting of shareholders. The Board of Directors allocates this remuneration among its members at its own discretion.
As from 2017, the compensation of non-executive directors is based on an annual fixed fee (EUR 20k) and on an extra annual fee per committee

44

membership (EUR 10k as a member and EUR 15k as chairperson).
For the year 2017, the remuneration of the members of the Board of Directors is as follows. This remuneration has been paid by the Company and some of its direct and indirect subsidiaries:

Board of Directors' Remuneration for the year 2017

All amounts in

Fixed

Variable

EBUoRard of Directorcso'mRpeenmsautionneracotmiopennsation

Benefits in Supplemental kind pension plan

Gilles Martin

1 045 000

0

11 400

12 000

Yves-Loïc Martin

328 000

0

0

12 000

Valérie Hanote Stuart Anderson

235 000 0

0

10 692

22 000

0

0

0

Fereshteh Pouchantchi

0

0

0

0

Patrizia Luchetta

0

0

0

0

Attendance fees to non-
executive directors
0
0
0
37 000
51 750
23 956

Other
0

Total compensation
paid in 2017 (EUR)
1 068 400

0

340 000

0

267 692

0

37 000

0

51 750

0

23 956

NB: in addition to the gross remuneration and benefits granted to Dr. Gilles Martin by the Company and its direct and indirect subsidiaries as listed in the above table, it should be noted that other indirect costs and expenses were borne by one or more Eurofins affiliates as part of his duties as Chief Executive Officer of the Group and Chairman of the Board of Directors including but not limited to:

·

travel expenses reasonably incurred for his

business activities;

·

support from a pool of personal assistants

in charge of managing Dr. Martin's schedule,

appointments, conference calls, business trips

(flights, hotels, car rentals etc.), including from time

to time support on private matters and journeys,

commensurate with standard practice for CEOs of

other international companies of a similar size so as

to free up their time for company matters,

·

support for preparation of personal annual

tax returns.

2.1.2 Chief Executive Officer and Group Operating Council
During the Board of Directors' meeting held in April 2016, Mr. Gilles Martin was again appointed as Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of Eurofins Scientific SE until the Annual General Meeting of shareholders to be held in 2020 to approve the Company's financial statements of the fiscal year ending on 31/12/2019.
2.1.3 Audit Committee
a. Composition
The Audit Committee consists of the following members:
- Fereshteh Pouchantchi (Audit Committee Chair)
- Stuart Anderson - Patrizia Luchetta
b. Audit Committee's Meetings for the Period Eended on 31 December 2017
The Audit Committee held three meetings in 2017 and the attendance rate of the Directors at the Audit Committee's meeting was 89%.

During 2017, the Audit Committee reviewed the full year 2016 and half-year 2017 financial statements, and the implementation of new IFRS developments that could impact Eurofins' accounts, including application of IFRS15 Revenue from Contracts with Customers and IFRS16 Leases. It discussed the impact of the audit reform in Luxembourg on the role of the Audit Committee and its implications in terms of audit control and new requirements of public disclosure. It implemented the process for Non-Audit Services (NAS) monitoring and approval by the Audit Committee aimed at ensuring the independence of the Group auditor. The Audit Committee also reviewed the following as part of its
duties:

- update on the the Finance blue print

progress

(business

processes

documentation) and deployment of the

Microsoft Dynamics AX 2012 solution

- analysis of the risk management annual

survey results and its implications in terms

of control environment improvements and

minimum control requirements for most risk

sensitive areas

- information security policy improvements

related to communication in order to

prevent or minimize the risk of fraud and

strengthening of security resources and

business continuity plans

45

- update on recent internal audit missions carried out across the Group.
For more information on financial risk management, please refer to the notes to the 2017 consolidated financial statements (note 4.2).
2.1.4 Corporate Governance Committee a. Composition
The Corporate Governance Committee, which was set up during the meeting of the Board of Directors held on June 21, 2017, consists of the following members:
- Stuart Anderson (Corporate Governance Committee Chair)
- Fereshteh Pouchantchi - Patrizia Luchetta
b. Corporate Governance Committee's Meetings for the Period Ended on 31 December 2017
The Corporate Governance Committee held two meetings in 2017 and the attendance rate of the Directors at the Audit Committee's meetings was 100%.
During the meetings, the Corporate Governance Committee discussed corporate governance related topics relevant for the Eurofins Group. The Corporate Governance Committee particularly focussed on a number of real estate projects with affiliated companies.
2.1.5 External auditor
The Luxembourg société coopérative PricewaterhouseCoopers registered with the Luxembourg Trade and Companies Register under number B 65477 was appointed as external auditor of the Company for the statutory and consolidated financial statements audit of the annual accounts of Eurofins for the year ending as at 31st December 2017, drawn up in accordance with the Luxembourgish Generally Accepted Accounting Principles ("Luxembourg GAAP") and International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS) respectively.
2.2 Shares and shareholders
2.2.1 Share capital
As of 31 December 2016, the Company's restated share capital amounted to one million six hundred and ninety-two thousand six hundred and forteen Euros and ten cents (EUR 1,692,614.10) divided into sixteen million nine hundred and twenty-six thousand one hundred and forty-one (16,926,141) shares of ten cents (EUR 0.10) of nominal value each, all of the same category.
As of 31 December 2017, the Company's share capital amounts to one million seven hundred and sixty-four thousand three hundred and ninety-one Euros and fourty cents (EUR 1,764,391.40) divided into seventeen million six hundred and fourty-three

thousand nine hundred and fourteen (17,643,914) shares of ten cents (EUR 0.10) of nominal value each, all of the same category.
There are no charges attached to shares neither minimal shareholding requirements for Directors of the Company.
The main changes in the number of shares issued that occurred in the course of 2017 include:
 On 1st August 2017, the issued share capital was increased by EUR 2,327.70 by the creation of 23,277 new shares issued as a result of a reserved capital increase by way of a contribution in kind of some shares held by biologists in France Biologie Management as part of the buy-out of minority interest in Bio-Access Group.
The Board of Directors held on 21 June 2017 approved the increase in share capital and the Deputy Managing Director decided on 1st August 2017 to update Article 7 of Eurofins' Articles as follows:
Article 7 ­ Share Capital
The share capital amounts to one million, seven hundred and two thousand, eight hundred and fifty-four Euros and seventy cents (EUR 1,702,854.70), divided into seventeen million, twenty-eight thousand, five hundred and forty-seven (17,028,547) shares of ten cents (EUR 0.10) of nominal value each, all of the same category.
 On 2nd November 2017, the issued share capital was increased by EUR 55,000.00 by the creation of 550,000 new shares issued as a result of an off-market offering subscribed by qualified institutional investors.
The Board of Directors held on 27 October 2017 approved the increase in share capital and the Chairman decided on 31st October 2017 to update Article 7 of Eurofins' Articles as follows:
Article 7 ­ Share Capital
The share capital amounts to one million, seven hundred and sixty thousand, seventy-one Euros and sixty cents (EUR 1,760,071.60), divided into seventeen million, six hundred thousand, seven hundred and sixteen (17,600,716) shares of ten cents (EUR 0.10) of nominal value each, all of the same category.

a. Potential Increases in Share Capital

(i)

Stock Options

As part of the stock option plans in 2017, 211,085 options were granted by the Board of Directors. Not all of these options granted in 2017 were new options but some were options previously granted to beneficiaries who had lost their right to exercise them and were granted to new beneficiaries under new conditions.

46

In 2017, 137,002 options were exercised during the year. Two new stock option plans were decided by the Board of Directors on 4 April 2017 and on 13 December 2017. The details of the current stock option plans are as follows:
47

Stock option plans

24th

26th

27th

28th

29th

30th

31st

32nd

instalment instalment instalment instalment instalment instalment instalment instalment

Date of Board of Directors' 20/07/2007 17/07/2008 18/12/2008 05/01/2009 10/11/2009 31/08/2010 05/10/2010 23/02/2011 meeting

Number of options initially 150,330 168,950 34,010 awarded

116,700 153,400 164,400 12,450

89,750

incl. options granted to 0

0

0

0

0

0

500

0

current members of the

Board of Directors

First stock option exercise 20/07/2011 17/07/2012 18/12/2012 05/01/2013 10/11/2013 31/08/2014 05/10/2014 23/02/2015 date

Final stock option exercise 19/07/2017 16/07/2018 17/12/2018 04/01/2019 09/11/2019 30/08/2020 04/10/2020 22/02/2021 date

Subscription price in EUR 66.00

51.87

31.62

32.60

31.88

36.62

37.06

50.13

Number of options 73,200 exercised as of 31/12/2017

91,314

9,520

72,700 89,041 96,216 8,200

61,760

Number of options lost 77,130 and/or reawarded under new conditions
Number of valid options * 0

65,430 12,206

22,840 1,650

34,700 9,300

45,300 19,059

40,805 27,379

2,500 1,750

9,200 18,790

Stock option plans

33rd

34th

35th

36th

37th

38th

39th

40th

instalment instalment instalment instalment instalment instalment instalment instalment

Date of Board of Directors' 10/10/2011 02/03/2012 19/12/2012 01/10/2013 23/10/2014 07/04/2015 22/10/2015 21/01/2016 meeting

Number of options initially 158,350 46,250 awarded

191,475 139,065 120,950 60,000

35,250

93,920

incl. options granted to 500

0

300

200

400

0

0

360

current members of the

Board of Directors

First stock option exercise 10/10/2015 02/03/2016 19/12/2016 01/10/2017 23/10/2018 07/04/2019 22/10/2019 21/01/2020 date

Final stock option exercise 09/10/2021 01/03/2022 18/12/2022 30/09/2023 22/10/2024 06/04/2025 21/10/2025 20/01/2026 date

Subscription price in EUR 57.83

65.60

120.10

182.29

188.28

251.88

282.76

286.30

Number of options 75,240

24,300

51,468

19,352

2,000

0

0

0

exercised as of 31/12/2017

Number of options lost 39,565 and/or reawarded under new conditions
Number of valid options * 43,545

18,550 3,400

45,650 94,357

41,765 77,948

22,070 96,880

46,450 13,550

17,650 17,600

16,510 77,410

Stock option plans

41th instalment 42nd instalment

43rd instalment

Date of Board of Directors' meeting 01/08/2016
Number of options initially awarded 122,740
incl. options granted to current 300 members of the Board of Directors

04/04/2017 41,390 0

13/12/2017 169,695 300

First stock option exercise date

01/08/2020

Final stock option exercise date

31/07/2026

Subscription price in EUR

336.90

Number of options exercised as of 0 31/12/2017

04/04/2021 03/04/2027 404.93 0

13/12/2021 12/12/2027 508.71 0

Number of options lost and/or 16,295 reawarded under new conditions

2150

1,400

Number of valid options *

106,445

39,240

168,295

*considers only valid and exerciseable options, but not options initially awarded or already exercised.

48

(ii)

BSA and BSAAR Warrants

In June 2010, Eurofins issued OBSAAR bonds (French acronym for "Obligations à bons de souscription et/ou d'acquisition d'actions remboursables") for a nominal amount of EUR 175,995,654. The associated 295,990 BSAAR warrants were admitted to trading on Euronext Paris on 30 June 2012 under the ISIN code FR0010891796 and may be exercised to obtain 1 share of Eurofins Scientific SE for 2 BSAAR warrants up to 29/06/2017 for a subscription price of EUR 40 per share.
During the year 2016, a restated number of 1,040 of these FR0010891796 BSAAR warrants were converted into 520 new shares (restated) and 15,544 BSAAR warrants were still outstanding as of 31/12/2016 (restated).
During the year 2017, 14,988 of these FR0010891796 BSAAR warrants were converted into 7,494 new shares. Following their expiry date on 29 June 2017, no BSAAR warrants issued in June 2010 were outstanding as of 31/12/2017.
The Chief Executive Officer acting in the name and on behalf of the Board of Directors in compliance with article 8Bis of Eurofins' Articles (see 3 below), decided on 1st July 2014, to issue 117,820 non listed BSA (French acronym for "Bons de souscription d'actions") called "2014 BSA Leaders Warrants" with preferential subscription rights reserved to a certain number of executive leaders of the Eurofins group selected by Eurofins in consideration of their key management duties and responsibilities and the contribution they may bring to the enhancement of the value of the shares of Eurofins and who may wish to invest in a long-term equity-linked instrument. Each 2014 BSA Leaders Warrant gives the holder the right to subscribe to one (1) new share of Eurofins at a price of EUR 281.58 per share representing the issuance of up to 117,820 new shares of Eurofins. The exercise period is from 1st July 2018 to 30 June 2022.
Further details on these warrants can be found in note 4.7 to the consolidated financial statements.

In total 14,340 free shares have been awarded during the year 2017. The details of the current free shares plans are as follows:

(iii) Free Shares

As part of the Company's long-term incentive programme for the Group key personnel and management, and in addition to stock option plans, BSA and BSAAR warrants as described under (i) and (ii) above, the Company's Board of Directors has decided on 29th July 2016 to use the possibility to grant free shares to some employees and directors of Group affiliates and has set a general framework and defined general "Free Share Plan rules" to that effect.

In this context, in 2016, the Company's Board of Directors has granted a first two plans of free shares awarded to some Group employees and directors.

In 2017 two further free share plans were awarded by the Company's Board of Directors, under the same principle rules ­ a vesting period of 4 years for the first half of free shares awarded to each beneficiary and 5 years for the second half.

49

Free share plans

1st instalment 2nd instalment 3rd instalment 4th instalment

Date of Board of Directors' meeting 29/07/2016
Number of free shares initially awarded 5,985
incl. free shares granted to current 0 members of the Board of Directors
Date of delivery of first tranche of free 29/07/2020 shares
Date of delivery of second tranche of 29/07/2021 free shares
Number of free shares lost and/or 475 reawarded under new conditions

Number of valid free shares

5,510

01/08/2016 4,496 0 01/08/2020 01/08/2021 68
4,428

04/04/2017 940 0 04/04/2021 04/04/2022 0
940

13/12/2017 13,400 0 13/12/2021 13/12/2022 0
13,400

50

(iv) Private Placement
On 31st October 2017, Eurofins announced the successful placement of 550,000 new shares subscribed by qualified institutional investors at a subscription price of EUR 543 per share. This transaction further strenghtened the Company's capital structure and liquidity position.
b. Authorized and Non-Issued Capital
In connection with the transfer of Eurofins' registered office to Luxembourg, the annual general meeting of 11 January 2012 has approved a new article 8Bis of the Eurofins' Articles of Association to set an authorized share capital ("capital autorisé") for a maximum nominal value of EUR 2,500,000 represented by 25,000,000 shares having a nominal value of EUR 0.10 per share. On 19 April 2016, the shareholders approved the renewal for five additional years (from 29th June 2016, date of publication of the notarial deed recording the extraordinary general meeting in the then existing Mémorial C. Recueil des Sociétés et Associations, until 29th June 2021) of the authorization granted to the Board to increase the Company's share capital to a maximum nominal value of EUR 2,500,000 (represented by 25,000,000 shares having a nominal value of EUR 0.10 per share) under the terms and conditions that the Board of Directors may determine. The Board of Directors may in particular limit or waive the preferential subscription rights reserved to existing shareholders.
Moreover, Eurofins has issued:
 BSA and BSAAR warrants (see par. 2.2.1 (a) (ii) above);
 Stock option plans (see par. 2.2.1 (a) (i) above)

 Free share plans (see par. 2.2.1 (a) (iii) above)
giving access to existing and/or new shares of Eurofins.
As of 31 December 2016, the restated maximum number of new shares that may be issued resulting from the exercise of BSA, BSAAR warrants, free shares and stock options was 971,949, resulting in a potential fully diluted number of shares of 17,898,090 (unchanged).
Consequently, the additional maximum number of new shares that could be issued by Eurofins as of 31 December 2016 within the limit of the authorized share capital was 7,101,910 (unchanged).
As of 31 December 2017, the maximum number of new shares that may be issued resulting from the exercise of BSA, BSAAR warrants, free shares and stock options is 970,902, resulting in a potential fully diluted number of shares of 18,614,816.
Consequently, the additional maximum number of new shares that could be issued by Eurofins within the limit of the authorized share capital is 6,385,184.
Besides, new shares issued as well as Eurofins' existing shares could be listed, in addition to the Paris Stock Exchange, on any other Luxembourg or foreign Stock Exchange to be determined by the Chairman of the Board on the basis of a mandate given by the Board of Directors.
2.2.2 Shareholding Disclosure
The Martin family holds 36.4% of the shares and controls 56.6% of the voting rights in Eurofins as of 31 December 2017.
The free float represents 63.6% of the shares and 43.4% of the voting rights of Eurofins.
The detail of the different shares and voting rights held by the shareholders of Eurofins is as follows:

Shareholders and voting rights as of 31 December 2017

SHAREHOLDERS

SHARES

SHARES %

VOTING RIGHTS (attached to shares)

VOTING

VOTING

RIGHTS

RIGHTS

(attached to (attached to

Beneficiary Beneficiary

Units Class A) Units Class B)

Dr. Gilles G. MARTIN and his family

2

0,0%

2

2

0

Dr. Yves-Loïc MARTIN

14.546

0,1%

14.546

14.546

0

Analytical Bioventures SCA (1)

6.400.000

36,3% 6.400.000 6.400.000 2.000.000

Martin Family (subtotal)

6.414.548

36,4% 6.414.548 6.414.548 2.000.000

Treasury shares

0

0,0%

0

0

0

Free Float

11.229.366

63,6% 11.229.366

120.699

0

TOTAL

17.643.914

100,0% 17.643.914 6.535.247 2.000.000

((11)) PPrriivvaattee ccoommppaannyy iinnccoorrppoorraatteedd iunnLduexreLmuxbeomubrgouarngdlacwonctoronltlerodllbeydGbyillethseMMaartritni,nYfavmesi-lyLoïc Martin and their family

TOTAL VOTING RIGHTS

% TOTAL VOTING RIGHTS

4 29.092 14.800.000 14.829.096
0 11.350.065 26.179.161

0,0% 0,1% 56,5% 56,6% 0,0% 43,4% 100,0%

The Company's shareholder Analytical Bioventures SCA exercised its right for 1,000,000 of the 6,400,000 shares it owns pursuant to the terms of the new article 12 Ter of the Company's articles of association as adopted by the AGM of shareholders held on 19 April 2016 to receive 1,000,000 class B beneficiary units ("parts bénéficiaires de catégorie

B") carrying one extra voting right per share, in addition to existing class A beneficiary units carrying one voting right per share.
In March 2017, Analytical Bioventures SCA subscribed to an additional 1,000,000 new Class B beneficiary units and is now holding a total of 6,400,000 Class A and 2,000,000 Class B

51

beneficiary units. For its existing 6,400,000 Class A beneficiary units, Analytical Bioventures SCA paid the contribution in cash in July 2017.

2.2.3 General Meetings of Shareholders Held in 2017

The Annual General Meeting of shareholders held on 20 April 2017 adopted inter alia the following resolutions:

(i) Approval of the annual statutory accounts for the financial year ended on 31 December 2016,

(ii) Allocation of results for the financial year ended on 31 December 2016 and approval of a dividend payment of EUR 2.00 per share,

(iii) Discharge granted to the members of the Board of Directors for the performance of their duties as at 31 December 2016,

(iv) Discharge

granted

to

PricewaterhouseCoopers, external

auditor, for the execution of his

assignment for the financial year

ended 31 December 2016 and

renewal of its mandate,

(v) Appointing Mrs Patrizia Luchetta as a new independent director,

(vi) Approval of attendance fees for Board members up to 200,000 euros for the fiscal year 2017,

(vii) Approval of the new conditions of a share buy-back programme;

(viii) Modification of article 10 of the Company's Articles of Association clarifying the form of shares under Luxembourg law,

(ix) Modification of article 20 of the Company's Articles of Association clarifying the conditions for shareholders to attend the annual general meeting of shareholders,Merger of former articles 12bis and 12ter of the Company's Articles of Association into a new article 12bis about beneficiary units and adjustment of conditions to be fulfilled for new class A beneficiary units to be issued from 1st July 2017 onwards,

(x) Modification of articles 1, 4, 8bis, 9, 11, 13, 14, 15, 16, 17, 18, 21, 24 and 25 of the Company's Articles of Association in order to reflect changes under Luxembourg corporate law as amended on 10 August 2016.

2.3 Annual Statements in Relation to the Takeover Law
2.3.1 Share Capital Structure
Please see above point 2.2.1 ­ Share capital

2.3.2 Shareholder Purchase/Sale Agreement
With regard to article 11(1)(b) of the Takeover Law, the shares issued by Eurofins are listed on Euronext Paris and are freely transferable.
A shareholders' agreement regarding the Martin Family`s shareholding in Analytical Bioventures SCA was concluded on 20th April 2017, which cancels and replaces the preceding one and aims in principal to renew the commitment towards the present management of Eurofins going forward and promote co-operation on a course of action in the event of a take-over bid. This agreement was concluded for a period of eight years, tacitly renewed each year.

2.3.3 Significant Shareholdings
With regard to article 11 (1)(c) of the Takeover Law, Eurofins' shareholding structure showing each shareholder owning 2.5% or more of Eurofins' share capital as far as they formally disclosed this to the Company is as follows:

Significant Shareholding as of 31 December 2017

No. of No. of Stock

Shares

Options

outstanding

Gilles G. Martin

1

0

Yves-Loïc Martin 14,546

0

Valérie Hanote

1

0

Stuart Anderson 55

830

Fereshteh

0

630

Pouchantchi

Patrizia Luchetta 0

100

Analytical Bioventures SCA, which is controlled by Gilles Martin and Yves-Loïc Martin, holds 6,400,000 shares.
Fidelity Management & Research (FMR) crossed down the 5% voting rights threshold as of December 2017, as notified to Eurofins and the CSSF. No other notification has been received from FMR since then.
Eurofins has not been formally notified of any shareholder other than those stated above with an interest in excess of 5% of the voting rights as at 31 December 2017.
2.3.4 Holders of Any Securities with Special Control Rights
With regard to article 11 (1)(d) of the Takeover Law, in addition to shares representing Eurofins' issued share capital, a class A beneficiary unit, une « part bénéficiaire de catégorie A» which confers no right to dividends but a right to one vote, is allocated to holders of fully paid-up shares for which proof is provided of registration in the name of the same shareholder for at least three consecutive years as provided for in the Company's Articles of Association.

52

In case of a capital increase by incorporation of reserves, profits or share premium, the existing holders of beneficiary units will be entitled to additional class A beneficiary units following the issuance of new shares.
The Annual General Meeting of Shareholders held on April 20, 2017 adopted changes to article 12bis of the Company's Articles of Association, in particular relating to Class A beneficiary units. As from July 1, 2017, Class A beneficiary units, which confer no right to dividends but a right to one vote, can be allocated to holders of fully paid-up shares for which (i) proof is provided of registration in the name of the same shareholder for at least three consecutive years as provided for in article 12bis.2 of the Company's Articles of Association (ii) request to subscribe class A beneficiary units is sent in writing by the relevant shareholder to the Company at the latest by June 30, 2020 and (iii) subject to the Company receiving payment of a subscription price of EUR 0.10 per class A beneficiary unit.
The Shareholders' extraordinary meeting held on 19 April 2016 also authorised the issuance until 30 June 2021 of a new class B of beneficiary units ("parts bénéficiaires de catégorie B") which confers no right to dividends but a right to one extra vote for each share of the Company held by holders of fully paid-up shares continuously held under registered form evidencing a holding for at least five (5) years as provided for in the Company's Articles of Association.
In case of a capital increase by incorporation of reserves, profits or share premium, the existing holders of class B beneficiary units will be entitled to additional class B beneficiary units following the issuance of new shares.
2.3.5 System of Control of Any Employee Share Scheme
With regard to article 11 (1)(e) of the Takeover Law, information on stock-options and BSAAR warrants is available in section 2.2.1 Share capital and notes 2.4, 4.7 and 1.18 to the audited consolidated financial statements.
2.3.6 Restrictions on Voting Rights
A sanction of suspension of voting rights can be applied to any shareholder (or group of shareholders acting jointly) who has (or have) crossed the thresholds set out (i) in article 10.3 of the Articles (2.5% or any multiple of 2.5% of the Company's share capital, voting rights or securities giving access to the share capital of the Company) (ii) and in article 8 (1) of the Transparency Law dated January 11, 2008 (i.e. 5%; 10%; 15%; 20%; 25%; 33 1/3%; 50% and 66 2/3%) without having notified Eurofins accordingly and subject to limited exceptions set out in article 8 of Transparency Law.
Such suspension can be requested by any shareholder holding at least 2.5% of the Company's share capital, and shall be applicable to voting rights above the thresholds indicated in the Transparency Law and the Articles and for a period of two years, as set out in article 10.3 of the Articles.

2.3.7 Agreements Between Shareholders
With regard to article 11 (1)(g) of the Takeover Law, there are agreements between shareholders in place as detailed in paragraph 2.3.2 above.
2.3.8 Appointment and Replacement of Board Members ­ Amendment of the Articles
With regard to article 11 (1)(h) of the Takeover Law, the Directors are elected by the general meeting of shareholders for four-year terms and may be reelected or removed.
The rules governing amendments to Eurofins' Articles are set out in article 20 of Eurofins' Articles. An extraordinary general meeting, resolving as hereinafter provided, may amend any provisions of Eurofins' Articles.
Such an extraordinary general meeting shall not validly deliberate unless at least one half of the share capital is present or represented. If this condition is not satisfied, a second meeting may be convened and shall validly deliberate regardless of the proportion of the capital present or represented. At any extraordinary general meeting, resolutions, in order to be adopted, must be carried by at least twothirds of the votes cast. Votes cast shall not include votes attaching to shares in respect of which the shareholder has not taken part in the vote or has abstained or has returned a blank or invalid vote.
2.3.9 Shares Buy-Back Programme
With regard notably to article 11 (1)(i) of the Takeover Law, the extraordinary general meeting of shareholders held on 20 April 2017 granted the Board of Directors a new share buy-back authorisation whereby the Board of Directors is authorized to purchase Eurofins' shares on the stock exchange within a period of five (5) years from the date of the publication of the minutes of the extraordinary general meeting of shareholders held on 20 April 2017. The maximum number of shares that may be purchased and/or cancelled is limited to 10% of the total number of shares issued at this date and a maximum buying price of EUR 900.00 per share.
As at 31 December 2017, Eurofins held no shares under this programme.
2.3.10 Any Significant Agreement to Which Eurofins is a Party and Which Takes Effect, is Altered or Terminates upon a Change of Control
With regard to article 11 (1)(j) of the Takeover Law, such significant agreements to which Eurofins is a party are not disclosed for confidentiality reasons.
Confidential agreements relate to commercial and strategic aspects of the Group to the knowledge of the Board of Directors. Exceptionally, some agreements provide for early repayment in the event of change of control and / or departure of key leaders of the Group at the request of certain credit institutions.
The terms and conditions of Eurofins Deeply subordinated bonds (Deeply Subordinated Fixed to Floating Rate Bonds ISIN XS0881803646) issued in

53

January 2013 (and extended in July 2014) provide for the application of an additional interest rate and an additional margin of 5% each per annum if a change of control event occurs up to 30 January 2020 (the "first call date") and for an additional margin of 5% per annum if a change of control event occurs as from 31 January 2020. If such a change of control occurs prior to the first call date, Eurofins has also the option to redeem all (but not part) of outstanding bonds.
The conditions of the bonds issued in November 2013 (Senior unsecured Euro bond ISIN XS0996772876) provide that if a change of control event occurs, bondholders have the option to require Eurofins to redeem all or part of their bonds on a date falling seven days after a 45-day period from the delivery of a change of control notice given by Eurofins to the bondholders. In such case, bonds are redeemed at their principal amount together with all interest accrued until (but excluding) such date.
The conditions of the bonds issued in January 2015 (Senior unsecured Euro bond ISIN XS1174211471) provide that if a change of control event occurs, bondholders have the option to require Eurofins to redeem all or part of their bonds on a date falling seven days after a 45-day period from the delivery of a change of control notice given by Eurofins to the bondholders. In such case, bonds are redeemed at their principal amount together with all interest accrued until (but excluding) such date.
The terms and conditions of Eurofins Deeply subordinated bonds (Deeply Subordinated Fixed to Floating Rate Bonds ISIN XS1224953882) issued in April 2015 provide for the application of an additional interest rate and an additional margin of 2.5% each per annum, if a change of control event occurs up to 28 April 2023, as from and including the 60th calendar day following the change of control event date and until the redemption of the bonds ; if a change of control event occurs as from 29 April 2023, the margin will be increased by 2.5% per annum as from and including the floating rate interest payment date immediately following the 60th calendar day following the change of control event date and until the redemption of the bonds. If such a change of control occurs prior to the first call date, Eurofins has also the option to redeem all (but not some only) outstanding bonds.
The conditions of the bonds issued in July 2015 (Senior unsecured Euro bond ISIN XS1268496640) provide that if a change of control event occurs, bondholders have the option to require Eurofins to redeem all or part of their bonds on a date falling seven days after a 45-day period from the delivery of a change of control notice given by Eurofins to the bondholders. In such case, bonds are redeemed at their principal amount together with all interest accrued until (but excluding) such date.
The conditions of the bonds issued in July 2017 (Senior unsecured Euro bond ISIN XS1651444140) provide that if a change of control event as defined in the bond documentation occurs, bondholders have the option to require Eurofins to redeem all or part of their bonds on a date falling seven days after a 45-day period from the delivery of a change of control notice given by Eurofins to the bondholders. In such case, bonds are redeemed at their principal amount together with all interest accrued until (but excluding) such date.

The terms and conditions of Eurofins Deeply subordinated bonds (Deeply Subordinated Fixed to Floating Rate Bonds ISIN XS1716945586) issued in November 2017 provide for the application of an additional interest rate and an additional margin of 2.5% each per annum, if a change of control event as defined in the bond documentation occurs up to 12 November 2025, as from and including the 60th calendar day following the change of control event date and until the redemption of the bonds ; if a change of control event occurs during a floating rate interest period the margin will be increased by 2.5% per annum as from and including the floating rate interest payment date immediately following the 60th calendar day following the change of control event date and until the redemption of the bonds. If such a change of control occurs as from 13 November 2025, Eurofins has also the option to redeem all (but not some only) outstanding bonds.
2.3.11 Any Agreement between Eurofins and its Board Members or Employees Providing for Compensation if they Resign or are Made Redundant without Valid Reason or if Their Employment Ceases Because of a Takeover Bid
With regard to article 11 (1)(k) of the Takeover Law, there is a table of remuneration of members of the Board of Directors as detailed in section II.2.
Related party transactions
Eurofins management believes that there is no conflict of interest between the duties of Eurofins, any of the members of the Company's Board of directors and management, and their private interests and / or other duties. Some buildings are rented by Eurofins from property companies indirectly controlled by Analytical Bioventures SCA. Corresponding rents reflect normal market conditions. For more information on related party transactions, please see note 4.10 to the audited consolidated financial statements.
There is no arrangement or understanding with major shareholders, customers, suppliers or others pursuant to which the aforementioned persons have been selected as a member of the Board of Directors or senior management.
Share market

Euronext, Paris

Month 2016 July
Augus t Septem ber Octobe r Novem ber Decem ber 2017 January Fe br uar y M ar ch April M ay June July Augus t Septem ber Octobe r Novem ber Decem ber

Ave r age closing price
() 336,94 372,40 387,55 414,84 412,91 403,45 414,11 414,70 405,40 424,00 462,92 494,18 493,71 474,23 511,15 541,66 517,62 506,80

High () 347,75 390,00 414,90 431,75 437,00 413,00 428,95 421,45 411,85 456,00 474,00 513,00 516,00 489,35 545,00 559,85 540,65 518,20

Low () 323,50 333,60 359,85 403,70 383,35 389,60 404,40 383,75 395,00 406,55 452,45 473,05 468,35 452,00 477,25 522,00 505,75 495,55

Ave r age daily
volum e ('000) 11,6 14,7 22,8 20,9 54,0 26,2 17,9 20,6 20,8 18,1 15,5 17,5 15,6 14,6 21,4 18,2 18,9 18,4

Market cap (m ) 5.408 5.981 6.538 7.009 6.981 6.829 7.015 7.026 6.872 7.194 7.868 8.404 8.402 8.082 8.715 9.247 9.124 8.942

54

3 Statement of Persons Responsible for the Annual Report
The Board of Directors confirms that, to the best of its knowledge, the annual statutory accounts, prepared in accordance with Luxembourg legal and regulatory requirements, and the consolidated financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2017, prepared in accordance with the International Financial Reporting Standards as adopted by the European Union, give a true and fair view of the assets, liabilities, financial position and profit or loss of Eurofins Scientific SE and its consolidated subsidiaries taken as a whole. In addition, the management report includes a fair review of the development and performance of the business and the position of Eurofins Scientific SE and its consolidated subsidiaries taken as a whole, together with a description of the principal risks and uncertainties that they face. On behalf of the Board of Directors
Gilles MARTIN Chairman of the Board of Directors and CEO Dated: February 27, 2018
55

III. ANNUAL FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

1 Consolidated Financial Statements

Consolidated Income Statement
January 1, 2017 to December 31, 2017

EUR Thousands

Note

Revenues 3

4.1

Operating costs, net

2.1

EBITDA 4

Depreciation and amortisation

3.1, 3.2

EBITAS 5

Share-based payment charge and acquisition-related expenses, net6 2.4

EBIT

Finance income

2.5

Finance costs

2.5

Share of (loss)/ profit of associates 3.4

Profit before income taxes

Income tax expense

2.6

Net profit for the period

Adjusted results 1
2,971,417 -2,414,694
556,723 -157,161
399,562
-
399,562 897
-44,040 403
356,823 -54,482 302,341

2017 Separately disclosed
items 2 -
-43,481 -43,481
-18,557
-62,038
-40,718
-102,756 7,457
-11,419 -
-106,718 23,222 -83,496

Attributable to: Equity holders of the Company Non-controlling interests

299,135 3,206

-82,364 -1,132

Earnings per share (basic) in EUR

- Total

4.8

- Attributable to hybrid capital

investors

- Attributable to equity holders of

the Company

17.49 1.64
15.86

-4.82 0.55 -5.36

Reported Results
2,971,417 -2,458,174
513,243 -175,718
337,525

Adjusted results 1
2,536,608 -2,056,984
479,623 -122,008
357,615

2016 Separately disclosed
items 2 -
-18,547 -18,547
-19,688
-38,235

-40,718
296,807 8,354
-55,459 403
250,105 -31,260 218,845

-
357,615 1,594
-50,891 509
308,827 -81,362 227,465

-37,433
-75,668 29,358 -19,910
-66,220 16,261 -49,959

216,771 2,074

221,643 5,822

-47,646 -2,313

12.68 2.18
10.49

13.86 1.71
12.15

-2.98 0.52 -3.50

Reported Results
2,536,608 -2,075,532
461,076 -141,696 319,380
-37,433 281,947
30,952 -70,801
509 242,607 -65,101 177,506
173,997 3,509
10.88 2.23
8.65

Earnings per share (diluted) in

EUR

- Total

4.8

- Attributable to hybrid capital

investors

- Attributable to equity holders of

the Company

16.62 1.55
15.07

-4.58 0.52 -5.10

12.04 2.07 9.97

13.07 1.61
11.46

-2.81 0.49 -3.30

10.26 2.10 8.16

Weighted average shares outstanding (basic) - in thousands Weighted average shares outstanding (diluted) - in thousands

4.7,4.8 4.7,4.8

17,099 17,998

-

17,099

15,990

-

17,998

16,957

-

15,990

-

16,957

1 Adjusted results ­ reflect the ongoing performance of the mature and recurring activities excluding "separately disclosed items" (Notes 1.28 & 1.29).
2 Separately disclosed items ­ include one-off costs from integration, reorganisation, discontinued operations and other non-recurring income and costs, temporary losses and other costs related to network expansion, start-ups and new acquisitions undergoing significant restructuring, share-based payment charge, impairment of goodwill, amortisation of acquired intangible assets, negative goodwill, loss/gain on disposal and transaction costs related to acquisitions as well as income from reversal of such costs and from unused amounts due for business acquisitions, net finance costs related to borrowing and investing excess cash and one-off financial effects (net of finance income) and the related tax effects ­ Details are provided in Note 1.29 & 2.3.
3 Mature and recurring activities represented EUR 2,714m and EUR 2,254m of revenues in 2017 and 2016 respectively.

4 EBITDA ­ Earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortisation, share-based payment charge, impairment of goodwill, amortisation of acquired intangible assets, negative goodwill, loss/gain on disposal and transaction costs related to acquisitions as well as income from reversal of such costs and from unused amounts due for business acquisitions.
5 EBITAS ­ Earnings before interest, taxes, share-based payment charge, impairment of goodwill, amortisation of acquired intangible assets, negative goodwill, loss/gain on disposal and transaction costs related to acquisitions as well as income from reversal of such costs and from unused amounts due for business acquisitions.

6 Share-based payment charge and acquisition-related expenses ­ share-based payment charge, impairment of goodwill, amortisation of acquired intangible assets, negative goodwill, loss/gain on disposal and transaction costs related to acquisitions as well as income from reversal of such costs and from unused amounts due for business acquisitions.

56

Consolidated statement of comprehensive income
January 1, 2017 to December 31, 2017

EUR Thousands

Note

Net profit for the period

Other comprehensive income/ loss (OCI)

Items that may be reclassified subsequently to profit or loss:

Currency translation differences

Net investment hedge

4.5

Available-for-sale financial assets

3.5

Cash flow hedge

4.5

Income tax on items that may be reclassified

3.17

Total

Items that will not be reclassified to profit or loss :

Retirement benefit obligations

3.15

Deferred taxes on retirement benefit obligations

3.17

Total

Other comprehensive income/ loss for the period, net of tax Total comprehensive income for the period

Attributable to: Equity holders of the Company Non-controlling interests

2017 218,845

2016 177,506

-71,208 -70,251
3,168 -
795 -137,496
-182 92 -90
-137,586 81,259
80,712 547

20,197 20,899
-58 6,898
47,936
-5,238 1,310 -3,928
44,008 221,514
217,489 4,025

57

Consolidated Balance Sheet
As of December 31, 2017
EUR Thousands
Property, plant and equipment Goodwill Other intangible assets Investments in associates Financial assets and other receivables Deferred tax assets Total non-current assets
Inventories Trade accounts receivable Prepaid expenses and other current assets Current income tax assets Derivative financial instruments assets Cash and cash equivalents Total current assets
Total assets
Share capital Hybrid capital Other reserves Retained earnings Currency translation differences Total attributable to equity holders of the Company Non-controlling interests Total shareholders' equity
Borrowings Derivative financial instruments liabilities Deferred tax liabilities Amounts due for business acquisitions Retirement benefit obligations Provisions for other liabilities and charges Total non-current liabilities
Borrowings Interest and earnings due on hybrid capital Trade accounts payable Advance payments received Deferred revenues Current income tax liabilities Amounts due for business acquisitions Provisions for other liabilities and charges Other current liabilities Total current liabilities
Total liabilities and shareholders' equity

2017

2016

Note

3.1

685,998

506,818

3.2

2,505,337

1,584,644

3.2

735,120

383,209

3.4

5,642

3,373

3.5

43,942

34,154

3.17

29,690

37,804

4,005,729

2,550,002

3.6

51,805

39,547

3.7

705,716

524,508

3.8

99,478

65,012

58,745

38,694

4.5

90,477

85,554

3.9

820,357

826,098

1,826,578

1,579,413

5,832,307

4,129,415

3.20

1,764

1,693

3.12

1,000,000

600,000

934,857

614,928

522,881

287,281

-16,332

123,576

2,443,170

1,627,477

3.21

38,803

129,237

2,481,973

1,756,714

3.10

1,662,099

1,340,359

4.5

239

1,659

3.17

126,352

83,911

3.14

49,521

180,600

3.15

55,535

51,113

3.16

4,695

5,050

1,898,441

1,662,692

3.10

554,231

43,519

3.11

64,472

58,190

3.13

301,863

230,122

3.7

46,670

23,558

3.7

55,072

29,451

21,455

26,927

3.14

88,235

43,511

3.16

15,027

12,728

3.13

304,868

242,003

1,451,893

710,009

5,832,307

4,129,415

58

Consolidated Cash Flow Statement
January 1, 2017 to December 31, 2017

EUR Thousands Cash flows from operating activities Profit before income taxes Adjustments for: Depreciation and amortisation Share-based payment charge and acquisition-related expenses, net Other non-cash effects Financial income and expense, net Share of profit from associates Transactions costs and income related to acquisitions Increase (decrease) in provisions, retirement benefit obligations Change in net working capital Cash generated from operations Income taxes paid Net cash provided by operating activities
Cash flows from investing activities Purchase of property, plant and equipment Purchase, capitalisation of intangible assets Proceeds from sale of property, plant and equipment
Net capex Free Cash Flow to the Firm1

Note
3.1, 3.2 2.4 2.5 3.4 2.4
3.15, 3.16 3.18
3.1 3.2

Acquisitions of subsidiaries net of disposals, net of cash acquired

3.19

Change in investments, financial assets and derivative financial instrument, net

3.22

Interest received

Net cash used in investing activities

Cash flows from financing activities

Proceeds from issuance of share capital

3.20

Proceeds from borrowings

3.10

Repayments of borrowings

3.10

Change in hybrid capital

3.12

Dividends paid to shareholders and non-controlling interests

Earnings paid to hybrid capital investors

3.12

Interest paid

Net cash provided by financing activities

Net effect of currency translation on cash and cash equivalents and bank overdrafts

Net increase (decrease) in cash equivalents and bank overdrafts

Cash and cash equivalents and bank overdrafts at beginning of period

Cash and cash equivalents and bank overdrafts at end of period

3.9

1 Free Cash Flow to the Firm ­ Net cash provided by operating activities, less Net capex.

2017
250,105
175,718 40,718 -9,596 45,247 -403 -9,940 3,397 -10,740
484,506 -79,384 405,122

2016
242,607
141,696 37,433 3,714 39,767 -509 -6,615 -6,376 -6,636
445,081 -73,239 371,843

-200,645 -45,090 33,090
-212,645 192,477

-155,721 -43,954 5,548
-194,127 177,716

-1,534,362 -3,511 3,432
-1,747,086

-201,122 -628
4,073 -391,803

320,049 879,732 -138,884 398,543 -34,912 -35,625 -45,612 1,343,292
-10,969
-9,641 825,667 816,026

501,117 7,945
-345,859 -
-22,452 -35,625 -55,223 49,903
4,674
34,615 791,052 825,667

59

Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity
As of December 31, 2017

EUR Thousands

Attributable to equity holders of the Company

Note

Share capital

Other reserves

Currency translation differences

Hybrid capital

Retained Nonearnings controlling

Total equity

Balance at January 1, 2016

Currency translation differences

Net investment hedge

4.5

Available-for-sale Financial Assets

3.5

Cash flow hedge

4.5

Actuarial gains and losses on defined

benefit pension schemes

3.15

Deferred taxes on Actuarial gains and

losses on defined benefit pension

3.17

schemes

Other comprehensive income (loss) for the period, net of taxes Net profit

Total comprehensive income (loss) for

the period

Share-based payment effects

2.4

Tax credit relating to share-based

payment charge

Issue of share capital

3.20

Issue of hybrid capital

3.12

Distribution on hybrid capital

3.12

Dividends

Reevaluation of amounts due from

business combinations

3.14

Non-controlling interests arising on

3.19,

business combinations

1.22

Balance at December 31, 2016

Balance at January 1, 2017

Currency translation differences

Net investment hedge

4.5

Available-for-sale Financial Assets

3.5

Cash flow hedge

4.5

Actuarial gains and losses on defined

benefit pension schemes

3.15

Deferred taxes on Actuarial gains and

losses on defined benefit pension

3.17

schemes

Deferred taxes on net investment

hedge

3.17

Other comprehensive income (loss)

for the period, net of taxes

Net profit

Total comprehensive income (loss) for

the period

Share-based payment effects

2.4

Tax credit relating to share-based

payment charge

Issue of share capital

3.20

Issue of hybrid capital

3.12

Distribution on hybrid capital

3.12

Dividends

3.20

Reevaluation of amounts due from

business combinations

3.14

Non-controlling interests arising on

3.14,

business combinations

3.19 3.21

Balance at December 31, 2017

1,539 -
-
154 -
-
1,693 1,693
-
-
-
72 -
1,764

113,964 -
-
500,964 -
-
614,928 614,928
-
-
-
319,930 -
934,857

83,050 19,627 20,899
-
-

600,000 -
-

158,787 54 -58
6,898
-5,238

-

- 1,310

40,526
-
40,526
-
-
-
-

- 2,966

- 173,997

- 176,963

- 8,518

- 2,469

-

-

-

-

- -35,625

- -22,315

- -1,031

-
123,576
123,576 -69,657 -70,251
-
-

-
600,000
600,000 -
-

-485
287,281
287,281 -24 -
3,168 -
-182

-

-

92

-

-

795

-139,908
-
-139,908
-
-
-
-

-
-
-
-
-
400,000
-
-

3,849
216,771
220,620
9,333
3,476
-1,457 -37,335 -33,852
-17,237

-

- 92,051

-16,332 1,000,000 522,881

122,971 1,080,311

516 20,197

- 20,899

-

-58

-

6,898

- -5,238

-

1,310

516
3,509
4,025
-
-
-137
-

44,008
177,506
221,514
8,518
2,469
501,118 -
-35,625 -22,452
-1,031

2,377

1,892

129,237 1,756,714

129,237 1,756,714

-1,527 -

-71,208 -70,251
3,168 -

-

-182

-

92

-

795

-1,527
2,074
547
-
-
47 -
-1,060
-

-137,586
218,845
81,259
9,333
3,476
320,049 398,543 -37,335 -34,912
-17,237

-89,967

2,084

38,803 2,481,973

60

Notes to the consolidated financial statements
In the consolidated financial statements and the notes all amounts are shown in EUR thousands and differences of EUR +/- 1 thousand are due to rounding.
Eurofins Scientific S.E. (the "Company") and its subsidiaries ("Eurofins" or the "Group") operate more than 400 laboratories across 44 countries in Europe, North and South America and Asia-Pacific.
Eurofins believes it is the world leader in food, environment and pharmaceutical products testing and in agroscience CRO services. It is also one of the global independent market leaders in certain testing and laboratory services for genomics, discovery pharmacology, forensics, CDMO, advanced material sciences and for supporting clinical studies. In addition, Eurofins is one of the key emerging players in specialty clinical diagnostic testing in Europe and the USA.
Eurofins Scientific S.E. is legally and commercially registered in the Grand Duchy of Luxembourg under the number B 167 775.
The Company's shares are traded on Euronext Paris stock exchange under the ISIN code FR0000038259 (ticker ERF). The Company's headoffice is located at 23 Val Fleuri, L-1526 Luxembourg, Grand Duchy of Luxembourg.
These consolidated financial statements have been adopted by the Board of Directors on February 27, 2018 and will be submitted to the Shareholders' Annual General Meeting for approval.
1. Summary of significant accounting policies
The significant accounting policies applied in the preparation of these consolidated financial statements are set out below. These policies have been consistently applied to all the years presented, unless otherwise stated.
1.1 Basis of preparation
Accounting standards The consolidated financial statements are prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards as adopted by the European Union. At December 31, 2017, the Standards adopted by the European Union and used by the Company for the preparation of these financial statements present no differences with the standards as published by the IASB. The standards, as adopted by the European Union, are available on the website: http://ec.europa.eu/internalmarket/accounting/iasfr.htm#a dopted-commission.
The consolidated financial statements have been prepared under the historical cost convention, as modified by the re-evaluation of available-for-sale financial assets, and financial assets and liabilities (including derivative instruments) at fair value through the Consolidated Income Statement or the Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income.
The preparation of consolidated financial statements in conformity with IFRS requires the use of certain critical accounting estimates. It also requires management to exercise its judgment in the process of applying the

Group's accounting policies. The areas involving a higher degree of judgment or complexity, or areas where assumptions and estimates are significant to the consolidated financial statements are disclosed in Note 1.25.
1.2 Application of standards, amendments and interpretations
(a) New and amended standards adopted by the Group without significant impact on the consolidated financial statements as of December 31, 2017:  IAS 7 (Amendment), `Statement of Cash Flows'  IAS 12 (Amendment), `Income Taxes'  IFRS 12 (Amendment) `Disclosure of Interests in
Other Entities'
(b) New standards and interpretations not yet adopted
Certain new standards and interpretations have been published that are not mandatory for December 31, 2017 reporting periods and have not been early adopted by the Group:  IFRS 9 `Financial Instruments'  IFRS 15 `Revenue from contracts with customers'  IFRS 16 `Leases'  IFRS 2 (Amendment), `Share-based Payments '  IFRS 4 (Amendment), `Insurance Contracts'  IAS 40 (Amendment), `Investment property'  IFRS 1 (Amendment), `First time adoption of IFRS'  IAS 28 (Amendment), `Investments in Associates
and Joint Ventures'  IFRIC 22 (Amendment), `Foreign Currency
Transactions and Advance Consideration'  IFRIC 23 (Amendment), `Uncertainty over Income
Tax Treatments'  IFRS 10 (Amendment), `Consolidated Financial
Statements'.
Amongst these new standards and interpretations, the Group's assessment of the impact of IFRS9, IFRS 15 and IFRS 16 is set out below.
IFRS 9 Financial Instruments
IFRS 9 addresses the classification, measurement and derecognition of financial assets and financial liabilities, introduces new rules for hedge accounting and a new impairment model for financial assets.
The Group has reviewed its financial assets and liabilities and is expecting the following impact from the adoption of the new standard on January 1, 2018:
The majority of the Group's debt instruments that are currently classified as available-for-sale (AfS) will satisfy the conditions for classification as at fair value through other comprehensive income (FVOCI) and hence there will be no change to the accounting for these assets.
The other financial assets held by the Group include:  equity instruments currently classified as AfS for
which a FVOCI election is available;  equity investments currently measured at fair value
through profit or loss (FVPL) which would likely continue to be measured on the same basis under IFRS 9, and  debt instruments currently classified as held-tomaturity and measured at amortised cost which appear to meet the conditions for classification at amortised cost under IFRS 9.
Accordingly, the Group does not expect the new guidance to have a significant impact on the classification and measurement of its financial assets.

61

There will be no impact on the Group's accounting for financial liabilities, as the new requirements only affect the accounting for financial liabilities that are recorded at fair value through profit or loss and the Group does not have any such liabilities. The derecognition rules have been transferred from IAS 39 Financial Instruments: Recognition and Measurement and have not been changed.
The new hedge accounting rules will align the accounting for hedging instruments more closely with the Group's risk management practices. As a general rule, more hedge relationships might be eligible for hedge accounting, as the standard introduces a more principles-based approach. The Group confirms that its current hedge relationships will qualify as continuing hedges upon the adoption of IFRS 9.
The new impairment model requires the recognition of impairment provisions based on expected credit losses (ECL) rather than only incurred credit losses as is the case under IAS 39. It applies to financial assets classified at amortised cost, debt instruments measured at FVOCI, contract assets under IFRS 15 Revenue from Contracts with Customers, lease receivables, loan commitments and certain financial guarantee contracts. Based on the assessments undertaken to date, the Group does not expect that the new model would have a material impact on its retained earnings. The new standard also introduces expanded disclosure requirements and changes in presentation. These are expected to change the nature and extent of the Group's disclosures about its financial instruments particularly in the year of the adoption of the new standard.
The Group will apply the new rules retrospectively from January 1, 2018, with the practical expedients permitted under the standard. Comparatives for 2017 will not be restated.
IFRS 15 Revenue from contracts with customers
The IASB has issued a new standard for the recognition of revenue. This will replace IAS 18 which covers contracts for goods and services and IAS 11 which covers construction contracts from January 1, 2018.
The new standard is based on the principle that revenue is recognised when control of a good or service transfers to a customer ­ so the notion of control replaces the existing notion of risks and rewards.
A new five-step process must be applied before revenue can be recognised:  identify contracts with customers;  identify the separate performance obligation;  determine the transaction price of the contract;  allocate the transaction price to each of the
separate performance obligations, and  recognise the revenue as each performance
obligation is satisfied.
Key changes to current practice are:  Any bundled goods or services that are distinct
must be separately recognised, and any discounts or rebates on the contract price must generally be allocated to the separate elements.  Revenue may be recognised earlier than under current standards if the consideration varies for any reasons (such as for incentives, rebates, performance fees, royalties, success of an outcome etc) ­ minimum amounts must be recognised if they are not at significant risk of reversal.  The point at which revenue is able to be recognised may shift: some revenue which is currently

recognised at a point in time at the end of a contract may have to be recognised over the contract term and vice versa.  There are new specific rules on licenses, warranties, non-refundable upfront fees and, consignment arrangements, to name a few.  As with any new standard, there are also increased disclosures.
The Group has assessed the effects of applying the new standard on the Group's financial statements to be limited as:  The majority of the businesses of the Group consist
in providing laboratory and advisory services based on analyses (analyses of customer's samples into our laboratories). This sample-based activity is ruled by short term contracts (turnaround time counted in days or weeks). These contracts for their vast majority are straightforward and do not include multiple performance obligations. Except for the US Clinical Diagnostic business which is further commented in the Note 1.12, the payment terms and conditions are most often standard, short term and highly predictable. Where incentives on volumes are granted to some customers, these are already taken into account by the Group in its revenue recognition policy.  For its study-based based activity, which can have medium or long term contracts, the Group already considers that costs incurred for service rendered to its customers are the method for measuring progress on a straight-line basis as the inputs are expended evenly throughout period, hence complying with the new standard guidance.
Besides from these elements:  The Group does not incur material costs to obtain
contracts with customers, does not operate customer loyalty programme and does not provide a right to return in the course of its business.  The Group does not expect to have any contracts where the period between the transfer of the promised services and payment from the customer exceeds one year. As a consequence, the Group does not adjust any of the transaction prices for the time value of the money.
The Group will adopt the standard on January 1, 2018 using the modified retrospective approach which means that the cumulative impact of the adoption will be recognised in retained earnings as of January 1, 2018 and that comparatives for 2017 will not be restated. Based on the assessments undertaken to date, the Group does not expect a material impact in the Group's retained earnings or revenues.
IFRS 16 Leases
IFRS 16 was issued in January 2016. It will result in almost all leases being recognised on the balance sheet, as the distinction between operating and finance leases is removed. Under the new standard, an asset (the right to use the leased item) and a financial liability to pay rentals are recognised. The only exceptions are short-term and low-value leases.
The standard will affect primarily the accounting for the Group's operating leases for buildings, equipment and cars. As at the reporting date, the Group has noncancellable operating lease commitments of EUR 514m, see Note 4.4. The Group estimates that approximately 23% of these relate to payments for short-term and low value leases which will be recognised on a straight-line basis as an expense in the consolidated income statement.

62

However, the Group has not yet completed its assessments of what other adjustments, if any, are necessary for example because of the change in the definition of the lease term and of extension and termination options. It is therefore not yet possible to estimate the amount of right-of-use assets and lease liabilities that will have to be recognised on adoption of the new standard and how this may affect the Group's balance sheet, income statement and classification of cash flows going forward.
At this stage, the Group does not intend to adopt the standard before its effective date on January 1, 2019. The Group intends to apply the simplified transition approach and will not restate comparative amounts for the year prior to first adoption.
1.3 Consolidation
Subsidiaries Subsidiaries are all entities over which the Group has control. The Group controls an entity when the Group is exposed to, or has rights to variable returns from its involvement with the entity and has the ability to affect those returns through its power over the entity.
The existence and effect of potential voting rights that are currently exercisable and cross put and call options agreements are considered when assessing whether the Group controls another entity.
Subsidiaries are fully consolidated from the date on which control is transferred to the Group. They are no longer consolidated from the date such control ceases.
The Group applies the acquisition method to account for business combinations. The consideration transferred for the acquisition of a subsidiary is the fair value of the assets transferred, the liabilities incurred to the former owners of the acquiree and the equity interests issued by the Group. The consideration transferred includes the fair value of any asset or liability resulting from a contingent consideration arrangement. Identifiable assets acquired and liabilities and contingent liabilities assumed in a business combination are measured initially at their fair values at the acquisition date. The Group recognises any non-controlling interest in the acquiree on an acquisition-by-acquisition basis, either at fair value or at the non-controlling interest's proportionate share of the recognised amounts of acquiree's identifiable net assets.
Acquisition-related costs are expensed as incurred.
If the business combination is achieved in stages, the carrying value of the Group's previously held equity interest in the acquiree is re-measured to fair value at the acquisition date; any gains or losses arising from such remeasurement are recognised in profit or loss.
All inter-company transactions, balances and unrealised gains and losses on transactions between Group companies are eliminated. When necessary, accounting policies for subsidiaries are changed to ensure consistency with the policies adopted by the Group.
The companies acquired at the end of the year are not consolidated if their contribution in terms of total assets, sales and net profit is not material in comparison with the consolidated accounts. They will be consolidated as from January 1 of the following year (Note 3.4 & 3.19).
The Group holds no special purpose entities that are not consolidated.

When the Group ceases to have control, any retained interest in the entity is re-measured to its fair value at the date when control is lost, with the change in carrying amount recognised in profit and loss.
A listing of the Group's subsidiaries is set out in Note 5. The financial effect of the acquisition and disposal of subsidiaries is described in Note 3.19.
The annual closing date of the individual financial statements is December 31.
Transactions with non-controlling interests ("NCI") Transactions with non-controlling interests that do not result in loss of control are accounted for as equity transactions, which means as transactions with the owners in their capacity as owners. For purchases from non-controlling interests after the initial control of the entity, the differences between fair value of any consideration paid and the relevant share acquired of the carrying value of net assets of the entity are recorded in equity. Gains and losses on disposals to non-controlling interests are also recorded in equity.
Put and call options at acquisition time When the Group takes control of a subsidiary, it may enter into obligations to acquire the shares held by minority shareholders (put options) and concurrently benefits from the option to acquire these same shares (call options). These agreements are accounted for as follows:  In case of cross put and call options exercisable at
a fixed price, Management considers these instruments as being exercised as the risks and rewards are in substance transferred to the Group from inception. As such, non-controlling interests are not recognised in the Balance Sheet and the Income Statement.  In case of cross put and call options at a variable price resulting from a business combination completed after the first application of IFRS 3R, Management considers whether the risks and rewards are actually transferred to the Group: o Where it is determined that risks and rewards
did not transfer to the Group, non-controlling interests are recognised in the Income Statement and the Balance Sheet. o Where it is determined that risks and rewards did transfer to the Group upon entering into the cross put and calls, non-controlling interests are not recognised in the Balance Sheet and the Income Statement.
In addition a financial liability reflecting the put option element of the transaction is recognised for an amount corresponding to the present value of the redemption amount of the put option. Such financial liability is recognised from the equity attributable to holders of the Company.
Any post-acquisition adjustment to the initial value on the put liability on non-controlling interests is booked to profit and loss.
The Group is also closely monitoring the guidelines of the IASB and the IFRIC, which could lead to an amendment of specific standards on the treatment of such put options granted to holders of non-controlling interests.
In case of cross put and call options at a variable price resulting from a business combination completed prior to the first application of IFRS 3R, the goodwill in progress is calculated by the difference between the put liability and the non-controlling interest value. Any post-acquisition adjustments to the original value on the put liability are also recorded in "goodwill in progress".

63

Associates Associates are all entities over which the Group has significant influence but no control, generally accompanying a shareholding of between 20% and 50% of the voting rights. Investments in associates are accounted for using the equity method of accounting. Under the equity method, the investment is initially recognised at cost, and the carrying amount is increased or decreased to recognise the investor's share of the profit or loss of the associate after the date of acquisition.
Joint arrangements The Group has no joint arrangements.
1.4 Goodwill
Goodwill represents the excess of the cost of an acquisition over the fair value of the Group's share in the net assets of the acquired subsidiary at the date of acquisition.
If the cost of acquisition is less than the fair value of the net assets of the subsidiary acquired, the difference is recognised directly in the Income Statement (bargain purchase or negative goodwill).
In accordance with IFRS 3R, the Group has twelve months from the acquisition date to finalise the allocation of the purchase price over the fair values of the acquiree's identifiable assets and liabilities. IFRS 3R allows an accounting policy choice, available on a transaction by transaction basis, to measure noncontrolling interests (NCI) either at:  fair value (`full goodwill method'), or  the NCI's proportionate share of net assets of the
acquiree (`partial goodwill method').
Goodwill on acquisition of associates is included in "investments in associates".
1.5 Intangible assets
Intangible assets (software development costs and software licences) are booked at historical value, revised periodically in case of impairment. They are amortised over their estimated useful life of 3 years.
Other intangible assets (customer relationships, brands) acquired as part of an acquisition of a business are capitalised separately from goodwill if their fair value can be measured reliably. Customer relationships and Brands have a finite useful life. They are valued according to the Income Approach.
Customer relationships are valued using the discounted cash flow method using an appropriate discount rate (WACC) over a maximum period of 15 years. The value is based on the sales acquired using an annual percentage of attrition after deduction of the contributory assets charges (remuneration of the fixed assets, working capital, workforce and brands). Customer relationships are amortised on a straight-line basis over their estimated useful lives. For outsourcing deals signed with a sales contract, the amortisation period is aligned with respect to the duration of the contract.
Brands are assessed on the basis of their royalty potential in relation to the annual sales, net of taxes. Brands are amortised on a systematic basis over their estimated useful lives (maximum period of 25 years).

1.6 Development costs
The IT development costs (e.g. Laboratory information management systems) are capitalised under the criteria of IAS 38:  It is technically feasible to complete the software
products so that it will be available for use;  Management intends to complete the software
products and use it;  There is an ability to use the software products;  It can be demonstrated how the software products
can generate probable future economic benefits;  Adequate technical, financial and other resources to
complete the development and to use the software products are available;  The expenditure attributable to the software product during its development can be reliably measured. Development costs that are directly attributable to the design and testing of identifiable and unique software products controlled by the Group, and that will probably generate economic benefits exceeding costs beyond one year, are recognised as intangible assets. Directly attributable costs include the software development employee costs and an appropriate portion of relevant overheads. Software development costs recognised as assets are amortised over their estimated useful lives which do not exceed three years.
Business development costs are recognised as an expense as they do not currently correspond to the criteria of capitalising development costs as described in IAS 38.
1.7 Property, plant and equipment
Fixed assets are stated at historical cost less depreciation. Depreciation on fixed assets is calculated using the straight-line method to write off their cost to their residual values over their estimated useful lives as follows:
 Buildings and leasehold improvements5-20 years  Machinery and laboratory equipment 5 years  Office equipment, furniture and vehicles 3-5 years Land is not depreciated as it is deemed to have an indefinite life.
The assets' residual values and useful lives are reviewed, and adjusted if appropriate, at each Balance Sheet date. An asset's carrying amount is written down immediately to its recoverable amount if the asset's carrying amount is greater than its estimated recoverable amount.
1.8 Finance and Operating Leases
The Group leases certain property, plant and equipment. Leases of property, plant and equipment, where the Group has substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership, are classified as finance leases. Finance leases are capitalised at the lease's commencement at the lower of the fair value of the leased property and the present value of the minimum lease payments. Each lease payment is allocated between the liability and finance charges. The interest element of the finance charge is charged to the income statement over the lease period. The property, plant and equipment acquired under finance leasing contracts are depreciated over the shorter period of the lease term or the asset useful life, unless it is reasonably certain that the Group will obtain ownership by the end of the lease term, in that case the depreciation period is the useful life.

64

Leases in which a significant portion of the risks and rewards of ownership are retained by the lessor are classified as operating leases. Payments made under operating leases (net of any incentives received from the lessor) are charged to the Income Statement on a straight-line basis over the period of the lease.
1.9 Impairment of non-financial assets
Assets that have an indefinite useful life (goodwill) are not subject to amortisation and are tested for impairment annually or if objective evidence of impairment loss.
Assets that are subject to amortisation (e.g. customer relationship, brands) are reviewed for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying value may not be recoverable.
An impairment loss is recognised for the amount by which the asset's carrying value exceeds its recoverable value. The recoverable amount is the higher of an asset's fair value less costs of disposal and value in use. For the purposes of assessing impairment, assets including goodwill are grouped at the lowest levels for which there are separately identifiable cash flows (cash-generating units). The allocation of goodwill is made to those cashgenerating units or group of cash-generating units that are expected to benefit from the business combination in which the goodwill arose. Each of those cash-generating units represents an operating segment (Note 4.1).
The asset's fair value less costs to sell of the cashgenerating unit corresponds to an estimate based on financial multiples calculated on:  the average revenues of the last two years ;  the average adjusted EBITDA & EBITAS over the
last two years. The financial multiples are validated annually by comparison with the valuation and the price of take-overs of comparable companies.
The value in use is estimated by the discounted cash flows method using an appropriate discount rate (WACC). This rate is adapted to each cash-generating unit. The estimates of future cash flows and the discount rates are determined on a pre-tax basis. The debt/equity ratio is taken independently of the Group's capital structure. The cost of debt has been determined taking into account prevailing economic conditions and the time horizon of expected cash flows.
The valuation of the value in use is determined using reasonable assumptions (WACC, organic growth), based on a projected five-year period. The determination includes the net cash flows from disposal at the end of the useful life (terminal value).
Goodwill impairment reviews are undertaken annually or more frequently if events of changes in circumstances indicate a potential impairment. Any impairment is recognised immediately as an expense and is not subsequently reversed. Gains and losses on the disposal of an entity include the carrying amount of goodwill relating to the entity sold.
Non-financial assets other than goodwill are reviewed at each reporting date for possible reversal of an impairment loss that may have taken place.
1.10 Financial assets
The Group classifies its financial assets in the following categories: financial assets at fair value through profit or loss, loans and receivables and available-for-sale

financial assets. The classification depends on the purpose for which the financial assets were acquired.
When securities classified as available-for-sale are sold or impaired, the accumulated fair value adjustments recognised in OCI are reclassified to the Income Statement.
Loans and receivables are carried at amortised cost using the effective interest method.
The fair values of quoted investments are based on bid prices at year-end. If the market for a financial asset is not active (or for unlisted securities), the Group calculates a fair value by using valuation techniques. The fair value of short term financial assets and liabilities is considered to be the value at the Balance Sheet date in view of the short maturity of this instrument.
The Group assesses at the end of each reporting period whether there is objective evidence that a financial asset or group of financial assets is impaired.
1.11 Inventories
The inventory of consumables consists primarily of chemical products. Inventories are stated at the lower amount between cost and net realisable value. Cost is determined using the first-in, first-out (FIFO) method. Net realisable value is the estimated selling price in the ordinary course of business, less applicable variable selling expenses. The above inventories are usually used within 2 years of their purchase.
1.12 Trade accounts receivable
Trade accounts receivable are recognised initially at fair value and subsequently measured at amortised cost using the effective interest method, less provision for impairment.
Trade accounts receivable correspond to amounts invoiced, accrued or due by clients for analysis in progress, depending on the stage of completion of the analysis/work performed.
A provision for impairment of trade receivables is established when there is objective evidence that the Group will not be able to collect all the amounts due, according to the original terms of sale. This risk is assessed in a prudent and standardised way with particular regard to the age of the account, the customer status, the country and the fact of invoices being subject to dispute.
For governmental organisations as well as healthcare insurance providers, in the case of its US clinical diagnostic testing services, the Group regularly assesses the state of its billing operations and the level of payer's reimbursements based on specific facts and circumstances and historical recoverability data in order to identify issues which may impact the collection of these receivables. This individual review by third-party payor grouping of all outstanding amounts is carried out at least at the end of each year and half year, especially to assess the difference between the invoices issued and the expected amounts to be recovered based on the scale of reimbursement for the patient. This review is based on the period that the receivables have been outstanding and the historical collection experience from the payers. An allowance is then recorded to reduce the gross revenue to the amount expected to be collected. Those revenue allowances are recorded as a reduction in revenue in the period that the services are performed.

65

Changes in estimates related to revenue allowances are recorded as an increase or decrease to revenue in the period that the changes are identified.
Bad debts are written off during the year in which they are identified.
1.13 Cash and cash equivalents and bank overdrafts
For the purposes of the Balance Sheet, cash and cash equivalents include cash in hand, deposits held at call with banks, and investments in money market instruments highly liquid (with original maturities of three months or less that can be sold at any time). Bank overdrafts are shown within borrowings in current liabilities on the Balance Sheet.
1.14 Share capital
Ordinary shares are classified as equity. Incremental costs directly attributable to the issue of new ordinary shares or options are shown in equity as a deduction, net of tax, from the proceeds.
Where the Company or its subsidiaries purchase the Company's equity share capital, the consideration paid including any attributable incremental costs net of income taxes is deducted from total shareholders' equity as treasury shares until the shares are cancelled. If such shares are subsequently sold or reissued, any consideration received is included in shareholders' equity.
1.15 Provisions
Provisions for restructuring costs, legal claims and environmental restoration are recognised when the Group has a present legal or constructive obligation as a result of past events, it is more likely than not that an outflow of resources will be required to settle the obligation, and the amount has been reliably estimated. Restructuring provisions comprise lease termination penalties and employee termination payments. Provisions are not recognised for future operating losses.
Provisions are measured at the present value of the expenditure expected to be required to settle the obligation using a pre-tax rate that reflects current market assessments of the time value of money and the risks specific to the obligation. The increase in the provision due to passage of time is recognised as interest expense.
1.16 Employee benefits
Pension obligations Group companies operate various pension schemes. The schemes are generally funded through payments to insurance companies, determined by periodic actuarial calculations. The Group has both defined benefit and defined contribution plans. A defined contribution plan is a pension plan under which the Group pays fixed contributions into a separate entity. The Group has no legal or constructive obligation to pay further contributions if the fund does not hold sufficient assets to pay all employees the benefits relating to employee service in the current and prior periods. A defined benefit plan is a pension plan that is not a defined contribution plan. Typically defined benefit plans define an amount of pension benefit that an employee will receive on retirement, usually dependent on one or more factors such as age, years of service and compensation.

In accordance with IAS 19R the liability recognised in the Balance Sheet in respect of defined benefit pension plans is the present value of the defined benefit obligation at the Balance Sheet date less the fair value of plan assets. The defined benefit obligation is calculated or reviewed annually by independent actuaries using the projected unit credit method. The present value of the defined benefit obligation is determined by discounting the estimated future cash outflows using interest rates of high-quality corporate bonds (Iboxx AA) that are denominated in the currency in which the benefits will be paid, and that have terms to maturity approximating to the terms of the related pension liability.
Actuarial gains and losses arising from experience adjustments, law changes and changes in actuarial assumptions are recognised immediately in Other Comprehensive Income as they occur.
Past services (including those resulting from plan amendments) are recognised immediately in income.
For defined contribution plans, the Group pays contributions to publicly or privately administered pension insurance plans on a mandatory, contractual or voluntary basis. The Group has no further payment obligations once the contributions have been paid. The contributions are recognised as employee benefit expense when they are due.
Share-based compensation The Group operates a number of equity settled, sharebased compensation plans. The fair value of the employee services received in exchange for the grant of the options is recognised as an expense over the vesting period and the counterpart is accounted for in equity. The total amount to be expensed over the vesting period is determined by reference to the fair value of the options granted.
The proceeds received net of any directly attributable transaction costs are credited to share capital (nominal value) and other reserves when the options are exercised.
Profit sharing and bonus plans The Group recognises a liability and an expense for bonuses and profit-sharing schemes based on a formula that takes into consideration the profit attributable to the company's shareholders after certain adjustments. The Group recognises a provision where contractually obliged or where there is a past practice that has created a constructive obligation.
1.17 Borrowings
Borrowings are recognised initially at fair value, net of transaction costs incurred. Borrowings are subsequently recorded at amortised cost.
Borrowings are classified as current liabilities unless the Group has an unconditional right to defer settlement of the liability for at least 12 months after the Balance Sheet date.
The costs of the transaction are deducted from the debt and are expensed along the maturity of the borrowings.
1.18 OBSAAR Bonds
IAS 32 states that the issuer of a hybrid bond compound financial instrument comprising elements of debt and equity will post these elements separately:

66

 The first element (the bond) is considered to be a form of debt characterised by the existence of a contractual obligation to the issuer to give to the holder of the financial instrument liquid assets or other financial assets.
 The second element (the redeemable share subscription warrant, BSAAR) is considered to be an equity instrument giving the bearer the option of buying into the issuer's share capital.
Paragraph 31 of IAS 32 requires that when the initial carrying amount of a compound financial instrument is allocated to its equity and liability components, the equity component is assigned the residual amount after deducting from the fair value of the instrument as a whole the amount separately determined for the liability component.
In accordance with paragraph 32 of IAS 32, the carrying amount of the liability component corresponds to the fair value of a similar liability that does not have an associated equity component.
The value in terms of equity is not re-evaluated during the lifetime of the BSAAR. If the warrant is exercised, liquid assets received as part of the capital increase will be posted directly in equity.
The debt element was recognised at amortised cost, as recommended by IAS 39. The carrying value of the liability component was included in the line "OBSAAR Bonds" (Note 3.10). This instrument has been fully repaid in 2016.
1.19 Hybrid Capital
The structure of the Hybrid Capital ensures that it is recognised as a component of equity in accordance with IAS 32 as the conditions below are met:  No contractual obligation to redeem the instrument;  No contractual obligation to pay the coupon.
For this reason, the tax-deductible interest payments are not included in interest expense, but accounted for in the same way as dividend obligations to shareholders. The distribution of coupon payments and the costs of issue are booked before tax in shareholders' equity.
1.20 Current and deferred income taxes
The current income tax charge is calculated on the basis of the tax laws enacted or substantively enacted at the Balance Sheet date in the countries where the Company's subsidiaries and associates operate and generate taxable income.
Deferred income tax is provided for, using the liability method, on temporary differences arising between the tax bases of assets and liabilities and their carrying values in the consolidated financial statements. Deferred income tax is determined using tax rates (and laws) that have been enacted or substantially enacted at the Balance Sheet date and are expected to apply when the related deferred income tax is realised or the deferred income tax liability is settled.
The principal temporary differences arise from depreciation on property, plant and equipment, provisions for pensions and tax losses carried forward. Deferred income tax assets are recognised to the extent that it is probable that future taxable profit will be available against which the temporary differences can be utilised.

Deferred income tax is provided on temporary differences arising on investments in subsidiaries and associates, except where the timing of the reversal of the temporary difference is controlled by the Group and it is probable that the temporary difference will not reverse in the foreseeable future.
Deferred income tax assets and liabilities are offset when there is a legally enforceable right to set off current tax assets against current tax liabilities and when the deferred taxes relate to the same fiscal authority.
1.21 Trade accounts payable
Trade accounts payable are recognised initially at fair value and subsequently measured at amortised cost using the effective interest method.
1.22 Amounts due for business acquisitions
Amounts due for business acquisitions are mainly comprised of:  amounts due to former shareholders of acquired
companies for the fair value amount based on achievement of objectives (in general based for the major part on the operating profit);  the liability of the "put and call options" (part related to the transaction with non-controlling interests) at initial acquisition time.
Amounts due for business acquisitions are also accounted for at the fair value of the expected cash flow. The variation of the liability related to the decreasing time value is accounted for in the Income Statement as a financial expense.
All re-estimations of the amounts due for business acquisitions after the initial period of twelve months of allocation of the purchase price are booked in the Income Statement as an acquisition-related expense (except for the put option on non-controlling interests contracted before IFRS 3R accounted for as "goodwill in progress").
If all or part of the acquisition price of certain acquired laboratories is paid in Eurofins shares (new or existing shares):  the amount due is accounted for in "Amounts due for
business acquisitions" in the case where the acquisition contract stipulates a fixed monetary amount payable in a variable number of Eurofins shares (number to be calculated at the moment of payment);  the amount due is accounted for in "retained earnings" in the case where the acquisition contract stipulates a fixed number of Eurofins shares.
1.23 Revenue recognition
Eurofins provides analytical solutions and the most comprehensive range of testing methods to clients from a wide range of industries including the pharmaceutical, food and environmental sectors.
Revenue comprises the fair value of the consideration received or receivable for the sale of services and goods in the ordinary course of the Group's activities.
As a service provider Eurofins has to apply the revenue recognition rules for rendering of services (IAS 18 §2028). With respect to revenue arising from the rendering of services, the accounting for those revenues depends on whether the outcome of a transaction can be estimated reliably or not:

67

 If the outcome of a transaction involving the rendering of services can be measured reliably, the revenue associated with the transaction will be recognised by reference to the stage of completion (percentage of completion method). Therefore the revenue for all transactions which can be estimated on a reliable basis corresponds to the revenue agreed in the contract, multiplied by the stage of completion of the work performed (i.e. recognising the margin based on the percentage of work completed).
 If the outcome of a transaction involving the rendering of services cannot be measured reliably, revenue will be recognised only to the extent of the incurred expenses as long as they are recoverable.
Expected losses are recognised when it is probable that total contract costs will exceed total contract revenue, the expected loss shall be recognised as an expense immediately.
Due to the continuous improvement of processes and systems the outcome for an increasing number of transactions can be measured on a reliable basis. Therefore for more and more new transactions the percentage of completion method is used to determine the revenue at the end of each reporting period.
The stage of completion of an analysis is determined by the services performed to date as a percentage of the total analysis to be performed as an analysis is usually performed following different stages until the issuance of the final report.
As stated in 1.12, for its US clinical diagnostic testing services, the Group recognises revenues when the testing process is complete and test results are reported to the ordering physician. The sales are generally billed to three types of payers: clients, patients and third parties such as HMOs (Health Managed Organizations), PPOs (Preferred Provider Organizations), Medicare and Medicaid.
Clients For clients (e.g. hospitals, reference laboratories, physicians' offices who wish a direct-pay arrangement or biopharma companies seeking clinical testing services), sales are recorded on a fee-for-service basis at the Company's client list price, less any negotiated discount.
Patients Patients typically need to pay what is not covered by their insurance or falls under the deductible, co-pays and/or co-insurance of their insurance coverage, as defined by individual payer plan coverage policies and as required by applicable state guidelines. If not covered by insurance, patients typically pay list price or, if offered, a discounted amount from list price for advance payment of testing procedures. Collection from patients is often difficult and only a part of amounts due is often eventually collected.
Third-party payers The Company bills third-party payers under fee-forservice agreements. Fee-for-service third-party payers are billed at the Company's patient fee schedule amount or at prices pre-agreed with the respective payor and third-party revenue is recorded net of contractual discounts. These discounts are recorded at the transaction level at the time of sale based on a fee schedule that is maintained for each third-party payer. A large part of the Company's third-party sales are recorded using an actual or contracted fee schedule at the time of sale. For the remaining third-party sales, the most recent collection rate estimates are maintained for each payer to recognize revenue. Adjustments to the estimated

payment amounts are recorded at the time of final collection and settlement of each transaction as an adjustment to Revenue. The Company periodically adjusts these estimated collection rates based upon historical payment trends, using the most recent two years of historical data. Historical collection statistics are grouped according to logical clusters of payers that have the same or similar payment coherence. Any exceptional event (e.g. important cash payment from a third party) is carefully reviewed with the objective to ensure a stable and accurate statistical model for revenue recognition.
1.24 Earnings per share
Basic earnings per share are calculated by dividing the net profit attributable to equity holders of the Group by the weighted average number of ordinary shares in issue during the year, excluding ordinary shares purchased by the Company and held as treasury shares.
For the diluted earnings per share, the weighted average number of ordinary shares in issue is adjusted to assume conversion of all such options into shares which are in the money at the current share price. The Company has the following categories of dilutive potential for ordinary shares: stock options, free shares, BSAAR, BSA warrants and partial and optional acquisition price payments in Eurofins shares.
The net profit attributable to shareholders of the Group is obtained by deducting from the net profit the part that is directly attributable to hybrid capital investors.
1.25 Significant accounting judgments and estimates
Judgments:
By applying the Group's accounting policies described above, management has made the following judgments that have significant effects on the amounts recognised in the financial statements (apart from those involving estimates, which are dealt with in the following paragraphs).
Revenue recognition To use the percentage of completion method to measure the outcome of its services, the Group reviews annually the improvement of both operational and financial processes and systems (Note 1.23).
In its US clinical diagnostic testing services, the Group regularly assesses the state of its billing operations and the level of payer's reimbursements based on specific facts and circumstances and historical recoverability data in order to identify issues which may impact the collection of these receivables. Those revenue allowances are recorded as a reduction in revenue in the period that the services are performed. Change in estimates related to revenue allowances are recorded as an increase or decrease to revenue in the period that the changes are identified.
Use of estimates:
The preparation of consolidated financial statements in compliance with IFRS requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities and the disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities at the date of the financial statements, as well as the reported amounts of income and expenses during the period. These estimates and assumptions are based on past experience and on various other factors, including the prevailing economic environment. Actual amounts may differ from those

68

obtained through the use of these estimates and assumptions. The estimates and assumptions that have a significant risk of causing a material adjustment to the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities within the next financial year are discussed below:
Provision for other liabilities and charges
Management estimates the provisions based on the circumstances relating to each specific event and upon currently available information. However, given the inherent difficulties in estimating liabilities in these areas (e.g. termination payment to employees upon leaving the Group, environmental and legal and warranty claims on services rendered), it cannot be guaranteed that additional costs will not be incurred beyond the amounts accrued.
Estimated impairment of goodwill The Group tests at least annually if goodwill has suffered any impairment (Note 1.9). The recoverable amounts of cash-generating units are determined based on the higher of value-in-use and fair value less costs to sell calculations. The value in use calculation is based on discount rate and future cash flows. The fair value less costs to sell calculation is based on multiples of EBITDA/ EBITAS and revenues.
Variable acquisition price calculation The Group reviews frequently the variable acquisition price calculations. The formulas are based on current and/or future profitability of the acquired companies. Thereafter, these amounts are re-estimated each year (Note 1.3).
Valuation of intangible assets acquired in a business combination The Group estimates for each acquisition the value of the potential intangible asset related to an acquisition (e.g. customer relationships, brand names) based on discount rate and future cash flows of each asset (Note 1.5).
Valuation of fixed assets acquired in a business combination The Group estimates for each acquisition the value of the fixed assets related to an acquisition and particularly on lands and buildings based on external valuations (Note 1.3).
Deferred tax assets recognition The Group reviews deferred tax assets on an annual basis, and recognises deferred tax assets for temporary differences and tax loss carry forwards to the extent that it deems probable that future taxable profit will be generated against which these can be utilized. Judgment is required by management in estimating the probability, timing and amount of future taxable profit (Note 1.20).
Income taxes The Group operates in 44 countries and is subject to a wide range of complex tax laws and regulations. At any point in time it is normal for there to be a number of open years in any particular territory which may be subject to enquiry by local authorities. Where the effects of laws and regulations are unclear, estimates are used in determining the liability for the tax to be paid on profits which are recognised in the financial statements. The Group considers the estimates, assumptions and judgments to be reasonable; however, this can involve complex issues which may take a number of years to resolve. The final determination of prior year tax liabilities could be different from the estimates reflected in the financial statements (Note 1.20).

Pension benefits The present value of the pension obligations depends on a number of factors that are determined on an actuarial basis using a number of assumptions. The assumptions used in determining the net cost (income) for pensions include the discount rate. Any change in these assumptions will impact carrying amount of pension obligations (Note 1.16).
1.26 Segment reporting
The reportable segments are identified in accordance with IFRS 8. Reportable segments are based on geographical areas.
The Group is very decentralised with a large number of small and medium size companies in many countries. The financial performance of the Group is reviewed at the level of individual legal entities or even within these companies at the level of the Business Units ("BU") by the Chief Operating Decision Maker ("CODM") or its representatives with the input of the BU leaders. Aggregates are done on different levels. They may vary depending on changes in management, organisation or leadership.
The CODM is reviewing several sets of financial information, based mainly on products and services, leaders in charge and on the Group's geographical areas. The rapid evolving nature of the Group also results in a constant adaptation of the matrix of its organisation.
Within Eurofins, the nature of services, the nature of the production processes, the type or class of customers for its products and services; the methods used to provide its services; and the nature of the regulatory environment have highly similar economic characteristics. For example, similar long-term average gross margins are expected for all our businesses.
The CODM allocates resources and assesses performance of the Group's operating segments.
The CODM has made a determination that the provision of financial information by geographical areas is more meaningful to the readers of the consolidated financial statements because it believes that the regions where the Group operates should be the main business performance differentiator going forward.
1.27 Foreign currencies
Items included in the financial statements of each of the Group's entities are measured using the currency of the primary economic environment in which the entity operates ("the functional currency"). The consolidated financial statements are presented in Euro, which is the Company's functional and presentation currency. Income statements of foreign entities are translated into Euro at average exchange rates for the year and the balance sheets are translated at year end exchange rates ruling on December 31.
Currency translation differences arising from the retranslation of the net investment in foreign subsidiaries are booked into "currency translation differences" in shareholders' equity, net of tax if applicable.
Goodwill and fair value adjustments arising on the acquisition of a foreign entity are treated as assets and liabilities of the foreign entity and translated at the closing rate.

69

Foreign currency transactions in Group companies are accounted for at the exchange rates prevailing at the date of the transactions: gains and losses resulting from the settlement of such transactions and from the translation of monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies at year end exchange rates are recognised in the Income Statement.
1.28 Alternative performance measures (APM)
Eurofins is providing in the Income Statement certain alternative performance measures (non-IFRS information such as "Adjusted Results and Separately Disclosed Items" columns) that excludes certain items because of the nature of these items and the impact they have on the analysis of the underlying business performance and trends. See also Note 1.29 Separately Disclosed Items.
In addition, Eurofins shows EBITDA, EBITAS as defined in the notes to the Income Statement with the objective to be close and consistent with the information used in internal Group reporting to measure the performance of Group companies and information published by other companies in the sector.
Management believes that providing these APMs (Alternative Performance Measures) enhances investors' understanding of the Group's core operating results and future prospects, consistent with how management measures and forecasts the Group's performance, especially when comparing such results to previous periods or objectives and to the performance of our competitors.
This enables Eurofins to demonstrate the underlying profitability of the business ­ i.e. what the performance would be if the investments as described in Note 1.29 were not undertaken. In the interest of full transparency, Eurofins discloses both the adjusted results (i.e. without the separately disclosed items) and full reported results (i.e. including the separately disclosed items).
This information should be considered in addition to, but not in lieu of, information prepared in accordance with IFRS.
1.29 Separately disclosed items
In order to present the performance of the Group in a clear, consistent and comparable format, certain items are disclosed separately in the Income Statement.
Separately disclosed items include:  One-off costs from integrations, reorganisations and
discontinued operations;  Other non-recurring income and costs for all Group
companies;  Temporary losses and other costs related to
network expansion, start-ups and new acquisitions undergoing significant restructuring;  Share-based payment charge;  Impairment of goodwill, amortisation of acquired intangible assets, negative goodwill;  Income from reversal of such costs and from unused amounts due for business acquisitions;  Net finance costs related to borrowing and investing excess cash and one-off financial effects;  Transaction costs (incl. long term incentives) related to acquisitions;  And all the related tax effects of the items listed above. Reorganisation costs, such as reducing overhead and consolidating facilities, are included in the Separately Disclosed Items as Management believes that these

effects are not indicative of our normal operating income and expenses.
Certain gains/losses are also disclosed separately, as they are either isolated or cannot be expected to occur again with any regularity or predictability and as Management believes are not indicative of our normal operating gains and losses. These include for example, gains or losses from items such as the sale of a business or real estate, gains or losses on significant litigationrelated matters and discontinued operations.
Start-ups or acquisitions in significant restructuring are new companies or business activities established to develop an existing business model, transfer technology or a specific strategy. They are generally greenfield operations, or, in certain cases, newly-acquired businesses bought to achieve a target market share in a given geography that are not operating optimally, but that have the potential to operate efficiently and profitably once restructured or reorganised to the Eurofins model. However the reorganisation measures required are so large that they have a significant negative impact on the ongoing business of the Company. Start-ups are generally undertaken in new markets, and in particular emerging markets, where there are often limited viable options for acquisitions or in developed markets when Eurofins transfers technology developed by its R&D and Competence Centers abroad.
Given that the costs or operating losses incurred in the start-up or restructuring phase are temporary and should cease within a 3-5 year period on average, it is management's view that they should be disclosed separately. Whilst the timeframe for these temporary costs or losses is finite, and should cease gradually, the businesses should continue to generate revenues for the Group indefinitely, and these are therefore not considered temporary.
Start-up activities go through various stages of development before reaching optimal efficiency levels, and can take several years to become profitable. The development process includes the creation or construction of the laboratory, hiring the appropriate staff, obtaining relevant accreditations, deployment of the IT infrastructure and dedicated IT solutions, developing the sales and marketing channels, and building up volumes and the revenue base.
In general, start-up periods last for 2 to 3 years in mature markets and 2 to 5 years in emerging markets.
A business will generally no longer be considered as a start-up or an acquisition in significant restructuring when:  The Group's systems, structure and processes
have been deployed;  It has been audited, accredited and qualified and
used by the relevant regulatory bodies and the targeted client base;  It no longer requires above-average annual capital expenditures, exceptional restructuring or abnormally large costs with respect to their current revenues for deploying new Group IT systems (Note 2.3).
The list of entities classified as start-ups or acquisitions in significant restructuring is reviewed at the beginning of each year and is relevant for the whole year.
Temporary losses and other costs related to network expansion, start-ups and new acquisitions undergoing significant restructuring are included in the Separately Disclosed Items as these are investments in future growth prospects and distort the judgment of the underlying performance of the mature businesses of the Group.

70

Separately disclosed items also include share-based payment charge, impairment of goodwill, and amortisation of acquired intangible assets, recording of negative goodwill as well as income from reversal of such costs and from unused amounts due for business acquisitions as all these transactions are without cash impact in the consolidated financial statements. Furthermore the amortisation of acquired intangible assets is included because a significant portion of the purchase price for acquisitions may be allocated to intangible assets.
All transaction costs and long term incentives related to acquisitions during the year are disclosed separately. There are a number of different professionals that may assist throughout the process of planning, negotiating, due diligence, and closing of the transaction. Examples include intermediaries (investment bankers or business brokers), legal professionals (lawyers) and accounting professionals. These costs are specific and directly related to the transaction and are usually paid at or around the closing of the relevant transaction. These costs are disclosed separately also due to the fact that if the Group would stop the external growth, i.e. the acquisitions, and would only focus on internal growth, all these costs would disappear instantly and the EBIT would increase mechanically. Furthermore, these costs do not correspond to Eurofins' business of providing analytical solutions to our customers.
Net finance costs related to excess cash and one-off financial effects correspond to cash earmarked for future investments/ acquisitions and not needed for the existing business. Excess cash is calculated as the difference between the total consolidated cash balance at monthend and the minimum liquidity position required to operate the business, as based on a percentage of sales (considered to be 5% of the annualised revenues of the rolling last 3 months) and split proportionately between Equity, Gross financial debt and hybrid capital. The finance cost related to excess cash is then calculated using the weighted average interest rate of each debt instrument and coupon on hybrid capital on the balance sheet of the Company.
Management believes that the separate disclosure of these items enhances investors' understanding of the Group's core operating results and future prospects and allows better comparisons of operating results which are consistent over time and with peer companies.
1.30 Assets classified as held for sale
Non-current assets are classified as assets held for sale and stated at the lower of carrying amount and fair value less costs to sell if their carrying amount is recovered principally through a sale transaction rather than through a continuing of use.
The assets are available for immediate sale. The appropriate level of management is committed to a plan to sell the asset, and an active programme to locate a buyer and complete the plan as initiated. The asset is actively marketed for sale at a price that is reasonable in relation to its current fair value.
1.31 Fair value measurement of land and buildings and assets classified as held for sale
For purchase price allocation or in case of changes in circumstances indicating a potential impairment, the fair value measurement of the land and buildings is performed by independent advisors, according to Level 2 methodology. Fair value of land and buildings is derived using the sales comparison approach. The most

significant input into this valuation approach is the price per square meter.
1.32 Derivative financial instruments and hedging activities
Derivatives are initially recognised at fair value on the date a derivative contract is entered into and are subsequently re-measured at their fair value. The method of recognising the resulting gain or loss depends on whether the derivative is designated as a hedging instrument, and if so, the nature of the item being hedged.
The Group designates certain derivatives as hedges of a particular risk associated with a recognised asset or liability or a highly probable forecast transaction (cash flow hedge) or a net investment in a foreign operation.
The Group documents at the inception of the transaction the relationship between hedging instruments and hedged items, as well as its risk management objectives and strategy for undertaking various hedging transactions. The Group also documents its assessment, both at hedge inception and on an on-going basis, of whether the derivatives that are used in hedging transactions are highly effective in offsetting changes in fair values or cash flows of hedged items.
The fair values of various derivative instruments used for hedging purposes and movements on the hedging reserve in other comprehensive income are disclosed in Note 4.5. The full fair value of a hedging derivative is classified as a non-current asset or liability when the remaining maturity of the hedged item is more than 12 months and as a current asset or liability when the remaining maturity of the hedged item is less than 12 months.
Cash flow hedge: The effective portion of changes in the fair value of derivatives that are designated and qualified as cash flow hedges are recognised in other comprehensive income. The gain or loss relating to the ineffective portion is recognised immediately in the Income Statement within "Finance costs".
Amounts accumulated in equity are reclassified to profit or loss in the periods when the hedged item affects profit or loss. The gain or loss relating to the effective portion of interest rate swaps hedging variable rate borrowings is recognised in the income statement within `Finance costs'.
When a hedging instrument expires or is sold, or when a hedge no longer meets the criteria for hedge accounting, any cumulative gain or loss existing in equity at that time remains in equity and is recognised when the forecast transaction is ultimately recognised in the income statement.
Net investment hedge: Hedges of net investments in foreign operations are accounted for similarly to cash flow hedges. Any gain or loss on the hedging is recognised in other comprehensive income. The gain or loss relating to the ineffective portion is recognised in the income statement. Gains and losses accumulated in equity are included in the income statement when the foreign operation is partially disposed of or sold.
Derivatives that do not qualify for hedge accounting: Certain derivative instruments do not qualify for hedge accounting. Changes in the fair value of any derivative instrument that does not qualify for hedge accounting are recognised immediately in the Income Statement.

71

2. Notes to the Income Statement

2.1 Operating costs, net EUR Thousands

2017

2016

Cost of purchased materials and services Personnel expenses Other operating income and expenses, net
Total

1,064,364 897,508

1,392,815 1,178,148

995

-124

2,458,174 2,075,532

2.2 Full Time Equivalent and total Headcount

Weighted average Full Time Equivalent (FTE)
Benelux France Germany North America Nordic Region UK and Ireland Other
Total FTE

2017 2016

2,256 5,768 3,585 6,660 1,633 1,739 6,618
28,259

1,983 5,189 2,988 5,763 1,259 1,253 4,966
23,401

By the end of the year 2017, the total headcount within the Group reached 34,651 employees (27,291 in 2016).

2.3 Separately disclosed items

EUR Thousands
One-off costs from integration, reorganisation, discontinued operations and other non-recurring income and costs Temporary losses and other costs related to network expansion, startups and new acquisitions undergoing significant restructuring
EBITDA impact
Depreciation costs specific to startups and new acquisitions undergoing significant restructuring
EBITAS impact
Share-based payment charge and acquisition-related expenses Finance cost related to excess cash and one-off financial effects Tax effect from the adjustment of all separately disclosed items
Total impact on Net Profit
Non-controlling interests of separately disclosed items Total impact on earnings attributable to equity holders Total impact on earnings attributable to hybrid capital investors

2017

2016

-12,361 -14,736

-31,120 -3,811

-43,481 -18,547

-18,557 -19,688

-62,038 -40,718
-3,962 23,222 -83,495
1,132 -82,363

-38,235 -37,433
9,448 16,261 -49,959
2,313 -47,646

-9,353 -8,257

For 2017, the one-off costs from integration, reorganisation, discontinued operations, and other nonrecurring costs mainly consist of several site rationalization projects that involved consolidating several small sites into fewer but larger more efficient sites, or simply moving some businesses into our large campuses, either to streamline and optimize efficiencies or maximize synergies across businesses:  the closure of several sites in the UK;

 In the US, the rationalisation of recently acquired environmental testing laboratories located on the East coast and a pending litigation related to a real estate property on the West coast.
For 2016, the one-off costs from integration, reorganisation, discontinued operations, and other nonrecurring costs mainly consisted of several site rationalization projects that involved consolidating several small sites into fewer but larger more efficient sites, or simply moving some businesses into our large campuses, either to streamline and optimize efficiencies or maximize synergies across businesses:  In France, Eurofins combined 3 laboratories into 1
larger site in Aix-en-Provence;  In the US, the programme to integrate Eurofins
discovery services business (Cerep, Panlabs and DDS Millipore), which includes site rationalization, was completed;  the closure and sale of one facility in the UK;  In the US, the consolidation and rationalisation into one site of several environmental testing laboratories located on the West coast.
In 2017, start-ups and new acquisitions in significant restructuring generated operating losses of EUR 31,120K at EBITDA level and operating losses of EUR 49,677K at EBITAS level.
The temporary losses related to the launch of Eurofins third start-up programme (2014-2017) to support its next growth cycle with new 32 start-up laboratories launched in the year 2017 alone.
The temporary losses are also related to the network expansion in the clinical diagnostics testing in US (NTD, EGL and BHD), in India, in Japan and in Germany with an important refocusing of our offers versus 2016 and reorganisation of the teams to achieve higher profitability in 2018.
It concerns also recent some 2016 acquisitions under significant restructuring in particular in the US & Brazil environmental testing laboratories with the closure of several sites.
During 2017, the Group issued new debt and hybrid capital instruments for a total amount of EUR 1,280m (Notes 3.10 & 3.12). Furthermore, in 2017, the Group raised total gross proceeds of EUR 299m following issuance of new shares (Note 3.20). In 2017, the average monthly cash balance, net of overdrafts was EUR 843m (EUR 816m at year-end) to be compared to EUR 725m in 2016 (EUR 826m at year-end). This led to a high average excess cash of EUR 697m in 2017 vs EUR 600m in 2016. The borrowing and investment of this excess cash have generated net finance costs of EUR -11,072K on the financial result and an impact of EUR -9,353K on the earnings attributable to hybrid capital investors in 2017 vs an amount of EUR -12,150K on the financial result and an impact of EUR -8,257K on the earnings attributable to hybrid capital investors in 2016. The one-off financial effects have a positive impact of EUR +7,110K on the financial result in 2017 versus a positive impact of +21,598K in 2016.

72

2.4 Share-based payment charge and acquisitionrelated expenses, net

EUR Thousands

2017 2016

Share-based payment charge

9,333 8,518

Gain on disposal/liquidation Negative goodwill Amortisation of acquired intangible assets Transactions costs related to acquisitions Unused amounts due for business acquisitions (Note 3.14)
Acquisition-related expenses, net

-2,594 -
40,775

-2,357 -109
31,153

9,940 6,615

-16,739 -6,387 31,384 28,915

Total

40,718 37,433

Share-based payment charge

Stock options/free shares are granted to selected managers and employees. The exercise price of the granted options is equal to the 20-day volume weighted average market price prior to the date of the grant.

Options/free shares are conditional on the employee completing the vesting period (4 to 5 years). The options/free shares are exercisable after the vesting period and have a contractual option term of ten years. The average expected exercise option period is considered one year after the end of the vesting period (ie 5 to 6 years after grant).

The Group has no legal or constructive obligation to repurchase or settle the options in cash. The fair value of options/free shares granted during the period is determined using the Black-Scholes valuation model. An annual risk-free interest rate of 1.6% was used for the 2017 plans (in 2016: 2.7%). The volatility measured is based on statistical analysis of daily share prices over the last three years. Volatility amounts to 26.1% for 2017 plans.

Plan

Number of stock options initially granted

Average expected exercise option period
(Years)

Average subscription price (EUR)

Weighted average fair
value of options (EUR)

31/08/2010 05/10/2010 23/02/2011 10/10/2011 02/03/2012 19/12/2012 01/10/2013 23/10/2014 07/04/2015 22/10/2015 21/01/2016 01/08/2016 04/04/2017 13/12/2017

164,400 12,450 89,750
158,350 46,250
191,475 139,065 120,950
60,000 35,250 93,920 122,740 41,390 169,695

5/6

36.62

15/16

5/6

37.06

15/16

5/6

50.13

20/22

5/6

57.83

24/26

5/6

65.60

25/27

5/6

120.10

41/45

5/6

182.29

61/67

5/6

188.28

61/67

5/6

251.88

80/88

5/6

282.76

89/99

5/6

286.30

91/101

5/6

336.90 109/120

5/6

404.93 105/116

5/6

508.71 132/146

The movements in the number of share options are described in Note 4.7.

Plan

Number of free shares
initially granted

Average expected exercise
option period (Years)

Fair value of free shares
(EUR)

29/07/2016 01/08/2016 04/04/2017 13/12/2017

5,985 4,496
940 13,400

5/6

335.50

5/6

336.90

5/6

404,93

5/6

508,71

The movements in the number of free shares are described in Note 4.7.
2.5 Financial result

EUR Thousands

2017 2016

Derivative financial instrument (Note 4.5) Other financial income
Finance income

4,922
3,432 8,354

26,879
4,073 30,952

Interest expense on borrowings Interest expense on pensions Bonds interest expense Schuldschein interest expense Additional Schuldschein interest due to early repayment Derivative financial instrument on interest rate hedging (Note 4.5) Net foreign exchange gain/ loss Discounted cash flow charge on amounts due for business acquisitions Discounted cash flow charge on bonds issuance costs
Finance costs

-5,783 -845
-43,519 -

-7,122 -1,046 -42,768 -5,550

- -5,267

1,420 -1,659

-1,859

-82

-2,230 -4,700

-2,643 -2,607 -55,459 -70,801

Finance result, net

-47,105 -39,849

2.6 Income tax expense

EUR Thousands

2017

2016

Current tax Deferred tax (Note 3.17) Income tax expense

-61,434 30,174 -31,260

-83,220 18,119 -65,101

The tax on the Group's profit before tax differs from the theoretical amount that would arise using the weighted average tax rate applicable to profits of the consolidated entities as follows:

EUR Thousands

2017

2016

Result before income tax
Tax calculated at domestic rates applicable to profits in the respective countries Theoretical tax charge rate Other income taxes1 Tax impact of non-deductible expenses Tax impact of income taxed at a reduced tax rate Tax impact of shares of profit of associates

250,105 242,607

-74,904 -74,007

29.9% -10,169
-15,912

30.5% -11,117
-10,498

54,112 33,097

74

72

73

Tax impact of deductible expenses not accounted for in the Income Statement Tax impact of tax losses not recognised Utilisation of previously unrecognised tax losses Re-measurement of deferred taxes Adjustment in respect of prior years Tax credit
Income tax expense Actual income tax expense rate

7,482
-21,846
4,671 25,188
44 -
-31,260 12.5%

11,461
-16,597
5,320 322
-3,174 21
-65,101 26.8%

1 This line includes other income taxes based on the results as CVAE ("cotisation sur la valeur ajoutée des entreprises") in France, IRAP ("imposta regionale sulle attività produttive") in Italy and withholding taxes paid on some transactions such as dividends/ royalties.

The movement in deferred tax assets and liabilities during the year is detailed in Note 3.17.

The income tax paid for each period is the following:

EUR Thousands

2017

2016

Income tax paid

-79,384

-73,239

The change in the theoretical tax charge rate is primarily due to the change in the weighted distribution of taxable results before income tax of the different countries where the Group operates.

In 2016, the adjustment in respect of prior years was primarily related to a tax audit in Germany.

In 2017, the re-measurement of deferred taxes is mainly due to the US Tax Cuts enforced in December 2017 leading to a reduction in the US corporate income tax rate from 35% to 21% (25% estimated rate including State taxes) which resulted in a significant profit of EUR 19m in the consolidated income statement. A positive impact of a similar nature (EUR 3m) has also been recognised on French acquisitions.

The utilisation of previously unrecognised tax losses is detailed in Note 3.17.

74

3. Notes on the Balance Sheet and Cash flow statement

3.1 Property, plant and equipment
EUR Thousands
Year 2016 Opening net book amount Currency translation differences Change of scope Additions Disposals Depreciation charge Closing net book amount

Assets in progress

Land, buildings and leasehold
improvements

39,097 1,080 0 -5,562 -
34,614

166,186 3,058
14,210 59,732 -4,277 -24,190
214,720

Machinery and laboratory equipment
187,175 3,244
16,896 79,929 -2,969 -67,709 216,567

Office equipment, furniture and
vehicles
35,083 545
2,134 21,622
-389 -18,079 40,916

Total
427,541 7,927
33,241 155,721
-7,634 -109,979 506,818

Cost or valuation Accumulated depreciation Net book amount at December 31, 2016
Year 2017 Opening net book amount Currency translation differences Change of scope Additions Disposals Depreciation charge Closing net book amount

34,614 -
34,614
34,614 -3,012 6,533 -2,749
35,387

351,012 -136,292 214,720
214,720 -12,779 72,680 85,223 -21,934 -29,677 308,233

698,325 -481,758 216,567
216,567 -9,315 69,225 94,176 -507
-81,289 288,858

158,977 -118,060
40,916
40,916 -1,791 13,712 23,995
-878 -22,433 53,520

1,242,928 -736,110 506,818
506,818 -26,898 162,150 200,645 -23,318 -133,399 685,998

Cost or valuation

35,387

483,882

938,749

203,530

1,661,548

Accumulated depreciation

-

-175,648

-649,891

-150,010

-975,550

Net book amount at December 31, 2017

35,387

308,233

288,858

53,520

685,998

Leased machinery/equipment and building included in the above table, where Eurofins is a lessee under a finance lease are as

follows:

EUR Thousands

2017

2016

Capitalised cost of finance leases Accumulated depreciation Net book amount

75,491 -54,800 20,691

62,216 -47,012 15,204

3.2 Intangible assets
EUR Thousands
Year 2016 Opening net book amount Currency translation differences Change in consolidation scope Additions Disposals Amortisation charge Closing net book amount

Intangibles assets
related to acquisition1
251,583 5,831
39,996 -
-23,721 273,689

Brands
31,724 560
3,171 -
-7,432 28,023

Software2
65,617 367 518
44,882 -29
-30,097 81,257

Other intangible assets
2,545 13
230 -928
0 -1,620
240

Total
351,469 6,770
43,915 43,954
-28 -62,870 383,209

Cost Accumulated amortisation Net book amount at December 31, 2016
Year 2017 Opening net book amount Currency translation differences Change in consolidation scope Additions Disposals Amortisation charge Closing net book amount

344,093 -70,404 273,689
273,689 -19,712 391,891
-32,747 613,121

47,299 -19,276 28,023
28,023 -
13,898 -
-8,028 33,894

219,462 -138,204
81,257
81,257 -931
4,626 44,452
-176 -42,115 87,113

1,693 -1,453
240
240 -26 344 638
-204 992

Cost

708,470

61,045

265,370

3,305

Accumulated amortisation

-95,349

-27,151

-178,257

-2,313

Net book amount at December 31, 2017

613,121

33,894

87,113

992

1 Intangible assets related to acquisitions are mainly related to customer relationships and some technology/ intangible property and non-compete agreements assets

recognised during the purchase price allocation. 2 Software includes EUR 33.4m of internal development costs capitalised in 2017.

612,546 -229,337 383,209
383,210 -20,669 410,760 45,090
-176 -83,094 735,120
1,038,191 -303,071 735,120

75

Goodwill
EUR Thousands
Opening net book amount Currency translation differences Change in consolidation scope Impairment Closing net book amount

2017
1,584,644 -86,776
1,007,469 -
2,505,337

2016
1,411,896 24,030
148,718 -
1,584,644

Cost Accumulated impairment charge
Net book amount

2,518,385 -13,048
2,505,337

1,597,692 -13,048
1,584,644

The change in scope is detailed per legal entity in Note 5.1.

The change in consolidation scope (intangible assets related to acquisitions: EUR 391,891K, brands: EUR 13,898K and goodwill: EUR 1,007,469K) for a total amount of EUR 1,413,259K relates to:  New acquisitions of the period: EUR 1,410,556K,  Adjustments during the 12-month window period of
previous acquisitions: EUR 2,118K,  Change in "goodwill in progress": EUR 585K (transaction
with non-controlling interests).

The "goodwill in progress" is accounted for as an agreement to buy out the minority shareholders resulting from cross put and call options closed prior to the first application of IFRS 3R (Note 1.3) and represents an amount of EUR 1,400K as at December 31, 2017 (EUR 1,766K as at December 31, 2016).

Impairment test for goodwill

The calculation model description is provided in Note 1.9. A cash-generating unit (CGU) corresponds to the lowest level of assets or group of assets for which there are separately identifiable cash flows.

The key assumptions used for value-in-use calculations in 2017 are as follows:

Compounded annual volume
growth rate 1

Long term growth rate 2

Pre-tax Discount
rate

Recoverable amount of the
CGU
EUR Thousands

Benelux

2.0% 2.0%

7.19%

557,086

France

2.2% 2.0%

8.27%

2,101,257

Germany

2.2% 2.0%

7.00%

1,686,327

North America

2.4% 2.0%

9.44%

2,590,216

Nordic Region

1.6% 1.5%

7.26%

652,774

UK and Ireland

2.2% 2.0%

7.90%

326,342

Other

2.8% 2.5% 12.47%

656,140

1 Compounded annual volume revenues growth rate in the initial five-year period 2 Weighted average growth rate used to extrapolate cash flows beyond the initial

five-year period

The key assumptions used for value-in-use calculations in 2016 were as follows:

Benelux France Germany North America Nordic Region UK and Ireland Other

Compounded annual volume
growth rate 1
2.0% 2.2% 2.2% 2.4%
1.6%
2.2% 2.8%

Long term growth rate 2
2.0% 2.0% 2.0% 2.0%
1.5%
2.0% 2.5%

Pre-tax Discount
rate
7.33% 8.83% 8.08%
11.84%

Recoverable amount of the
CGU
EUR Thousands
422,439 1,780,181 1,039,412
1,157,710

8.19%

440,447

9.02% 10.80%

175,419 598,644

CGUs are based on the following geographical areas: Benelux, France, Germany, North America, Nordic Region, UK and Ireland, Other, which is an aggregate of others CGUs. Recently-acquired subsidiaries can be followed up individually in case of significant contingent consideration due during the years following the acquisition. The following is a summary of goodwill allocation for each operating segment as of December 31, 2017:

Management determined as a key assumption the compounded annual volume growth rate for each CGU. The volume of sales in each period is the main driver for revenue and costs. The compounded annual volume growth rate is based on past performance and management's expectations of market development. The long term growth rates used reflect specific risks relating to the relevant operating segments.

EUR Thousands
Benelux
France
Germany North America Nordic Region UK and Ireland Other
Total

Opening

Currency translation

102,726 525,265
65,744
634,870

-
-72,018

87,355 -3,044

48,229 120,455 1,584,644

-2,297 -9,417 -86,776

Change of Impair scope -ment

Closing

9,420 150,008
88,853
552,863

- 112,146 - 675,272 - 154,597
- 1,115,715

The EBITAS margin used is between 8% and 16% of the revenues depending on geographic area for 2017, with an improvement in subsequent years. Financial information with respect to Revenues and EBITAS per CGU are not provided for confidentiality reasons because they would affect the Group's acquisition model.
In 2017, no impairment is required as these values are above the carrying value of each CGU.

26,414
50,566 129,346 1,007,469

- 110,725 Sensitivity analysis: Rising the WACC rate by 1 percentage point in the value in
- 96,498 use would not result in any impairment in goodwill.

- 240,384 In EUR millions - 2,505,337 and multiple

value in use1/ Goodwill, net Goodwill, net

The recoverable amount of all CGUs is determined based on value-in-use calculations. These calculations use pre-tax cash flow projections based on financial budgets approved by management covering a three-year period. Cash flows for years four and five are extrapolated using the estimated growth rates stated below. The Group reviews the assumptions used regularly and brings them in line with the data observed on the market.

Benelux France Germany North America Nordic Region UK and Ireland Other
1 WACC rate increased by 1%

112

3.8x

675

2.5x

155

8.0x

1,116

1.8x

111

4.7x

96

2.7x

240

2.3x

76

Reducing Revenues, EBITDA, EBITAS ratios by 25% used for the valuation of assets less costs of disposal would not result in any impairment in goodwill either.

3.3 Assets classified as held for sale

No assets are held for sale as of December 31, 2017.

3.4 Investments in associates

EUR Thousands

2017

2016

Opening net book amount Currency translation differences Change of scope (Note 5.1) Disposals Dividends received Share of profit of associates
Closing net book amount

3,373 -245
2,381 -24
-246 403
5,642

14,926 203
-12,001 -
-264 509
3,373

The amount disclosed under change of scope for 2017 is related to some minor acquisitions closed at the very end of December 2017 (Note 5.1). These investments will be fully consolidated as from January 1, 2018.

Other investments in associates were as follows:

Main associates undertaking:
EUR Thousands

Revenues

Net Total profit assets

At December 31, 2017
Fasmac Co. Ltd. (JP) Eurofins Laboratoire Coeur de France SAEML (FR)

10,273 450 7,178 5,118 455 2,970

Z.F.D GmbH

1,441 -17 1,016

At December 31, 2016

Fasmac Co. Ltd. (JP) Eurofins Laboratoire Coeur de France SAEML (FR)

10,319 711 7,900 5,408 443 2,665

Z.F.D GmbH

1,421

13 1,024

ProBase Pharma BV1

122

10

71

1 The entity ProBase Pharma BV has been sold in 2017.

Equity
5,473 1,265
682
5,725 1,141
699 -3

% of interest
41% 49% 33%
41% 49% 33% 50%

3.5 Financial assets and other receivables

EUR Thousands

2017

2016

Opening net book amount Currency translation differences Change of scope Increase Decrease Revaluation through OCI of financial assets available for sale
Closing net book amount

34,154 -1,657 4,496 4,801 -1,020
3,168
43,942

32,074 537 709
3,310 -2,418
-58
34,154

EUR Thousands

2017

2016

Available for sale financial assets Lease and other deposits Closing net book amount

9,422 34,520 43,942

4,730 29,424 34,154

Available for sale financial assets relate to an investment in the company Vimta Labs Limited in India (19.9% share ownership at the end of 2017). Vimta Labs Limited is publicly listed on the Bombay stock exchange (India).

3.6 Inventories

EUR Thousands Inventories Provision for inventories Closing net book amount

2017 53,538 -1,733 51,805

2016 41,093 -1,546 39,547

The cost of inventories recognised as an expense during the period and included in "Operating costs, net" amounts to EUR 370,831K (2016: EUR 318,857K).
3.7 Trade accounts receivable

EUR Thousands

2017 2016

Trade accounts receivable - gross and expected amounts1

611,491 459,592

Provision for impairment of receivables -34,939 -27,962

Accrued sales

38,888 26,494

Amounts due by customers for analysis in progress

90,276 66,384

Trade accounts receivable

705,716 524,508

Advance payments received

-46,670 -23,558

Deferred revenues

-55,072 -29,451

Total Trade accounts receivable, net

603,974 471,499

1 offset for US Clinical Testing as the revenues are recorded based on expected

amounts and shown the Trade accounts receivable for their expected amounts ­

see notes 1.12 and 1.23

The ageing of the gross trade accounts receivable as at December 31, 2017 is as follows:

EUR Thousands
Not overdue Overdue for less than 90 days Overdue for more than 90 days but not more than 360 days Overdue for more than 360 days Individual bad debts
Total

2017 433,617 130,975
31,494
5,857 9,549 611,491

2016 315,981 109,800
19,403
5,294 9,114 459,592

As of December 31, 2017, trade accounts receivable, net of VAT, were impaired for an amount of EUR 34,939K.

Movements in the provision for impairment of trade accounts receivable are detailed as follows:

EUR Thousands

2017

2016

Opening net book amount Exchange differences Change of scope Net variation Closing net book amount

27,962 -669
6,239 1,406 34,939

27,734 229
3,110 -3,111 27,962

The maximum exposure to credit risk at the reporting date is the carrying value of the trade accounts receivable mentioned above. The Group does not hold any collateral as security. For more details regarding the credit risk of the Group, refer to note 4.2.

3.8 Prepaid expenses and other current assets

EUR Thousands

2017

2016

Prepaid expenses Other receivables Total

37,140 62,338 99,478

22,432 42,580 65,012

77

3.9 Cash and cash equivalents, bank overdrafts and net debt

EUR Thousands

2017

2016

Short term deposits with banks Cash in hand
Cash & cash equivalents Bank overdrafts
Cash and cash equivalents less bank overdrafts

153,293 667,064 820,357
-4,331
816,026

506,019 320,079 826,098
-431
825,667

The short term deposits with banks consist of money market funds as well as interest bearing accounts and deposit certificates in Euros. At the end of the year, the carrying amount reflected above is the fair value based on the market price as they are quoted on active markets.

EUR Thousands

2017

2016

Bank borrowings and lease liabilities (incl. overdrafts) Bonds1 Commercial Paper Cash and cash equivalents Net debt
1 net of bonds issuance costs
3.10 Borrowings

48,834
1,937,496 230,000 -820,357
1,395,373

90,760
1,293,118 -
-826,098 557,780

EUR Thousands Variation of borrowings

2017

2016

At beginning of year Currency translation differences Change of scope Increase of borrowings Repayment of borrowings Amortisation of bond costs
At end of year
Bank overdrafts
Total Borrowings

1,383,446 -1,349 86,411
879,732 -138,884
2,643
2,211,999
4,331
2,216,330

1,707,330 1,686 9,738 7,945
-345,859 2,607
1,383,446
431
1,383,878

EUR Thousands Analysis of current borrowings

2017

2016

Bank borrowings Bonds1 Commercial paper Bank overdrafts Lease liabilities
Total current borrowings
1 net of issuance costs

15,998 297,232 230,000
4,331 6,669 554,231

39,010 -1,646
431 5,724 43,519

EUR Thousands Analysis of non-current borrowings
Bank borrowings Bonds1 Commercial paper Lease liabilities Total non-current borrowings
Total borrowings
1 net of issuance costs

2017
11,278 1,640,264
10,558 1,662,099 2,216,330

2016
37,123 1,294,764
8,472 1,340,359 1,383,877

The repayment periods of the current borrowings are as follows:

EUR Thousands

Total

Up to 3 months

3-6 Over 6 months months

Lease liabilities Bank borrowings

6,669 15,998

1,667 4,000

3,334 7,999

1,667 4,000

Bonds Commercial paper Bank overdrafts Total current borrowings

297,232 230,000
4,331

-692 230,000
4,331

554,231 239,306

-1,384 299,308

-

-

9,950 304,975

In addition, a number of bilateral credit facilities with Eurofins banks are not used at the end of 2017.

Eurobonds

Eurobonds November 2018:
In November 2013, Eurofins issued an inaugural senior unsecured Euro bond for a nominal value of EUR 300m. The bonds have a five-year maturity (due November 26, 2018), and bear an annual coupon of 3.125%. The bonds have been listed on the Luxembourg stock Exchange under ISIN XS0996772876.

Eurobonds January 2022:
In January 2015, Eurofins raised EUR 500m through its second senior unsecured Euro bond public issuance. The bonds have a seven-year maturity (due January 27, 2022) and bear an annual coupon of 2.25%. The bonds are listed on the regulated market of the Luxembourg stock exchange (ISIN XS1174211471).

Eurobonds January 2023:
In July 2015, Eurofins raised EUR 500m in its third senior unsecured Euro bond public issuance. The bonds have a seven and half year maturity (due January 30, 2023) and bear an annual coupon of 3.375%. The bonds are listed on the regulated market of the Luxembourg stock exchange (ISIN XS1268496640).

Eurobonds July 2024:
In July 2017, Eurofins raised EUR 650m in its latest senior unsecured Euro bond public issuance. The bonds have a seven-year maturity (due 25 July 2024) and bear an annual rate of 2.125%. The bonds are listed on the regulated market of the Luxembourg stock exchange (ISIN XS1651444140).

The quoted values of the Company's Eurobonds are disclosed in Note 4.6.
Commercial paper

In September 2017, Eurofins managed to set up a new Negotiable European Commercial Paper programme ("NEU CP") for a maximum amount of EUR 500m. This programme is used to issue short term notes with a minimum size of 200,000 EUR and maturity of less than one year. At the end of December 2017, notes were outstanding for an amount of EUR 230m under this programme.
3.11 Interest due on borrowings and earnings due on hybrid capital

EUR Thousands

2017 2016

Interest due on borrowings

33,591 29,019

Earnings due on 2013/14 hybrid capital Earnings due on 2015 hybrid capital Earnings due on 2017 hybrid capital Earnings due on hybrid capital

19,274 9,897 1,710
30,881

19,274 9,897 -
29,171

Total

64,472 58,190

78

3.12 Hybrid capital EUR Thousands

2017

2016

At beginning of year Proceeds from Hybrid capital At end of year

600,000 400,000 1,000,000

600,000 -
600,000

The dividend outflow related to hybrid capital outstanding reflected in the Cash Flow Statement is detailed as follows:

EUR Thousands
2013/14 hybrid dividend 2015 hybrid dividend Total dividend distribution on hybrid capital

2017 21,000 14,625
35,625

2016 21,000 14,625
35,625

Hybrid instrument with a first call date on January 31, 2020:

In January 2013, Eurofins issued a EUR 150m hybrid instrument. In July 2014, Eurofins extended the size of its existing hybrid instrument, bringing the overall size of Eurofins' hybrid instrument to EUR 300m.

The hybrid instrument has a perpetual maturity, but is callable at par by Eurofins in January 2020. It bears a fixed annual coupon of 7.00% for the first seven years until first call, and a coupon of Euribor 3m + 818 bps thereafter if not called. The instrument is listed on the regulated market of the Luxembourg stock exchange (ISIN XS 0881803646).
Hybrid instrument with a first call date on April 29, 2023:

In April 2015, Eurofins issued a EUR 300m hybrid instrument. The instrument has a perpetual maturity, but is callable at par by Eurofins on the 8th year (first call date in April 2023). This hybrid instrument bears a fixed annual coupon of 4.875% for the first 8 years until first call, and a coupon of Euribor 3m + 701 bps thereafter if not called. The instrument is listed on the regulated market of the Luxembourg stock exchange (ISIN XS1224953882).

Hybrid instrument with a first call date on November 13, 2025:

In November 2017, Eurofins raised a EUR 400m hybrid instrument. The instrument has a perpetual maturity, but is callable at par by Eurofins on the 8th year (first call date in November 2025). This hybrid instrument bears a fixed annual coupon of 3.25% for the first 8 years until first call, and a coupon of Euribor 3m + a margin thereafter if not called. This margin may vary between 266.7bps to 516.7bps, depending on the various potential external credit rating scenario assigned to Eurofins by external rating agency/ies by November 2020 (and assessment of equity content given by external rating agency/ies to the instrument). The instrument is listed on the regulated market of the Luxembourg stock exchange (ISIN XS1716945586).

On these hybrid instruments outstanding in 2017, a first distribution on hybrid capital of EUR 21.0m was paid in January 2017 (EUR 300m at 7%) and a second one of EUR 14.6m was paid in April 2017 (EUR 300m at 4.875%).

The impact of the hybrid capital dividend distribution on the equity and of the net profit attributable to hybrid capital holders used for the calculation of the earnings per share is detailed as follows:

EUR Thousands
2013/14 hybrid dividend 2015 hybrid dividend 2017 hybrid dividend Total dividend distribution on hybrid capital (Note 4.8)

2017 21,000 14,625
1,710
37,335

2016 21,000 14,625
-
35,625

3.13 Trade accounts payable and other current liabilities

EUR Thousands Trade accounts payable Trade accruals payable Total Trade accounts payable

2017 206,143
95,720 301,863

2016 156,228
73,894 230,122

Tax and social security payables Tax and social security accruals Other payables Other current liabilities

111,811 163,630
29,427 304,868

78,872 141,698
21,433 242,003

3.14 Amounts due for business acquisitions

Amounts due for business acquisitions include conditional clauses impacting the price payable to former shareholders of purchased companies.

Movements in 2017 are detailed as follows:

EUR Thousands

2017

2016

At beginning of year Currency translation differences Change of scope on new acquisitions Amounts due for business acquisitions paid Reevaluation by equity Reversal of amounts due for business acquisitions not paid Interest on amounts due for business acquisitions (Note 2.5) At end of year Current Non-current Total

224,112 -11,228 55,076
-132,932 17,237 -16,739
2,230
137,755 88,235 49,521
137,755

215,952 3,737
17,180
-12,101 1,031 -6,387
4,700
224,111 43,511
180,600 224,112

The change of scope corresponds to: EUR Thousands New acquisitions Re-evaluation goodwill within the 12 months period Re-evaluation goodwill in progress Change of the year

2017 52,618
2,458
55,076

2016 17,061
-345
464 17,180

The discount rate used in 2017 to determine the present value of deferred considerations is 2.57% (2.71% in 2016).

The periods in which the non-current Amounts due for

business acquisitions are due are detailed as follows:

EUR Thousands

2017

2016

Between 1 and 5 years

47,627

165,700

Over 5 years

1,894

14,900

Total non-current

49,521

180,600

Within the amounts due for business acquisitions, the Group has contingent arrangements in relation with fifty-four acquisitions (including put & call options).

The assumptions used are based on the business plans provided at acquisition time and reviewed during the first 12 months in case of significant changes, then reviewed every year based on actual performance for multi-year arrangements to re-assess deferred considerations to be paid. This is a level 3 fair value measurement.

More detailed price conditions are disclosed below. The companies acquired have already been fully consolidated and the liabilities related to the deferred consideration (including put and call options) are already included in the line "Amounts due for business acquisitions".

79

EUR Thousands Transactions with previous shareholders Transactions with NCI - Fixed price Transactions with NCI - Variable price Put and Call options prior to the first application of IFRS 3R Discount effects
Total

2017
103,368 4,447
32,498 1,400 -3,958
137,756

2016
108,332 3,883
122,061 1,766
-11,930 224,112

The potential undiscounted amounts of all future payments that the Group could be required to make under these arrangements are estimated between EUR 117m and EUR 165m, depending on changes in financial performance of acquired companies.

(i) Transactions with previous shareholders

End of January 2015, Eurofins acquired 100% of Boston Heart Diagnostics Corp. ("BHD") in the United States. An Earn-out Consideration was based on the average EBITDA of the company over the period January 2016 to December 2017. Several companies in the cardiac biomarker laboratory services industry, including BHD, are cooperating with an investigation that the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services, Office of Inspector General, is conducting with the U.S. Department of Justice ("DOJ") related, in part, to payments made to physicians for services performed in connection with blood specimen processing and handling services. After a multi-year investigation, the DOJ declined to assume prosecution of these cases and decided to allow the private citizens that brought the qui tam cases litigate the cases on their own. While BHD does not believe that it has violated any applicable laws or regulations, BHD is unable to predict the ultimate resolution of these matters. The ultimate outcome could have a material adverse effect on BHD's results of operations, financial position or cash flows. However Group is indemnified by the former shareholders of BHD for losses arising out of, resulting from, based on or relating to the investigation and qui tam cases, up to the amount of funds held in escrow (USD 30m) or payable under the provision for earn-out. Due to our earn-out offset mechanism in relation to the historical cases in progress, valuation and payment of the earn-out, if any, will be possible only after the quitam cases in progress are resolved The fair value of the probable cash outflows was estimated at an amount of USD 60m at December 31, 2017, same as at December 31, 2016 and at acquisition time (maximum amount undiscounted).

In July 2015, Eurofins acquired 100% of Diatherix Laboratories, Inc. ("Diatherix") in the United States. The Earnout Consideration was based on the average EBITDA of the company over the period July 2015 to June 2017. The fair value of the contingent consideration arrangement was estimated at an undiscounted amount in excess of EUR 20m. The final instalment was paid in 2017 for EUR 10.6m. The adjustment has been recorded through the income statement.

In September 2016, Eurofins acquired 100% of VRL, Inc. in the United States. The Earn-out Consideration is based on the Revenues & EBITDA of the company over the period September 2016 to August 2017. The fair value of the contingent consideration arrangement was estimated at an undiscounted amount in excess of EUR 5m. The final instalment will be paid in early 2018.

In July 2017, Eurofins acquired 100% of Genoma in Italy. The Earn-out Consideration is based on the average EBITDA of the company over the period January 2017 to December 2019. The fair value of the contingent consideration arrangement has been estimated at an undiscounted amount in excess of EUR 11m. The final instalment will be paid in early 2020.

In June 2017, Eurofins acquired 100% of Alphora Research, Inc. in Canada. The Earn-out Consideration is based on the EBITDA of the company over the period January 2017 to December 2017. The fair value of the contingent consideration arrangement has been estimated at an undiscounted amount in excess of EUR 6m. The final instalment will be paid in early 2018.
In December 2017, Eurofins acquired 100% of Selcia in the UK. The Earn-out Consideration is based on the EBITDA of the company over financial years 2017 and 2018. The fair value of the contingent consideration arrangement has been estimated at an undiscounted amount in excess of EUR 3m. The instalments of each year will be paid in 2018 and 2019.
The other contingent consideration arrangements are individually estimated at less than EUR 3m.
(ii) Transactions with non-controlling interests at a fixed price
In November 2010, Eurofins Scientific S.E. had entered into a Control and Profit Transfer Agreement with MWG-Biotech AG non-controlling shareholders, for an amount of EUR 2.20 per share. The agreement had been revaluated in 2016 to an amount of EUR 3.20 per share. As at December 31, 2017 all remaining shares from non-controlling interests were purchased by the Group.
Eurofins had completed in March 2013 the acquisition of a 52% majority stake in GCL/Fundación Chile (GCL), the leading food testing service provider in the country. A put and call agreement had been concluded for the remaining 48% of the shares. The call option at a fixed price of EUR 2.3m as at December 31, 2016 was fully exercised in 2017.
Eurofins completed in June 2017 the acquisition of a 90% majority stake in Electrosuisse (CH). A put and call agreement has been concluded for the remaining 10% of the shares. The call option is estimated at a fixed price of EUR 1.0m as at December 31, 2017 payable in 2019.
Eurofins completed in July 2017 the acquisition of a 62.63% majority stake in LifeCodexx (DE). An agreement has been concluded for the remaining 37.37% of the shares for a fixed price of EUR 3.5m as at December 31, 2017 payable in early 2018.
(iii) Transactions with non-controlling interests at a variable price
Eurofins completed in 2013 the acquisition of a 91% majority stake in Eurofins Environment Testing Australia Pty Ltd., the largest private environmental testing laboratory network in Australia. A put and call agreement has been concluded for the remaining 9% of the shares. The fair value of the put and call agreement is based on a multiple of the Average EBITDA over the period 2016-2017, payable in 2018.
Eurofins acquired in 2013 an 81% majority stake in Agrisearch Services (Australia/ New Zealand). A put and call agreement has been concluded for the remaining 19% of the shares. The fair value of the put and call agreement is based on a multiple of the Average EBITAS over the period 2016-2017, payable in 2018.
Eurofins took control in 2015 of a 66% stake in Bio-Access in France. A put and call agreement was simultanously concluded for the remaining 34% of the shares. The fair value of the put and call agreement was estimated at an undiscounted amount of EUR 98m at end of 2016.
Following the buy-back agreement signed in May 2017, Eurofins acquired the 34% non-controlling shares in the Holding company of Bio-Access Group in August 2017, for a purchase price of EUR 107m, of which EUR 96m were paid in

80

cash and EUR 11m in shares of Eurofins Scientific S.E. through a reserved capital increase (delivery of 23,277 new shares issued at a share price of EUR 479.22 per share against a contribution in kind). In addition, following this agreement, NCI related to Bio-Access have been totally reversed through retained earnings for an amount of EUR 103m.
Eurofins acquired in 2015 a 76% stake in Emory Genetics Laboratory ("EGL") in the United States. A put and call agreement was concluded for the remaining 24% of the shares. The fair value of the put and call agreement is based on a multiple of the Average EBITDA, net of Net Debt, of the two last years of the put and call agreement ending no sooner than 2021 and payable in the following year. In 2017, following changes in EGL's share capital, the Group's share in EGL rose to 88%. At year-end, the Group reviewed through the income statement its estimation of the put and call option to a value of EUR 5.8m (compared to EUR 13m as of December 31, 2016).
Eurofins acquired in 2015 a 72% stake in Laboratoire des Pyramides in France. A put and call agreement was concluded for the remaining 28% of the shares. The fair value of the put and call agreement is based on a multiple of the last year EBITDA, net of Net Debt, at any time. The fair value is estimated at an undiscounted amount in excess of EUR 3.8m.
Eurofins acquired in 2017 a 60% stake in Spectro Analytical labs, Ltd in India. A put and call agreement was concluded for the remaining 40% of the shares. The fair value of the put and call agreement is based on a multiple of the average EBITDA over the period 2018-2019, net of Net Debt. The fair value is estimated at an undiscounted amount in excess of EUR 17.4m.
Other put and call agreements have been signed for the remaining 8.9% of the shares in Eurofins Digital Testing Belgium, Sweden, British Isles & Poland, for the remaining 25% of the shares in NM Group of Laboratories (Malaysia) and for the remaining 33% of the shares in Eurofins Ecopro Research KK (Japan).
The aggregate value of these put and call agreements is estimated at less than EUR 5.5m as of December 31, 2017.
(iv) Transactions with non-controlling interests at a variable price with the method of the "goodwill in progress" prior to the first application of IFRS 3R
In 2016, it concerned two put and call agreements for the remaining 10% of the shares in Eurofins Shanghai Holding Ltd (multiple of the Average EBITA over the period 2016-2017 times 10%, payable in 2018) and 7% of the shares in INLAB GmbH (multiple of the Average Net Profit over the period 2019-2020 times 7%, payable in 2021).
In 2017, 7% of the shares in INLAB GmbH have been acquired in anticipation.
3.15 Retirement benefit obligations
The Group operates retirement benefit obligations plans in Austria, France, Germany, The Netherlands, Norway, Italy, Japan, Sweden and Taiwan. These plans concern roughly 9,600 headcount (of which 6,400 headcount in France).
We provide hereafter a short description of the main defined benefit plans and of the risks associated thereto:
In Sweden, it relates to a defined benefit plan for all employees (ITP 2, 650 headcount). The ITP 2 plan can be funded in two different ways, either by paying premiums to Alecta Pensionsförsäkring (a mutual life insurance company) or by using a book reserve system in combination with credit insurance through PRI Pensionsgaranti. Eurofins is using the latter. The ITP 2 pension paid relates to the final salary. The

ITP 2 plan does not include any guaranteed compensation for inflation. The cost for the ITP 2 plan can vary significantly between employees depending on age and salary. The age of retirement is 65. A mechanism in the plan will limit any excessive cost for the retirement pension benefit.
In France, the "Provision pour indemnité de départ à la retraite" corresponds to a lump sum payment made upon retirement. The lump sum amount is dependent on different factors such as years of service with the company, compensation at retirement age (between age of 63 and 65) and collective agreements. Some companies in France also have some work anniversary awards agreements "médaille du travail". The lump sum amount is defined by the collective agreement and based on the number of years of service with the company.
In Germany, it relates mainly to a defined benefit plan for the employees of CLF (Central Laboratories Friedrichsdorf) and to defined benefit plans for former managers of companies acquired by Eurofins (who are no longer employees of these companies). The CLF pension plan consists in a perpetual annuity mainly dependent on final salary and years of service at the age of retirement (between age of 60 and 63). The CLF pension liabilities are updated taking the inflation rate into account.
In Japan, the defined benefit plan mainly corresponds to a lump sum payment made upon retirement (age of 60) or upon ending an employment contract with the company. The lump sum amount is dependent on different factors such as years of service and job grade per company retirement rule.
In Taiwan, the defined benefit plan corresponds to a lump sum payment made upon retirement. The lump sum amount is dependent on different factors such as years of service, compensation of the last six months' salary preceding retirement.
In the Netherlands, some Eurofins employees used to participate in a defined benefit pension scheme executed by the insurance company "Nationale Nederlanden" (NN). This defined benefit pension plan has been terminated at the end of 2016 as all concerned employees have moved to defined contribution pension plans.
The remaining retirement benefit obligation in the Netherlands relates to work anniversary award plans `Jubilee'. The lump sum amount is defined by the employment conditions and based on the number of years of service.
In Italy it relates to the TFR (`Trattamento di Fine Rapporto'). It is an end-of-employment provision accrued for each single employee and paid out upon termination of the employment contract. The provision amounts approximately to one month of salary per each worked year: the cost for the TFR can therefore vary significantly between employees depending on age and salary. Since the change in legislation in 2007, the TFR valuation as defined benefit obligations (DBO) has only consisted of:  The TFR for entities of less than 50 employees;  The TFR for the employees of companies greater than
50 employees and in existence before December 2006 (this "old" TFR is re-evaluated every year).
Since 2007, entities of more than 50 employees established after 2006 have had the obligation to transfer the TFR provision to external funds (alternatively the Italian Social Security Agency ­ INPS ­ or any other private fund). Where applicable the TFR has been converted into a defined contribution plan.
In Norway, the Group has a defined benefit plan ("MultiEmployer Scheme") for employees who have previously been employed in the public sector (74 headcount). This plan relates to a company acquired by Eurofins. The benefits of this funded

81

plan are mainly dependent on earned pension entitlement, salary at the time of retirement and the size of payments from the National Insurance. The plan also covers a life insurance and disability insurance. The yearly premiums are calculated in accordance with the Insurance Activity Act §10-5 to §10-8 and the National Insurance Act §19-14. The pension scheme is included in a common arrangement with other companies and the yearly premiums are levelled between all participating companies. The arrangement ensures that the premiums paid are neutral of gender and age. The premiums to be paid by Eurofins are calculated based upon the share of the total pension entitlements of the members of the scheme. The company is not liable to the plan for other entities participating in the scheme. Any surplus of the scheme will be allocated to the participating companies and added to its pension fund. Deficits will be charged to each participating company according to the share of the future obligation.
In all countries, the calculation is performed by actuary experts (except in France where the calculation is performed by Eurofins).
The movement on the pension accrual account is as follows:

EUR Thousands
At beginning of year Exchange differences Change of scope Re-measurements included in OCI Annual expense Contributions paid At end of year

2017
51,113 -854
3,373 182
4,157 -2,437 55,535

2016
46,563 -424
1,095 5,238 1,234 -2,593 51,113

The total pension costs for the year 2017 amount to EUR 29m, of which EUR 4.2m for defined benefit plans and EUR 24.8m for defined contribution plans. The total pension costs for the year 2016 amounted to EUR 24.3m, of which EUR 1.2m for defined benefit plans and EUR 23.1m for defined contribution plans.

The amount of contributions to defined contribution plans paid to members of the Board of Directors corresponds to EUR 46k.

The amounts recognised in the Income Statement for the defined benefit plans are determined as follows:

EUR Thousands

2017

2016

Current service costs Past service costs Effects of curtailments Interest cost Expected return on plan assets Total

3,607 -
-294 912 -67 4,157

3,516 -3,258
-70 1,343
-297 1,234

EUR Thousands

Present value of obligation

Fair value of plan asset

Total

At beginning of year
Current service cost
Interest expense/(income)
Effects of curtailments Amounts recognised in the Income Statement Remeasurements : Return on plan assets, excluding amounts included in interest expense/(income) (Gain)/loss from change in demographic assumptions (Gain)/loss from change in financial assumptions Experience (gains)/losses Amounts recognised in the Other Comprehensive Income Exchange differences
Change of scope Contributions : - Employers - Plan participants
Benefit payments :
- From plans - From Employers At end of year

62,844 3,607 912 -294
4,224

-11,730 -
-67 -
-67

-
1,076
-218 -539 319 -1,430 3,373
-
0
-1,656 -2,260 65,414

-137
-
-137 576 0
-177 -
0
1,656 -
-9,879

51,113 3,607 845 -294 4,157
-137
1,076
-218 -539 182 -854 3,373
-177 -
-2,260 55,535

The amounts recognised in the balance sheet are determined as follows in EUR Thousands:

Country
Germany France Italy Japan Netherlands Norway Sweden Taiwan Total

Present value of funded
obligations 7,213
28,409 3,750 1,944 975 3,108
13,675 6,340
65,414

Fair value of plan assets
-356 -75 -
-2,548 -

Pension liability in the balance sheet
6,857 28,334
3,750 1,944
975 560 13,675

-6,901

-560

-9,879

55,535

Out of the total yearly amount recognised in the Income Statement for defined benefit plans, an amount of EUR 3,607K has been recognised in "Personnel expenses", EUR -294K in "Operating costs, net" and EUR 845K in the "Financial result". The past service costs registered in 2016 is mainly due to the settlement of the "Nationale Nederlanden" plan in the Netherlands.

For 2017, movements in the pension accrual account between present value of obligation and fair value of plan assets are detailed as follows:

82

The main actuarial assumptions used vary depending on the country and are detailed as follows:

Assumptions
Germany France Italy Japan Norway Sweden Taiwan

Discount rate
1.4% 1.4% 1.4% 0.4% 2.4% 2.3% 0.4%

Salary increase
rate (including
inflation)
3.8%
3.0%
3.0%
N/A
2.6%
3.0%
0.6%

Pension increase
rate
1.8% N/A
2.6% N/A
1.5% 3.0%
N/A

Inflation rate
1.8% 2.0% 1.5%
N/A 1.5% 1.8%
N/A

Assumptions regarding future mortality rates are set based on actuarial data, published statistics and experience in each country.

The sensitivity of the defined benefit obligation to changes in the main assumptions is outlined as follows:

Sensitivity tests
Change in assumption Current Net Liability Amount Increase of rate in assumption Decrease of rate in assumption

Discount rate

Salary growth rate
(incl. inflation)

Pension growth rate
(incl. inflation)

+/- 0.5% +/- 0.5% +/- 0.5%

55,535 4,393 -5,523

55,535 -3,710 2,785

55,535 -1,704 1,694

The above sensitivity analyses are based on a change in assumption while holding all other assumptions constant. In practice, this is unlikely to occur, and changes in some assumptions may be correlated. When calculating the sensitivity of the defined benefit obligation to significant actuarial assumptions the same method has been applied as when calculating the pension liability recognised within the balance sheet.

Plan assets are detailed as follows:

EUR Thousand Equity instruments Governmental bonds Corporate bonds
Property
Qualifying insurance Cash & Cash equivalents Investment funds
Others
Total

Quoted -

Unquoted Total

-

-

-

-

-489 -308 -431

-489 -308 -431

-7,107 -7,107

-1,253 -1,253 -290 -290
-9,879 -9,879

% 0% 0% 5% 3% 4% 72% 13% 3% 100%

The expected maturity analysis of undiscounted pension benefits is as follows:

EUR Thousands
2018 2019 2020 2021 2022 2023 & afterwards Total

Expected undiscounted
benefit payments to
employees
1,846 1,567 1,490 2,015 2,303 162,513
171,734

The expected employer contributions for 2018 amount to EUR 992K.

3.16 Provisions for other liabilities and charges

EUR Thousands

Focusing Other resources Charges

Total

At January 1, 2016 Currency translation differences Change of scope/ Reclassification Additional provisions Utilised during year Unused amounts reversed
At December 31, 2016

13,344 -41
1,010 1,373 -7,200
-331 8,156

8,352 78
52 3,667 -1,768
-759 9,622

21,696 37
1,062 5,040 -8,967 -1,090 17,778

EUR Thousands

Focusing

Other

resources Charges

Total

At January 1, 2017 Currency translation differences Change of scope/ Reclassification Additional provisions Utilised during year Unused amounts reversed
At December 31, 2017

8,156 -191
290 2,983 -2,852
-627 7,760

9,622 -380
548 5,631 -2,832
-627 11,962

17,778 -571
838 8,614 -5,683 -1,254 19,722

Focusing resources provisions are related to reorganisations in progress. Provisions for other charges are mainly related to litigations.

The change in provision for focusing resources mainly relates to:  The ongoing restructuring plan within Biomnis SELAS.
This plan was initiated before the company's integration into Eurofins Group;  Various sites reorganisations mainly in the US.

The additional provisions and unused amounts reversed are included in the separately disclosed items (Note 2.3).

83

The periods in which the provision for other liabilities and Movements in deferred income tax assets and liabilities during

charges could be paid are:

the year are detailed as follows:

EUR Thousands
Up to one year 1 to 5 years Over 5 years Total

2017
15,044 3,616 1,062
19,722

2016
12,728 3,874 1,176
17,778

3.17 Deferred income taxes Movements in the deferred income tax are detailed as follows:

EUR Thousands
At beginning of year Exchange differences Change of scope Deferred taxes on retirement benefit obligations (change in OCI) Deferred taxes on net investments (change in OCI) Income statement/ expense or income (Note 2.6) At end of year

2017
-46,107 1,907
-83,523 92
795
30,174 -96,662

2016
-58,083 -994
-6,459 1,310
-
18,119 -46,107

The deferred tax liabilities (change of scope) are mainly related to the deferred taxes on intangible assets recognised on the purchase price allocation (Note 3.19).

Deferred tax liabilities movement In EUR Thousands

Intangible assets
amortisation and fixed assets
depreciation - temporary differences
­ deferred tax liabilities

Land revaluation

At beginning the year Exchange Differences

-118,110 8,084

-3,916 13

Change of scope

-126,105

-

Income Statement

58,328

3,903

At end of year

-177,8031

-

1 uncompensated company by company or by tax unity

Discounted amounts due for business
acquisitions
-5,055
167 2,241 1,457 -1,190

The deferred tax liabilities on temporary differences in intangible assets amortisation and fixed assets depreciation are related to differences between amounts per consolidation books and amounts per tax books on intangible assets recognised as part of the acquisition; and on fixed assets and goodwill in case of taxable stock acquisition (e.g. eligible under §338(h)(10) in the United States). No deferred tax is recognised for non tax-deductible goodwill amounts.

The amounts of deferred taxes are shown in the consolidated balance sheet as follows:

EUR Thousands

2017 2016

In 2017, the deferred taxes income statement impact is mainly due to the US Tax Cuts enforced in December 2017 (Note 2.6).

Deferred tax assets Deferred tax liabilities Total

29,690 37,804 -126,352 -83,911
-96,662 -46,107

Deferred income tax assets are recognised for tax loss carryforwards only to the extent that realisation of the related tax benefit is probable.

The Group owns tax losses of around EUR 521 million to carry forward against future taxable income and which have not been recognised as tax assets due to uncertainty of their recoverability.

The analysis of the deferred tax assets and deferred tax liabilities is detailed as follows:

EUR Thousands Deferred tax assets To be used after more than 12 months To be used within 12 months
Total

2017
8,569
21,121 29,690

2016
4,456
33,348 37,804

Deferred tax liabilities To be released after more than 12 months To be released within 12 months
Total

107,219
19,133 126,352

71,111
12,800 83,911

Deferred tax assets movement In EUR Thousands

Tax losses capitalised

Pension accrual

Fixed assets depreciation - temporary differences ­ deferred tax assets

Other

Total, net

At beginning of year Exchange differences Change of scope
OCI Income Statement At end of year

35,140 10,349

-3,248 -181

31,776

263

-

92

-21,845

700

41,823 11,223

10,203 25,282 -46,107

-482 -2,446 1,907

10,271 -1,969 -83,523

-

795

887

-1,627 -10,742 30 174

18,365 10,920 -96,662

The deferred tax assets on tax losses capitalised mainly concern the tax unity Eurofins GeneScan GmbH (EUR 2.8m) and MWG Biotech AG (EUR 3.5m) in Germany, Eurofins Genomics LLC (EUR 1.9m in the US), Environmental US companies (EUR 8.4m) and EAG Inc (EUR 16.3m) with an expectation to be used within the next 7 years.

84

3.18 Change in net working capital

The change in net working capital as disclosed in the cash flow statement is the following:

EUR Thousands

2017

2016

Change in:
Trade accounts receivable Inventories Prepaid expenses and other current assets Trade accounts payable Advance payments received and deferred revenues Other current liabilities
Total changes ­ Balance Sheet Change of scope ­ current assets Tax credits accruals receivable transfer Change of scope ­ current liabilities Currency translation differences
Total Cash Flow

-181,208 -12,258 -34,466 71,741
48,732
62,867 -44,592
158,713
-7,447
-108,018
-9,396 -10,740

-81,271 -2,032 -4,841 33,107
8,983
29,059 -16,995
40,998
-6,656
-29,113
5,129 -6,636

3.19 Business combinations
During 2017 the Group concluded 100% of ownership of the following new significant acquisitions, except if stated otherwise (see also Note 5.1).
In February, Eurofins acquired Ahma Ymparisto Oy ("Ahma"), the second-largest environment testing laboratory in Finland. Founded in 1977, specialised in the fields of water, hydrobiology and bio-fuels testing in particular, the company employs 104 staff across its 3 main sites and generated revenues in excess of EUR 7m in 2016.
In March, Eurofins acquired Villapharma Research SL ("Villapharma") in Spain. Villapharma provides organic synthesis and medicinal chemistry services to global pharmaceutical and biotech companies for the discovery and optimization of potential new drug candidates. Founded in 2003, Villapharma employs 86 staff at its laboratory in Murcia and runs a research outsourcing business model for its clients. The company generated more than EUR 6m of revenues in 2016.
In March, Eurofins completed the acquisition of Gözlem Gýda Kontrol ve Araþtýrma Laboratuvarlarý ("Gözlem"), a food testing laboratory in Turkey. Founded in 2002, Gözlem employs 124 staff, and operates 1 large laboratory in Istanbul, as well as internal laboratories at 13 client sites in Istanbul, Ankara and Izmir regions. The company generated revenues close to EUR 3m in 2016.
In March, Eurofins acquired Mechem Laboratories ("Mechem") in Singapore. The company employs 76 staff. The company generated revenues close to EUR 3m in 2016.
In March, Eurofins acquired VBM Laboratoriet A/S ("VBM"), a laboratory offering testing services to the environment and construction materials sectors in Denmark. Founded in 1985, VBM employs 80 staff across its 3 sites, and generated revenues in excess of EUR 6m in 2016.
In April, Eurofins acquired the analytical laboratory business of Ramboll Group in Finland comprising 5 laboratories specialized in environment testing. The company employs 109 staff across 4 laboratories in the Southern region around

Helsinki, as well as at a satellite laboratory in Tallinn, Estonia, and generated revenues in excess of EUR 8m in 2016.
Eurofins acquired five clinical laboratories in France since April. The Group acquired iLab and Bléone Durance in Provence-Alpes-Côte d'Azur and Biosphère in Rhône-Alpes, consolidating the Group's footprint in these regions. In addition, the Group acquired two groups of laboratories in Marseille and Martigues, both focused on specialty clinical testing. Eurofins also acquired three small clinical laboratories in Spain and one in Ireland. These laboratories have combined annual revenues of about EUR 17m in aggregate.
In June, Eurofins acquired 90% of the business unit Testing and Certification of Electrosuisse, association for electrical engineering, power and information technologies. The company employs 66 staff and generated revenues in excess of EUR 12m in 2016.
In June, Eurofins acquired Nab Labs Group Oy ("Nab Labs"), an environment testing laboratory in Finland. Founded in 1968, the company employs over 100 staff and generates annual revenues in excess of EUR 9m.
In June, Eurofins acquired Alphora Research Inc. ("Alphora"), a full service contract research, development and manufacturing organization (CRDMO) for complex and niche small molecule active pharmaceutical ingredients (APIs), based in Mississauga, Ontario, Canada. Alphora employs over 100 staff and generates revenues in excess of CAD 40m in 2017.
End of June, Eurofins acquired Environmental Laboratory Services Limited in Ireland. Founded in 1998, the company employs 27 staff and generates annual revenues in excess of EUR 2m.
In July, Eurofins acquired Dermatest Pty Ltd in Australia. The company employs 18 staff and generates annual revenues in excess of EUR 1m.
In July, Eurofins acquired MVZ für Laboratoriumsmedizin am Hygiene-Institut GmbH ("Hygel"), a group of clinical diagnostic laboratories headquartered in Gelsenkirchen, Germany. The company employs 370 staff across its 3 main sites as well as in laboratories that it operates for 4 local hospitals and generated revenues in excess of EUR 35m in 2016.
In July, Eurofins acquired GATC Biotech AG ("GATC"), one of Europe's specialists in DNA sequencing. Founded in 1990, GATC employs 140 staff across 2 sites, and serves over 10,000 institutional and academic customers, generating annual revenues of about EUR 20m.
In the same time, Eurofins acquired 62.63% of the shares owned by GATC in LifeCodexx AG ("LifeCodexx"), one of Europe's specialists in non-invasive prenatal testing (NIPT). LifeCodexx, headquartered in Constance, Germany. The company generated revenues of about EUR 7m in 2016.
In July, Eurofins acquired Genoma Group Srl ("Genoma"), a specialty diagnostics testing provider in Italy. Genoma employs about 100 staff across its 2 main sites in Rome and Milan, and generates annual revenues in excess of EUR 20m.
In July, Eurofins acquired Environmental Research & Industrial Co-operation ("ERICo"), the leading independent laboratory for environment testing services in Slovenia. Founded 25 years ago, the company employs 46 staff at its laboratory in Velenje, northeast Slovenia and generates annual revenues in excess of EUR 2m.
In July, Eurofins acquired Ana Laboratories, Inc. ("ANA"), one of the largest laboratory networks specialized in fluid and tribology analyses serving the public mass transit sector in the USA. The company employs 48 staff in 7 laboratories serving

85

75 of the largest city transit agencies (such as the New York City Transit), several statewide Departments of Transportation including Texas and Connecticut, as well as the largest railway companies nationwide and generates annual revenues in excess of EUR 2m.
In August, Eurofins announced the acquisitions of Japan Analytical Chemistry Consultants Co. Ltd. ("JACC") and 67% of Ecopro Research K.K. ("Ecopro"), specialised respectively in agroscience testing and food testing laboratory in Japan. JACC and Ecopro respectively employ 40 and 30 staff and generate annual revenues in excess of EUR 4m in aggregate.
End of August, Eurofins acquired DiscoverX, specialized in drug discovery products and services across all stages of discovery from target identification and lead discovery to preclinical and beyond. The company employs 137 staff in four locations in Fremont, San Diego, San Francisco (California) and Birmingham (England) and generates over USD 37m revenues in 2016.
In September, Eurofins acquired Amatsigroup, an international contract development and manufacturing organization (CDMO) providing preclinical and clinical phase services for the development of human and veterinary drugs. The company employs about 450 staff and is expected to generate over EUR 60m revenues in 2017 on a pro forma basis.
In October, Eurofins acquired Advinus Therapeutics ("Advinus"), a preclinical and clinical phase contract research company for Safety Assessment, DMPK, CMC services, and Analytical R&D Services. Located in Bangalore, India, the company generated revenues in excess of EUR 15m in the Fiscal Year ending March 31, 2017 with over 300 staff.
In October, Eurofins acquired Institut Nehring GmbH ("Institut Nehring"), a food testing laboratory in the German market. Institut Nehring was established in 1905. The company is headquartered in Braunschweig, Germany, employs 76 staff and generates annual revenues close to EUR 5m.
In October, Eurofins acquired the Forensics and Security division of LGC ("LGC Forensics"), specialized in the UK forensics market and a forensic DNA testing provider in Germany, from LGC Group. The company employs over 650 staff in eight locations, seven in the UK and one in Germany, and generates annual revenues in excess of EUR 45m.
In October, Eurofins acquired a food testing laboratory (Abraxis) in the USA, an environmental laboratory in The Netherlands (Sanitas), and two clinical diagnostics testing laboratories in Spain. These companies generate annual revenues in excess of EUR 10m in aggregate.
In October, Eurofins acquired My Eye Media in the USA, specialized in quality assurance, technical analysis and testing of digital content for the motion picture industry and is a Netflix preferred vendor. My Eye Media have offices in Burbank, California and New York, as well as additional locations in Warsaw and Tokyo. The company employs more than 70 staff and is expected to generate annual revenues in excess of EUR 10m in 2017.
In November, Eurofins acquired 60% of Spectro Analytical Labs Ltd., an environment, analytical product testing and inspection company in India. The company operates 5 state-ofthe-art laboratories in India, employs close to 450 staff and generates annual revenues in excess of EUR 8m in 2017.
In November, Eurofins acquired a sensory and consumer research company in Germany and a laboratory in Lituania. These two companies generate annual revenues in excess of EUR 14m in 2017.
In December, Eurofins acquired EAG Laboratories ("EAG"), a global scientific services company providing analytical testing

and consulting solutions to a diverse and demanding set of end markets. EAG serves three main markets, namely Material and Engineering Sciences, Agroscience and Biopharmaceuticals. EAG is headquartered in San Diego and has 21 laboratories in 18 locations worldwide, serving approximately 4,000 customers with revenue generated from more than 50 countries. EAG employs over 1,000 scientists and support personnel, and generates revenues in excess of US$ 220m in 2017.
End of December, Eurofins acquired Pasteur Group ("Pasteur"), a player in clinical diagnostics in greater area of Santos in Brazil, Sao Paulo state. Pasteur expects to generate revenues in excess of BRL 25m in 2017. The company employs 190 staff.
End of December, Eurofins acquired Craft Technologies, Inc. ("Craft Technologies"), a contract laboratory providing analysis of nutrients, vitamins, carotenoids, bioflavonoids and phytochemicals. Craft Technologies, located in Wilson, North Carolina, employs 16 staff and generates revenues around EUR 1.5m.
End of December, Eurofins acquired Selcia Limited ("Selcia"), a contract research provider of radiolabeling services in UK. Selcia, located in Ongar, Essex, employs 68 staff and generates revenues around EUR 10m in 2017.
End of December, Eurofins acquired MET Laboratories, Inc. ("MET"), an independent National Recognized Testing Laboratory (NTRL) electrical testing laboratory providing testing, certifications, listing and labeling marks. MET is located in the US (Baltimore, Santa Clara, Austin, Union City), China (Shenzhen), Taiwan (Taipei) and Korea (Seoul). MET employs 199 staff and revenues are in excess of EUR 25m.
Furthermore, during 2017, some other small companies have been acquired, discontinued or sold for non-significant aggregated amounts.
As Eurofins carries out multiple acquisitions each year, Management takes the view to only provide this information with paragraph B64 of IFRS 3 on an aggregate level basis as none of these acquisitions would be relevant individually, except for EAG, Amatsi and DiscoverX.

86

The provisional fair values of assets and liabilities acquired or disposed of all acquisitions were as follows:

EUR Thousands

EAG

Amatsi Discover X

Other Acq.

2017

2016

Property plant and equipment Intangible assets Customer relationships and brands Investments Financial assets Trade Accounts Receivable, net Inventories Other receivables Deferred income taxes assets Corporate tax receivable Cash Current liabilities Corporate taxes due Borrowings Accrued Interest Payable Pension accrual Provisions for risks Deferred income taxes liabilities
Net Assets Acquired
Goodwill Negative Goodwill Gain on sale on disposal of a subsidiary Non controlling interests Amounts due from business acquisitions on new acquisitions Purchase price paid
Less cash Amounts due from business combinations paid
Net Cash Outflow on Acquisitions, net

-49,600 -2,222
-178,969 0
-635 -41,598
-106 -6,394
0 3 -11,326 28,462 149 1,576 0 0 421 35,811 -224,427 -441,966 0 0 0
0
-666,393 11,326 0
-655,067

-22,907 -1,230
-34,860 0
-727 -16,566
-1,403 -2,910
-225 -65
-4,593 19,013
558 27,406
6 1,483
314 10,302 -26,404 -117,864
0 0 0
2,633
-141,635 4,593 0
-137,042

-1,265 0
-40,798 0
-380 -4,507 -2,657 2,244
0 0 -6,909 2,990 43 57 12 0 0 8,011 -43,159 -77,953 0 0 0
0
-121,112 6,909 0
-114,204

-88,378 -1,519
-151,162 -2,381 -2,754
-61,177 -7,663
-15,978 -5,703 1,604
-41,813 57,553
285 57,371
27 1,890
103 35,327 -224,366 -369,686
0 2,594 2,084
52,443
-536,930 41,813
-132,932 -628,050

-162,150 -4,970
-405,789 -2,381 -4,496
-123,848 -11,828 -23,037 -5,928 1,541 -64,641 108,018 1,035 86,411 45 3,373 838 89,451
-518,356 -1,007,469
0 2,594 2,084
55,076
-1,466,070 64,641
-132,932 -1,534,362

-33,241 -748
-43,167 12,001
-709 -34,809
-3,939 -2,250 -2,151 -1,220 -15,160 29,113 1,190 9,738
-59 1,095 1,062 8,610 -74,644 -148,718
109 0
1,892
17,180
-204,181 15,160 -12,101
-201,122

Divided into:

Cash outflow on acquisition

-1,536,956

-201,179

Proceeds from disposals of a subsidiary net of cash transferred

2,594

57

1 The amount shown under Investments is related to the acquisitions of Ashwood (Food testing laboratory UK), Minerag (AgroSciences Services HU) and Saikan

(Environmental Laboratory JP) acquired at the end of December 2017 and that will be fully consolidated as from January 1, 2018. These companies generate annual sales of

around EUR 4m

The businesses acquired contributed to Eurofins consolidated revenues for EUR 216 million and to consolidated EBITAS for EUR 30 million in 2017. If the effective dates of these acquisitions would have been January 1, 2017, Group consolidated revenues would have been increased by an additional EUR 486 million and consolidated EBITAS increased by an additional EUR 66 million. EAG, Amatsi and DiscoverX contributed respectively to Eurofins consolidated revenues for EUR 18m, 21m and 15m and to consolidated EBITAS for EUR 4m, 2m and 4m in 2017. If the effective dates of these acquisitions would have been January 1, 2017, Group consolidated revenues would have been increased by EUR 182m, 37m and 22m and consolidated EBITAS increased by EUR 34m, 3m and 2m respectively.

The net cash outflow on acquisitions concerns both acquisitions completed in 2017 and in previous years (in case of payment of deferred considerations).

The goodwill is attributable to the workforce of the acquired business and the synergies expected to arise after acquisition.

On the last acquisitions completed in December 2017, the purchase price allocation between goodwill and intangible assets related to acquisitions has not been finalised. It will be completed in 2018.

The Group did not carry out any bargain purchases in 2017.

The part of goodwill and other intangible assets related to acquisitions completed in 2017 that are tax deductible represents an amount of EUR 193m.

87

For all companies acquired in 2017, the provisional fair value of net assets acquired was as follows:

EUR Thousands

2017

Book value prior to
acquisition

Fair value adjustment

Fair value on
acquisition

Property plant and equipment
Intangible assets
Customer relationships and brands
Investments
Financial assets
Trade accounts receivable, net1
Inventories
Other receivables Deferred income taxes assets Corporate tax receivable
Cash

-131,840 -4,970
-
-2,381 -4,497 -128,436 -11,828 -23,070
1,541 -64,641

-30,310 -
-405,789
1 4,588 33 -5,928 -

-162,150 -4,970
-405,789
-2,381 -4,496 -123,848 -11,828 -23,037 -5,928 1,541 -64,641

Current liabilities

107,578

440

108,018

Corporate taxes due

1,035

-

1,035

Borrowings

86,411

-

86,411

Accrued interest payable

45

-

45

Pension accrual

3,373

-

3,373

Provisions for risks Deferred income taxes liabilities

838

-

838

-

89,451

89,451

Net Assets Acquired

-170,842

-347,514

-518,356

1 The gross amount of trade accounts receivable was EUR 128,436K and the

provision for bad debts EUR 4,588K.

3.20 Shareholders' equity

As of December 31, 2017, the Company's share capital is composed of 17,643,914 shares of EUR 0.10 each (versus 16,926,141 shares restated as of December 31, 2016). The allotted, called-up and fully paid capital amounts to EUR 1,764K.

During 2017, the shareholders' equity increased by EUR 320,002K corresponding to 717,773 new shares being issued.

Out of the shares issued in 2017, 573,277 correspond to two share capital increases that occurred in August (23,277 shares in link with the acquisition of the non-controlling interests in BioAccess Group (see note 3.14) and in November when the Company raised total gross proceeds of c. EUR 299 million following the issuance of 550,000 new shares to institutional investors, at a price of EUR 543 per share. Issuance commissions and fees related to this issuance of capital amounted to EUR 2.7m.

The remaining 144,496 shares issued correspond to the exercise of stock options and BSAAR warrants by employees. (see more details in note 4.7).

Other reserves correspond to the legal reserve and share premium. Retained earnings correspond to the accumulated reserves not distributed.

Furthermore, a EUR 33.9m dividend (EUR 2.00 per share) was paid in July 2017.

3.21 Non-Controlling Interests

The measurement policy of the Non-controlling interests (NCI) is explained in Note 1.3.

The Non-controlling Interests (NCI) valued at the fair value at acquisition time relate to the following companies:

 Eurofins Cerep SA for the remaining non-controlling interests of circa 4.2%. During 2017, the Group acquired an additional 5.8% of Eurofins Cerep SA shares. The valuation of the NCI is based on the take-over bid price of EUR 2 per share. This is a level 1 fair value measurement.
 the companies listed below for their remaining NCI, already controlled by the Group in 2016: - Eurofins Environment Testing Australia: 9%; - Agrisearch Services (Australia/ New Zealand):19% ; - Laboratories des Pyramides SELAS (France):28% ; - EGL (US): 12.5% ; - Eurofins Digital Testing (Belgium, Poland, Sweden, UK): 9% in lieu of a previous agreement only including Belgium and Poland and for a stake of 12%.
 and the newly consolidated companies in 2017: - Spectro Analytical Labs (India): 40%; - EcoPro Research K.K (JP): 33%.

Except for Eurofins Cerep SA, the valuation is based on the value of the Put and Call option at a variable price, as defined in Note 3.14 `Amounts due for business acquisitions' for the put and call option at a variable price. This is a level 3 fair value measurement.

The non-controlling interests of the companies listed above consequently bear the risks and rewards attached to their shareholding, which are recognised as Non-controlling interests. Most minority shareholders are managing directors of the companies and they have a right to the dividend of the company in which they hold a non-controlling interest.

The Group has elected the full goodwill method on these deals; the non-controlling interests have been in consequence recognised at their fair value against goodwill at acquisition time.

In accordance with IAS 32.23, the Group has recognised its obligation to purchase the shares under the put option as a financial liability under the caption "amounts due for business acquisitions". The same paragraph states that the financial liability is reclassified from equity.

During 2017, the Group acquired the 34% non-controlling interests in Bio-Access Group, 34.9% shares in Eurofins Sac Ky Hai Dang Company Limited (Vietnam) and 2% shares in Kalibios Srl (Italy).

See Note 3.14.

3.22 Change in investments, financial assets and derivative financial instruments, net

EUR Thousands

2017

2016

Investments in associates change (Note 3.4) Financial assets and other receivables from acquisitions/ disposals (Note 3.5)
Total

270 -3,781 -3,511

264 -892 -628

88

4. Other information

4.1 Segment information

The Group operates in seven main geographical areas in the Analytical testing business (see Note 1.26). These are Benelux, France, Germany, North America, Nordic Region, UK and Ireland, and Other.

Revenues EUR Thousands

2017

As % of total

2016

As % of total

% 2017 2016

Benelux France Germany North America Nordic Region UK and Ireland Other
Total

214,784 677,770 342,545
902,815

7.2% 22.8% 11.5%
30.4%

191,155 625,898 279,442
803,635

7.5% 12.4% 24.7% 8.3% 11.0% 22.6%
31.7% 12.3%

212,434 7.1% 172,420 6.8% 23.2%

161,634 5.4% 121,984 4.8% 32.5%
459,435 15.5% 342,074 13.5% 34.3% 2,971,417 100.0% 2,536,608 100.0% 17.1%

Revenues are based on the production country. For confidentiality reasons, the operating income by geographical area is not provided.

Total assets and capital expenditure are shown in the geographical area in which the assets are located.

Total Assets EUR Thousands

2017

2016

Benelux France Germany North America Nordic Region UK and Ireland Other
Total

993,817 1,141,608
455,921 1,970,964
233,507 273,929 762,560
5,832,307

875,240 1,015,976
286,919 1,198,692
180,525 117,842 454,221
4,129,415

Investments EUR Thousands

2017

2016

Benelux France Germany North America Nordic Region UK and Ireland Other Total

60,643 214,986 149,553 882,397
53,533 127,775 170,108 1,658,995

71,888 53,737 31,347 103,383 15,082 24,443 91,678 391,559

Investments include the purchase of property, plant, equipment (EUR 200,645K) and intangible assets (EUR 45,090K) as well as the change of scope for goodwill (EUR 1,007,469K) and for intangible assets related to acquisitions and brands (EUR 405,790K).

4.2 Financial risk management

Liquidity risk
During 2015, the Company issued hybrid capital for a par value of EUR 300m in April 2015 and two senior unsecured Euro bonds for EUR 500m each in January and July 2015 (Note 3.10 & 3.12).

During 2016, the Company raised total proceeds of EUR 501m following the issuance of new shares (Note 3.20).

During 2017, the Company raised total proceeds of EUR 320m following the issuance of new shares (Note 3.20).
In 2017, the Company also issued a new senior unsecured Eurobond for EUR 650m in July and a new hybrid instrument with a par value of EUR 400m in November (Note 3.10 & 3.12).

At year-end, the Company and its subsidiaries also entered into several loan and facility agreements with a number of banks.

Certain loans/facilities are secured either by contingent securities over assets and/or by financial covenants, determined at local or consolidated level. Such covenants were usually based on comparable ratios to those applicable to the OBSAAR bonds and the Schuldschein loan in the past.
The hybrid capital instruments and Euro bonds are not secured by any financial covenants.
The Group has made a detailed review of its liquidity risk and considers that it is capable of honouring its debt. In regards to the current economic environment, it should be noted that the Company complies with its leverage ratio and at this time does not anticipate any particular liquidity problems or issues regarding the financial covenants within the next twelve months.
The leverage ratios as at December 31, 2017 and 2016 are as follows:

EUR Thousands

2017

2016

Net debt (Note 3.9) Adjusted EBITDA Leverage ratio

1,395,373 556,723 2.51

557,780 479,623
1.16

The leverage ratio as at December 31, 2017 calculated on the pro forma Adjusted EBITDA was 2.14.

Bearing in mind the uncertainties affecting the banking industry on a global basis, the likely increase of interest rates and the possible difficulties for corporate enterprises to access the credit markets, it is possible that the Company will bear a higher cost on its short, medium and long term lines of credit than was available previously. This could have adverse effects on the Company's net worth, financial position, and operating results and even its very existence.

The table below analyses the Group's financial liabilities and net settled derivative financial liabilities into relevant maturity groupings based on the remaining period between the balance sheet date and the maturity date.

EUR Thousands
Year 2017 Bank borrowings par value Lease liabilities Bonds par value Commercial paper par value Amounts due for business acquisitions (not discounted) Earnings due on hybrid capital Current and future interest due1 Trade accounts payable
Total

Total
32,948 17,227 1,950,000 230,000

Up to 1

2-5

year years

Over 5 years

20,753 8,282
6,669 8,851 300,000 500,000
230,000

3,912
1,707 1,150,000

141,311

89,465 49,952

1,894

30,881

30,881

-

-

299,779

86,195 169,000

44,585

301,863 3,004,009

301,863

-

-

1,065,826 736,085 1,202,098

89

1 Including interests due on borrowings until their full repayment and the impact of any derivative financial instruments
As at December 31, 2017, Cash and cash equivalents stood at EUR 820,357K (Note 3.9).

EUR Thousands

Total

Up to 1 year

2-5 years

Over 5 years

Year 2016

Bank borrowings par value

78,063 39,927 35,839

2,297

Lease Liabilities

14,196 5,724 7,673

799

Bonds par value 1,299,521 Amounts due for

-179 299,700 1,000,000

business acquisitions (not

236,042 46,666 174,476

14,900

discounted)

Earnings due on hybrid capital

29,171 29,171

-

-

Current and

future interest due1

237,089 68,363 123,682

45,044

Trade accounts payable

230,122 230,122

-

-

Total

2,124,203 419,793 641,370 1,063,039

1 Including interests due on borrowings until their full repayment and the impact of

any derivative financial instruments

As at December 31, 2016, Cash and cash equivalents stood at EUR 826,098 (Note 3.9).

Besides the above the Company has unused committed bilateral borrowing facilities or other lines of credit that it can access to meet its liquidity needs.

Interest rate risk
In order to finance parts of its acquisition and expansion costs, the Company and its subsidiaries have entered into several loan and facility agreements as specified above. The loans and facilities are either based on a fixed rate or on a variable rate. The variation risk of some loans and facilities with a variable interest rate in the Company and in some of its subsidiaries has been partially hedged by various financial instruments (e.g. swap with a fixed rate or cap with a maximum interest rate covering a certain period, Note 4.5).

However, as there are certain lines of credit that are still based on a variable rate, it cannot be excluded that the interest rate concerning these loans will rise in the future. This could have an adverse effect on the Company's financial position and results.

Currency risks
Presently, the Group generates roughly 50% of its revenues outside of the Euro-Zone. The Group will continue to conduct its business activities in the future via subsidiaries in various countries. However, in most cases, the revenues and operating results as well as most items on the balance sheet of its subsidiaries (intangible, fixed and current assets, certain financial and current liabilities) are settled in the domestic currency without any real exchange risk. Accounting-wise, these operating results and balance sheet items are recorded in the relevant foreign currency and then converted into Euro, for translation into the Company's consolidated financial statements at the applicable exchange rate.

mitigate the effects of such exchange rate fluctuations, future exchange rate fluctuations could have a material adverse effect on the Company's financial position and operating results, particularly with respect to the US, Canadian, Taiwan, Singapore, New Zealand and Australian Dollar, the Danish, Swedish and Norwegian Krona, the Chinese Yuan and Japanese Yen, the Brazilian Real and the Pound Sterling.
Credit risk
Given the quality of the Group customers, the Company believes the risk of bad debts is low. The rate of default suffered by the Company in proportion to its sales has been very low in the last five fiscal years. On average during this period, doubtful accounts represented around 1% of the annual revenues, whilst customer terms of payment are in accordance with ordinary commercial practices in each country where the Company is active. During times of more difficult economic and trading conditions, such as at present, the Company pays particular attention to the ability of new and existing customers to pay their debts. At all times the Company considers that its provisioning policy for doubtful debtors is appropriate. However, if any major customers were to default, there would be a negative impact on earnings. In its lines of business, the Group has a large number of customers. The Company endeavours not to be dependent on any single customer. The Group's biggest customer represents less than 2% of the consolidated revenues and the first 10 customers of the Company represent altogether less than 10% of the consolidated revenues.
More particularly, the credit risk associated with US clinical diagnostic testing services is described in more detail in Notes 1.12 and 1.23.
However, the loss of one or more of these customers would have an adverse effect on the Group's financial position and operating results or in extreme cases its very existence.
The amounts relating to trade accounts receivable, bad debt provision and the ageing balance are shown in Note 3.7.
4.3 Capital risk management
The Group's objectives when managing capital are to safeguard the Group's ability to continue as a going concern in order to provide returns for shareholders and benefits for other stakeholders and to maintain an optimal capital structure to reduce its cost of capital.
In order to maintain or adjust the capital structure, the Group may adjust the amount of dividends paid to its shareholders, return capital to shareholders, issue new shares or sell assets to reduce debt.

In some cases, where an exchange rate risk might be applicable with revenues and cost structures in different currencies, the Company or its subsidiaries may enter into some currency hedging instruments to avoid any exchange rate fluctuations.

However, even though the Company intends to continue to take such measures in the future in order to at least partially

90

4.4 Contractual obligations and other commercial commitments

Contingent liabilities over borrowings: The liabilities and borrowings listed below are already included in the Group's balance sheet. The following table only repeats these amounts when these borrowings are secured by covenants or securities on assets.

EUR Thousands

2017

2016

Bank borrowings secured over buildings and other assets1 Leases secured over buildings and other assets2 Bank borrowings secured by covenants & assets Total borrowings and leases
secured
Bank borrowings & OBSAAR secured by covenants

5,534 16,488
9,248

2,162 14,280
8,198

31,270 24,640

80 24,100

Bank borrowings guaranteed by the direct parent of the borrower

1,101 2,210

Total

32,451 50,950

1 Furthermore, some of these bank borrowings are also secured by covenants. 2 Lease liabilities are effectively secured as the rights to the leased asset revert to

the lessor in the event of default.

The Group complies with the covenants of its relevant lines of credit as at December 31, 2017.

The Group's other contractual obligations and commercial commitments as of December 31, 2017 are detailed as follows:

Other contractual obligations
EUR Thousands

Total

Up to 1 year

2-5 Over 5 years years

Total Operating leases - Buildings1

514,304 93,584 247,219 173,501 489,829 84,370 232,021 173,438

- Equipment & cars

24,475 9,214 15,198

63

Irrevocable

-

-

-

-

purchase

obligations

Total

514,304 93,584 247,219 173,501

1 Present value of future aggregate minimum lease payments, non-cancellable.

The amounts of operating real estate lease payments recognised as an expense during the period are the following:

EUR Thousands Operating lease payments

2017 2016 86,132 77,035

The amounts of other operating lease payments (mainly cars and information communication technology devices) recognised as an expense in 2017 amount to EUR 12,091k.

Other commercial commitments EUR Thousands Guarantees given related to financing Guarantees given related to acquisitions Total Guarantees received Total guarantees, net

Total Up to 1 year

2-5 Over 5 years years

14,875
14,875
14,875

-

- 14,875

-

-

-

-

- 14,875

-

-

-

-

- 14,875

Detail of guarantees given related to financing

 The Company has counter-guaranteed the Swedish

insurance

entity

"Försäkringsbolaget

Pensionsgaranti" for all amounts due that this entity

should have to pay to the current and past

employees of the Swedish companies, indirect

subsidiaries of Eurofins Scientific S.E., for their

pension obligation for a maximum amount of EUR

13,675K (this amount is accounted for in the caption

"retirement benefit obligations" Note 3.15).

 In the context of a EUR 1,200K grant contract

obtained in 2008 by Microchem Laboratories Ltd, the

Company gave its guarantee to the Irish

governmental agency which provided the grant that

it will be liable in case of Microchem Laboratories Ltd

failing to meet its commitments related to this grant.

Detail of guarantees given related to acquisitions None.

Other commitments given To the Group's knowledge, no other significant off-balance sheet commitments are in existence.

The Group has not set up any factoring or securitization transactions with third parties.

Detail of guarantees received None.

4.5 Exposure to market and counterparties risks

EUR Thousands

2017

2016

Derivative financial assets Derivative financial liabilities Total net

90,477 -239
90,238

85,554 -1,659 83,895

Exposure to interest rate risk

In order to hedge the Group's exposure to interest rate fluctuations particularly related to the 2010 OBSAAR bonds and part of the Schuldschein promissory note, the Group has concluded hedging contracts in order to swap its floating interest rate against a fixed rate. These contracts are either with immediate or deferred effect.

Consequently, the Group has concluded interest rate hedging contracts with deferred effective dates for the period December 2017 to July 2018 for a total nominal amount of EUR 10m.

The previous year fair value of the financial instruments has been passed to the Income Statement for an amount of EUR 1,659K.

The fair value of the remaining swaps estimated as a liability of EUR 239K has been accounted for in the Income Statement, as the underlying debts were repaid in full in 2016 and the cash flow hedge was no longer efficient.

Interest Notional

Fair value (in EUR Thousands)

Rate 1 principal value Opening Change

Closing

3.68%

- -1,032

1,032

-

3.88%

-10,000

-627

388

-239

-10,000 -1,659
1 interest rate applicable at the end of December 2017

1,420

-239

The amount booked in equity is transferred to net profit as far as the underlying instrument impacts the net profit.

The impact on the valuation of the financial instruments of a shift of +/- 1 percentage point in the yield curve would not be material on the Group's total equity.

The Group's net exposure to interest rate risk for the borrowings as per balance sheet date, taking into account the above hedging transactions is presented below:

91

2017

2016

Borrowings at fixed interest rates Borrowings at floating interest rates

99% 1%

95% 5%

Given the breakdown between fixed rate and floating rate assets and liabilities as at December 31, 2017, a 1% increase or decrease in interest rates would have a full-year impact of +/- EUR 224K on results before income taxes.

EUR Millions

Rate

Up to 1 year

2-5 years

Over 5 years

Total

Assets (Note 3.9) Borrowing and issuance costs
Bonds
Commercial paper
Net exposure Before hedge Hedge
Net exposure after hedge

Fixed Floating
Fixed
Floating Fixed Floating
Fixed
Floating Fixed Floating Fixed Floating Fixed Floating

-153.3 -
4.6
15.3 300.0
-
230.0
381.3
15.3 -
381.3 15.3

-
2.7
5.8 500.0
-
-
502.7
5.8 -
502.7 5.8

-
2.4
1.2 1,150.0
-
-
1,152.4
1.2 -
1,152.4 1.2

-153.3 -
9.7
22.3 1,950.0
-
230.0
2,036.4
22.3 -
2,036.4 22.3

Exposure to other market risks

Off-balance

sheet Commit

Currency Assets Liabilities

-ments

DKK

121

104

-

SEK

95

82

15

NOK

36

29

-

USD 2,131 1,317

-

GBP

204

129

-

BRL

56

37

-

Other1 524

266

-

Net

position

before

hedge Hedge

16

-

-2

-

7

-

815

-

75

-

19

-

258

-

Net position
after hedge
16 -2 7
815
75 19
258

Total 3,166
1 non Euro

1,964

15

1,187

-

1,187

A 1 percentage point increase or decrease in exchange rates would have an impact of EUR 11.7m on the Group's equity and an impact on the Group's EBITAS of EUR 1.3m.

Net investment hedge

The Company has designated instruments to hedge net investments in foreign operations. An entity may have a monetary item that is receivable from or payable to a foreign operation. An item for which settlement is neither planned nor likely to occur in the foreseeable future is, in substance, a part of the entity's net investment in that foreign operation. Such monetary items may include long-term receivables or loans. In particular, they correspond to Intercompany loans denominated in Euros and in US Dollars provided by Eurofins GSC Finance NV (lender) to other companies of the Group (borrowers) trading in currencies other than Euro.

The Group uses non-complex or complex derivative instruments in order to hedge its potential exposure to changes in market values of certain underlying assets that may arise in the future.

The nature of the risk hedged is the change in foreign exchange rates between the currency of the loan and the currency of either the lender or the borrower.

The assets correspond to listed equity derivatives. The fair value of these assets amounts to EUR 90.5m as of December 31, 2017 vs EUR 85.6m as of December 31, 2016.

A 10% increase or decrease of the above-mentioned derivative instrument would have a full-year impact of +/- EUR 9 million on results before income taxes.

Exposure to currency risk

The most significant currencies for the Group were translated at the following exchange rates into Euro.

Value of EUR 1
US dollar Pound sterling Swedish krona Norwegian krone Danish krone Japanese yen Australian dollar Brazilian Real

Balance Sheet

End of period rates

Dec. 31, Dec. 31,

2017

2016

1.19

1.05

0.89

0.86

9.97

9.52

9.98

9.09

7.45

7.43

135.14 123.46

1.55

1.46

3.92

3.42

Income Statement average rates

2017 2016

1.13 0.88 9.62 9.31 7.44 126.58 1.47 3.59

1.11 0.82 9.43 9.26 7.45 120.48 1.49 3.86

As at December 31, 2017, the exposure to currency risk breaks down as follows (amounts in EUR Millions):

Currency of lender
EUR EUR EUR EUR EUR EUR EUR EUR EUR EUR EUR EUR EUR EUR EUR EUR EUR EUR EUR EUR EUR EUR EUR EUR EUR EUR EUR EUR EUR

Currency of borrower
USD CAD DKK NOK SEK AUD CHF GBP INR JPY DKK GBP CAD SEK BRL NOK CCH AUD USD CNY PLN JPY TWD RON NZD TRY THB HUF BGN

Currency of loan
USD CAD DKK NOK SEK AUD CHF GBP INR JPY EUR EUR EUR EUR EUR EUR EUR EUR EUR EUR EUR EUR EUR EUR EUR EUR EUR EUR EUR
Total

31.12.2017
921,336 16,600 10,993 4,821 10,901 2,665 1,758 6,932 24,229 444 45,452 53,295 30,790 26,543 24,232 11,058 8,177 9,201 6,742 4,203 2,773 5,706 1,875 1,354 1,545 260 103 1,214 215
1,235,414

31.12.2016
472,025 14,827 3,686 5,290 3,271 1,294 41,386 33,557 24,977 24,330 11,240 85 6,404 6,742 4,205 2,716 1,165 100
657,300

92

The net investment in hedged foreign operations is worth EUR 1,235m (fully eliminated in consolidation).
The fair value of hedging represents a negative value of EUR 22.6m at the end of 2017 included in "Currency translation differences" in equity.
Credit quality of financial assets

Short term deposits with banks (EUR 153,293K) are invested for more than 95% with banks in France, Germany and Luxembourg.
The maximum credit risk to which the Group is theoretically exposed to as at December 31, 2017 is the carrying amount of financial assets.

The Group may be exposed to the risk of losses on cash and other financial instruments held or managed on its behalf by financial institutions, if any of its counterparties defaults on its obligations. Group policy is to limit its exposure by dealing solely with leading counterparties and monitoring their credit ratings, in line with guidelines approved by the Company. However, credit risks arising from transactions with financial counterparties can escalate rapidly and a high credit rating is no guarantee that an institution will not experience a rapid deterioration of its financial position. As a result, there is no guarantee that this policy will be effective in entirely eliminating counterparty risk. Any default by a counterparty could have a material adverse effect on the Group's objectives, operating income and financial position.

To limit the Group's exposure to credit risk, the Treasury and Financing Department has defined the following rules for treasury investments at corporate level:  One single counterparty should represent no more than
25% of total invested amount; a counterparty is defined as a financial institution including all its subsidiaries and affiliates.  Counterparties should have a short-term rating of A1/P1F1 or above from Standard & Poor's / Moody's / Fitch respectively.  In order to mitigate sovereign risk, invested amounts should be spread into at least 3 countries of solid reputation, mostly in the Euro zone. One country should not account for more than 40% of the total invested amount.  In order to ensure optimal liquidity, most treasury investments should have daily liquidity. However, short notice periods (max 32 days) are acceptable for limited amounts.

The credit quality of financial assets that are neither past due nor impaired can be assessed by reference to external credit ratings.

In the context of negative short term interest rate across many European countries, the Group may decide to ease some of the criteria listed above in order to avoid any loss on capital (i.e. no negative remuneration on cash deposit).

The cash and marketable securities are allocated within the cash generating units as follows:

Cash & cash equivalents per CGU EUR Thousands
Eurofins Scientific S.E. Benelux France Germany North America Nordic Region UK and Ireland Other Total

2017 in %

2016 in %

491,564 85,613 41,238 34,786 63,512 19,679 14,372 69,594
820,357

60% 10%
5% 4% 8% 2% 2% 8% 100%

574,164 29,441 54,762 33,833 428 17,313 11,437
104,720 826,098

70% 4% 7% 4% 0% 2% 1%
13% 100%

It should be noted that the breakdown of cash and marketable securities shown in the table above reflects the geographic distribution among cash generating units and not by counterparty.

93

4.6 Financial instruments by category The carrying and fair values of the financial assets and financial liabilities are as follows:

EUR Thousands
Assets
Year 2017 Available for sale financial assets (Note 3.5) Financial assets trade and other receivables ­ non current (Note 3.5) Trade and other receivables excluding prepayments - current(Note 3.7, 3.8) Financial assets at fair value through profit and loss Derivative financial instruments(Note 4.5) Short term deposits with banks (Note 3.9) Cash and cash equivalents

Carrying value

Financial assets classification

Loans and Receivables

Assets at fair value
through profit and
loss

Derivatives used for hedging

Available for sale

Fair value

9,422 34,520
768,054
90,477 153,293 667,064 1,722,830

-

-

34,520

-

768,054

-

-

-

- 90,477

667,064 1,469,638

153,293 -
243,770

-

9,422

9,422

-

- 34,520

-

- 768,054

-

-

-

-

- 90,477

-

- 153,293

-

- 667,064

-

9,422 1,722,830

EUR Thousands
Liabilities
Year 2017 Borrowings (Note 3.10) Interest and earnings due on hybrid capital (Note 3.11) Amounts due for business acquisitions (Note 3.14) Derivative financial instruments (Note 4.5) Trade accounts payable, other current liabilities, advance payments received and deferred revenues

Carrying value
2,216,330 64,472
137,756 239
708,473 3,127,270

Financial liabilities classification

Liabilities at fair value
through profit and
loss

Derivatives used for hedging

Other financial liabilities
at amortised
cost

Fair Value

-

- 2,216,330 2,308,252

-

- 64,472 64,472

-

- 137,756 137,756

239

-

-

239

-

- 708,473 708,473

239

- 3,127,031 3,219,192

The Group classifies fair value measurements using a fair value hierarchy that reflects the significance of the inputs used in making the measurements. The fair value hierarchy has the following levels:  Quoted prices (unadjusted) in active markets for identical assets or liabilities (Level 1 - Marketable securities, Derivative
financial instruments assets or Eurobonds);  Inputs other than quoted prices included within Level 1 that are observable for the asset or the liability, either directly (i.e.
such as prices) or indirectly (i.e. derived from prices) (Level 2 - Derivative financial instruments liabilities);  Inputs for the asset or liability that are not based on observable market data (Level 3).
There were no transfers between levels.
With the exception of the non-current fixed-rate borrowings, the Group considers the carrying value of the financial instruments to approximate their fair value.
Regarding borrowings, their fair value is based on:  A quoted price included in Level 1 of the fair value hierarchy for the Eurobond November 2018 (fair value amount of EUR 308m against a carrying value of EUR 300m).  A quoted price included in Level 1 of the fair value hierarchy for the Eurobond January 2022 (fair value amount of EUR 525m against a carrying value of EUR 500m).

94

 A quoted price included in Level 1 of the fair value hierarchy for the Eurobond January 2023 (fair value amount of EUR 544m against a carrying value of EUR 500m).
 A quoted price included in Level 1 of the fair value hierarchy for the Eurobond July 2024 (fair value amount of EUR 665m against a carrying value of EUR 650m).

The fair value of current borrowings (including overdraft) equals to their carrying amount, as the impact of discounting is not significant.

EUR Thousands
Assets
Year 2016 Available for sale financial assets (Note 3.5) Financial assets trade and other receivables ­ non current (Note 3.5) Trade and other receivables excluding prepayments - current (Note 3.7, 3.8) Financial assets at fair value through profit and loss Derivative financial instruments (Note 4.5) Short term deposits with banks (Note 3.9) Cash and cash equivalents (Note 3.9)

Carrying value

Loans and Receivables

Financial assets classification

Assets at fair value
through profit and
loss

Derivatives used for hedging

Available for sale

Fair value

4,730 29,424 567,088
85,554 506,019 320,079 1,512,894

29,424 567,088
320,079 916,591

85,554 506,019 591,573

-

4,730

4,730

-

-

29,424

-

-

567,088

-

-

-

-

-

85,554

-

-

506,019

-

-

320,079

-

4,730 1,512,894

EUR Thousands
Liabilities
Year 2016 Borrowings (Note 3.10) Interest and earnings due on hybrid capital (Note 3.11) Amounts due for business acquisitions (Note 3.14) Derivative financial instruments (Note 4.5) Trade accounts payable, other current liabilities and advance payments received and deferred revenues

Carrying value
1,383,878 58,190
224,111 1,659
525,134 2,192,972

Financial liabilities classification

Liabilities at fair value through profit and loss

Derivatives used for hedging

Other financial liabilities at amortised
cost

Fair value

1,659
-
1,659

- 1,383,878 1,419,778

-

58,190

58,190

-

224,111

224,111

-

-

1,659

-

525,134

525,134

- 2,191,313 2,228,872

95

4.7 Potentially dilutive instruments

Stock option plans Stock options are granted to directors and to employees. Movements in the number of share options outstanding are as follows:

Share options

2017

2016

At beginning of the year Options granted 1

835,876 211,085

794,682 216,660

Options exercised

-137,002 -129,801

Options expired or lost

-81,155 -45,665

At end of the year

828,804 835,876

1 Under conditions (strike price, date of exercise, etc.) of new option plans

(Note 2.4).

As at December 31, 2017, 828,804 stock options awarded are still outstanding. Further details can be found in the "Management Report".

Free shares

Free shares are granted to directors and employees. In accordance with article 8bis of the Company's articles of association ("capital autorisé"), the Board of Directors decided during meetings held on April 4, 2017 and December 13, 2017 to grant up to 14,340 capitalproviding securities in the form of free shares, conferring the beneficiaries the right to subscribe for one share of the Company.

Movements in the number of free shares outstanding are as follows:

Free shares

2017

2016

At beginning of the year Free shares granted Free shares lost At end of the year

10,481 14,340
-543 24,278

10,481
10,481

BSAAR warrants (Notes 1.18 and 3.10) The BSAAR warrants have been mainly subscribed by some business leaders of the Group. Movements in the number of shares to be possibly issued upon exercise of BSAAR warrants are as follows:

In potential new shares At beginning of the period BSAAR exercised BSAAR forfeited At end of the period

2017 7,772 -7,494
-278 0

2016 8,292
-520 -
7,772

2014 BSA Leaders Warrants Upon decision and authorization granted by the Board of Directors of June 19, 2014, the Managing Director of the Company following a decision dated July 1, 2014 decided to issue up to 117,820 capital-providing securities in the form of stock purchase warrants, conferring 2014 BSA Leaders Warrants' holders the right to subscribe for one share of the Company for each 2014 BSA Leaders Warrant at a fixed exercise price of EUR 281.58.
The subscription price was set at EUR 18.15 per 2014 BSA Leaders Warrant. 2014 BSA Leaders Warrant holders will have the option to exercise their 2014 BSA Leaders Warrants at any time starting 4 years from the date of subscription ie between July 1st, 2018 and June 30, 2022 inclusive.

Partial and optional acquisition price payments in Eurofins shares At December 31, 2017, the overall number of Eurofins shares potentially deliverable is 0 share.
Class A beneficiary units Until 30 June 2017 inclusive, Class A beneficiary units, which confer no right to dividends but a right to one vote, were allocated to holders of fully paid-up shares for which proof was provided of registration in the name of the same shareholder for at least three consecutive years.
The Annual General Meeting of Shareholders held on April 20, 2017 adopted changes to the Company's Articles of Association, in particular relating to Class A beneficiary units. As from July 1, 2017, Class A beneficiary units, which confer no right to dividends but a right to one vote, can be allocated to holders of fully paidup shares for which (i) proof is provided of registration in the name of the same shareholder for at least three consecutive years as provided for in article 12bis.2 of the Company's Articles of Association (ii) request to subscribe class A beneficiary units is sent in writing by the relevant shareholder to the Company at the latest by June 30, 2020 and (iii) subject to the Company receiving payment of a subscription price of EUR 0.10 per class A beneficiary unit.
Consequently, the Company's shareholder Analytical Bioventures SCA decided to pay in July 2017 a cash contribution of EUR 640,000 equivalent to EUR 0.10 per Class A beneficiary unit.
The total number of Class A beneficiary units increased from 6,532,840 as of December 31, 2016 to 6,535,247 as of December 31, 2017.
Class B beneficiary units Class B beneficiary units, which confer no right to dividends but a right to one vote, are allocated to holders of fully paid-up shares for which (i) proof is provided of registration in the name of the same shareholder for at least five consecutive years as provided for in article 12bis.3 of the Company's Articles of Association (ii) request to subscribe class B beneficiary units is sent in writing by the relevant shareholder to the Company at the latest by June 30, 2021 and (iii) subject to the Company receiving payment of a subscription price of EUR 0.10 per class B beneficiary unit.
In June 2016 and March 2017 respectively, Analytical Bioventures SCA exercised its right to receive 1,000,000 Class B beneficiary units (2,000,000 in total) on the equivalent number of shares out of its 6,400,000 shares registered in a registered account for five consecutive years in the name of the Company's shareholder Analytical Bioventures SCA for a cash contribution of EUR 200,000 equivalent to EUR 0.10 per beneficiary unit.
The total number of Class B beneficiary units amounts to 2,000,000 as of December 31, 2017.
Voting rights Voting rights attached to shares are proportional to the capital quota they represent. Each share gives the right to one vote. However as mentioned above, class A and class B beneficiary units ("part bénéficiaire de catégorie A" and "part bénéficiaire de catégorie B") carrying an extra voting right each can be allotted to all fully paid-up shares fulfilling conditions as specified in the last two paragraphs. As at December 31, 2017, a total amount of 8,535,247 class A and class B beneficiary units has been issued and the total number of voting rights amounts to 26,179,161.

96

Own shares As at December 31, 2017, the Company does not own any of its shares (same as of December 31, 2016).
Detail of the weighted average number of shares outstanding (diluted)

In Thousands

2017

2016

Weighted average number of shares outstanding (basic) Weighted average number of stock options Weighted average number of free shares Weighted potential number of shares by BSAAR exercise Weighted potential number of shares by 2014 BSA Leaders warrants exercise
Weighted average shares outstanding (diluted)

17,099 769 12 -

15,990 837 4 8

118

118

17,998 16,957

4.8 Earnings per share

Basic Total Hybrid capital investors1 Equity holders

Net Profit of the
period (in EUR
Thousands)
216,771
37,335
179,436

Weighted average
number of shares
outstanding

Earnings per
share (in EUR)

17,099 -
17,099

12.68 2.18
10.49

Diluted Total Hybrid capital investors1 Equity holders
1 See Note 3.12

216,771 37,335
179,436

17,998 -
17,998

12.04 2.07 9.97

4.9 Contingencies

The Group has contingent liabilities in respect of legal claims arising in the ordinary course of business in connection with the services they provide. The majority of these claims are covered by business-specific insurance. Specifically, the Group contests significant liability demands in the United States, which it considered unjustified. The Group's responsibility has not been proven and the damages that are claimed have been neither established nor measured.

Risk factors are described in the section 6 of the Management report.

Based on the information available to date, the Group considers that the outcome of these disputes and legal claims currently in process is unlikely to have a significant adverse impact on the consolidated financial statements other than those provided for (Note 3.16).

4.10 Related-party transactions
Transactions between the Company and its subsidiaries, which are related parties of the Group, have been eliminated in the consolidation process and are not disclosed in the notes.
The company Analytical Bioventures SCA, which is controlled by the Martin family, owns 36.3% of the Company's shares and 56.5% of its voting rights as of December 31, 2017.
Transactions with affiliates or with companies owning shares in Eurofins Group such as Analytical Bioventures SCA or with companies in which some members of the Company's Board of Directors or top management have significant influence such as "International Assets Finance S.à.r.l." are detailed as follows:

EUR Millions
Support management services, provided to the related party
Support management services, provided to Eurofins
Receivables from related party Bank guarantees to related party Payables to related party Rent expenses to related party

2017
0.3
13.6
0.2 1.4 24.4

2016
0.4
12.8
0.2 0.2 19.8

In 2017, new leases were paid in the USA to new property companies owned by Analytical Bioventures SCA, the holding company of the Martin family, representing an amount of EUR 0.14m.

The aggregate amount of future minimum, non-cancellable (operating) lease commitments payable to related-parties represents an amount of EUR 278m as at December 31, 2017 (EUR 225m in 2016).

Receivables relate to lease deposits.

Compensation of the Board of Directors:

EUR Thousands

2017 2016

Director fees and other short-term fringe benefits Post-employment benefits Share-based payments Total

1,789
1,789

1,602
1,602

4.11 Auditor's remuneration

EUR Thousands

2017

2016

Audit of these financial statements Amounts receivable by the auditors and their associates in respect of: Audit of financial statements of subsidiaries pursuant to legislation Other services pursuant to such legislation Total fees payable pursuant to legislation Taxation services Transaction advisory Other Total

235
1,569 223
2,036 81 -
2,118

220
1,286 95
1,601 37 -
1,638

97

The Group has external auditors other than PricewaterhouseCoopers in some countries. Their fees are not included in the above table. 4.12 Post-closing events Change of scope: In January 2018, Eurofins acquired Food Analytica, a group of food testing laboratories in Hungary. Food Analytica employs 90 staff, operates 4 laboratories in South-Eastern Hungary and generates annual revenues of EUR 3m. In January 2018, Eurofins acquired Tsing Hua Testing & Analysis Co., Ltd. ("Tsing Hua"), specialized in environment testing in Taiwan. Tsing Hua is headquartered in Hsinchu, with a subsidiary in Taichung and sales offices in four other cities in Taiwan. The company employs around 240 staff and generates annual revenues in excess of EUR 7m in 2017. In February 2018, Eurofins acquired Labo Van Poucke ("LVP"), a laboratory performing human medical testing covering all branches of clinical biology. LVP was founded in 1969, employs 34 staff and generated revenues close to EUR 5m in 2017. In February 2018, Eurofins acquired Ingenasa, a developer and manufacturer of diagnostic test kits with a broad range of applications in Veterinary Diagnostics and Food Safety. The company is based in Madrid, Spain and has 51 employees and revenues of EUR 4m in 2017. In February 2018, Eurofins acquired NMDL-LCPL, a specialized medical testing business providing molecular diagnostics and pathology laboratory services, with a particular strong presence in the Southwestern part of the Netherlands. The company has 22 employees and revenues in execess of EUR 5m in 2017. The non-controlling interests of LifeCodexx AG have been purchased in January 2018. Additionally since the beginning of 2018, Eurofins has completed the acquisition of three small German, Irish (City Analysts Ltd.) & US environmental testing laboratories and a product testing in UK.
98

5. Scope of the Group
5.1 Change in the scope 2017

The Companies below are fully consolidated (at 100%).

Company

Country ISO Subsidiary of : Code

Agrohuarpes - Eurofins Agrosciences Services S.A.

AR

Eurofins Agrosciences Services LUX Holding SARL

Eurofins Professional Scientific Services Australia Pty Ltd

AU

Eurofins Australia New Zealand Holding Ltd

Dandenong South Monterey Road Real Estate Pty Ltd

AU Eurofins Real Estate LUX Holding SARL

Eurofins Dermatest Pty Ltd

AU

Eurofins Australia New Zealand Holding Ltd

Eurofins Technologies Australia Pty Ltd

AU

Eurofins Australia New Zealand Holding Ltd

Eurofins Agroscience Services Belgium NV

BE

Eurofins Environment Testing Belgium Holding NV

Eurofins Asbest Inspecties België NV

BE

Eurofins Environment Testing Belgium Holding NV

Eurofins Amatsigroup NV

BE Amatsigroup SAS

Laboratorio Pasteur de Analises Clinicas Ltda.

BR Eurofins Latin American Ventures SL

Clinica Radiologica Dr. Moura Gogliano Ltda.

BR Eurofins Latin American Ventures SL

Einstein Imagens Medicas Ltda.

BR Eurofins Latin American Ventures SL

Alphora Research, Inc.

CA

Eurofins Pharma Services LUX Holding SARL

Eurofins NSC Canada, Inc.

CA

Eurofins Support Services LUX Holding SARL

Eurofins Professional Scientific Services CH AG

CH

Eurofins Pharma Services LUX Holding SARL

Eurofins Electrosuisse Product Testing AG

CH

Eurofins Product Testing LUX Holding SARL

Route de Montena Real Estate AG

CH Eurofins Real Estate LUX Holding SARL

Eurofins Agroscience Services Chile S.A.

CL

Eurofins Agrosciences Services LUX Holding SARL

Evans Materials Technology Co., Ltd

CN EAG, Inc.

MVZ für Laboratoriumsmedizin am HygieneInstitut GmbH

DE

St. Marien Krankenhaus Lampertheim GmbH

Laborbetriebsgesellschaft Dr. Dirkes-Kersting und Dr. Kirchner mit beschränkter Haftung

DE

MVZ für Laboratoriumsmedizin am Hygiene-Institut GmbH

GATC Biotech AG

DE MWG Biotech AG

LifeCodexx AG

DE GATC Biotech AG

Institut Nehring GmbH

DE

Eurofins Food Testing General Chemistry Germany Holding GmbH

Institut für Blutgruppenforschung GmbH

DE Eurofins MWG Holding GmbH

SAM Sensory and Marketing International GmbH

DE

Eurofins Food Testing Hamburg Germany Holding GmbH

KKG Holding GmbH

DE

Eurofins Food Testing Hamburg Germany Holding GmbH

EAG Laboratories GmbH

DE Evans Analytical Group Holdings GmbH

Evans Analytical Group Holdings GmbH

DE EAG, Inc.

Eurofins WKS Labservice GmbH

DE

Eurofins Product Testing Verwaltungs GmbH

Eurofins Milk Testing Denmark A/S

DK Eurofins Food Denmark Holding A/S

Eurofins Vitamin Testing Denmark A/S

DK Eurofins Food Denmark Holding A/S

Aabybro Industrivej Real Estate A/S

DK Eurofins Real Estate LUX Holding SARL

VBM Laboratoriet A/S

DK

Eurofins Environment Denmark Holding A/S

Eurofins Environment Testing Estonia Holding OÜ

EE

Eurofins Environment Testing LUX Holding SARL

Eurofins Environment Testing Estonia OÜ

EE

Eurofins Environment Testing Estonia Holding OÜ

Eurofins Professional Scientific Services Spain SL

ES

Eurofins Pharma Services LUX Holding SARL

Laboratorio Prefasi SL

ES Megalab SA

Laboartorio Medicantabria SL

ES Megalab SA

Eurofins Villapharma Research SL

ES

Eurofins Pharma Services LUX Holding SARL

Laboratories Virtudes Gomez Navamuel SL

ES Megalab SA

% of interest by the Group
51

Date of entry

08/17

1

100 05/17

1

100 05/17

1

100 07/17

100 08/17

1

100 02/17

1

100 08/17

1

100 09/17 100 12/17 100 12/17 100 12/17

100 06/17

100 06/17

1

100 03/17

1

100 06/17

100 06/17

90 06/17

1

100 12/17

100 07/17

100 07/17 100 07/17 100 07/17 100 10/17 100 10/17 100 11/17

100 11/17

100 12/17 100 12/17

100 12/17

100 01/17

1

100 01/17

1

100 03/17

100 03/17

100 04/17

100 04/17

100 01/17

1

100 05/17 100 10/17

100 03/17

100 03/17

99

Company
Laboratorios de Castilla y Leon Siglo XXI, SL Eurofins Textile Testing Spain SL Fuente Alamo de Murcia-El Estrech Real Estate SL Analclinic SA Eurofins Environment Testing Finland Holding Oy Eurofins Ahma oy
Eurofins Environment Testing Finland Oy
Nab Labs Group Oy
Eurofins Nab Labs Oy Eurofins Pathologie SELAS Eurofins Labazur Ilab SELAS GATC Biotech SARL Eurofins NDSC Alimentaire France SAS
Eurofins NDSC Chimie Alimentaire France SAS
Eurofins Dev Food Chemistry France 3 SAS Eurofins Laboratoire Nutrition Animale France SAS Eurofins Dev Food Microbio France 2 SAS
Eurofins Dev Environnement 1 SAS
Eurofins Expertises France Holding SAS
Amatsigroup SAS Immobiliere Amatsi SAS Disposable Lab SAS Amatsiaquitaine SAS
France Anapath Management SAS
Eurofins NDSC Pollution France SAS Eurofins Dev France Holding 1 SAS Eurofins Dev France Holding 2 SAS Eurofins NSC Clinical Diagnostics France GIE Eurofins Dev Biopharma France 1 SAS Eurofins Dev Biopharma France 2 SAS Eurofins Dev Biopharma France 3 SAS Evans Analytical Group SAS
Eurofins Technologies Hungary Kft.
Eurofins Food Testing Hungary Holding Kft Váci 19 OMEGA Kft Vaci 19 ALFa Kft. Vaci 19 Gamma Kft. Vaci 19 Epszilon Kft. MINERÁG Fejlesztési, Termelési és Kereskedelmi Kft. Medical Consultants Pathology Holdings Limited
Eurofins MC Pathology Limited
Environmental Laboratory Services Limited
Eurofins Scientific Services Ireland Limited
Eurofins Advinus Limited
Spectro Analytical Labs Ltd
Eurofins Genoma Group Srl Eurofins Ecopro Research K.K.

Country ISO Code ES ES ES ES FI
FI
FI
FI FI FR FR FR FR
FR
FR
FR
FR
FR
FR FR FR FR FR FR
FR FR FR FR FR FR FR FR HU HU HU HU HU HU HU IE IE
IE IE IN
IN IT JP

Subsidiary of :
Megalab SA Eurofins Product Testing Holding Spain SL
Eurofins Real Estate LUX Holding SARL
Megalab SA Eurofins Environment Testing LUX Holding SARL Eurofins Environment Testing Finland Holding Oy Eurofins Environment Testing Finland Holding Oy Eurofins Environment Testing Finland Holding Oy Nab Labs Group Oy Histolog SL Eurofins Labazur Nice SELAS GATC Biotech AG Eurofins Food Chemistry Testing France Holding SAS Eurofins Food Chemistry Testing France Holding SAS Eurofins Food Chemistry Testing France Holding SAS Eurofins Food Chemistry Testing France Holding SAS Eurofins Hygiène Alimentaire France Holding SAS Eurofins Analyses pour le Batiment France Holding SAS Eurofins Analyses Environnementales pour les Industriels France SAS Eurofins Scientific S.E. Eurofins Scientific S.E. Amatsigroup SAS Amatsigroup SAS Eurofins Clinical Testing Services France LUX Holding SARL Eurofins Analyses Environnementales pour les Industriels France SAS Eurofins France Holding SAS Eurofins France Holding SAS Biomnis SELAS Eurofins Pharma France Holding SAS Eurofins Pharma France Holding SAS Eurofins Pharma France Holding SAS EAG, Inc. Eurofins Technology and Supplies LUX Holding Eurofins Food Testing LUX Holding SARL Eurofins Real Estate LUX Holding SARL Eurofins Real Estate LUX Holding SARL Eurofins Real Estate LUX Holding SARL Eurofins Real Estate LUX Holding SARL Eurofins Food Testing Hungary Holding Kft Eurofins Biomnis Ireland Limited Medical Consultants Pathology Holdings Limited Eurofins Environment Testing LUX Holding SARL Eurofins GSC LUX SARL Eurofins Pharma Services LUX Holding SARL Eurofins Environment Testing LUX Holding SARL Eurofins Clinical Testing Italia Holding Srl
Eurofins Food Testing LUX Holding SARL

% of interest by the Group
100 100 100 100 100
100
100
100 100 100 100 100 100
100
100
100
100
100
100 100 100 100 100 100
100 100 100 100 100 100 100 100 100 100 100 100 100 100 100 100 100
100 100 100
60 100 67

Date of entry

05/17

04/17

1

12/17

1

11/17

01/17

1

02/17

04/17

06/17

06/17 04/17 04/17 07/17

08/17

1

08/17

1

08/17

1

08/17

1

08/17

1

09/17

1

09/17

1

09/17 09/17 09/17 09/17

09/17

1

09/17

1

09/17

1

09/17

1

11/17

1

10/17

1

10/17

1

10/17

1

12/17

05/17

1

10/17

1

10/17

1

11/17

1

11/17

1

11/17

1

12/17

2

01/17

01/17

07/17

10/17

1

10/17

11/17 07/17 08/17

100

Company
Eurofins Japan Analytical Chemistry Consultants Co., Ltd. Nano Science KK Saitama Kankyo Service KK MET Korea, Ltd. Labtarn a UAB Eurofins Digital Testing International LUX Holding Equipment Leasing Corporation LUX SARL Alpha Services LUX SA Eurofins Asbest Inspecties BV
Eurofins Survey Netherlands BV Heerenveen Hermes Icarus Real Estate BV Kingbridge Holding BV Sanitas Metingen & Inspecties BV Sanitas Equipement BV Sanitas Milieukundig Adviesbureau BV Sanitas Laboratorium Services BV Eurofins Environment Testing NZ Ltd
Eurofins BioPharma Product Testing NZ Ltd Bucharest Preciziei Real Estate SRL Eurofins Food Testing Laboratories SRL Eurofins Asbestos Testing SRL Eurofins Digital Testing d.o.o. Novi Sad
Eurofins Water Testing Sweden AB GATC Biotech AB Lidköping Sjöhagsgatan Real Estate AB Mejseln 24 AB PharmaControl MQL AB
Eurofins Mechem Pte Ltd EAG Laboratories Pte. Ltd Eurofins Holding za okoljske raziskave d.o.o. Velenje nepremicnine d.o.o., poslovanje z nepremicninami Eurofins ERICo Slovenia d.o.o. Eurofins stanbul Gida Kontrol Laboratuvarlari A.S. Denet Endustriyel Hizmetler Anonim irket A.S.
Eurofins Tuketici Urunleri Test Hizmetleri A.S.
Eurofins Food Testing Taiwan, Ltd. Evans Taiwan, LLC Eurofins York Limited GATC Biotech Limited Discoverx Corporation, Limited Eurofins Forensic Services Limited Selcia Holdings Limited Eurofins Professional Scientific Services UK Limited Eurofins Product Testing UK Holding Limited Selcia Limited

Country ISO Code
JP JP JP KR LT LU LU LU NL
NL NL NL NL NL NL NL NZ
NZ RO RO RO RS
SE SE SE SE SE
SG SG SI
SI
SI
TR
TR
TR
TW TW UK UK UK UK UK
UK
UK UK

Subsidiary of :
Eurofins Food Testing LUX Holding SARL
EAG, Inc. Eurofins Environment Testing LUX Holding SARL MET Laboratories, Inc Eurofins Food Testing LUX Holding SARL Eurofins Product Testing LUX Holding SARL Eurofins Scientific S.E. Eurofins Scientific S.E. Eurofins Environment Testing Netherlands Holding BV Eurofins Food Testing Netherlands Holding BV Eurofins Real Estate LUX Holding SARL Eurofins Environment Testing Netherlands Holding BV Kingbridge Holding BV Kingbridge Holding BV Kingbridge Holding BV Kingbridge Holding BV Eurofins Australia New Zealand Holding Ltd Eurofins Australia New Zealand Holding Ltd Eurofins Real Estate LUX Holding SARL Eurofins Food Testing LUX Holdin SARL Eurofins Industrial Testing LUX SARL Eurofins Digital Testing International LUX Holding SARL Eurofins Environment Testing Sweden Holding AB GATC Biotech AG Eurofins Real Estate LUX Holding SARL Lidköping Sjöhagsgatan Real Estate AB Eurofins Biopharma Product Testing Sweden AB Eurofins Environment Testing LUX Holding SARL EAG, Inc. Eurofins Environment Testing LUX Holding SARL
Eurofins Real Estate LUX Holding SARL
Eurofins Holding za okoljske raziskave d.o.o.
Eurofins Food Testing LUX Holding SARL
Eurofins stanbul Gida Kontrol Laboratuvarlari A.S. Eurofins Product Testing LUX Holding SARL Eurofins Food and Environment Testing Holding Taiwan, Ltd. Evans Analytical Group, LLC Eurofins Product Testing LUX Holding SARL GATC Biotech AG DiscoverX Corporation Eurofins Forensics LUX Holding SARL Eurofins Agroscience Services UK Holding Limited Eurofins Pharma Services LUX Holding SARL Eurofins Product Testing LUX Holding SARL Selcia Holdings Limited

% of interest by the Group
100 100 67 100 100 91 100 100 100
100 100 100 100 100 100 100 100
100 100 100 100 91
100 100 100 100 100
100 100 100
100
100
100
100
100
100 100 100 100 100 100 100
100
100 100

Date of entry

08/17

12/17

12/17

2

12/17 11/17

05/17

1

09/17

1

12/17

1

02/17

1

06/17

1

09/17

1

11/17

11/17 11/17 11/17 11/17

03/17

1

10/17

1

03/17

1

11/17

1

12/17

1

10/17

1

08/17

1

07/17 12/17 12/17

11/17

03/17

12/17

06/17

1

07/17

07/17

03/17

03/17

08/17

1

08/17
12/17
07/17
07/17 09/17 10/17
12/17

09/17

1

12/17

1

12/17

101

Company
Ashwood UK Limited
Eurofins ANA Laboratories, Inc.
Eurofins Technologies North America, Inc.
Eurofins Craft Technologies, Inc. Eurofins California Analytics, LLC DiscoverX Corporation Abraxis, Inc.
Eurofins Technologies US Holdings, Inc.
Eurofins Product Testing US Holdings, Inc.
My Eye Media, LLC EAG, Inc. EAG Holdings, Inc. Evans Analytical Group, LLC Analytical Bio-Chemistry Laboratories, Inc. Lab Facilities Leasing Co, LLC MET Laboratories, Inc Eurofins Consumer Product Testing Vietnam Co. Ltd.

Country ISO Code
UK
US
US
US US US US
US
US
US US US US US US US
VN

Subsidiary of :
Eurofins Food Testing UK Holding Limited Eurofins Environment Testing US Holdings Inc. Eurofins Technology and Supplies LUX Holding SARL Eurofins Food Testing US Holdings Inc. Eurofins Food Testing US Holdings Inc. Eurofins Pharma US Holdings II Inc. Eurofins Technologies US Holdings, Inc. Eurofins Technology and Supplies LUX Holding SARL Eurofins Product Testing LUX Holding SARL Eurofins Product Testing US Holdings, Inc. Eurofins Pharma US Holdings II Inc. EAG, Inc. EAG Holdings, Inc. EAG, Inc. Analytical Bio-Chemistry Laboratories, Inc. Eurofins Product Testing US Holdings, Inc. Eurofins Product Testing LUX Holding SARL

% of interest by the Group
100
100
100
100 100 100 100
100
100
100 100 100 100 100 100 100
100

Date of entry

12/17

2

07/17

05/17

1

12/17

06/17

1

09/17

10/17

09/17

1

09/17

1

10/17

12/17

12/17

12/17

12/17

12/17

1

12/17

08/17

1

1 New Companies incorporated during the period. 2 These companies are consolidated from January 1st, 2018 (Note 3.19).

The below companies have been merged/liquidated during the period:
Company
Envirocontrol NV Eurofins Medinet France SAS Eurofins Ascal Hydrologie SAS Eurofins Food Management SAS Ouest Bio Santé SELAS France Biologie Holding SAS IS-O2 SAS AgriQuest Limited (Kenya) BLGG Agro Xpertus AB Public Analyst Scientific Services (NI) Limited Eurofins QCL Holdings, Inc. Eurofins Genomic Clinical Diagnostics US Holdings, Inc. Diatherix LLC EAC Corporation Ltd. Eurofins BDI-CO, LLC Den Haan Reseach Laboratory For Soil, Water And Vegetation Eurofins Food Testing Canada Holdings Inc.

Country ISO Code
BE FR FR FR FR FR FR KE SE UK US US US JP US NL CA

% of interest by the Group
100 100 100 100 100 100 100 100 100 100 100 100 100 100 100 100 100

Date of exit
01/17 01/17 05/17 07/17 03/17 12/17 01/17 01/17 04/17 01/17 01/17 01/17 01/17 07/17 07/17 12/17 01/17

102

5.2 Principal subsidiary undertakings The Companies below are fully consolidated (at 100%).

Company

Country ISO Subsidiary of : Code

Eurofins Scientific S.E. Eurofins Lebensmittelanalytik Österreich GmbH Eurofins Genomics AT GmbH
Eurofins Agroscience Services Austria GmbH Eurofins Environment Testing AT Holding GmbH Eurofins NUA Umwelt GmbH & Co.KG
Eurofins NUA AT Holding GmbH
Eurofins water&waste GmbH Wiener Neudorf Palmersstraße Real Estate GmbH Eurofins Environment Testing Australia Pty Ltd.
Eurofins Agroscience Services Pty Ltd.
Eurofins Agroscience Testing Pty Ltd.
Eurofins SCEC Pty Ltd.
Eurofins ams Laboratories Pty Ltd.
Eurofins Australia New Zealand Holding Ltd.
Eurofins Food Testing Australia Pty Ltd. Eurofins GSC Management Services NV Eurofins GSC Finance NV
Eurofins Belgium NV
Eurofins Food Testing Belgium NV Eurofins Environment Testing Belgium Holding NV Nazareth Venecoweg Real Estate NV Eurofins Forensics Belgium BVBA Eurofins BioPharma Product Testing Belgium NV Eurofins Agro Testing Belgium NV Eurofins Professional Scientific Services Belgium NV Eurofins GSC Belgium NV
Eurofins Digital Testing Belgium Holding NV
Eurofins Digital Testing Belgium NV Eurofins GSC Finance & Administration NV
Eurofins Agroscience Services EOOD
Eurofins HOS Testing Bulgaria EOOD Eurofins do Brasil Análises de Alimentos Ltda. Innolab do Brasil Ltda. Eurofins Agrosciences Services Ltda. Laboratório ALAC Ltda.

LU AT Eurofins Food Testing LUX Holding SARL

AT Eurofins Genomics LUX Holding SARL

AT

Eurofins Agrosciences Services LUX Holding SARL

AT

Eurofins Environment Testing LUX Holding SARL

AT

Eurofins Environment Testing AT Holding GmbH

AT

Eurofins Environment Testing AT Holding GmbH

AT

Eurofins Environment Testing AT Holding GmbH

AT Eurofins Real Estate LUX Holding SARL

AU

Eurofins Environment Testing LUX Holding SARL

AU

Eurofins Agrosciences Services LUX Holding SARL

AU Eurofins Agroscience Services Pty Ltd.

AU

Eurofins Agrosciences Services France Holding SAS

AU Eurofins Australia New Zealand Holding Ltd.

AU

Eurofins Environment Testing France Australia Holding SAS

AU Eurofins Australia New Zealand Holding Ltd.

BE Eurofins Support Services LUX Holding SARL

BE Eurofins Scientific S.E.

BE

Eurofins Environment Testing Belgium Holding NV

BE Eurofins Food Testing LUX Holding SARL

BE

Eurofins Environment Testing LUX Holding SARL

BE Eurofins Real Estate LUX Holding SARL

BE Eurofins Forensics LUX Holding SARL

BE Eurofins Pharma Services LUX Holding SARL

BE Holding BLGG BV

BE Eurofins Pharma Services LUX Holding SARL

BE Eurofins International Holdings LUX SARL

BE

Eurofins Digital Testing International LUX Holding SARL

BE Eurofins Digital Testing Belgium Holding NV

BE Eurofins Support Services LUX Holding SARL

BG

Eurofins Agrosciences Services LUX Holding SARL

BG Eurofins Food Testing LUX Holding SARL

BR Eurofins Latin American Ventures SL

BR Eurofins Latin American Ventures SL BR Eurofins Latin American Ventures SL BR Eurofins Latin American Ventures SL

% of interest
by the Group
100 100 100 100 100 100 100 100
91 81 81 100 100 100 100 100 100 100 100 100 100 100 100 100 100 100 91 91 100 100 100 100 100 100 100

Date of entry
01/07 09/11 12/12 03/15 03/15 01/16 12/15 12/16 01/13 07/13 07/13 01/16 03/16 05/16 07/16 06/01 07/06 11/07 10/10 09/11 09/11 10/11 11/11 07/13 06/14 07/14 04/15 04/15 09/16 11/08 09/16 07/03 07/09 06/12 04/12

103

Company

Country ISO Subsidiary of : Code

Analytical Technology Serviços Analíticos e Ambientais Ltda. Integrated Petroleum Expertise Company Serviços em Petroleo Ltda. Scientia Laboratorios Ltda.
Laboratorio Sao Lucas Ltda.
Eurofins Experchem Laboratories, Inc.
Eurofins Environment Testing Canada, Inc.
Quebec St. Bruno Real Estate, Inc.

BR Innolab do Brasil Ltda.

BR Innolab do Brasil Ltda.

BR Eurofins EVIC Product Testing France SAS

BR

Integrated Petroleum Expertise Company Serviços em Petrole Ltda.

CA Eurofins Food Testing LUX Holding SARL

CA

Eurofins Environment Testing LUX Holding SARL

CA Eurofins Real Estate LUX Holding SARL

Eurofins Scientific AG
Eurofins Regulatory AG Eurofins BioPharma Product Testing Switzerland AG Openlab Engineering AG

CH Eurofins Food Testing LUX Holding SARL

CH

Eurofins Agrosciences Services LUX Holding SARL

CH Eurofins Pharma Services LUX Holding SARL

CH Socamed SAS

Gestion De Calidad Y Laboratorio SA

CL Eurofins Latin American Ventures SL

GCL Capacita SA

CL Gestion De Calidad Y Laboratorio SA

Eurofins Product Testing Hong Kong Limited

CN Eurofins Product Testing LUX Holding SARL

Eurofins Technology Service (Suzhou) Co., Ltd.
Eurofins Product Testing Service (Shanghai) Co., Ltd. Eurofins Testing Technology (Shenzhen) Co., Ltd.
Eurofins Shanghai Holding Limited

CN Eurofins Food Testing LUX Holding SARL CN Eurofins Shanghai Holding Limited CN Eurofins Product Testing LUX Holding SARL CN Eurofins Product Testing LUX Holding SARL

Eurofins Central Laboratory China CO., Ltd

CN Eurofins Pharma Services LUX Holding SARL

Eurofins Food Testing Hong Kong Limited

CN Eurofins Food Testing LUX Holding SARL

CEREP Drug Discovery Services Co, Ltd.

CN Eurofins CEREP SA

Eurofins NSC Shanghai Co., Ltd.

CN Eurofins Support Services LUX Holding SARL

Eurofins NSC Hong Kong Limited
Eurofins Food Testing Service (Shanghai) Co., Ltd.
Eurofins Food Testing Service(Dalian)Co.,Ltd.
Eurofins Technology Service (Qingdao) Co., Ltd. Eurofins Food Certification Service(Shanghai)Co., Ltd.
Eurofins CZ, s.r.o.
Eurofins Food Testing Hamburg Germany Holding GmbH
Eurofins 3. Verwaltungsgesellschaft GmbH

CN Eurofins Support Services LUX Holding SARL CN Eurofins Food Testing LUX Holding SARL CN Eurofins Food Testing LUX Holding SARL CN Eurofins Food Testing LUX Holding SARL CN Eurofins Food Testing LUX Holding SARL CZ Eurofins Bel/Novamann s.r.o. DE Eurofins GeneScan Holding GmbH DE Eurofins Real Estate LUX Holding SARL

Eurofins GeneScan Holding GmbH

DE Eurofins Food Testing LUX Holding SARL

Eurofins Analytik GmbH Eurofins Dr. Specht GmbH Eurofins GeneScan GmbH Eurofins Sofia GmbH Eurofins GfA GmbH

DE Eurofins GfA Lab Service GmbH

DE

Eurofins Food Testing Hamburg Germany Holding GmbH

DE Eurofins GeneScan Holding GmbH

DE

Eurofins Food Testing Pesticides Germany Holding GmbH

DE Eurofins Air Monitoring Germany Holding GmbH

Eurofins Ökometric GmbH Eurofins NDSC Umweltanalytik GmbH Eurofins Umwelt West GmbH

DE Eurofins NDSC Umweltanalytik GmbH

DE

Eurofins Environment Testing LUX Holding SARL

DE

Eurofins Environment Testing Germany Holding West GmbH

% of interest
by the Group
100
100 100 100 100 100 100 100 100
100 100 100 100 100 100
90
100 90
100 100
96 100 100 100 100 100
100 100 100 100 100 100 100 100 100 100 100 100
100

Date of entry
07/14 09/14 07/15 12/16 04/15 12/16 12/16 07/00 12/11 01/13 10/15 03/13 03/13 03/06 11/06 11/09 10/09 08/09 05/12 03/12 03/13 06/14 02/14 05/15 06/16 06/16 06/16 10/06 05/98 11/98 07/03 12/98 04/05 07/03 04/06 01/01 12/02 03/05 04/05

104

Company

Country ISO Subsidiary of : Code

Eurofins Umwelt Ost GmbH

DE Eurofins NDSC Umweltanalytik GmbH

Eurofins Institut Jäger GmbH

DE Eurofins NDSC Umweltanalytik GmbH

Eurofins Medigenomix GmbH

DE Eurofins Genomics LUX Holding SARL

Eurofins Agroscience Services EcoChem GmbH

DE

Eurofins Agroscience Services Germany Holding GmbH

Eurofins BioPharma Product Testing Munich GmbH

DE

Eurofins BioPharma Services Holding Germany GmbH

Eurofins MWG Holding GmbH

DE Eurofins Genomics BV

Eurofins Genomics GmbH Eurofins Food Testing Pesticides Germany Holding GmbH
Eurofins Dr. Specht Laboratorien GmbH
Eurofins MWG Synthesis GmbH Eurofins Food Testing General Chemistry Germany Holding GmbH
Eurofins Institut Dr. Rothe GmbH
Eurofins Product Testing Verwaltungs GmbH Eurofins Environment Testing Germany Holding West GmbH Eurofins Agroscience Services Germany Holding GmbH Eurofins 1. Verwaltungsgesellschaft mbH

DE MWG Biotech AG

DE Eurofins Food Testing LUX Holding SARL

DE

Eurofins Food Testing Hamburg Germany Holding GmbH

DE MWG Biotech AG

DE Eurofins Laborservices GmbH

DE

Eurofins Food Testing General Chemistry Germany Holding GmbH

DE Eurofins Product Service GmbH

DE

Eurofins Environment Testing LUX Holding SARL

DE

Eurofins Agrosciences Services LUX Holding SARL

DE Eurofins Real Estate LUX Holding SARL

Eurofins Umwelt Nord GmbH

DE Eurofins NDSC Umweltanalytik GmbH

Eurofins Laborservices GmbH

DE Eurofins Food Testing LUX Holding SARL

Eurofins NSC IT Infrastructure Germany GmbH INLAB GmbH Institut für Lebensmittelmikrobiologie Eurofins Product Service GmbH
Eurofins Information Systems GmbH
Eurofins NSC Finance Germany GmbH

DE Eurofins Support Services LUX Holding SARL

DE

Eurofins Food Testing General Chemistry Germany Holding GmbH

DE Eurofins Scientific S.E.

DE

Eurofins Food Testing Hamburg Germany Holding GmbH

DE Eurofins Support Services LUX Holding SARL

Eurofins Consumer Product Testing GmbH Eurofins Food Testing Germany East Holding GmbH Eurofins Agroscience Services Chem GmbH
Eurofins Food Control Services GmbH

DE Eurofins Product Testing Verwaltungs GmbH

DE Eurofins Food Testing LUX Holding SARL

DE

Eurofins Food Testing Hamburg Germany Holding GmbH

DE Eurofins Food Testing LUX Holding SARL

Eurofins WEJ Contaminants GmbH

DE Eurofins GfA Lab Service GmbH

Eurofins BioTesting Services Nord GmbH

DE Eurofins GfA Lab Service GmbH

Eurofins 2. Verwaltungsgesellschaft GmbH
Eurofins Global Control GmbH
Eurofins Institut Dr. Appelt Leipzig GmbH
Eurofins Rapidust Analysis GmbH Eurofins BioPharma Product Testing Hamburg GmbH Eurofins Food Integrity Control Services GmbH

DE Eurofins Real Estate LUX Holding SARL

DE

Eurofins Food Testing Pesticides Germany Holding GmbH

DE Dr. Appelt Beteiligungs GmbH

DE

Eurofins Food Testing Pesticides Germany Holding GmbH

DE

Eurofins BioPharma Services Holding Germany GmbH

DE Dr. Appelt Beteiligungs GmbH

Eurofins Institut Dr. Appelt Hilter GmbH Dr. Appelt Beteiligungs GmbH

DE Dr. Appelt Beteiligungs GmbH

DE

Eurofins Food Testing Germany East Holding GmbH

Eurofins GeneScan Technologies GmbH

DE Eurofins GeneScan Holding GmbH

% of interest
by the Group
100 100 100 100
100 100 100 100
100 100 100
100 100 100
100 100 100 100 100 100 100 100 100 100 100
100 100 100 100 100 100 100 100
100 100 100 100
100

Date of entry
01/06 04/06 07/01 01/06 10/06 01/05 01/07 12/06 03/07 01/07 04/07 04/07 03/07 12/07 04/07 04/07 05/07 04/07 12/07 12/07 01/08 11/07 12/07 01/08 01/08 02/08 12/08 12/08 12/08 06/08 04/09 05/09 08/09 07/09 05/09 05/09 05/09
05/09

105

Company

Country ISO Subsidiary of : Code

Eurofins GfA Lab Service GmbH Eurofins NDSC Food Testing Germany GmbH Eurofins Agroscience Services GmbH Eurofins Facility Management Germany GmbH Eurofins Labor Vogt GmbH

DE

Eurofins Food Testing Hamburg Germany Holding GmbH

DE

Eurofins Food Testing Hamburg Germany Holding GmbH

DE

Eurofins Agroscience Services Germany Holding GmbH

DE

Eurofins Food Testing Hamburg Germany Holding GmbH

DE Eurofins NDSC Umweltanalytik GmbH

Eurofins Medigenomix Forensik GmbH

DE MWG Biotech AG

Eurofins 7. Verwaltungsgesellschaft mbH

DE Dr. Appelt Beteiligungs GmbH

Eurofins GSC Germany GmbH
Eurofins CLF Specialised Nutrition Testing Services GmbH
BLGG Deutschland GmbH

DE Eurofins Support Services LUX Holding SARL

DE

Eurofins Special Nutrition Testing LUX Holding SARL

DE Holding BLGG BV

LUA GmbH

DE BLGG Deutschland GmbH

Eurofins Clinical Genetics Germany GmbH

DE St. Marien Krankenhaus Lampertheim GmbH

Eurofins HT-Analytik GmbH
Eurofins Hygiene Institut Berg GmbH
Eurofins Agraranalytik Deutschland GmbH Eurofins BioPharma Services Holding Germany GmbH Eurofins Agroscience Services Ecotox GmbH Eurofins Professional Scientific Services Germany GmbH St. Marien Krankenhaus Lampertheim GmbH

DE Eurofins NDSC Umweltanalytik GmbH

DE

Eurofins Environment Testing Germany Holding West GmbH

DE Eurofins NDSC Umweltanalytik GmbH

DE MWG Biotech AG

DE

Eurofins Agroscience Services Germany Holding GmbH

DE

Eurofins BioPharma Services Holding Germany GmbH

DE Eurofins Clinical Testing Holding LUX SARL

Eurofins Air Monitoring Germany Holding GmbH DE Eurofins Air Monitoring LUX Holding SARL

Eurofins Finance Transactions Germany GmbH
Eurofins Dr. Specht Express GmbH
Eurofins NSC Denmark A/S Eurofins Biopharma Product Testing Denmark A/S Eurofins Product Testing Denmark A/S

DE Eurofins Support Services LUX Holding SARL

DE

Eurofins Food Testing Hamburg Germany Holding GmbH

DK Eurofins Support Services LUX Holding SARL

DK Eurofins Pharma Holding Denmark A/S

DK Eurofins Product Testing LUX Holding SARL

Eurofins Miljo A/S

DK Eurofins Environment Denmark Holding A/S

Eurofins Steins Laboratorium A/S Eurofins Environment Denmark Holding A/S Eurofins Food Denmark Holding A/S Eurofins Agroscience Services ApS Eurofins Genomics Holding Denmark A/S

DK Eurofins Food Denmark Holding A/S

DK

Eurofins Environment Testing LUX Holding SARL

DK Eurofins Food Testing LUX Holding SARL

DK

Eurofins Agrosciences Services LUX Holding SARL

DK Eurofins Genomics LUX Holding SARL

AROS Applied biotechnology A/S

DK Eurofins Genomics Holding Denmark A/S

Eurofins Miljø Vand A/S

DK Eurofins Environment Denmark Holding A/S

Eurofins Agro Testing Denmark A/S

DK Eurofins Food Denmark Holding A/S

Eurofins Miljø Luft A/S

DK Eurofins Environment Denmark Holding A/S

Eurofins Pharma Holding Denmark A/S
Eurofins Professional Scientific Services Denmark A/S
Eurofins Genomics A/S

DK Eurofins Pharma Services LUX Holding SARL DK Eurofins Pharma Holding Denmark A/S DK Eurofins Genomics Holding Denmark A/S

GenoSkan A/S

DK Eurofins Genomics Holding Denmark A/S

% of interest
by the Group
100
100
100
100 100 100 100 100 100 100 100 100 100 100 100 100
100
100 100 100 100 100 100 100 100 100 100 100 100 100 100 100 100 100 100 100 100 100 100

Date of entry
10/10 03/11
07/11 11/11 06/12 08/12 01/13 04/13 08/13 07/13 07/13 01/14 03/14 05/14 12/14 03/15 08/15 10/15 08/16 07/16 10/16 04/16 12/03 03/06 08/08 06/05 07/06 04/07 04/07 04/13 11/13 01/13 10/13 12/14 08/14 08/15 08/15 12/15 09/16

106

Company

Country ISO Subsidiary of : Code

Eurofins Agroscience Services SL Eurofins BioPharma Product Testing Spain SLU

ES

Eurofins Agrosciences Services LUX Holding SARL

ES Eurofins Pharma Services LUX Holding SARL

Eurofins Latin American Ventures SL
Eurofins Sica AgriQ SL Eurofins Analisis Alimentario Holding Espana SL Eurofins Product Testing Spain SL
Eurofins Anàlisis Alimentario SL
Eurofins Analisis Alimentario Nordeste SL
Eurofins Agroambiental SA

ES Eurofins International Holdings LUX SARL

ES

Eurofins Analisis Alimentario Holding Espana SL

ES Eurofins Food Testing LUX Holding SARL

ES Eurofins Product Testing Holding Spain

ES

Eurofins Analisis Alimentario Holding Espana SL

ES

Eurofins Analisis Alimentario Holding Espana SL

ES Eurofins Analisis Alimentario Nordeste SL

Eurofins EVIC Product Testing Spain SL Trialcamp SL Laboratori SARRO SL

ES Eurofins Product Testing Holding Spain SL

ES

Eurofins Agrosciences Services LUX Holding SARL

ES Bio-Access SAS

Eurofins NSC Spain SL

ES Eurofins Support Services LUX Holding SARL

Histolog SL Eurofins NDSC Food Testing Spain SL Eurofins Product Testing Holding Spain SL

ES France Anapath Holding SAS

ES

Eurofins Analisis Alimentario Holding Espana SL

ES Eurofins Product Testing LUX Holding SARL

Megalab SA

ES Eurofins Clinical Testing Holding LUX SARL

Alfalab International, SL

ES Megalab SA

Cifuentes Fisioclinic, SL

ES Megalab SA

Laboratorio Ángel Mendez, SL

ES Megalab SA

Laboratorio Calbo, SL

ES Megalab SA

Laboratorio Bernad-Munoz, SL

ES Megalab SA

Carlos Bosch Millares, SL

ES Megalab SA

Laboratorio Clinico Sanitario, SL

ES Megalab SA

Dra. Vicente, SL

ES Megalab SA

Laboratorios Doctores Cermeno, SL

ES Megalab SA

Laboratorios Garcia Lopez, S.L

ES Megalab SA

Laboratorio Pilar Larraz, SL

ES Megalab SA

Laboratorios Recio, SL

ES Megalab SA

Laboratorios Surlab, SL

ES Megalab SA

Megalab Medio Ambiente, SL

ES Megalab SA

Laboratorio de Analisis Dr. Valenzuela, SL

ES Megalab SA

Lab. San Andres, SL

ES Laboratorio de Analisis Dr. Valenzuela, S.L.

Laboratorio Sanchez Castineiras, SL

ES Laboratorio de Analisis Dr. Valenzuela, S.L.

Eurofins Scientific Finland Oy

FI Eurofins Food Testing LUX Holding SARL

Eurofins Viljavuuspalvelu Oy Eurofins Hygiène Alimentaire France Holding SAS Eurofins Analytics France SAS
Eurofins Biosciences SAS
Eurofins Certification SAS

FI Eurofins Food Testing LUX Holding SARL

FR

Eurofins Hygiène Alimentaire France LUX Holding SARL

FR

Eurofins Food Chemistry Testing France Holding SAS

FR

Eurofins Hygiène Alimentaire France Holding SAS

FR

Eurofins Hygiène Alimentaire France Holding SAS

% of interest
by the Group
100 100 100 100
100 100 100
100 90
100 100 100 100 100 100 100 100 100 100 100 100 100 100 100 100 100 100
99 100 100
70 100 100 100 100 100 100
100
100
100

Date of entry
01/06 01/07 04/09 07/13
09/13 09/13 05/14
05/14 05/14 07/15 06/15 07/15 01/16 01/16 04/16 04/16 09/16 09/16 09/16 09/16 09/16 09/16 09/16 09/16 09/16 09/16 09/16 09/16 09/16 09/16 09/16 09/16 09/16 09/16 10/07 12/12 01/99
07/99
07/99
07/03

107

Company

Country ISO Subsidiary of : Code

Eurofins Laboratoire de Microbiologie de l'Est SAS
Eurofins ATS SAS

FR

Eurofins Hygiène Alimentaire France Holding SAS

FR Eurofins Product Testing LUX Holding SARL

Eurofins Hydrologie France Holding SAS Eurofins Analyses pour l'Environnement France SAS Eurofins Analyses pour le Bâtiment Est SAS
Eurofins Pharma France Holding SAS
Eurofins Genomics SAS

FR Eurofins Hydrologie France LUX Holding SARL

FR

Eurofins Analyses Environnementales pour les Industriels France SAS

FR

Eurofins Analyses pour le Batiment France Holding SAS

FR

Eurofins Pharma Services France LUX Holding SARL

FR Eurofins Genomics LUX Holding SARL

IFEG SAS

FR Eurofins Forensics LUX Holding SARL

Toxlab SAS

FR Eurofins Forensics LUX Holding SARL

Eurofins ADME Bioanalyses SAS

FR Eurofins Pharma France Holding SAS

Eurofins Optimed SAS

FR Eurofins Pharma France Holding SAS

Eurofins Pharma Quality Control SAS
Eurofins Agroscience Services France SAS
Eurofins Agroscience Services SAS
Chemtox SAS Eurofins Laboratoires de Microbiologie Ouest SAS Eurofins Cervac Sud SAS
Eurofins NSC Finance France SAS
Eurofins Marketing Research SAS
Eurofins Hydrologie France SAS Eurofins Food Chemistry Testing France Holding SAS Eurofins Optimed Lyon SAS

FR Eurofins Pharma France Holding SAS

FR

Eurofins Agrosciences Services France Holding SAS

FR

Eurofins Agrosciences Services France Holding SAS

FR Eurofins Forensics LUX Holding SARL

FR

Eurofins Hygiène Alimentaire France Holding SAS

FR

Eurofins Food Chemistry Testing France Holding SAS

FR Eurofins Support Services LUX Holding SARL

FR

Eurofins Food Chemistry Testing France Holding SAS

FR Eurofins Hydrologie France Holding SAS

FR

Eurofins Food Chemistry Testing France LUX Holding SARL

FR Eurofins Pharma France Holding SAS

Eurofins NSC IT Infrastructure France SAS

FR Eurofins Support Services LUX Holding SARL

Eurofins Hydrologie Centre Est SAS
Eurofins Laboratoire Centre SAS
Eurofins Laboratoire Nord SAS
Eurofins Consulting Agroalimentaire SAS
Eurofins GSC France SAS
Eurofins NDSC IT solution Food France SAS
Eurofins NDSC Environnement France SAS Eurofins Analyses pour le Batiment France Holding SAS Eurofins Analyses pour le Bâtiment France SAS Eurofins Analyses Environnementales pour les Industriels France SAS Eurofins NSC Développement France SAS

FR Eurofins Hydrologie France Holding SAS

FR

Eurofins Hygiène Alimentaire France Holding SAS

FR

Eurofins Hygiène Alimentaire France Holding SAS

FR

Eurofins Hygiène Alimentaire France Holding SAS

FR Eurofins Support Services LUX Holding SARL

FR

Eurofins Food Chemistry Testing France Holding SAS

FR

Eurofins NDSC Environnement France Holding SAS

FR

Eurofins Analyses pour la Construction France LUX Holding SARL

FR

Eurofins Analyses pour le Batiment France Holding SAS

FR

Eurofins Analyses Environnementales pour les Industriels France SAS

FR Eurofins Support Services LUX Holding SARL

Eurofins France Holding SAS
Eurofins Agroscience Services Chem SAS Eurofins Analyses pour le Bâtiment Ile de France SAS Eurofins Analyses pour le Bâtiment Nord SAS

FR Eurofins Scientific S.E. (French Branch)

FR

Eurofins Agrosciences Services France Holding SAS

FR

Eurofins Analyses pour le Batiment France Holding SAS

FR

Eurofins Analyses pour le Batiment France Holding SAS

% of interest
by the Group
100 100 100 100
100 100 100
75 88 100 100 100 100 100 99 100 100 100 100 100 100 100 100 100 100 100
100 100 100 100
100 100 100 100 100 100 100 100

Date of entry
01/06 01/99 07/05 07/05 01/01 06/06 07/05 11/05 02/05 10/04 01/06 01/06 01/06 01/06 01/08 10/06 10/06 10/06 10/06 01/01 09/07 09/07 12/07 04/08 07/10 07/10 07/10 07/10 08/10 08/10 08/10 09/10 10/10 10/10 12/10 12/10 12/10 12/10

108

Company

Country ISO Subsidiary of : Code

Eurofins Analyses pour le Bâtiment Sud Est SAS Eurofins Analyses pour le Bâtiment Ouest SAS Eurofins Analyses des Matériaux et Combustibles France SAS Eurofins Air à l'Emission France SAS
Eurofins Hydrologie Nord SAS

FR

Eurofins Analyses pour le Batiment France Holding SAS

FR

Eurofins Analyses pour le Batiment France Holding SAS

FR

Eurofins Analyses Environnementales pour les Industriels France SAS

FR

Eurofins Analyses Environnementales pour les Industriels France SAS

FR Eurofins Hydrologie France Holding SAS

Eurofins IPL Hydrologie SAS LCAM SAS Eurofins Hydrologie Ile de France SAS

FR Eurofins Water Testing LUX SARL

FR

Eurofins Hygiène Alimentaire France Holding SAS

FR Eurofins Hydrologie France Holding SAS

Eurofins Hydrologie Est SAS

FR Eurofins Hydrologie France SAS

Eurofins Hydrologie Sud SAS

FR Eurofins Hydrologie France Holding SAS

Eurofins Asbestos Testing Europe SAS
Eurofins Laboratoire Contaminants Sud SAS Eurofins Laboratoire de Pathologie Végétale SAS Eurofins Hydrologie Ouest SAS

FR Eurofins Industrial Testing LUX SARL

FR

Eurofins Food Chemistry Testing France Holding SAS

FR

Eurofins Food Chemistry Testing France Holding SAS

FR Eurofins Hydrologie France Holding SAS

Eurofins DSC Forensics SAS
Eurofins Analyses de l'Air Paris SAS
Eurofins Analyses d'Amiante Paris SAS
Eurofins Expertises Environnementales SAS Eurofins NDSC Environnement France Holding SAS Eurofins NDSCE Support France SAS Eurofins Agrosciences Services France Holding SAS Eurofins GSC CADET SAS
Eurofins Environnement Logistique France SAS Eurofins Pharma Products Testing France Management SAS Eurofins Pharma Products Engineering SAS
EVGS SAS
Eurofins CEREP SA

FR Eurofins Forensics LUX Holding SARL

FR

Eurofins Analyses Environnementales pour les Industriels France SAS

FR

Eurofins Analyses pour le Batiment France Holding SAS

FR Eurofins Hydrologie France Holding SAS

FR

Eurofins Environment Testing LUX Holding SARL

FR

Eurofins NDSC Environnement France Holding SAS

FR

Eurofins Agrosciences Services LUX Holding SARL

FR Eurofins Support Services LUX Holding SARL

FR

Eurofins Analyses Environnementales pour les Industriels France SAS

FR Eurofins Pharma France Holding SAS

FR Eurofins Pharma France Holding SAS

FR

Eurofins Food Chemistry Testing France Holding SAS

FR Eurofins Discovery Services LUX Holding SARL

Mitox Fopse EURL Eurofins Analyses pour le Bâtiment Sud-Ouest SAS Eurofins IDmyk SAS Eurofins Prélèvement pour le Bâtiment France Holding SAS
Eurofins Prélèvement pour le Bâtiment Est SAS
Eurofins Prélèvement pour le Bâtiment France SAS Eurofins Prélèvement pour le Bâtiment Ouest SAS Eurofins NSC HR France SAS
Eurofins Analyses pour le Bâtiment Sud SAS
Eurofins Prélèvement pour le Bâtiment Nord SAS

FR MITOX Trial Management BV

FR

Eurofins Analyses pour le Batiment France Holding SAS

FR Eurofins Pharma France Holding SAS

FR

Eurofins Analyses pour l'Environnement France LUX Holding SARL

FR

Eurofins Prélèvement pour le Bâtiment France Holding SAS

FR

Eurofins Prélèvement pour le Bâtiment France Holding SAS

FR

Eurofins Prélèvement pour le Bâtiment France Holding SAS

FR Eurofins Support Services LUX Holding SARL

FR

Eurofins Analyses pour le Batiment France Holding SAS

FR

Eurofins Prélèvement pour le Bâtiment France Holding SAS

% of interest
by the Group
100 100 100 100 100 100 100 100 100 100 100 100 100 100 100 100 100 100 100 100 100 100 100 100 100
51 96 100 100 100 100 100 100 100 100 100 100

Date of entry
12/10 12/10 12/10 12/10 11/11 11/11 11/11 11/11 11/11 11/11 11/11 12/11 12/11 02/12 02/12 02/12 02/12 04/12 05/12 01/12 12/12 11/12 12/12 12/12 12/12 12/12 03/13 07/13 09/13 01/14 08/14 09/14 10/14 10/14 07/14 08/14 09/14

109

Company
Eurofins Prélèvement pour le Bâtiment Sud-Est SAS Eurofins Prélèvement pour le Bâtiment Île-deFrance SAS Eurofins NDSC Hydrologie France SAS Eurofins Laboratoire de Microbiologie Bretagne SAS SCI Vennecy Les Esses Galerne Eagle Ventures SAS Eurofins Product Testing France Holding SAS
Eurofins Cebat SAS
Eurofins EVIC Product Testing France SAS
Eurofins Technologies France SAS
France Biologie de Spécialité Holding SAS Eurofins Environment Testing France Australia Holding SAS Bio-Access SAS Eurofins Labazur Provence SELAS Eurofins Labazur Guyane SELAS Eurofins Labazur Nice SELAS Eurofins Labazur Rhone-Alpes SELAS Eurofins Labazur Bretagne SELAS Eurofins Labazur Armorique SELAS Eurofins Labazur ASV SELAS Eurofins Labazur Cornouaille SELAS
France Anapath Holding SAS
Bio-Access Services GIE
Eurofins Analyses pour l'Agronomie SAS
Eurofins Hydrologie Sud Ouest SAS Biomnis Empreintes Genetiques SAS Eurofins Hydrobiologie France SAS Eurofins Prélèvement pour le Bâtiment SudOuest SAS Eurofins Biomnis Holding SAS Eurofins Biologie Spécialisée SAS Socamed SAS Eurofins Biomnis Sample Library SAS Openlab France SARL SCI du Val d'Ouest Eurofins Biomnis SELAS Eurofins Laboratoire des Pyramides SELAS Eurofins CBM69 SELAS Eurofins CEF SELAS Eurofins Bioffice SELAS Biosphere GIE

Country ISO Subsidiary of : Code

FR

Eurofins Prélèvement pour le Bâtiment France Holding SAS

FR

Eurofins Prélèvement pour le Bâtiment France Holding SAS

FR Eurofins Hydrologie France Holding SAS

FR

Eurofins Hygiène Alimentaire France Holding SAS

FR Eurofins Real Estate LUX Holding SARL

FR Eurofins International Holdings LUX SARL

FR Eurofins Product Testing LUX Holding SARL

FR

Eurofins Analyses pour le Batiment France Holding SAS

FR Eurofins Product Testing France Holding SAS

FR

Eurofins Technology and Supplies LUX Holding SARL

FR

Eurofins Clinical Testing Services France LUX Holding SARL

FR

Eurofins Environment Testing LUX Holding SARL

FR France Biologie Holding SAS

FR Laboratori SARRO SL

FR Eurofins Labazur Provence SELAS

FR Eurofins Labazur Provence SELAS

FR Eurofins Labazur Provence SELAS

FR Eurofins Labazur Provence SELAS

FR Eurofins Labazur Provence SELAS

FR Eurofins Labazur Provence SELAS

FR Eurofins Labazur Bretagne SELAS

FR

Eurofins Clinical Testing Services France LUX Holding SARL

FR Bio-Access SAS

FR

Eurofins Food Chemistry Testing France LUX Holding SARL

FR Eurofins Hydrologie France Holding SAS

FR Eurofins Forensics LUX Holding SARL

FR Eurofins Hydrologie France Holding SAS

FR

Eurofins Prélèvement pour le Bâtiment France Holding SAS

FR France Biologie de Spécialité Holding SAS

FR Eurofins Biomnis Holding SAS

FR Eurofins Biologie Spécialisée SAS

FR Socamed SAS

FR Socamed SAS

FR Eurofins Real Estate LUX Holding SARL

FR Eurofins Biomnis Ireland Limited

FR Biomnis SELAS

FR Biomnis SELAS

FR Biomnis SELAS

FR Eurofins CEF SELAS

FR Biomnis SELAS

% of interest
by the Group
100
100 100 100 100 100 100 100 100 100
100
100 100 100 100 100 100 100 100 100 100 100 100 100 100 100 100 100 100 100 100 100 100 100 100
72 100 100 100 100

Date of entry
09/14
09/14 11/14 12/14 11/14 12/14 12/14 04/15 07/15 07/15
06/15
06/15 07/15 07/15 07/15 07/15 07/15 07/15 07/15 07/15 07/15 07/15 07/15 12/15 11/15 10/15 10/15 10/15 10/15 10/15 10/15 10/15 10/15 10/15 10/15 10/15 10/15 10/15 10/15 10/15

110

Company

Country ISO Subsidiary of : Code

Eurofins Biotech Germande SAS Phyliae SAS SCI Illkirch Gruninger AgroAnalyses Eurofins LCDI SAS SCI Lentilly Aqueduc Aquila (Gigco) Ltd.
Eurofins Agroscience Services KfT Eurofins Elelmiszer Analizis Magyarorszàg KfT Eurofins Scientific (Ireland) Limited Eurofins Food Testing Ireland Limited Eurofins Pharma Ireland Holding Limited Eurofins BioPharma Product Testing Ireland Limited Eurofins Cork Limited Clogherane Real Estate Investment Limited Eurofins Biomnis Ireland Limited Eurofins Lablink Limited Eurofins Professional Scientific Services Ireland Limited Eurofins Genomics India Pvt Ltd. Eurofins Analytical Services India Pvt Ltd. Eurofins Pharma Services India Pvt Ltd. Eurofins IT Solutions India Pvt Ltd. Eurofins Resources India Pvt Ltd. Eurofins AgroScience Services Ltd. Eurofins Clinical Genetics India Pvt Ltd. Eurofins Product Testing India Pvt Ltd. Eurofins Agroscience Services Srl Eurofins Food & Feed Testing Italia Holding Srl Eurofins Chemical Control Srl Eurofins Biolab Srl Eurofins Qualis Srl Eurofins Environment Testing Italy Srl Eurofins Product Testing Italy Srl Eurofins NSC Italia Srl Eurofins Product Testing Italia Holding Srl Eurofins Clinical Testing Italia Holding Srl Eurofins Genomics Srl Eurofins Pivetti Srl Eurofins Pharma Services Italia Holding Srl Eurofins Modulo Uno Srl

FR Eurofins Hydrologie France Holding SAS

FR

Eurofins Agrosciences Services France Holding SAS

FR Eurofins Support Services LUX Holding SARL

FR

Eurofins Hygiène Alimentaire France Holding SAS

FR Eurofins Hydrologie France Holding SAS

FR Eurofins Real Estate LUX Holding SARL

GI

Eurofins Environment Testing LUX Holding SARL

HU

Eurofins Agrosciences Services LUX Holding SARL

HU Eurofins Food Testing LUX Holding SARL

IE Eurofins GSC LUX SARL

IE Eurofins Food Testing LUX Holding SARL IE Eurofins Pharma Services LUX Holding SARL

IE Eurofins Pharma Ireland Holding Limited

IE Eurofins Food Testing LUX Holding SARL IE Eurofins Real Estate LUX Holding SARL

IE Socamed SAS IE Eurofins Biomnis Ireland Limited

IE Eurofins Pharma Ireland Holding Limited

IN Eurofins Genomics LUX Holding SARL IN Eurofins Food Testing LUX Holding SARL

IN Eurofins Pharma Services LUX Holding SARL

IN Eurofins Support Services LUX Holding SARL

IN Eurofins International Holdings LUX SARL

IN

Eurofins Agrosciences Services LUX Holding SARL

IN Eurofins Genomics LUX Holding SARL

IN Eurofins Product Testing LUX Holding SARL

IT

Eurofins Agrosciences Services LUX Holding SARL

IT Eurofins Food Testing LUX Holding SARL

IT Eurofins Food & Feed Testing Italia Holding Srl

IT Eurofins Pharma Services Italia Holding Srl

IT Eurofins Food & Feed Testing Italia Holding Srl

IT

Eurofins Environment Testing LUX Holding SARL

IT Eurofins Product Testing Italia Holding Srl

IT Eurofins Support Services LUX Holding SARL

IT Eurofins Product Testing LUX Holding SARL IT Eurofins Clinical Testing Holding LUX SARL IT Eurofins Genomics LUX Holding SARL

IT Eurofins Food & Feed Testing Italia Holding Srl IT Eurofins Pharma Services LUX Holding SARL IT Eurofins Product Testing Italia Holding Srl

% of interest
by the Group
100 100 100 100 100 100 100
100 100 100 100 100 100 100 100 100 100 100 100 100 100 100 100 100 100 100 100 100 100 100 100 100 100 100 100 100 100 100 100 100

Date of entry
01/16 11/15 12/15 05/16 07/16 11/16 12/12
09/07 08/16 05/03 04/09 02/11 04/11 10/15 11/15 10/15 10/15 07/16 01/05 05/09 01/11 02/12 03/12 10/13 12/15 10/16 02/04 07/06 09/06 01/07 06/07 06/08 10/08 01/12 10/12 10/12 09/12 11/12 01/13 07/12

111

Company

Country ISO Subsidiary of : Code

CTP Laboratories Srl

IT Eurofins Pharma Services Italia Holding Srl

Padova Via Austria Real Estate Invest Srl

IT Eurofins Real Estate LUX Holding SARL

Torino Via Cuorgnè Real Estate Invest Srl

IT Eurofins Real Estate LUX Holding SARL

Kalibios Srl

IT Eurofins EVIC Product Testing France SAS

Eurofins Consulting Italy Srl
Tecna Srl Eurofins Professional Scientific Services Italy Srl Eurofins NSC Japan KK

IT Eurofins Consulting Italia Holding Srl

IT

Eurofins Technology and Supplies LUX Holding SARL

IT Eurofins Pharma Services Italia Holding Srl

JP Eurofins Support Services LUX Holding SARL

Eurofins Genomics KK

JP Eurofins Genomics LUX Holding SARL

Eurofins Food and Product Testing Japan KK

JP Eurofins Food Testing LUX Holding SARL

Eurofins DNA Synthesis KK Eurofins Nihon Kankyo KK Eurofins Nihon Soken KK Eurofins Kankyo Sogo Kenkyu Kiko KK

JP Eurofins Genomics LUX Holding SARL

JP

Eurofins Environment Testing LUX Holding SARL

JP

Eurofins Environment Testing LUX Holding SARL

JP Eurofins Nihon Soken KK

Eurofins Clinical Genetics KK
Eurofins NDSC Food and Environment Testing Japan KK
Eurofins Food Testing LUX Holding SARL
Eurofins Environment Testing LUX Holding SARL
Eurofins Pharma Services LUX Holding SARL

JP Eurofins Genomics KK JP Eurofins Nihon Kankyo KK LU Eurofins International Holdings LUX SARL LU Eurofins International Holdings LUX SARL LU Eurofins International Holdings LUX SARL

Eurofins GSC LUX SARL Eurofins Agrosciences Services LUX Holding SARL
Eurofins Product Testing LUX Holding SARL

LU Eurofins International Holdings LUX SARL LU Eurofins International Holdings LUX SARL LU Eurofins International Holdings LUX SARL

Eurofins Real Estate LUX Holding SARL

LU Eurofins International Holdings LUX SARL

Eurofins Genomics LUX Holding SARL

LU Eurofins International Holdings LUX SARL

Eurofins Forensics LUX Holding SARL
Eurofins Industrial Testing LUX SARL
Eurofins International Holdings LUX SARL
Eurofins Water Testing LUX SARL
Eurofins Pharma Services France LUX Holding SARL Eurofins Food Chemistry Testing France LUX Holding SARL Eurofins Hygiène Alimentaire France LUX Holding SARL Eurofins Analyses pour la Construction France LUX Holding SARL Eurofins Analyses pour l'Environnement France LUX Holding SARL Eurofins Analyses Environnementales pour les Industriels France LUX Holding SARL
Eurofins Hydrologie France LUX Holding SARL

LU Eurofins France Holding SAS

LU

Eurofins Environment Testing LUX Holding SARL

LU Eurofins Scientific S.E.

LU

Eurofins Environment Testing LUX Holding SARL

LU Eurofins France Holding SAS

LU Eurofins France Holding SAS

LU Eurofins France Holding SAS

LU Eurofins France Holding SAS

LU Eurofins France Holding SAS

LU Eurofins France Holding SAS LU Eurofins France Holding SAS

Eurofins Discovery Services LUX Holding SARL LU Eurofins International Holdings LUX SARL

Eurofins International Support Services LUX SARL Eurofins Special Nutrition Testing LUX Holding SARL

LU Eurofins Scientific S.E. LU Eurofins Food Testing LUX Holding SARL

% of interest
by the Group
100 100 100 100 100 100
100 100 100 100
66 100
100 79
100 100 100 100 100 100 100 100 100 100 100 100 100 100
100
100
100
100
100
100 100 100 100
100

Date of entry
01/13 04/14 03/15 07/15 09/15 06/16 12/16 03/06 12/07 01/09 07/11 04/12 07/15 07/15 12/15 04/16 12/06 12/06 12/06 10/06 07/07 04/08 05/10 07/10 07/10 09/10 12/10 10/11 12/11 12/11 12/11 12/11 12/11 12/11 12/11 11/12 11/12 12/12

112

Company

Country ISO Subsidiary of : Code

Eurofins Clinical Testing Holding LUX SARL Eurofins Clinical Testing Services France LUX Holding SARL Eurofins Air Monitoring LUX Holding SARL
Eurofins Support Services LUX Holding SARL Eurofins Technology and Supplies LUX Holding SARL AgriQ Maroc S.A.R.L.
Eurofins NM Laboratory Sdn Bhd
Eurofins North Malaya Laboratory Sdn Bhd Eurofins Environment Testing Netherlands Holding BV Eurofins Food Testing Netherlands BV
Eurofins Analytico BV
Pro Monitoring BV
Eurofins Central Laboratory BV Eurofins Genomics BV C-Mark BV Eurofins NSC Netherlands BV Eurofins Food Testing Netherlands Holding BV Eurofins Food Testing Rotterdam BV Zandbergsestraat Graauw RE Invest BV Eurofins Lab Zeeuws-Vlaanderen (LZV) BV
Eurofins OSO Benelux BV
MITOX Trial Management BV
Eurofins Agro Testing Benelux Holding BV AgriQ Group BV Holding BLGG BV Eurofins Agro Testing Wageningen BV Eurofins KBBL BV Eurofins Food Safety Solutions BV
Eurofins Omegam BV
Duivendrecht Real Estate Invest BV Eurofins Professional Scientific Services Netherlands BV Eurofins NDSC Environment Testing Benelux BV Heerenveen Leeuwarderstraatweg Real Estate BV Eagle Ventures Netherlands BV Proefbedrijf Gewasbescherming De Bredelaar BV Nieuw Biesterveld BV Eurofins BioPharma Product Testing Netherlands Holding BV Eurofins Bactimm BV Eurofins Prolepha Labs BV

LU Eurofins International Holdings LUX SARL

LU Eurofins Scientific S.E. (French Branch)

LU

Eurofins Environment Testing LUX Holding SARL

LU Eurofins International Holdings LUX SARL

LU Eurofins International Holdings LUX SARL

MA Eurofins Sica AgriQ SL

MY

Eurofins Environment Testing LUX Holding SARL

MY

Eurofins Environment Testing LUX Holding SARL

NL

Eurofins Environment Testing LUX Holding SARL

NL Eurofins Food Testing Netherlands Holding BV

NL

Eurofins Environment Testing Netherlands Holding BV

NL

Eurofins Environment Testing Netherlands Holding BV

NL Eurofins Pharma Services LUX Holding SARL

NL Eurofins Scientific S.E.

NL Eurofins Food Testing Netherlands Holding BV NL Eurofins Support Services LUX Holding SARL NL Eurofins Food Testing LUX Holding SARL

NL Eurofins Food Testing Netherlands Holding BV

NL Eurofins Real Estate LUX Holding SARL

NL Eurofins Food Testing Netherlands Holding BV

NL

Eurofins Environment Testing Netherlands Holding BV

NL

Eurofins Agrosciences Services LUX Holding SARL

NL Eurofins Food Testing Netherlands Holding BV

NL Eurofins Agro Testing Benelux Holding BV

NL Eurofins Agro Testing Benelux Holding BV NL Holding BLGG BV NL Eurofins Food Testing Netherlands Holding BV

NL Eurofins Food Testing Netherlands Holding BV

NL

Eurofins Environment Testing Netherlands Holding BV

NL Eurofins Real Estate LUX Holding SARL

NL Eurofins Pharma Services LUX Holding SARL

NL

Eurofins Environment Testing Netherlands Holding BV

NL Eurofins Real Estate LUX Holding SARL

NL Eurofins International Holdings LUX SARL

NL

Eurofins Agrosciences Services LUX Holding SARL

NL Eurofins Real Estate LUX Holding SARL

NL Eurofins Pharma Services LUX Holding SARL

NL Sinensis Life Sciences BV NL Sinensis Life Sciences BV

% of interest
by the Group
100 100
100 100 100 100
75
75
100 100 100
80 100 100 100 100 100 100 100 100 100
100 100 100 100 100 100 100 100 100 100
100
100 100 100 100 100 100 100

Date of entry
11/14 05/15 02/16 04/16 05/16 07/13 11/15 11/15 04/01 10/00 04/01 10/04 04/01 06/06 03/11 05/11 05/11 03/12 01/13 01/13 04/13 07/13 07/13 07/13 07/13 07/13 01/14 02/14 01/14 07/14 09/14 09/14 03/15 08/15 07/15 07/15 01/16 01/16 01/16

113

Company

Country ISO Subsidiary of : Code

Eurofins PROXY Laboratories BV Spinnovation Holding BV Eurofins Spinnovation Analytical BV Bureau de Wit BV Barneveld Gildeweg Real Estate BV
Eurofins Environment Testing Norway AS Eurofins Environment Testing Norway Holding AS Eurofins Food & Feed Testing Norway AS Eurofins Food Testing Norway Holding AS Eurofins Norge NSC AS Eurofins Agro Testing Norway AS Moss Property Invest AS
Eurofins Radonlab
Penrose NZ Limited Eurofins NZ Laboratory Services Limited Eurofins ELS Limited Eurofins Agroscience Services NZ Limited Eurofins Agroscience Testing NZ Limited Eurofins Bay Of Plenty Limited
Eurofins Agroscience Services Sp. z.o.o.
Eurofins Polska Sp. z.o.o. Eurofins Environment Testing Polska Sp. z.o.o. Eurofins GSC Poland Sp. z.o.o. Eurofins Digital Testing Polska Sp. z.o.o. Eurofins Environment Services Polska Sp z o. o. Eurofins Lab Environment Testing Portugal, Unipessoal Lda. Eurofins Agroscience Services srl
Eurofins Evic Product Testing Romania srl Eurofins Food Testing srl Eurofins NDSC South Eastern Europe srl Eurofins Agro Testing Sweden AB Eurofins Steins Laboratorium AB Eurofins Food Testing Sweden Holding AB
Eurofins Environment Testing Sweden AB Eurofins Environment Testing Sweden Holding AB Eurofins Food & Feed Testing Sweden AB Eurofins NSC Sweden AB Eurofins Biopharma Product Testing Sweden AB Eurofins Pegasuslab AB
Uppsala Property Invest AB

NL Sinensis Life Sciences BV NL Sinensis Life Sciences BV NL Spinnovation Holding BV

NL Eurofins Food Testing Netherlands Holding BV

NL Eurofins Real Estate LUX Holding SARL

NO

Eurofins Environment Testing Norway Holding AS

NO

Eurofins Environment Testing LUX Holding SARL

NO Eurofins Food Testing Norway Holding AS

NO Eurofins Food Testing LUX Holding SARL

NO Eurofins Support Services LUX Holding SARL

NO Eurofins Food Testing Norway Holding AS

NO Eurofins Real Estate LUX Holding SARL

NO

Eurofins Environment Testing Norway Holding AS

NZ Eurofins Real Estate LUX Holding SARL

NZ Eurofins Food Testing LUX Holding SARL

NZ Eurofins Australia New Zealand Holding Ltd. NZ Eurofins Agroscience Services Pty Ltd. NZ Eurofins Agroscience Testing Pty Ltd.

NZ Eurofins Australia New Zealand Holding Ltd.

PL

Eurofins Agrosciences Services LUX Holding SARL

PL Eurofins Food Testing LUX Holding SARL

PL Eurofins Industrial Testing LUX SARL

PL Eurofins International Holdings LUX SARL

PL Eurofins Digital Testing Belgium Holding

PL

Eurofins Environment Testing LUX Holding SARL

PT Eurofins Industrial Testing LUX SARL

RO

Eurofins Agrosciences Services LUX Holding SARL

RO Eurofins Product Testing LUX Holding SARL

RO Eurofins Food Testing LUX Holding SARL RO Eurofins Support Services LUX Holding SARL SE Eurofins Food Testing Sweden Holding AB

SE Eurofins Food Testing Sweden Holding AB

SE Eurofins Food Testing LUX Holding SARL

SE

Eurofins Environment Testing Sweden Holding AB

SE

Eurofins Environment Testing LUX Holding SARL

SE Eurofins Food Testing Sweden Holding AB

SE Eurofins Support Services LUX Holding SARL

SE Eurofins Pharma Services LUX Holding SARL

SE

Eurofins Environment Testing Sweden Holding AB

SE Eurofins Real Estate LUX Holding SARL

% of interest
by the Group
100 60 60
100 100 100
100 100 100 100 100 100 100 100 100 100
81 81 100 100 100 100 100 91 100
100
100 100 100 100 100 100 100 100
100 100 100 100
100 100

Date of entry
01/16 01/16 01/16 06/16 08/16 05/06
09/07 09/07 08/07 12/07 08/14 08/14 12/15 04/12 06/12 11/12 07/13 07/13 06/16 01/06 07/06 07/15 02/16 06/16 12/16
06/15
08/09 07/15 11/16 11/16 01/04 07/06 09/07 10/07
09/07 10/07 01/08 04/11
06/12 03/14

114

Company

Country ISO Subsidiary of : Code

Eurofins Digital Testing Sweden AB Eurofins Radon Testing Sweden AB Eurofins Central Laboratory PTE. Ltd. Eurofins Technologies Singapore Pte Ltd. Eurofins Bel/Novamann s.r.o.

SE

Eurofins Digital Testing International LUX Holding SARL

SE

Eurofins Environment Testing Sweden Holding AB

SG Eurofins Pharma Services LUX Holding SARL

SG

Eurofins Technology and Supplies LUX Holding SARL

SK Eurofins Food Testing LUX Holding SARL

Eurofins NSC Central and Eastern Europe s.r.o. SK Eurofins Support Services LUX Holding SARL

Nové Zámky Komjatická Real Estate s.r.o.

SK Eurofins Real Estate LUX Holding SARL

Eurofins Product Service (Thailand) Co., Ltd.
Eurofins Agroscience Services Thailand Co. Ltd.
Eurofins Turkey Analiz Hizmetleri Limited irketi

TH Eurofins Product Testing LUX Holding SARL

TH

Eurofins Agrosciences Services LUX Holding SARL

TR Eurofins Food Testing LUX Holding SARL

Eurofins Panlabs Taiwan Ltd

TW Eurofins Discovery Services LUX Holding SARL

Eurofins Food and Environment Testing Holding Taiwan, Ltd.

TW

Eurofins Food Testing LUX Holding SARL

Pharmacology Discovery Services Taiwan, Ltd. TW Eurofins Discovery Services LUX Holding SARL

Eurofins Panlabs Discovery Services Taiwan, Ltd.

TW Eurofins Discovery Services LUX Holding SARL

Eurofins Agro Testing Ukraine LLC

UA Eurofins Food Testing LUX Holding SARL

Eurofins NSC UK & Ireland Limited

UK Eurofins Support Services LUX Holding SARL

Eurofins Food Testing UK Limited

UK Eurofins Food Testing UK Holding Limited

Eurofins Genetic Services Limited

UK Eurofins Genomics LUX Holding SARL

Water Utility Testing Services Limited

UK Eurofins Food Testing UK Holding Limited

Eurofins Food Testing UK Holding Limited Eurofins Agroscience Services Limited Eurofins Product Testing Services Limited

UK Eurofins Food Testing LUX Holding SARL

UK

Eurofins Agrosciences Services LUX Holding SARL

UK Eurofins Product Testing LUX Holding SARL

Public Analyst Scientific Services Limited

UK Eurofins Food Testing UK Holding Limited

Wolverhampton i54 Real Estate Limited

UK Eurofins Real Estate LUX Holding SARL

Eurofins Agroscience Services Chem Limited

UK

Eurofins Agrosciences Services LUX Holding SARL

Eurofins Newtec Laboratories Limited

UK Eurofins Food Testing UK Holding Limited

Eurofins Pharma Bioanalysis Services UK Limited

UK Eurofins Discovery Services LUX Holding SARL

Eurofins Pharma Discovery Services UK Limited UK Eurofins Discovery Services LUX Holding SARL

Eurofins Digital Product Testing UK Limited

UK

Eurofins Digital Testing International LUX Holding SARL

Eurofins Water Hygiene Testing UK Limited

UK Eurofins Food Testing UK Holding Limited

Eurofins Biomnis UK Limited

UK Socamed SAS

Eurofins Agro Testing UK Limited

UK Eurofins Food Testing UK Holding Limited

Eurofins Biopharma Product Testing UK Limited UK Eurofins Food Testing LUX Holding SARL

NDSM Limited
Eurofins Agroscience Services UK Holding Limited Livingston Cochrane Square Real Estate Limited
ILS Limited

UK Eurofins Agroscience Services UK Holding

UK

Eurofins Agrosciences Services LUX Holding SARL

UK Eurofins Real Estate LUX Holding SARL

UK Eurofins Food Testing UK Holding Limited

Eurofins Food Safety Solutions Limited

UK Eurofins Food Testing UK Holding Limited

Eurofins Scientific Inc.

US Eurofins Food Testing US Holdings Inc.

Eurofins Central Laboratory LLC

US Eurofins Lancaster Laboratories Inc.

% of interest
by the Group
91
100 100 100 100 100 100 100 100 100 100 100 100 100 100 100 100 100 100 100 100 100 100 100 100 100 100 100 100 100 100 100 100 100 100
100 100 100 100 100

Date of entry
07/16
09/16 12/06 12/15 10/07 06/15 10/16 07/08 05/16 05/12 10/12 03/15 08/16 08/16 08/14 01/06 01/04 07/05 07/06 04/07 04/07 10/10 07/11 07/12 12/12 07/13 09/13 09/13 11/14 10/15 10/15 03/16 07/16 07/16 07/16
08/16 10/16 11/16 01/92 06/06

115

Company

Country ISO Subsidiary of : Code

Eurofins Analytical Laboratories Inc.

US Eurofins Food Testing US Holdings Inc.

Eurofins Genomics LLC

US Eurofins Genomics LLC

Eurofins Genomics Holding LLC

US Eurofins Viracor, Inc.

Eurofins Food Testing US Holdings Inc. Eurofins Agroscience Services Inc. Eurofins Microbiology Laboratories Inc.

US Eurofins Food Testing LUX Holding SARL

US

Eurofins Agrosciences Services LUX Holding SARL

US Eurofins Food Testing US Holdings Inc.

Eurofins NSC US Inc.

US Eurofins Support Services LUX Holding SARL

Eurofins Pharma US Holdings II Inc.

US Eurofins Pharma Services LUX Holding SARL

Eurofins Lancaster Laboratories Inc.

US Eurofins Pharma US Holdings II Inc.

Eurofins DQCI LLC Eurofins Environment Testing US Holdings Inc. Eurofins Air Toxics, Inc.

US Eurofins Food Testing US Holdings Inc.

US

Eurofins Environment Testing LUX Holding SARL

US Eurofins Environment Testing US Holdings Inc.

Eurofins QTA Inc.

US Eurofins Food Testing US Holdings Inc.

Eurofins Eaton Analytical Inc.

US Eurofins Environment Testing US Holdings Inc.

Eurofins Frontier Global Sciences Inc.

US Eurofins Environment Testing US Holdings Inc.

Eurofins Panlabs Inc.
Eurofins Lancaster Laboratories Environmental LLC
Eurofins Pharma BioAnalytics Services US, Inc.

US Eurofins Pharma US Holdings II Inc. US Eurofins Lancaster Laboratories Inc. US Eurofins Discovery Services LUX Holding SARL

South Bend Real Estate, Inc.

US Eurofins Real Estate LUX Holding SARL

Eurofins Calscience, Inc.

US Eurofins Environment Testing US Holdings Inc.

Eurofins Viracor, Inc.

US Eurofins Pharma US Holdings II Inc.

Eurofins SF Analytical Laboratories Inc.

US Eurofins Food Testing US Holdings Inc.

Eurofins Clinical Testing US Holdings, Inc.

US Eurofins Clinical Testing Holding LUX SARL

Boston Heart Diagnostics Inc.
Eurofins Lancaster Laboratories Professional Scientific Services LLC
Eurofins Product Testing US Inc.

US Eurofins Clinical Testing US Holdings, Inc. US Eurofins Lancaster Laboratories Inc. US Eurofins Product Testing LUX Holding SARL

Eurofins BioDiagnostics Inc.

US Eurofins Food Testing US Holdings Inc.

Eurofins QC Inc.

US Eurofins Environment Testing US Holdings Inc.

Diatherix Laboratories, LLC

US Diatherix LLC

EGL Genetic Diagnostics LLC

US Eurofins Viracor, Inc.

Eurofins Spectrum Analytical Inc.

US Eurofins Environment Testing US Holdings Inc.

Eurofins Clinical Molecular Testing Services Inc. US Eurofins Viracor, Inc.

Pomona 900 Corporate Drive Real Estate Inc.

US Eurofins Real Estate LUX Holding SARL

Eurofins NTD, LLC

US Eurofins Viracor, Inc.

Advantar Laboratories, Inc.
North Kingstown (R.I.) Camp Avenue Real Estate Inc.
Eurofins VRL, Inc.

US Eurofins Pharma US Holdings II Inc. US Eurofins Real Estate LUX Holding SARL US Eurofins Pharma US Holdings II Inc.

DeSoto Falcon Drive Real Estate, Inc.

US Eurofins Real Estate LUX Holding SARL

Lafayette Horizon Avenue Real Estate, Inc.

US Eurofins Real Estate LUX Holding SARL

Eurofins Clinical Diagnostic US NDSC, Inc.

US Eurofins Pharma US Holdings II Inc.

Eurofins VRL Los Angeles, LLC

US Eurofins VRL, Inc.

% of interest
by the Group
100 100 100 100 100 100 100 100 100 100 100 100 100 100 100 100 100 100 100 100 100 100 100 100 100 100 100 100 100
88 100 100 100 100 100 100 100 100 100 100 100

Date of entry
04/07 12/07 10/07 04/07 01/07 06/09 10/10 01/11 04/11 10/11 11/12 01/12 02/12 07/12 09/12 10/12 01/13 01/13 05/14 05/14 07/14 11/14 11/14 01/15 02/15 02/15 02/15 04/15 05/15 06/15 07/15 09/15 01/16 04/16 04/16 05/16 09/16 09/16 09/16 09/16 11/16

116

Company
Agawam Silver Street Real Estate Inc. New Berlin 170th Street Real Estate, Inc. Eurofins Sac Ky Hai Dang Company Limited

Country ISO Subsidiary of : Code
US Eurofins Real Estate LUX Holding SARL
US Eurofins Real Estate LUX Holding SARL
VN Eurofins Food Testing LUX Holding SARL

* Please note that for confidentiality reasons the information provided above is not comprehensive.

% of interest
by the Group
100
100
100

Date of entry
11/16 11/16 05/15

5.3 Other subsidiaries undertakings

The following companies are not fully consolidated:

Company

Country ISO Code

Z.F.D. GmbH

DE

Fasmac Co. Ltd.

JP

Eurofins Laboratoire Coeur FR

de France SAEML

Subsidiary of :
Ökometric GmbH Eurofins Genomics LUX Holding SARL Eurofins Hygiène Alimentaire France Holding SAS

% of ownership
33 41

Method of consolidation Equity method Equity method

49

Equity method

There are no quoted prices available for the companies consolidated by equity method due to their small size (in annual revenues and assets). These three companies are not considered to be material (see Note 3.4).

117

2 Auditor's Report on Eurofins Scientific SE's Consolidated Financial Statements
Audit report
To the Shareholders of Eurofins Scientific SE
Report on the audit of the Consolidated Financial Statements
Our opinion
In our opinion, the accompanying Consolidated Financial Statements give a true and fair view of the consolidated statement of financial position of Eurofins Scientific SE (the "Company") and its subsidiaries (together the "Group") as at 31 December 2017, and of its consolidated financial performance and its consolidated cash flows for the year then ended in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRSs) as adopted by the European Union.
Our opinion is consistent with our additional report to the Company's Audit Committee.
What we have audited
The Group's Consolidated Financial Statements comprise:
 the Consolidated Balance Sheet as at 31 December 2017;
 the Consolidated Income Statement for the year then ended;
 the Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income for the year then ended;
 the Consolidated Cash Flow Statement for the year then ended;
 the Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity for the year then ended; and
 the notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements, which include a summary of significant accounting policies.
Basis for opinion
We conducted our audit in accordance with the EU Regulation No 537/2014 (the "Regulation"), the Law of 23 July 2016 on the audit profession (the "Law") and with International Standards on Auditing (ISAs) as adopted for Luxembourg by the "Commission de Surveillance du Secteur Financier" (CSSF). Our responsibilities under those Regulation, Law and ISAs are further described in the "Responsibilities of the "Réviseur d'entreprises agréé" for the audit of the consolidated financial statements" section of our report.
We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our opinion.
PricewaterhouseCoopers, Société coopérative, 2 rue Gerhard Mercator, B.P. 1443, L-1014 Luxembourg T : +352 494848 1, F : +352 494848 2900, www.pwc.lu Cabinet de révision agréé. Expert-comptable (autorisation gouvernementale n°10028256) R.C.S. Luxembourg B 65 477 - TVA LU25482518

We are independent of the Group in accordance with the International Ethics Standards Board for Accountants' Code of Ethics for Professional Accountants (IESBA Code) as adopted for Luxembourg by the CSSF together with the ethical requirements that are relevant to our audit of the consolidated financial statements. We have fulfilled our other ethical responsibilities under those ethical requirements.
To the best of our knowledge and belief, we declare that we have not provided non-audit services that are prohibited under Article 5(1) of the Regulation.
The non-audit services that we have provided to the Group, in the period from 1 January 2017 to 31 December 2017, are disclosed in the Note 4.11 to the consolidated financial statements.
Key audit matters
Key audit matters are those matters that, in our professional judgment, were of most significance in our audit of the consolidated financial statements of the current period, and include the most significant assessed risks of material misstatement (whether or not due to fraud). These matters were addressed in the context of our audit of the consolidated financial statements as a whole, and in forming our opinion thereon, and we do not provide a separate opinion on these matters.

Key audit matter Business combinations

How our audit addressed the Key audit matter

The Group acquired more than 50 companies in 2017 for a total consideration of 1,466MEUR, including amounts payable for these transactions and deferred consideration. All these acquisitions qualify as business combinations under IFRS 3 "Business Combination".
Management determined that the aggregated fair value of the net identifiable assets acquired is 518MEUR of which 411MEUR relating to intangible assets, such as customer relationships and brands. The valuation of the intangible assets was performed as part of the Purchase Price Allocation which has been provisionally determined pending final completion of the valuation exercise within the 12-month window as permitted by IFRS 3.

For material acquisitions we assessed the existence, completeness and valuation of the identifiable assets acquired and liabilities assumed at the acquisition date by analysing the clauses laid out in Share or Assets Purchase Agreements. We also evaluated management's process for determining the fair value of the net identifiable assets acquired by performing the following procedures:
 We used our own valuation specialists to independently assess the models and assumptions, such as discount rate, royalty rate, attrition rate, projection period, etc. used by management in valuing intangible assets;
 We assessed the estimated useful life of the intangible assets acquired (other than goodwill);

 We evaluated the independence, objectivity and competence of the valuation experts that management uses from time to time to assist them in the valuation process;

 We assessed the adequacy of the disclosures in the consolidated financial statements.

119

Key audit matter
As described in the note 1.5 to the consolidated financial statements, customer relationships are valued under the discounted cash flow method reflecting the characteristics of this asset. The value is derived from revenue that customers are expected to generate, using an annual percentage of attrition and after deduction of the contributory assets charges (remuneration of the fixed assets, working capital, workforce and brands). Customer relationships are amortised over their estimated useful lives.

How our audit addressed the Key audit matter

Due to the large number of acquisitions and the sometimes limited availability of information of acquired companies, the identification and valuation of the acquired assets and liabilities require significant judgement and estimates from management.

Significant judgements and estimates are also required to assess amounts due from acquisitions as these amounts may depend on future results of the acquired companies.

This matter was of particular significance to our audit as the accounting for business combinations, in particular the related valuation of intangibles acquired, involve significant judgement and estimates.

Impairment of goodwill

The Group's consolidated balance sheet  As part of our audit, we assessed the Group's

includes 2,505MEUR of goodwill representing process for determining and validating the

43% of the Group's total assets as at 31 future discounted cash flow forecasts of the

December 2017.

cash generating units by performing the

following procedures:

In accordance with IFRS, management

performs at least annually, an impairment test  We satisfied ourselves of the reasonability of

of the cash generating units to which the

the future cashflows used by comparing them

goodwill is allocated to assess whether its

with the actual results and forecasts prepared

recoverable amount is at least equal to its

by management and approved by the Board of

carrying value. The recoverable amount can be

Directors, and when possible benchmarking

determined through different valuation

them against general and sector specific

techniques; the most regularly used by

market expectations;

management being the discounted cash flow

(DCF) model.

120

Key audit matter
This matter was of particular significance to our audit as goodwill balances are material and management's determination of future cash flow forecasts, discount rates and growth rates used in the calculation of the recoverable amount involves significant judgment and estimates.

How our audit addressed the Key audit matter
 We used our own valuation specialists and tested the parameters used to determine the weighted average cost of capital, the organic growth rate, long term growth rate and tax rate to assess terminal value;
 We tested management sensitivity analysis of the cash-generating units;

 We assessed the adequacy of the disclosures in the consolidated financial statements.

Separately Disclosed Items (SDI)

The Group discloses "Adjusted Results", in the  We assessed the appropriateness of the

Consolidated Income Statement, after the definition of SDI and their consistency

exclusion of "Separately Disclosed Items" compared to prior year;

(SDI).

 We assessed whether the material items

SDI include expenses or income that

included within SDI were appropriately

management has elected to disclose separately

classified;

in order to present the performance of the

mature and recurring activities of the Group  We checked the completeness of items to be

under the column "Adjusted Results". The

classified as SDI by obtaining the details of the

Group considers that these items, due to their

significant non-recurring transactions and

nature, have an impact on the analysis of the

assessing their proper classification either in

underlying business performance and trends.

SDI or "Adjusted Results";

SDI are defined in a footnote at the bottom of  We reperformed the calculation of SDI;

the consolidated income statement and are

detailed in the notes 1.29 and 2.3 of the  We assessed the adequacy of the disclosures in

consolidated financial statements. They are not

the consolidated financial statements.

covered by any IFRS.

This matter was of particular significance to our audit as the consistency of classification between "Adjusted Results" and "Separately Disclosed Items" is important in understanding the financial performance of the Group and is a matter of significant judgement.

121

Other information
The Board of Directors is responsible for the other information. The other information comprises the information included in the Management report and the Corporate Governance Statement but does not include the consolidated financial statements and our audit report thereon.
Our opinion on the consolidated financial statements does not cover the other information and we do not express any form of assurance conclusion thereon.
In connection with our audit of the consolidated financial statements, our responsibility is to read the other information identified above and, in doing so, consider whether the other information is materially inconsistent with the consolidated financial statements or our knowledge obtained in the audit, or otherwise appears to be materially misstated. If, based on the work we have performed, we conclude that there is a material misstatement of this other information, we are required to report that fact. We have nothing to report in this regard.
Responsibilities of the Board of Directors and those charged with governance for the consolidated financial statements
The Board of Directors is responsible for the preparation and fair presentation of the consolidated financial statements in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the European Union, and for such internal control as the Board of Directors determines is necessary to enable the preparation of consolidated financial statements that are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error.
In preparing the consolidated financial statements, the Board of Directors is responsible for assessing the Group's ability to continue as a going concern, disclosing, as applicable, matters related to going concern and using the going concern basis of accounting unless the Board of Directors either intends to liquidate the Group or to cease operations, or has no realistic alternative but to do so.
Those charged with governance are responsible for overseeing the Group's financial reporting process.
Responsibilities of the "Réviseur d'entreprises agréé" for the audit of the consolidated financial statements
The objectives of our audit are to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the consolidated financial statements as a whole are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error, and to issue an audit report that includes our opinion. Reasonable assurance is a high level of assurance, but is not a guarantee that an audit conducted in accordance with the Regulation , the Law and with ISAs as adopted for Luxembourg by the CSSF will always detect a material misstatement when it exists. Misstatements can arise from fraud or error and are considered material if, individually or in the aggregate, they could reasonably be expected to influence the economic decisions of users taken on the basis of these consolidated financial statements.
122

As part of an audit in accordance with the Regulation , the Law and with ISAs as adopted for Luxembourg by the CSSF, we exercise professional judgment and maintain professional scepticism throughout the audit. We also:
 identify and assess the risks of material misstatement of the consolidated financial statements, whether due to fraud or error, design and perform audit procedures responsive to those risks, and obtain audit evidence that is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our opinion. The risk of not detecting a material misstatement resulting from fraud is higher than for one resulting from error, as fraud may involve collusion, forgery, intentional omissions, misrepresentations, or the override of internal control;
 obtain an understanding of internal control relevant to the audit in order to design audit procedures that are appropriate in the circumstances, but not for the purpose of expressing an opinion on the effectiveness of the Group's internal control;
 evaluate the appropriateness of accounting policies used and the reasonableness of accounting estimates and related disclosures made by the Board of Directors;
 conclude on the appropriateness of the Board of Directors' use of the going concern basis of accounting and, based on the audit evidence obtained, whether a material uncertainty exists related to events or conditions that may cast significant doubt on the Group's ability to continue as a going concern. If we conclude that a material uncertainty exists, we are required to draw attention in our audit report to the related disclosures in the consolidated financial statements or, if such disclosures are inadequate, to modify our opinion. Our conclusions are based on the audit evidence obtained up to the date of our audit report. However, future events or conditions may cause the Group to cease to continue as a going concern;
 evaluate the overall presentation, structure and content of the consolidated financial statements, including the disclosures, and whether the consolidated financial statements represent the underlying transactions and events in a manner that achieves fair presentation;
 obtain sufficient appropriate audit evidence regarding the financial information of the entities and business activities within the Group to express an opinion on the consolidated financial statements. We are responsible for the direction, supervision and performance of the Group audit. We remain solely responsible for our audit opinion.
We communicate with those charged with governance regarding, among other matters, the planned scope and timing of the audit and significant audit findings, including any significant deficiencies in internal control that we identify during our audit.
We also provide those charged with governance with a statement that we have complied with relevant ethical requirements regarding independence, and to communicate with them all relationships and other matters that may reasonably be thought to bear on our independence, and where applicable, related safeguards.
From the matters communicated with those charged with governance, we determine those matters that were of most significance in the audit of the consolidated financial statements of the current period and are therefore the key audit matters. We describe these matters in our audit report unless law or regulation precludes public disclosure about the matter.
123

Report on other legal and regulatory requirements

The Management report is consistent with the consolidated financial statements and has been prepared in accordance with applicable legal requirements.
The Corporate Governance Statement is included in the Management report. The information required by Article 68ter Paragraph (1) Letters c) and d) of the Law of 19 December 2002 on the commercial and companies register and on the accounting records and annual accounts of undertakings, as amended, which is included in the Corporate Governance Statement, is consistent with the consolidated financial statements and has been prepared in accordance with applicable legal requirements.
We have been appointed as "Réviseur d'Entreprises Agréé" by the General Meeting of the Shareholders on 20 April 2017 and the duration of our uninterrupted engagement, including previous renewals and reappointments, is 6 years.
Other matter
The Corporate Governance Statement includes, the information required by Article 68ter Paragraph (1) Letters a), b), e), f) and g) of the Law of 19 December 2002 on the commercial and companies register and on the accounting records and annual accounts of undertakings, as amended.

PricewaterhouseCoopers, Société coopérative Represented by

Luxembourg, 2 March 2018

Gilles Vanderweyen

124

3 Annual accounts - EUROFINS SCIENTIFIC S.E.

Profit and Loss Account
January 1, 2017 to December 31, 2017

EUR Thousands

Notes

2017

Net turnover

4.1

Other operating income

4.1

Raw materials and consumables

Other external expenses

4.1

Wages and salaries

Social security costs

Staff costs

5.2

Value adjustments a) in respect of tangible and intangible fixed assets
Other operating expenses

2.2 / 2.3 3.1 / 3.2

Income from participating interests a) derived from affiliated undertakings

4.2 / 3.3

Other interest receivable and similar income a) derived from affiliated undertakings b) other interest and similar income

4.3 2.13 / 2.16 / 3.12

Value adjustments in respect of financial assets and of investments held as current assets

2.4 / 2.6 3.3 / 3.4 / 4.4

Interest payable and similar expenses

4.5

a) concerning affiliated undertakings

b) other interest and similar expenses

2.16

Tax on profit or loss

2.17 / 4.6

Profit or loss for the financial year

The accompanying notes form an integral part of the annual accounts.

560 602
-144 -1,834
-199 -88
-287
-183
71,000
11,010 4,464
-
-7,437 -83,038
1,631 -3,656

2016
505 725 -193 -1,924 -199 -87 -286
-133 -72
70,050
9,143 8,402
506
-2 -91,863
-476 -5,618

125

Balance Sheet
As of December 31, 2017
EUR Thousands Fixed assets Intangible assets Tangible assets Shares in affiliated undertakings Other loans Financial assets
Current assets
Debtors Trade debtors a) becoming due and payable within one year
Amounts owed by affiliated undertakings a) becoming due and payable within one year b) becoming due and payable after more than one year
Other debtors a) becoming due and payable within one year
Cash at bank and in hand / Transferable securities

Notes 2.2 / 3.1 2.3 / 3.2 2.4 / 3.3
2.5 2.6 / 3.4
2.5 2.7 / 3.5

Prepayments
Total Assets
Capital and reserves
Subscribed Capital Share premium account Reserves 1. Legal reserve 2. Other reserves Profit or loss brought forward Profit or loss for the financial year

2.8 / 3.6 2.9 / 3.7

Provisions Provisions for pensions and similar obligations Other provisions

2.10 / 3.8

Creditors
Non convertible loans a) becoming due and payable within one year b) becoming due and payable after more than one year

2.11 / 3.9 / 3.11

Amounts owed to credit institutions a) becoming due and payable within one year b) becoming due and payable after more than one year

2.12 / 3.10 / 3.11

Financial instruments
Trade creditors a) becoming due and payable within one year

2.13 / 3.12 2.14 / 3.11

Amounts owed to affiliated undertakings a) becoming due and payable within one year

3.11 / 3.13

Other creditors

3.11

a) Tax authorities

b) Social security authorities

c) Other creditors (becoming due and payable

within one year)

Deferred income

2.15 / 3.14

Total Capital, Reserves and Liabilities The accompanying notes form an integral part of the annual accounts.

2017
1 3,482,245 20 3,482,265 3,482,266
413
290,460 235,269
20,072 491,564 1,037,778
16,769 4,536,813
1,765 938,857
154 631 113,536 -3,656 1,051,287
62 -
62
363,800 2,650,000
230,552 -
239
684
233,671
62 83 954 3,480,045 5,419 4,536,813

2016
1 1,977,437 13 1,977,450 1,977,451
477
102,452 129,780
16,667 574,398 823,774
10,270 2,811,495
1,693 618,811
154 631 153,006 -5,618 768,677
61 -
61
57,105 1,900,000
1,204 28,470
1,659
546
45,370
87 33 77 2,034,551 8,206 2,811,495

126

Notes to the annual accounts
NOTE 1 ­ GENERAL INFORMATION
Eurofins Scientific S.E. ("Eurofins" or the "Company") is the ultimate parent company of the Eurofins Group (the "Group") which owns and finances, either directly or indirectly, its subsidiaries throughout the world.
Eurofins and its subsidiaries operate more than 400 laboratories across 44 countries in Europe, North and South America and Asia-Pacific.
Eurofins believes it is the world leader in food, environment and pharmaceutical products testing and in agroscience CRO services. It is also one of the global independent market leaders in certain testing and laboratory services for genomics, discovery pharmacology, forensics, CDMO, advanced material sciences and for supporting clinical studies. In addition, Eurofins is one of the key emerging players in specialty clinical diagnostic testing in Europe and the USA.
Eurofins Scientific S.E. is legally and commercially registered in the Grand Duchy of Luxembourg under the number B 167 775.
The Company's shares are traded on Euronext Paris stock exchange under the ISIN code FR0000038259 (ticker ERF). The Company's headoffice is located at 23 Val Fleuri, L-1526 Luxembourg, Grand Duchy of Luxembourg.
The Company has a French branch located in Nantes, France, registered with the French Register of Commerce under the number RCS B 350 807 947. The main purpose of the branch is the management and administration of French subsidiaries.
The notes below are part of the annual accounts for the year closed the December 31, 2017 for a period of twelve months, from January 1, 2017 to December 31, 2017.
These annual accounts have been adopted for issue by the Board of Directors on February 27, 2018 and will be submitted to the Shareholder's Annual General Meeting for approval.
NOTE 2 ­ SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES
The main valuation rules applied by the Company are set out below.
2.1 ­ Basis of preparation
The annual accounts have been prepared in accordance with Luxembourg legal and regulatory requirements (Luxembourg GAAPs) under the historical cost convention, in particular the law of December 19, 2002 as amended.
The principal accounting policies and valuation rules applied in the preparation of these statutory annual accounts are set out below. These policies have been consistently applied to all fiscal years presented, unless otherwise stated.
The preparation of annual accounts requires the use of certain critical accounting estimates. It also requires the Board of Directors to exercise its judgment in the process of applying the accounting policies. Changes in the assumptions may have a significant impact on the annual accounts in the period in which the assumptions changed. Management believes that the underlying assumptions are appropriate and that the annual accounts therefore present the financial position and results fairly.
The Company makes estimates and assumptions that may affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities in the next financial years. Estimates and judgments are continually evaluated and are based on historical experience and other factors, including expectations and future events that are believed to be reasonable under the circumstances.

2.2 ­ Intangible assets

Software and patents

All capitalised software licenses are purchased externally and are booked at acquisition cost including the expenses incidental thereto or at production cost, less cumulated depreciation amounts written off and value adjustments. These value adjustments are not continued if the reasons for which the value adjustments were made have ceased to apply.

Amortisation on intangibles is calculated using the straight line method to write off their cost to their residual values over their estimated useful lives as follows:

Software licenses Patents

1-3 years 5 years

Goodwill

The goodwill corresponds to the value generated by the merger of Eurofins S.A. with Eurofins Scientific S.E. on July 28, 1997 with retroactive effect to January 1, 1997. Following the first application of the Luxembourg GAAPs, goodwill is amortised over an estimated useful life of five years. This goodwill has been rented to the French subsidiary Eurofins Analytics France SAS as from January 1, 2001.

2.3 ­ Tangible assets

Tangible assets are valued at purchase price including the expenses incidental thereto or at production cost. They are depreciated over their estimated useful economic lives.

Depreciation on tangible assets is calculated using the straight line method to write off their cost to their residual values over their estimated useful lives as follows:

Leasehold improvements

5-10 years *

Machinery and laboratory equipments

5 years

Office equipment

3 years

Vehicles

5 years

Office furniture

5 years

* with a maximum corresponding to the remaining lease period.

Where the Company considers that a tangible asset has suffered a durable depreciation in value, an additional write-down is recorded to reflect this loss. These value adjustments are not continued if the reasons for which the value adjustments were made have ceased to apply.

2.4 ­ Financial assets

Shares in affiliated undertakings

Shares in affiliated undertakings are initially recorded at acquisition cost and are valued at the lower of acquisition cost or the market value. The market value is determined by the net equity in case of independent operational companies and by a valuation according to the method of discounted cash flows for the holding companies including their subsidiaries.

These value adjustments are not continued if the reasons for which the value adjustments were made have ceased to apply.

2.5 ­ Trade debtors and other debtors

Trade debtors and other debtors are valued at their nominal value. They are subject to value adjustments where their recovery is compromised. These value adjustments are not continued if the reasons for which the value adjustments were made have ceased to apply. Trade debtors include the income accrued but not invoiced nor received prior to the closing date.

127

2.6 ­ Amounts owed by affiliated undertakings
Amount owed by affiliated undertakings held as loans are valued at purchase nominal value including the expenses incidental thereto.
In the case of durable depreciation in value according to the opinion of the Board of Directors, value adjustments are made in respect of financial assets, so that they are valued at the lower figure to be attributed to them at the balance sheet date. These value adjustments are not continued if the reasons for which the value adjustments were made have ceased to apply.
2.7 ­ Cash at bank and in hand
Cash at bank, cash in postal cheque account, cheques and cash in hand are recorded at nominal value.
Transferable securities are valued at the lower of purchase price, including expenses incidental thereto and market value in case of quoted instruments, expressed in the currency in which the annual accounts are prepared. A value adjustment is recorded where the market value (final published value in case of quoted instrument) is lower than the purchase price. These value adjustments are not continued if the reasons for which the value adjustments were made have ceased to apply. The market value corresponds to the latest available quote on the valuation day for transferable securities listed on a stock exchange or traded on another regulated market.
2.8 ­ Prepayments
Prepayments are mainly related to financing activities. The costs related to the issuance of the non convertible loans and the amounts owed to credit institutions issued are amortised over the repayment period of each respective loan.
The effective financial costs including these expenses correspond to the normal market conditions for companies with a similar risk.
2.9 ­ Share-based compensation
The Company operates a number of equity settled, share-based compensation plans. The proceeds received net of any directly attributable transaction costs are credited to share capital (nominal value) and share premium when the options are exercised. No expense is charged to the profit and loss account over the vesting period.
2.10 ­ Provisions
Provisions for pensions and similar obligations
The Company participates in a retirement benefit obligation plan for the French branch as from 2011. The retirement benefit obligations are measured using the aggregate cost method. The provision recognised in the balance sheet is the present value of the defined benefit obligation at the balance sheet date. The Company recognises actuarial gains and losses in the profit or loss account.
Other provisions
Other provisions are recognised when the Company has a present legal or constructive obligation as a result of past events, it is more likely than not that an outflow of resources will be required to settle the obligation, and the amount has been reliably estimated.
2.11 ­ Non convertible loans
The non convertible loans correspond to three hybrid instruments and four Eurobonds. They are recorded in the balance sheet at their nominal value increased of interest accruals.

2.12 ­ Amounts owed to credit institutions
Debts are recorded at their reimbursement value. Where the amount repayable on account is greater than the amount received, the difference is shown as an asset and is written off over the period of the debt.
2. 13 ­ Financial instruments
The derivative financial instruments are initially recorded at cost. At each balance sheet date, gains and losses are recognised in the profit or loss account when realised. Unrealised losses are recorded in the profit and loss account of the period. Unrealised gains are not recognised in the profit and loss account of the period.
Exposure to currency exchange risk The Company does not hedge its foreign exchange currency exposure, but covers the foreign exchange currency exposure of Eurofins GSC Finance NV (Note 5.3).
Exposure to other markets risks The Group uses non-complex or complex derivative instruments in order to hedge its potential exposure to changes in market values of certain underlying assets that may arise in the future. The assets correspond to listed equity derivatives.
The Company does not own directly these instruments, but covers the potential exposure to changes in market values of certain underlying assets owned by one of its subsidiaries (Note 5.3).
Exposure to interest rate risk In order to hedge the Company's exposure to interest rate fluctuations particularly related to its 2010 OBSAAR bonds and part of its 2011 Schuldschein loan, the Company has concluded hedging contracts in order to swap its floating interest rate against a fixed rate. These contracts are either with immediate or deferred effect.
2.14 ­ Trade creditors
Trade creditors are valued at their nominal value. Accrued expenses are non-invoiced charges at the closing date but related to the current period.
2.15 ­ Deferred income
Deferred income includes services invoiced during the period, which have not been delivered at the closing date. They are related to contracts for analysis and consultancy spread over several years or covering both periods Y and Y+1.
Deferred income also includes the premium paid by the hybrid instrument holders in July 2014 and amortised until the First Call Date of the hybrid instrument concerned (Note 3.14).
2.16 ­ Foreign currency translation
The Company maintains its books and records in Euro (EUR).
Transactions expressed in currencies other than Euro are translated into Euro at the exchange rate effective at the time of the transaction.
Cash at bank is translated in Euros at the exchange rate effective at the balance sheet date. Exchange losses and gains are recorded in the profit and loss account of the year.
Other assets and liabilities are translated separately respectively at the lower or at the higher of the value converted at the historical rate or the value determined on the basis of the exchange rates effective at the balance sheet date. The unrealised losses are recorded in the profit and loss account of the period whereas gains are accounted for when realised.

128

2.17 ­ Income tax The Company Eurofins Scientific S.E. is subject to Luxembourg income taxes. From January 1, 2002, the French branch of Eurofins Scientific S.E. has opted for a tax unity with the French subsidiaries controlled at more than 95% as authorized by article 223 A of the "Code Général des Impôts" in France. In the French branch, the income tax for the period recorded in the Income Statement is the sum of:
 The income tax expense based on the taxable income of the French tax unity;
 The income tax expense corresponding to the indemnity to be paid at the time of exit from the tax unity of a former subsidiary whose tax losses were used during the period it was part of the tax unity;
 And any adjustments in relation to income taxes related to previous periods.
2.18 ­ Consolidation The Company, as the parent company of Eurofins Group, prepares consolidated financial statements, which are published in accordance to the provisions of Luxembourg law and IFRS.
129

NOTE 3 ­ NOTES RELATED TO THE BALANCE SHEET

3.1 ­ Intangible assets

The movements for the year are as follows:
EUR Thousands Gross book value - opening balance Additions for the year Disposals for the year Transfers for the year Gross book value - closing balance

Concessions, patents, licences,
trademarks and similar right assets
176
-
-
-
176

Goodwill acquired for consideration
662 -
662

Accumulated value adjustment - opening balance Allocations for the year Reversals for the year Transfers for the year Accumulated value adjustment - closing balance
Net book value - closing balance

176

662

-

-

-

-

-

-

176

662

-

-

Net book value - opening balance

-

-

Total
838 -
838
838 -
838 -
-

3.2 ­ Tangible assets The movements for the year are as follows:
EUR Thousands Gross book value - opening balance Additions for the year Disposals for the year Transfers for the year Gross book value - closing balance
Accumulated value adjustment- opening balance Allocations for the year Reversals for the year Transfers for the year Accumulated value adjustment -closing balance
Net book value - closing balance
Net book value - opening balance

Land and buildings and
leasehold improvements
51 -
-
-
51

Plant and machinery
586 -
586

Other fixtures and fittings tools and equipement
142 -
-
-
142

51

586

141

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

51

586

141

-

-

1

-

-

1

Total
779 -
779
778 -
778
1
1

130

3.3 ­ Financial assets
EUR Thousands Cost Shares in affiliated undertakings Other financial assets Total
Value adjustment Shares in affiliated undertakings Total

Opening
1,984,916 13
1,984,929
7,479 7,479

Additions
1,757,060 7
1,757,067
-

Disposals
253,077 -
253,077
825 825

Closing
3,488,899 20
3,488,919
6,654 6,654

Net book value

1,977,450

1,757,067

252,252

3,482,265

Capital increases were carried out in the following subsidiaries during 2017 by contribution in cash:  Eurofins GSC Finance NV for EUR 734,000K,  Eurofins International Holdings LUX S.à r.l. for EUR 482,000K,  Eurofins Clinical Testing Services France for EUR 109,979K,  Eurofins Verwaltungsgesellschaft mbH for EUR 480K,  Eurofins Genomics BV for EUR 51,645K. The Company also created the following subsidiaries: Equipment Leasing Corporation LUX S.à r.l. for EUR 100K and Alpha Services Lux S.A. for EUR 25K.

The Company acquired Financière Amatsi. The shares of Financière Amatsi II and Amatsi Management have also been acquired from Eurofins Pharma France Holding SAS. These three companies have been merged in the Company, resulting in the contribution of Amatsigroup SAS and Immobilière Amatsi shares for EUR 127,059K, including goodwill resulting from the mergers. These operations also generated EUR 240,606K of additions and disposals in 2017.

In the context of the acquisition of Bio-access by the Group, there has been a contribution in kind of France Biologie Management shares for EUR 11,164K, which were sold, in November 2017 to France Biologie Holding SAS, for the same value. These operations generated EUR 11,164K of additions and disposals in 2017.

Eurofins Verwaltungsgesellschaft mbH has been sold within the Group for a value of EUR 130K with a loss on the period of EUR 350k (Note 4.5; gross book value after capital injection of EUR 480K: EUR 1,305K; reversal of value adjustment for EUR 825K).

Value adjustment: As of December 31, 2017, depreciation on subsidiaries stands at: Eurofins Product Service GmbH for EUR 6,654K (same as of December 31, 2016). At the balance sheet date, the Board of Directors has assessed the fair value of those financial assets and has reviewed the value adjustment if necessary.

Shares in affiliated undertakings (information based on the Balance Sheet as at December 31, 2017)

EUR Thousands

Registered office

Book value of capital held

% of capital
held

Net turnover

Result for the
financial year

Gross

Net

(Unaudited) (Unaudited)

Net equity (Unaudited)

Income from financial
fixed assets (parent
company)

Eurofins Product Service GmbH

Storkower Str. 38c, DE-15526 Reichenwalde

10,420

3,766 100%

5,196

666

4,202

-

Eurofins France Holding SAS

Rue Pierre Adolphe Bobierre, 44000 Nantes

178,901 178,901 100%

-

-16

261,288

-

Eurofins GSC Finance NV

Avenue Herrmann-Debroux 48, BE-1160 Brussels

1,465,379 1,465,379 100%

-

60,421

1,610,042

-

Amatsigroup SAS

Parc de Genibart 31470 Fontenilles

127,059 127,059 100%

32,159

2,232

21,593

-

Immobilière Amatsi SAS

Parc de Genibart 31470 Fontenilles

0

0 100%

1,076

635

1,506

-

Eurofins Genomics BV
Eurofins International Holdings Lux S.à r.l.
Eurofins International Support Services Lux S.à r.l.

Bergschot 71, NL-4817PA Breda
23 Val Fleuri, Grand Duchy of Luxembourg
23 Val Fleuri, Grand Duchy of Luxembourg

Eurofins Clinical Testing

23 Val Fleuri, Grand Duchy of

Services France Lux S.à r.l. Luxembourg

55,076 55,076 1,300,285 1,300,285

13

13

351,641 351,641

100% 100% 100% 100%

-

2,833

76,334

-

-14,325

1,399,390

-

8,036

10,141

-

-207

349,977

71,000
-

Equipment Leasing Corporation Lux S.à r.l.
Alpha Services Lux S.A.

2 rue Heinrich Heine L-7720 Luxembourg
2 rue Heinrich Heine L-7720 Luxembourg

100

100 100%

25

25

3,488,899 3,482,245

100%

-

-

100

-

-

-

25

-

71,000

131

3.4 ­ Amounts owed by affiliated undertakings

EUR Thousands Eurofins International Support Services Lux S.à r.l. Eurofins International Holdings LUX S.à r.l. Eurofins Genomics BV Eurofins GSC Finance NV Eurofins France Holding SAS Eurofins Clinical Testing Services France Lux S.à r.l. Amatsigroup SAS Immobilière Amatsi SAS Direct ownership France Biologie Holding SAS Other affiliated undertakings Indirect ownership
Interests due on these advances
Debtors Total short term advances

2017 2016 16,600 23,269

74,531

-

1,783 6,321 179,223
2

1,683 9,390 38,731
266

123 861 279,444
9,802 9,802

73,339 21,761 6,220 27,981

658

610

556

522

290,460 102,452

Amatsigroup SAS Immobilière Amatsi SAS Direct ownership Eurofins France Biologie de Spécialité Holding SAS Labazur Provence Labazur Nice Other affiliated undertakings Indirect ownership Total medium term advances
Total

19,510 3,328
22,838 91,823

109,959

36,915 29,806 53,887 212,432 235,269
525,729

19,821 129,780 129,780
232,232

Amounts owed by affiliated undertakings (receivables falling due within one year or less) are mainly related:

- for direct ownership, to cash advances to finance intercompany loans to direct or indirect subsidiaries or acquisitions of subsidiaries or dividends to be received;

- for indirect ownership, to cash advances for operating purposes (e.g. capex financing).

3.5 ­ Cash at bank and in hand / Transferable securites

EUR Thousands Cash at bank and in hand Transferable securites Total
3.6 ­ Prepayments
3.6.1 ­ Prepayments

2017
341,348 150,216 491,564

2016
88,016 486,382 574,398

EUR Thousands Prepayments

2017 19

2016 55

3.6.2 ­ Deferred charges

EUR Thousands Deferred charges

2017

2016

16,750 10,215

EUR Thousands At beginning of the year Issuance costs Amortisation of deferred charges
At end of the year

2017 10,215
9,569 -3,034
16,750

2016 12,838
293 -2,916
10,215

Issuance costs are mainly related to hybrid instruments and Eurobonds outstanding (Note 3.9).

3.7 ­ Capital and reserves

The movements for the year are as follows:

EUR Thousands At beginning of the year Allocation of previous year's profit/loss
Dividend
Share capital and share premium increase Profit or loss for the financial year
At end of the year

Subscribed capital 1,693
72
-
1,765

Share premium 618,811
320,046
938,857

Legal reserve
154
-
154

Other reserves
631
-
631

Profit brought forward 153,006
-5,618 -33,852
-
-
113,536

Profit or loss for
the financial
year -5,618
5,618
-
-
-3,656
-3,656

Total 768,677
-33,852 320,118
-3,656 1,051,287

Subscribed capital and share premium increased by EUR 320,118K through:  exercise of stock options by employees (137,002 new
shares have been issued);  7,494 new shares issued from the exercice of BSAAR;  23,277 new shares issued in relation with the
acquisition of the non controlling interests in France Biologie Holding in August 2017;  On November 2, 2017, Eurofins raised total gross proceeds of c. EUR 299 million following the issuance of 550,000 new shares to institutional investors, at a price of EUR 543 per share, representing a 3.0% discount to the closing price on 30th October, 2017, and no discount to the 1-month Volume Weighted Average Price (VWAP). Eurofins intends to use proceeds from the issuance towards financing identified potential acquisition targets.

The net loss of FY2016 (EUR 5,618K) has been fully allocated to retained earnings.

Additionally, an amount of EUR 33,852K has been taken out of retained earnings in order to distribute a dividend of EUR 2.00 per share for an amount of EUR 33,852K. Retained earnings stand at EUR 113,536K at the end of December 2017.

Detail of the Company's share capital and total number of

shares outstanding:

Date

Number of Nominal value Share capital

Shares

(in EUR)

(in EUR)

At beginning of the year (restated1)

16,926,141

0.10 1,692,614.10

Shares issued

717,773

0.10

71,777.30

At end of the year 17,643,914

0.10 1,764,391.40

1 the number of shares has been restated following 171 BSAARs exercised in December 2016.

132

Stock option plans Stock options are granted to directors and employees of the Company and of its direct and indirect subsidiaries. Movements in the number of share options outstanding are as follows:

Share options

2017

2016

At beginning of the year

835,876 794,682

Options granted *

211,085 216,660

Options exercised

-137,002 -129,801

Options expired

-81,155 -45,665

At end of the year

828,804 835,876

* Under conditions (strike price, date of exercise, etc.) of new option plans.

As at December 31, 2017, 828,804 stock options awarded are still outstanding. Further details can be found in the "Management Report".

Free shares Free shares are granted to directors and employees. In accordance with article 8bis of the Company's articles of association ("capital autorisé"), the Board of Directors decided during meetings held on April 4, 2017 and December 13, 2017 to grant up to 14,340 capital-providing securities in the form of free shares, conferring the beneficiaries the right to subscribe for one share of the Company.

Movements in the number of free shares outstanding are as follows:

Free shares
At beginning of the year Free shares granted Free shares lost At end of the year

2017
10,481 14,340
-543 24,278

2016
10,481
10,481

BSAAR warrants The BSAAR warrants have been mainly subscribed by some business leaders of the Group. Movements in the number of shares to be possibly issued upon exercise of BSAAR warrants are as follows:

In potential new shares

2017

2016

At beginning of the period BSAAR exercised BSAAR forfeited At end of the year

7,772 -7,494
-278 -

8,292 -520 -
7,772

2014 BSA Leaders Warrants Upon decision and authorization granted by the Board of Directors of June 19, 2014, the Managing Director of the Company following a decision dated July 1, 2014 decided to issue up to 117,820 capital-providing securities in the form of stock purchase warrants, conferring 2014 BSA Leaders Warrants' holders the right to subscribe for one share of the Company for each 2014 BSA Leaders Warrant at a fixed exercise price of EUR 281.58.

The subscription price was set at EUR 18.15 per 2014 BSA Leaders Warrant. 2014 BSA Leaders Warrant holders will have the option to exercise their 2014 BSA Leaders Warrants at any time starting 4 years from the date of subscription ie between July 1st, 2018 and June 30, 2022 inclusive.

Partial and optional acquisition price payments in Eurofins shares At December 31, 2017, the overall number of Eurofins shares potentially deliverable is 0 share.

Class A beneficiary units Until 30 June 2017 inclusive, Class A beneficiary units, which confer no right to dividends but a right to one vote, were allocated to holders of fully paid-up shares for which proof was provided of registration in the name of the same shareholder for at least three consecutive years.

The Annual General Meeting of Shareholders held on April 20, 2017 adopted changes to the Company's Articles of Association, in particular relating to Class A beneficiary units. As from July 1, 2017, Class A beneficiary units, which confer no right to dividends but a right to one vote, can be allocated to holders of fully paid-up shares for which (i) proof is provided of registration in the name of the same shareholder for at least three consecutive years as provided for in article 12bis.2 of the Company's Articles of Association (ii) request to subscribe class A beneficiary units is sent in writing by the relevant shareholder to the Company at the latest by June 30, 2020 and (iii) subject to the Company receiving payment of a subscription price of EUR 0.10 per class A beneficiary unit. Consequently, the Company's shareholder Analytical Bioventures SCA decided to pay in July 2017 a cash contribution of EUR 640,000 equivalent to EUR 0.10 per Class A beneficiary unit.
The total number of Class A beneficiary units increased from 6,532,840 as of December 31, 2016 to 6,535,247 as of December 31, 2017.
Class B beneficiary units Class B beneficiary units, which confer no right to dividends but a right to one vote, are allocated to holders of fully paidup shares for which (i) proof is provided of registration in the name of the same shareholder for at least five consecutive years as provided for in article 12bis.3 of the Company's Articles of Association (ii) request to subscribe class B beneficiary units is sent in writing by the relevant shareholder to the Company at the latest by June 30, 2021 and (iii) subject to the Company receiving payment of a subscription price of EUR 0.10 per class B beneficiary unit.
In June 2016 and March 2017 respectively, Analytical Bioventures SCA exercised its right to receive 1,000,000 Class B beneficiary units (2,000,000 in total) on the equivalent number of shares out of its 6,400,000 shares registered in a registered account for five consecutive years in the name of the Company's shareholder Analytical Bioventures SCA for a cash contribution of EUR 200,000 equivalent to EUR 0.10 per beneficiary unit.
The total number of Class B beneficiary units amounts to 2,000,000 as of December 31, 2017.
Voting rights Voting rights attached to shares are proportional to the capital quota they represent. Each share gives the right to one vote. However as mentioned above, class A and class B beneficiary units ("part bénéficiaire de catégorie A" and "part bénéficiaire de catégorie B") carrying an extra voting right each can be allotted to all fully paid-up shares fulfilling conditions as specified in the last two paragraphs. As at December 31, 2017, a total amount of 8,535,247 class A and class B beneficiary units has been issued and the total number of voting rights amounts to 26,179,161.
Own shares As at December 31, 2017, the Company does not own any of its shares (same as of December 31, 2016).
Legal reserves The Company is required to allocate a minimum of 5% of its annual net income to a legal reserve, until this reserve equals to 10% of the subscribed share capital. This reserve may not be distributed.
3.8 ­ Provisions

EUR Thousands
Retirement benefit obligation Other provisions Total provisions

Opening Changes Closing

61

1

62

-

-

-

61

1

62

133

3.9 ­ Non convertible loans

The non convertible loans are composed of:

EUR Thousands Eurobonds ­ short term Interest due ­ Eurobonds and hybrids Total ­ short term Eurobonds ­ more than one year
Hybrids instruments
Total ­ more than one year

2017 300,000
63,800
363,800 1,650,00
0 1,000,00
0 2,650,00
0

Hybrid instruments

2016 -
57,105
57,105 1,300,00
0
600,000
1,900,00 0

EUR Thousands Nominal amount Interest due Total

2017 1,000,000
30,880 1,030,880

2016 600,000
29,171 629,171

Hybrid instrument with a first call date on 31 January 2020:

In January 2013, Eurofins issued a EUR 150m hybrid instrument. In July 2014, Eurofins extended the size of its existing hybrid instrument, bringing the overall size of Eurofins' hybrid instrument to EUR 300m.

The hybrid instrument has a perpetual maturity, but is callable at par by Eurofins in January 2020. It bears a fixed annual coupon of 7.00% for the first seven years until first call, and a coupon of Euribor 3m + 818 bps thereafter if not called. The instrument is listed on the regulated market of the Luxembourg stock exchange (ISIN XS 0881803646).

Hybrid instrument with a first call date on 29 April 2023:

In April 2015, Eurofins issued a new EUR 300m hybrid instrument. The instrument has a perpetual maturity, but is callable at par by Eurofins on the 8th year (first call date in April 2023). This hybrid instrument bears a fixed annual coupon of 4.875% for the first 8 years until first call, and a coupon of Euribor 3m + 701 bps thereafter if not called. The instrument is listed on the regulated market of the Luxembourg stock exchange (ISIN XS1224953882).

Hybrid instrument with a first call date on 13 November 2025:

In November 2017, Eurofins raised EUR 400m in its latest Euro hybrid instrument public issuance to further strengthen its balance sheet. The instrument has a perpetual maturity, but is callable at par by Eurofins on the 8th year (first call date in November 2025). This hybrid instrument bears a fixed annual coupon of 3.25% for the first 8 years until first call, and a coupon of Euribor 3m + a margin thereafter if not called. This margin may vary between 266.7bps to 516.7bps, depending on the various potential external credit rating scenario assigned to Eurofins by external rating agency/ies by November 2020 (and assessment of equity content given by external rating agency/ies to the instrument). The instrument is listed on the regulated market of the Luxembourg stock exchange (ISIN XS1716945586).

On these hybrid instruments outstanding in 2017, a first coupon of EUR 21m was paid in January 2017 (EUR 300m at 7%) and a second one of EUR 14.6m was paid in April 2017 (EUR 300m at 4.875%).

Eurobonds
EUR Thousands Nominal amount Interests due Total

2017 1,950,000
32,920 1,982,920

2016 1,300,000
27,934 1,327,934

Eurobonds November 2018:

In November 2013, Eurofins issued an inaugural senior unsecured Eurobond for a nominal value of EUR 300m. The bonds have a five-year maturity (due November 26, 2018), and pay an annual coupon of 3.125%. The bonds are listed on the Luxembourg Stock Exchange under ISIN XS0996772876.

Eurobonds January 2022:

In January 2015, Eurofins raised EUR 500m through its second senior unsecured Eurobond public issuance. The bonds have a seven-year maturity (due January 27, 2022) and bear an annual coupon of 2.25%. The bonds are listed on the regulated market of the Luxembourg stock exchange (ISIN XS1174211471).

Eurobonds January 2023:

In July 2015, Eurofins raised EUR 500m in its third senior unsecured Eurobond public issuance. The bonds have a seven and half-year maturity (due January 30, 2023) and bear an annual rate of 3.375%. The bonds are listed on the regulated market of the Luxembourg stock exchange (ISIN XS1268496640).

Eurobonds July 2024:

In July 2017, Eurofins raised EUR 650m in its latest senior unsecured Eurobond public issuance. The bonds have a seven-year maturity (due 25 July 2024) and bear an annual rate of 2.125%. The bonds are listed on the regulated market of the Luxembourg stock exchange (ISIN XS1651444140).

The quoted value of the Company's Eurobonds as at December 31, 2017 is equal to EUR 308m for its Eurobond due in November 2018, to EUR 525m for its Eurobond due in January 2022, to EUR 544m for its Eurobond due in January 2023 and to EUR 665m for its Eurobond due in July 2024.

3.10 ­ Amounts owed to credit institutions

The amounts owed to credit institutions are detailed as follows:

EUR Thousands
Borrowings Interests and commissions due Bank overdrafts Total

2017
230,000 552 -
230,552

2016
28,648 792 234
29,674

In 2016, Eurofins used credit lines in US Dollars with one bank for an amount of EUR 28,740K. At the end of December 2017, the entire nominal amount has been repaid.

In September 2017, Eurofins managed to set-up a new Negotiable European Commercial Paper programme ("NEU CP") for a maximum amount of EUR 500m.This programme is used to issue short term notes with a minimum size of 200,000 EUR and maturity of less than 1 year. At the end of December 2017, notes for EUR 230m were outstanding under this programme.

134

3.11 ­ Maturity of creditors

EUR Thousands
Hybrid instruments Eurobonds
Borrowings Interests and commissions due Trade creditors Amounts owed to affiliated undertakings Creditors for tax Creditors for social security Other creditors Total

Total Less than 1 From 1 to year 5 years

1,030,88 0
1,982,92 0
230,000 552

30,880

-

332,920 500,000

230,000

-

552

-

More than 5 years
1,000,00 0
1,150,00 0 -

684

684

-

-

233,671 233,671

-

-

62 83
954 3,479,80
6

62

-

-

83

-

-

954 829,806

500,000

2,150,00
0

3.12 ­ Financial instruments

EUR Thousands Financial instruments

2017 239

2016 1,659

The Company concluded interest rate hedging contracts with deferred effective dates for the period December 2017 to July 2018 for a total nominal amount of EUR 10m.

The fair value as at December 31, 2017 of these swap contracts is estimated at a loss of EUR 239K. The change in the fair value of the instrument of EUR 1,420K between 2016 and 2017 has been recognised in the profit and loss account in 2017.

3.13 - Amounts owed to affiliated undertakings

EUR Thousands Eurofins Pharma France Holding SAS Eurofins NSC Finance France SAS Eurofins International Support Services LUX S.à r.l. Total short term loans Net amount due under the French Tax unity
Creditors
Total

2017 130,280
89,153 -
219,433 13,875
363 233,671

2016 -
30,697 716
31,413 13,843
114 45,370

The debt due to Eurofins Pharma France Holding SAS is related to the acquisitions of the holdings of Amatsi Group in December 2017.

Other amounts owed to affiliated undertakings (payable falling due in one year or less) are mainly related to the cash pooling agreement in France implemented between Eurofins NSC Finance France SAS and other Group affiliates in France.

3.14 ­ Deferred income

EUR Thousands Deferred income Premium received on hybrid instrument Total

2017 96
5,323 5,419

2016 332
7,874 8,206

EUR Thousands
Premium received Amortisation At end of the year

2017
7,875 -2,552 5,323

2016
10,433 -2,559 7,874

The premium paid by the holders of the hybrid instrument issued in July 2014 is amortised straight-line until the first call date in January 2020.

NOTE 4 - NOTES RELATED TO THE INCOME STATEMENT
4.1 ­ Net turnover, other operating income and other external expenses
Net turnover is mainly generated by the sale of SNIF-NMR systems (Site-Specific Natural Isotope FractionationNuclear Magnetic Resonance).
Other operating income relates to lease revenues billed to Eurofins Analytics France SAS and invoices for Group Support Services to Eurofins subsidiaries or Group Service Companies.
Other external expenses related mainly to Group Support Services costs invoiced by Group Service Companies, audit, legal and bank fees.
4.2 ­ Income from participating interests
Income from participating interests comes from dividends received from the Company's subsidiaries and gain on sale of Shares in affiliated undertakings (Note 3.3).

EUR Thousands Dividends Total

2017 71,000 71,000

2016 70,050 70,050

4.3 ­ Other interest receivable and similar income

EUR Thousands Interests derived from affiliated undertakings (Note 3.4) Other interests and financial income Financial instruments (Note 3.12)
Total

2017 11,010
3,044
1,420 15,474

2016 9,143
3,163
5,239 17,545

Other interests and financial income have been generated by interests and gains from transferable securities for EUR 308K and net foreign exchange gains for EUR 2,736K (foreign exchange losses for EUR 1,979K offset by foreign exchange gains for EUR 4,715K).
4.4 ­ Value adjustments in respect of financial assets and of investments held as current assets
Value adjustments in respect of financial assets and of investments held as current assets are composed of:

EUR Thousands
Value adjustments of shares in affiliated undertakings (Note 3.3) Value adjustments of amounts owed by affiliated undertakings (Note 3.4)
Total

2017 -
-
-

2016 -100
606
506

4.5 ­ Interest payable and similar expenses
The interest payable and similar expenses concerning affiliated undertakings are composed of:

EUR Thousands
Merger losses Loss on disposal (Note 3.3) Interest paid to affiliated undertakings Total

2017 7,076
350 11
7,437

2016 2
2

135

In 2017, the merger losses are non-cash and related to the merger of the Company with the holdings of the Group Amatsi (Note 3.3).

The other interest payable and similar expenses are composed of:

EUR Thousands
Interest expenses on borrowings Bonds interests Schuldschein interest expense Additional Schuldschein interest due to early repayment Hybrid instruments expenses Short term interests Net foreign exchange loss Financial expense on pension Amortisation of deferred charges (Note 3.6)

2017 1,698 43,518
-
34,782 4 2
3,034

2016 2,274 42,765 5,550 5,267
33,066 15 2 8
2,916

Total

83,038 91,863

4.6 ­ Tax on profit or loss

In 2017, the tax income amounts to EUR 1,631K.

In 2017, the taxable income of Eurofins Scientific S.E. in Luxembourg is a loss of EUR 3 million. As of December 31, 2017, the Company held a tax loss to be carried forward of over EUR 42 million in Luxembourg.

In 2017, the taxable income of the French tax unity which is headed by the French branch of the Company is a loss of EUR 14 million. As of December 31, 2017, the French tax unity headed by the French branch of the Company held a tax loss to be carried forward of over EUR 112 million.

NOTE 5 ­ OTHER INFORMATION

5.1 ­ Related-party transactions

The Company is controlled by the company Analytical Bioventures SCA, the holding company of the Martin family. This company owns 36.3% of the Company's shares and controls 56.5% of its voting rights as of December 31, 2017.

Transactions with subsidiaries or with companies owning shares in Eurofins Group such as Analytical Bioventures SCA or with companies in which some members of the Company's top management have significant influence such as "International Assets Finance S.à r.l.", a subsidiary of Analytical Bioventures SCA, are not significant at the level of Eurofins Scientific S.E, except for the two cash contributions mentioned in Note 3.7.

5.2 ­ Personnel

5.2.1 ­ Weighted average Full Time Equivalent (FTE)

In 2017, the weighted average FTE stood at 2, same as 2016:

2017

2016

Executive *

2

2

Total

2

2

* Employee numbers are weighted average "Full time equivalents" (FTE) during the period.

5.2.2 ­ Key management compensation of the Board of Directors

The aggregate compensation (including benefits) granted by the Company to the Board of Directors amounted to EUR 113K for the year 2017 (EUR 90K for the year 2016).

5.3 ­ Off-balance sheet commitments 5.3.1 ­ Detail of guarantees given related to financing

EUR Thousands Amounts owed to credit institutions Total

2017 -

2016 28,470 28,470

EUR Thousands Guarantees given related to the financing of subsidiaries

2017 53,424

2016 108,489

 The Company has signed an intercompany foreign currency hedge agreement with its indirect subsidiary Eurofins GSC Finance NV to cover any foreign exchange impact relating to granting loans in currencies other than Euro to any Group affiliates.The impact of this agreement is an unrealised exchange gain of EUR 13,551K for Eurofins Scientific S.E. As of December 31, 2017, it is not recognised in the profit and loss account in accordance with the Company's accounting principles.

 The Company has signed an intercompany hedge agreement with one of its indirect subsidiaries to cover any marked to market value fluctuations and foreign exchange impact relating to an equity swap instrument in foreign currency. The impact of this agreement is an unrealised gain of EUR 24,998K for Eurofins Scientific S.E. As at December 31, 2017, it is not recognised in the profit and loss account in accordance with the Company's accounting principles.

 The Company has counter-guaranteed the Swedish

insurance

company

"Försäkringsbolaget

Pensionsgaranti" for all amounts due that this

company should have to pay to the current and past

employees of the Swedish companies, indirect

subsidiaries of Eurofins Scientific S.E., for their

pension obligations, for a maximum amount of EUR

13,675K.

 In the scope of a EUR 1,200K grant contract obtained in 2008 by Microchem Laboratories Ltd, the Company gave its guarantee to the Irish governmental agency which provided the grant that it will be liable in case of Microchem Laboratories Ltd failing to meet its contingencies related to this grant.

EUR Thousands
Guarantees given related to acquisitions

2017 -

2016 1,606

 In an agreement signed between the companies Eurofins Genomics BV and MWG Biotech AG, a guarantee was granted by the Company to the benefit of Eurofins Genomics BV, guaranteeing that Eurofins Genomics BV will at all times be in a position to timely meet its obligations towards the MWG Biotech AG minority interests under the "control and profit transfer" i.e. to pay : o A consideration "Abfindung" within the meaning of sec. 305 of the German Stock Corporation Act ("AktG") o A compensation "Ausgleich" within the meaning of sec. 304 of the "AktG".

5.3.2 ­ Detail of guarantees received

None.

5.4 ­ Post-closing events

Eurofins France Holding SAS has been merged with Eurofins Scientific SE with effect on January 5, 2018.

136

4 Auditor's Report on Eurofins Scientific SE's Annual Accounts
Audit report
To the Shareholders of Eurofins Scientific SE
Report on the audit of the annual accounts
Our opinion
In our opinion, the accompanying annual accounts give a true and fair view of the financial position of Eurofins Scientific SE (the "Company") as at 31 December 2o17, and of the results of its operations for the year then ended in accordance with Luxembourg legal and regulatory requirements relating to the preparation and presentation of the annual accounts.
Our opinion is consistent with our additional report to the Company's Audit Committee.
What we have audited
The Company's annual accounts comprise:
the Balance Sheet as at 31 December 2017; the Profit and Loss Account for the year then ended; and the notes to the annual accounts, which include a summary of significant accounting policies.
Basis for opinion
We conducted our audit in accordance with the EU Regulation No 537/2014 (the "Regulation"), the Law of 23 July 2016 on the audit profession (the "Law") and with International Standards on Auditing (ISAs) as adopted for Luxembourg by the "Commission de Surveillance du Secteur Financier" (CSSF). Our responsibilities under those Regulation, Law and ISAs are further described in the "Responsibilities of the "Réviseur d'entreprises agréé" for the audit of the annual accounts" section of our report.
We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our opinion.
We are independent of the Company in accordance with the International Ethics Standards Board for Accountants' Code of Ethics for Professional Accountants (IESBA Code) as adopted for Luxembourg by the CSSF together with the ethical requirements that are relevant to our audit of the annual accounts. We have fulfilled our other ethical responsibilities under those ethical requirements.
To the best of our knowledge and belief, we declare that we have not provided non-audit services that are prohibited under Article 5(1) of the Regulation.
We did not provide any non-audit services to the Company in the period from 1 January 2017 to 31 December 2017.
PricewaterhouseCoopers, Société coopérative, 2 rue Gerhard Mercator, B.P. 1443, L-1014 Luxembourg T : +352 494848 1, F : +352 494848 2900, www.pwc.lu Cabinet de révision agréé. Expert-comptable (autorisation gouvernementale n°10028256) R.C.S. Luxembourg B 65 477 - TVA LU25482518

Key audit matters
Key audit matters are those matters that, in our professional judgment, were of most significance in our audit of the annual accounts of the current period, and include the most significant assessed risks of material misstatement (whether or not due to fraud). These matters were addressed in the context of our audit of the annual accounts as a whole, and in forming our opinion thereon, and we do not provide a separate opinion on these matters.

Key audit matter

How our audit addressed the Key audit matter

Valuation of shares in affiliated undertakings

As of 31 December 2017 the net book value of the shares in affiliated undertakings owned by the Company amounts to 3,482MEUR representing 77% of the total assets. As described in the notes to the annual accounts, they are valued at their acquisition cost, unless there are indications that the recoverable value has durably decreased.

As part of our audit, we assessed the Company's process for determining and validating the future discounted cash flow forecasts of the Company's investments in affiliated undertakings and, when required, of their subsidiaries:
 We satisfied ourselves of the reasonability of the future cashflows used by comparing them with the actual results and forecasts prepared by management and approved by the Board of Directors, and when possible benchmarking them against general and sector specific market expectations;

The recoverable value can be  We used our own valuation specialists and tested the

determined through different valuation

parameters used to determine the weighted average

techniques; the most regularly used by

cost of capital, the organic growth rate, the long term

management being the discounted

growth rate and the tax rate to assess the terminal

cash flow (DCF) model.

value;

 We tested management sensitivity analysis of the

This matter was of particular

valuation models;

significance to our audit as

management's determination of future  We assessed the adequacy of the disclosures in the

cash flow forecasts, discount rates and

annual accounts.

growth rates used in the calculation of

the recoverable value involves

significant judgment and estimates.

138

Other information
The Board of Directors is responsible for the other information. The other information comprises the information included in the Management report and the Corporate Governance Statement but does not include the annual accounts and our audit report thereon.
Our opinion on the annual accounts does not cover the other information and we do not express any form of assurance conclusion thereon.
In connection with our audit of the annual accounts, our responsibility is to read the other information identified above and, in doing so, consider whether the other information is materially inconsistent with the annual accounts or our knowledge obtained in the audit, or otherwise appears to be materially misstated. If, based on the work we have performed, we conclude that there is a material misstatement of this other information, we are required to report that fact. We have nothing to report in this regard.
Responsibilities of the Board of Directors and those charged with governance for the annual accounts
The Board of Directors is responsible for the preparation and fair presentation of the annual accounts in accordance with Luxembourg legal and regulatory requirements relating to the preparation and presentation of the annual accounts, and for such internal control as the Board of Directors determines is necessary to enable the preparation of the annual accounts that are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error.
In preparing the annual accounts, the Board of Directors is responsible for assessing the Company's ability to continue as a going concern, disclosing, as applicable, matters related to going concern and using the going concern basis of accounting unless the Board of Directors either intends to liquidate the Company or to cease operations, or has no realistic alternative but to do so.
Those charged with governance are responsible for overseeing the Company's financial reporting process.
Responsibilities of the "Réviseur d'entreprises agréé" for the audit of the annual accounts
The objectives of our audit are to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the annual accounts as a whole are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error, and to issue an audit report that includes our opinion. Reasonable assurance is a high level of assurance, but is not a guarantee that an audit conducted in accordance with the Regulation, the Law and with ISAs as adopted for Luxembourg by the CSSF will always detect a material misstatement when it exists. Misstatements can arise from fraud or error and are considered material if, individually or in the aggregate, they could reasonably be expected to influence the economic decisions of users taken on the basis of these annual accounts.
139

As part of an audit in accordance with the Regulation, the Law and with ISAs as adopted for Luxembourg by the CSSF, we exercise professional judgment and maintain professional scepticism throughout the audit. We also:
 identify and assess the risks of material misstatement of the annual accounts, whether due to fraud or error, design and perform audit procedures responsive to those risks, and obtain audit evidence that is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our opinion. The risk of not detecting a material misstatement resulting from fraud is higher than for one resulting from error, as fraud may involve collusion, forgery, intentional omissions, misrepresentations, or the override of internal control;
 obtain an understanding of internal control relevant to the audit in order to design audit procedures that are appropriate in the circumstances, but not for the purpose of expressing an opinion on the effectiveness of the Company's internal control;
 evaluate the appropriateness of accounting policies used and the reasonableness of accounting estimates and related disclosures made by the Board of Directors;
 conclude on the appropriateness of the Board of Directors' use of the going concern basis of accounting and, based on the audit evidence obtained, whether a material uncertainty exists related to events or conditions that may cast significant doubt on the Company's ability to continue as a going concern. If we conclude that a material uncertainty exists, we are required to draw attention in our audit report to the related disclosures in the annual accounts or, if such disclosures are inadequate, to modify our opinion. Our conclusions are based on the audit evidence obtained up to the date of our audit report. However, future events or conditions may cause the Company to cease to continue as a going concern;
 evaluate the overall presentation, structure and content of the annual accounts, including the disclosures, and whether the annual accounts represent the underlying transactions and events in a manner that achieves fair presentation.
We communicate with those charged with governance regarding, among other matters, the planned scope and timing of the audit and significant audit findings, including any significant deficiencies in internal control that we identify during our audit.
We also provide those charged with governance with a statement that we have complied with relevant ethical requirements regarding independence, and to communicate with them all relationships and other matters that may reasonably be thought to bear on our independence, and where applicable, related safeguards.
From the matters communicated with those charged with governance, we determine those matters that were of most significance in the audit of the annual accounts of the current period and are therefore the key audit matters. We describe these matters in our audit report unless law or regulation precludes public disclosure about the matter.
140

Report on other legal and regulatory requirements
The Management report is consistent with the annual accounts and has been prepared in accordance with applicable legal requirements.
The Corporate Governance Statement is included in the Management report. The information required by Article 68ter Paragraph (1) Letters c) and d) of the Law of 19 December 2002 on the commercial and companies register and on the accounting records and annual accounts of undertakings, as amended, which is included in the Corporate Governance Statement, is consistent with the annual accounts and has been prepared in accordance with applicable legal requirements.
We have been appointed as "Réviseur d'Entreprises Agréé" by the General Meeting of the Shareholders on 20 April 2017 and the duration of our uninterrupted engagement, including previous renewals and reappointments, is 6 years.
Other matter
The Corporate Governance Statement includes, the information required by Article 68ter Paragraph (1) Letters a), b), e), f) and g) of the Law of 19 December 2002 on the commercial and companies register and on the accounting records and annual accounts of undertakings, as amended.

PricewaterhouseCoopers, Société coopérative Represented by

Luxembourg, 2 March 2018

Gilles Vanderweyen

141

Eurofins Scientific S.E. 23, Val Fleuri L-1526 Luxembourg
www.eurofins.com

