2017
ANNUAL REPORT
Business | Sustainability | Financials

CONTENTS

BUSINESS

This is Fagerhult

Fold-out

The year in figures

2

Key events per quarter

3

Comments from the CEO

4

Brands7

Acquisition8

Business environment and drivers

10

Strategy

12

Product areas

14

Controls and connectivity

18

Indoor

20

Retail

22

Outdoor

24

SUS TA I N A B I LI T Y

Stakeholder dialogue and materiality analysis 28

Value creation

30

Climate-smart products and solutions

32

Safe products and working environments

34

Responsible enterprise

35

Responsible employer

38

Governance of sustainability efforts

42

Sustainability report

43

Limited assurance report

44

FINANCIALS
The Fagerhult share Five-year overview Administration report Corporate governance report Board of Directors Senior management Income statements Balance sheets Changes in equity Cash-flow statements Accounting policies Notes Signatures Audit report Shareholder information Financial definitions Industry glossary Addresses

46 48 49 54 60 62 64 65 67 68 69 74 93 94 98 99 100 Inside cover

The official Annual Report which has been examined by the company's auditors comprises pages 46­93.
Together, Fagerhult's Annual Report and Sustain ability Report should be viewed as the company's summary for 2017. The Sustainability Report, pages 26­43, with the accompanying GRI appendix at www.fagerhultgroup.com/en/sustainability, follows the guidelines in GRI G4, level G4 Core, and has been externally reviewed. More information is available at www.fagerhultgroup.com/en/sustainability

VISION Fagerhult is to become a leading global lighting solutions provider.
MISSION To create a globally knitted together, customer insight-driven company that leverages the Group's size and competencies while preserving the entrepreneurial
culture in our local organisations.

T H I S I S FA G E R H U LT
Fagerhult is one of Europe's leading lighting companies with a total of 3,229 employees in 25 countries. Fagerhult develops, manufactures and markets innovative and energy-efficient lighting solutions for professional indoor and outdoor environments ­ a wide range of products and solutions developed using expertise and insight into the positive impact of light on people in a variety of environments. Over the years, Fagerhult has added many strong brands through acquisitions. Fagerhult's share is listed on Nasdaq Stockholm.

THREE PRODUCT AREAS

INDOOR Interior lighting for offices, schools, healthcare, hospitality and other demanding indoor environments such as industrial manufacturing and transport sectors.
Share of sales
58%

RETAIL Lighting solutions for retail and hospitality concepts and commercial environments which strengthen and develop the brand whilst enhancing the lit space and it's merchandise.
Share of sales
22%

OUTDOOR Outdoor lighting that contributes to safe and secure urban environ ments with a primary focus on streets, parks, footpaths and cycle paths, as well as lighting for prestigious buildings and a rchitectural effects.
Share of sales
20%

ELEVEN STRONG BRANDS

T H I S I S FA G E R H U LT

INTERNATIONAL PRESENCE

Fagerhult is one of Europe's leading lighting companies. The Group's largest markets are the Nordic region, the UK, Germany and Australia. Alongside these, Fagerhult has strong positions in France, Turkey, Spain and South Africa. With the acquisitions of LED Linear in 2016 and WE-EF in 2017, the Group continues to expand it's international presence, not only in the large German market, but also in the strategically important North American region.

With subsidiaries in more than 25 countries, operations are divided into four geographical business areas. Marketing and sales activities are primarily performed locally through subsidiaries and also via agents and distributors thus giving Fagerhult access to more than 40 markets. Production units are located in Sweden, Finland, the UK, Germany, Australia, Turkey, South Africa, China and Thailand. The Group's head office is in Habo, Sweden.

SALES SHARE PER BUSINESS AREA, 2017

NET SALES PER BUSINESS AREA, MSEK

OPERATING PROFIT PER BUSINESS AREA, MSEK

12%

2500 2,500 2000 2,000

300 300 2016

250

2017

32%

1500 1,500 34%
1000 1,000

200 200 150 100 100

500 500 50

0

0

22%

0 2017: 2,048 1,211 1,671

692 0 2017:

266

185

181

93

2016: 2,030 1, 196 1,044 653

2016: 220

181

99

87

The strategy delivers a more balanced regional sales footprint.

Solid year-on-year sales achievement in all regions with recent acquisitions dominating Western and Southern Europe's growth.

From great products and solutions comes customer loyalty and an ability for all regions to demonstrate an improved profitability.

GEOGR APHICAL BUSINESS AREAS: n Northern Europe n UK and Ireland n Western and Southern Europe n Africa, Asia and the Pacific

2016 2017

A HISTORY ROOTED IN VÄSTERGÖTLAND, SWEDEN
Fagerhult was founded in 1945 by Bertil Svensson and achieved sales of SEK 13,000 in its first year. A few years later, the first factory was built in Fagerhult, at that time with six employees and sales amounting to SEK 53,000. This factory, which has now been joined by the Group's other manufacturing units, currently has around 550 employees.

TRENDS FOR SALES AND OPERATING PROFIT, MSEK

6,000

6000

4 880000

DIVIDEND YIELD, % 4

4,000

4000

2,000

2000

3 660000 3 2 440000 2 1 220000 1

0

0

0 00

2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017

n Sales

2,770 2,436 2,506 3,023 3,085 3,095 3,736 3,909 4,491 5,170

Operating profit 272 104 153 317 251 277 379 396 524 678

0 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017
3.2 2.2 2.2 1.9 2.0

THE YEAR IN FIGURES

Financial highlights for 2017

> O rder intake amounted to MSEK 5,238.4 (4,653.0), corresponding to an overall year-on-year growth of 12.6 per cent.

> Net sales amounted to MSEK 5,170.3 (4,490.7), up 15.1 per cent.

> O perating profit recorded a year-on-year increase of MSEK 153.7 to MSEK 677.9 (524.2), resulting in an operating margin of 13.1 (11.7) per cent.
> At the end of 2017, the LED lighting share of net sales was more than 90 per cent, the transition to LED has been successfully accomplished.
> T he acquisitions of WE-EF and Flux and the purchase of the intellectual property rights for the Organic Response technology were concluded during the first half.

OPERATING PROFIT, MSEK

OPERATING MARGIN, %

AWARD HIGHLIGHTS
> WE-EF's FLC240LED projector won gold at the International Design Award Focus Open 2017, Architecture category. This outdoor lighting fixture opens up new possibilities for dynamic presentations in architectural lighting.
> LED Linear's Lyra was awarded at the Red Dot Design Award. According to the Jury, a high degree of flexibility and s ophisticated details characterize this luminaire series as a formally and functionally convincing product solution.

700

15

600 12
500

400

9

300

6

200 3
100

0

0

YR 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017

YR 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017

278 379 396 524 678

9.0 10.1 10.1 11.7 13.1

CASH FLOW PER SHARE, SEK

EARNINGS PER SHARE, SEK

6

5

5

4

4 3
3
2 2

1

1

0

0

YR 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017

YR 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017

1.95 3.44 3.91 3.41 5.96

1.61 2.30 2.54 3.35 4.32

> Fagerhult's Sweep and Scoot pendant luminaire was also awarded at the Red Dot Design Award. Thanks to its gentle contours and appealing on-trend colours, this technically convincing pendant luminaire series offers a wide range of different options.

KEY PERFORMANCE INDICATORS

2017

Net sales, MSEK

5,170

Operating profit, MSEK

678

Profit after financial items, MSEK

653

Earnings per share, SEK

4.32

Sales growth, %

15.1

Operating margin, %

13.1

Net debt/EBITDA ratio

2.2

Equity/assets ratio, %

31

Return on capital employed, %

16.8

Return on equity, %

28.1

Net debt, MSEK

1,830

Net investments in non-current assets, MSEK 177

* 2016 earnings per share figure restated after the 3:1 share split.

2016 4,491
524 515 3.35* 14.9 11.7 1.9 34 16.8 24.9 1,222 169

2

FAG E RH U LT A N N UA L R E P O RT 2 0 1 7

KEY EVENTS PER QUARTER

Q1
Operating profit Q1, 2013­2017, MSEK
Q1 2014

Q1 2016

85 75 73

Q1 2017
115533

Q2
ORDER INTAKE Q2 2017
15%

> The second quarter order intake was an all-time high of MSEK 1,386.4.
> The investment to acquire the Organic Response IP is a strategic step in the controls and connectivity space.

Q1

34

2013

Q1 2015

OPERATING PROFIT Q1 2017
80%

> R ecord-breaking operating profit for the quarter, up 80 per cent year-on-year.
> The acquisition of WE-EF was completed on 9 March and creates a 1 BSEK Outdoor s egment for the Group.

Order intake Q2, 2013­2017, MSEK

818 969 1,091
Q2 2013 Q2 2014 Q2 2015

1,208
Q2 2016

1,386
Q2 2017

2017

Q3

Q4

> The Group delivered strong operating cash flows for the year to date MSEK 405 and for the quarter MSEK 217.
> A second strategic step in the controls and connectivity space was taken with the acquisition of 20 per cent of the Danish firm Seneco AS, specialists in wireless outdoor lighting management.

OPERATING CASH FLOW
Q3 2017
121%

Net sales Q4, 2013­2017, MSEK
Q4 2015

Q4 2017

Q4 2013
931 856

1,033

1,174

1,320

Cash flow from continuing operations Q3, 2013­2017, MSEK

52 78 88 98

Q3

Q3

Q3

Q3

2013 2014 2015

2016

217
Q3 2017

Q4 2014

Q4 2016

> Net sales for the fourth quarter were an all-time high of MSEK 1,319.9
> The Group passes 5 BSEK net sales for the first time in history

NET SALES Q4 2017
13%

FAGER HULT ANNUAL R EPORT 2017

3

COMMENTS FROM THE CEO

"Fagerhult stands strong and is well-prepared for
continued growth"

The Fagerhult Group seems to have been on a winning streak in 2017. In your mind, what are the specific factors behind this year's record performance? ­ I believe this is due to the alignment of a number of core elements, at the heart of which is the ability to consistently follow the set strategy. One of our strengths is that we leverage an entrepreneurial corporate culture that, in combination with a decentralised business model, provides the right preconditions for companies to adapt their offerings to the needs of local markets. The results are visible not only in the good performance delivered by the Group's companies, but from the continuous strengthening of many of their positions through capturing market shares.
­ In other words, our approach is supported by consistently strong figures, which together make 2017 the Group's most successful year to date. Operating profit totalled MSEK 678 and the EBIT margin was 13.1 per cent. The gross margin strengthened 2.2 percentage point to 37.2 per cent, which provides favourable preconditions for continued investment in product development and marketing activities.
­ Moreover, we have an offering that fits perfectly with the times given the low energy consumption and long lifespan of LED technology. And now, the offering can be complemented with services from the Controls and Connectivity technology area. This means that using our products helps create a host of values for customers!

­ The Australian firm Organic Response is another acquisition that promises well for the future and one which, with its offering of control systems and data analytics, is a key complement to the lighting solutions offered under our brands.
­ I would also like to mention the initiatives taken to increase organic growth and the investment in an expanded presence in Europe's major cities by Fagerhult's establishment of sales offices in Paris and Barcelona.
The shift to LED technology has gone at record speed -- what will be the next steps? ­ LEDs accounted for more than 90 per cent of the Group's total sales over the year. This also means that we have made the requisite investments to adjust production to the new LED technology. As regards the transition to LED technology in our markets, our estimate is that less than 10 per cent of the installed base has been changed. Moreover, the assessment is that LED technology in combination with digitisation and the individualisation of products are strong drivers of the development of control systems that intelligently adapt lighting to all kinds of situations and needs. In addition, the flexibility offered by LEDs allows completely new possibilities for the construction and design of luminaires. In other words, numerous business possibilities are open for us for many years to come!

Part of the Group's growth is based on acquisitions -- what additions were made during the year? ­ The acquisition of the German firm WE-EF, which offers outdoor luminaires, is in line with the aim of growing the Outdoor product area. WE-EF adds a global operation with facilities in Germany, Thailand, Australia, France, the US and the UK, including distribution and sales channels in a number of markets.

Moving forward, what priorities apply for the Group's strategic sustainability initiatives? ­ Sustainability has a key role in the Group's strategic efforts toward long-term value creation. First and foremost, sustainability is a natural part of the company's business dealings, and one where our greatest contribution is the low energy consumption of LED technol ogy together with increased use of LEDs being a key

4

FAG E RH U LT A N N UA L R E P O RT 2 0 1 7

"Together we have completed a transformative technology
shift, we have grown the Group and made it more profitable, and established ourselves in the international arena."
Johan Hjertonsson, President and Group CEO

c omponent of a sustainable transition. The positive consequences for customers are evident in the opportunity to reduce their environmental impact and their costs. Just as our strategy states, the aim is to continue to drive the transition to LED technology and to do so in combination with Controls and Connectivity to realise further energy savings.
­ Ensuring the rules for responsible enterprise are followed by the Group's companies is also of strategic importance. The Code of Conduct is the Group's fundam ental regulatory framework and forms the basis for everything we do and how we act; it also encompasses all of the Group's employees. The code states, inter alia, that freedom of association and the right to collective agreements apply. No corruption, risk of overtime work beyond that prescribed by law, child labour or forced labour may occur. In cases where the risk of corruption exists, no business transactions will be entered into and no agreements signed. Our decentralised business model means that each of the Group's companies is itself responsible for compliance with the Code. We encourage them to use their own initiative and, for example, we supplemented Fagerhult Belysning's Code of Conduct with a version aimed at their suppliers during the year.
­ At the Group level, we have also developed the due diligence process that is conducted for each acquisition with a focus on the environmental aspects of the operations, labour conditions, health and safety, freedom of association and human rights.
During 2018, you will be leaving the Fagerhult Group ­ how would you sum up your time as CEO? ­ I am incredibly grateful for the confidence invested in me over the nine years that I have led and been part of the Fagerhult Group. In every regard, this has been a fantastic journey to take together with all the highly

skilled and committed employees. Together we have completed a transformative technology shift, we have grown the Group and made it more profitable, and established ourselves in the international arena.
­ The Fagerhult Group stands strong, and by consistent adherence to the set strategy, I am convinced the company will continue to grow, both organically and through acquisitions, and will further strengthen its position as the leading global supplier of lighting solutions.
Habo, January 2018
Johan Hjertonsson President and Group CEO

FAGER HULT ANNUAL R EPORT 2017

5

Ormhus6et, Jönköping, Sweden.

FAG E RH U LT A N N UA L R E P O RT 2 0 1 7

BRANDS
Eleven strong brands
A common characteristic of Fagerhult's portfolio of eleven brands is their strong position in their respective home markets. They all play a central role in the growth of our product
areas, reaching broader market coverage and increasing the Group's market shares.

Head office: Åhus, Sweden Product areas: Indoor, Outdoor A design-focused brand with a premium position offering Swedish design for public places. Strongest position remains in Sweden, but with a growing international pre sence.
Head office: Melbourne, Australia Product areas: Indoor, Retail, Outdoor
One of the major brands in the Australian and New Zealand markets.
The offering also includes products from Fagerhult and Designplan.
Head office: Sutton, UK Product areas: Indoor, Outdoor With lighting solutions for secure environments and the transportation sector, Designplan has a niche position primarily in the UK market and a growing export business.
Head office: Ankara, Turke y Product areas: Indoor, Retail Arlight has a strong position in the Turkish market for indoor lighting.
Head office: Neukirchen-Vluyn, Germany Product areas: Indoor, Retail and Outdoor LED Linear develops and manufactures world-class linear LED luminaires for professional environments, with an established global sales network.
FAGER HULT ANNUAL R EPORT 2017

1945 1974 2005 2007 2010 2011 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017

Head office: F agerhult, Sweden Product areas: Indoor, Retail, O utdoor Fagerhult accounts for the largest part of the Group's total sales. Strongest position
in the North European markets.

Head office: Manche ster, UK Product areas: Indoor, Retail, Outdoor The Group's second largest brand in terms of total sales. Also the second largest luminaire manufacturer in the UK market.
Head office: Tettnang, Germany Product areas: Indoor, Retail
With its quality focus, LTS occupies a strong position, primarily in the German market, with lighting solutions for retail concepts.
Head office: Iittala, Finland Product areas: Indoor, Outdoor Strong brand in lighting solutions for demanding industrial environments, with a leading position in the Finnish market.

Head office: Port Elizabeth, South Africa Product areas: Indoor
Lighting Innovations occupies a strong position in the South African market, with a growing
presence in the dynamic sub-Saharan region.

Head office: Bispingen, Germany Product areas: Outdoor WE-EF designs and manufactures high-end outdoor luminaires, with a global presence and sales.

Read more next page

7

ACQUISITION

New brand strengthens the outdoor portfolio
The acquisition of WE-EF was completed in the spring of 2017. With its innovative, well designed and engineered luminaires, WE-EF has created a strong position in Europe and also has
operations in Australia, Thailand and the US.

WE-EF IN SHORT Net sales 2016: approx. MEUR 60 Number of employees: approx. 500 Local presence: Manufacturing plants in Germany (2)
and Thailand. Assembly facilities in France and Australia. Sales activities in the US, the UK and Switzerland.
WE-EF develops, manufactures and markets luminaires for outdoor lighting with a large range of different a pplication areas. With a strong pedigree and culture of G erman design and engineering and with a long history of innovative solutions, the company has created a strong product portfolio and is regarded today as one of the leading brands in outdoor lighting. The company oper-

ates globally, with two manufacturing units in Germany and one in Thailand together with assembly facilities in Australia and France. Sales activities primarily take place in Europe, particularly in G ermany and France but also in other regions such as Australia, the UK, and the US.
For the Fagerhult Group, the acquisition creates strong synergies, above all the opportunity to market and sell WE-EF's products through Fagerhult's existing channels in addition to gaining access to the WE-EF Group's distribution channels. The acquisition also strengthens the Fagerhult Group's position in Germany, France, the US and Australia, while its presence in the Pacific region continues to increase.
WE-EF has 484 employees and in the financial year that ended on 30 June 2016, had consolidated sales of MEUR 57 with profitability on the same level as that of the Fagerhult Group.

 Germany, 14 %  France, 36 %  Australia, 20 %  UK, 3%  USA, 9 %  Thailand, 5 %  Switzerland, 2 %  Other, 11 %
WE-EF has a truly global sales footprint with great opportunities in many existing and new regions.

We are excited by the future opportunities for such a well positioned brand.

8

FAG E RH U LT A N N UA L R E P O RT 2 0 1 7

VINJETT

Swiss Plaza, London, UK.

Sydney Opera House, Sydney, Australia.
Staten Island Memorial, New York, USA.

FAGER HULT ANNUAL R EPORT 2017

9

BUSINESS ENVIRONMENT AND DRIVERS

Trends and drivers
Digitisation, urbanisation and demographic changes are all examples of trends that create business possibilities for the lighting
industry. It was LED technology, however, that fundamentally changed our way of looking at lighting.

GROWTH OF ATTRACTIVE LIGHTING ENVIRONMENTS LED technology has changed the conditions for lighting both indoor and outdoor environments. Its driving forces have been low power consumption and heat g eneration, long life, and the option of colour variations. The development of the technology itself has also set the pace, with enhanced efficiency and decreased p roduction costs. The flexibility of LED technology has given rise to several innovative products and solutions. LED Linear's flexible and linear LED strips are an excellent example of this.
Today, the driving force behind the design of lighting environments is the possibility of creating intelligent solutions. Combining LED luminaires with smart sensors and advanced control systems allows for the lighting to be completely adapted according to need.
With more than 90 per cent of its sales in LED, F agerhult is ideally positioned to leverage this trend. The target of 100 per cent LED is set for 2020 but in reality will come sooner especially in our larger businesses and markets. In parallel, the company has constructed a competitive offering of control systems. In collaboration

with specifier levels, Fagerhult has been part of designing concepts that meet various needs in both indoor and outdoor lighting.
DIGITISATION CONTINUES TO SET THE PACE Digitisation in society is setting the pace for development of lighting solutions. For Fagerhult, the acquisitions in Organic Response (intellectual property rights and certain assets) and Seneco (20% holding) are two examples of our ambition to form a wide variety of solutions that capitalise on all the possibilities of digitisation. These companies offer lighting control solutions where information in the cloud provides new possibilities for the customer to obtain information on how the lighting environment is being used and how it can be optimised for the future.
The rapid development in the Internet of Things and Big Data also provides the preconditions for creating value in ecosystems with other participants. As an example, analysis of information on people's movements and use of properties, based on data collected from sensors and control systems in the lighting solutions, can be used in management and maintenance of the

10

FAG E RH U LT A N N UA L R E P O RT 2 0 1 7

BUSINESS ENVIRONMENT AND DRIVERS

properties. If anything, the challenges concern finding sustainable business models with clear user and customer benefits rather than discovering new areas of use.
URBANISATION PROVIDES NEW BUSINESS OPPORTUNITIES Urbanisation is another global trend creating business opportunities for the lighting industry, and thus for Fagerhult as well. Lighting contributes to security and comfort in our cities. With the help of modern technology, `black holes' can be eliminated from the cityscape, and lighting of streets and road networks can be optimised. Even indoors, lighting helps meet the new needs that arise as cities change their forms. Today's large shopping centres are one example. These have developed into experiences that satisfy both shopping needs and the demand for cafés and restaurants, entertainment, or even housing.
For a lighting company like Fagerhult, this trend creates exciting opportunities. With its wide variety on offer, the Group has the possibility of being a turnkey supplier for these complex projects.
In many ways, Fagerhult is also part of the cities' solution to growing needs for more energy-efficient lighting. LED lighting reduces costs and the carbon footprint; when combined with lighting control (which reduces the carbon footprint even further), it opens up new possibilities to link together luminaires with other types of services.
DEMOGRAPHIC CHANGES CREATE NEW DEMANDS FOR LIGHTING Demographic changes will put great pressure on society over the coming years. Our population is ageing, and with that come new needs for solutions that meet the demand for tailored housing, neighbourhood services,

elderly care and medical care. For the lighting industry, this creates opportunities to meet the demand for environments that are better adapted for poor vision. The need for lighting varies among environments, situations, people and ages, where modern control-based solutions are flexible and can be adapted to most needs.
The business possibilities lie in such areas as the health and medical care sector, where Fagerhult already enjoys a strong position. Our well-lit care environments ensure clinical environments for optimal care quality, and environments that positively impact well-being and recovery. The use of lighting that casts an intense artificial light and a feeling of daylight also helps promote working environments that make care professionals feel more alert and less stressed.
BUSINESS MODEL FOR MEETING A SHIFTING COMPETITIVE LANDSCAPE The lighting industry operates in a relatively mature market that is still being strongly driven by the shift to LED technology. Generally, ongoing acquisition activity is relatively high, in parallel with some shifting industry boundaries in the form of new global participants, p rimarily from the electronics industry, who are establishing themselves as the business opportunities with LED technology become apparent.
A key success factor in the continuously shifting c ompetitive landscape is a strong understanding of and knowledge about local market conditions. One of Fagerhult's most important competitive advantages is the decentralised business model with local autonomy and close customer relations. Last but not least, there is Fagerhult's immense know-how and its investments in research and development of innovative products in order to create lighting environments in different kinds of workplaces.

FAGER HULT ANNUAL R EPORT 2017

11

STRATEGY

2020 Strategy continues successful path
During the year, the updated strategy developed during 2016 was launched and communicated throughout the Group. The `2020 Strategy' continues the hugely successful previous plan with several important steps
taken in 2017. Intelligent lighting controls solutions are playing an ever-increasing element in Fagerhult's global lighting solutions.

Fagerhult has grown profitably for many years and is one of the most successful lighting groups in Europe. In 2017, net sales growth was in excess of 15 per cent to almost 5.2 BSEK and the operating margin increased by 1.4 percentage points to 13.1 per cent.
Recent acquisitions have contributed to both sales and earnings growth, but of course there are also other success factors. Fagerhult's business model is based on a highly decentralized structure that gives each company its own motivation, responsibility and flexibility based on local market conditions. Simultaneously, this structure combined with `strategic forums' facilitates the opportunity to coordinate and realise the economies of scale that the Group's size offers in terms of knowledge and competences, product development, technology, purchasing and manufacturing. For a market where local anchorage and customer incite and awareness are regarded as a prerequisite for success, this business model creates competitive advantages.
2020 STRATEGY The updated long-term plan through 2017 until 2020 continues to focus on profitable growth through organic and continued acquisition activity. The strategy consistently addresses three lighting industry application areas; Indoor, Retail and Outdoor, all complemented through the growing technology wave of Controls and Connectivity. Each operating company and branded business within the Group is responsible for adopting the strategy through well-formulated business, marketing and p roduct strategies that contribute to the overall focus and continued performance of the Fagerhult Group.
In line with the vision of becoming a leading global lighting solutions provider, 2020 objectives are to

cont inue delivering increased profitable growth, an inc reased global operational footprint, and strengthening the Group's offer for intelligent lighting controls solutions. Controls and Connectivity's smart solutions, with the ability to manage and adapt to unique needs, have become a central part of the industry and therefore the Group's total lighting solutions. Demand for controls solutions is across all three lighting application areas; indoor, retail and outdoor. This year's acquisition of the intellectual property of `Organic Response' and the investment of a minority shareholding in Seneco AS has significantly strengthened its position in intelligent lighting and Fagerhult offer these two great solutions globally in many of their luminaire brands.
STRATEGIC FOUNDATIONS A cornerstone of Fagerhult's strategic strength is the eleven brands' strong positions in their respective local markets and regions, built up by virtue of the company's broad product portfolio, consistent address at appropriate customer solutions and long history of serving global and local lighting sectors.
Fagerhult's 73 years of lighting experience has also made it the closest to being described as a knowledge leader, with expertise and experience of lighting solutions for ever changing needs.
The highly decentralised and local entrepreneurial business model, with manufacturing within all of the Group's large markets contributes to a strong supply chain with great capabilities.
These strategic foundations support what we do in providing lighting solutions across the planet to many sectors and application areas with execution from a local customer focused level.

12

FAG E RH U LT A N N UA L R E P O RT 2 0 1 7

FAGERHULT 2020 THE GROUP'S STR ATEGIC FR AMEWORK

STRATEGY

VISION F agerhult is to become a leading global lighting solutions provider.

FAGERHULT'S FOUR STR ATEGIC INITIATIVES 2020 The four strategic initiatives provide the framework for continuing to manage and
grow the Group's strong brand positions through until 2020.

INDOOR
Secure a strong position for continued p rofitable growth. Stable, underlying market growth provides the opportunity. Establish Fagerhult in complementary business segments. Strengthen the Group's presence in fast-growing
metropolitan areas.

OUTDOOR
Investments that lay the foundations for a l eading position. Expand our proprietarily d eveloped
product portfolio under the Fagerhult brand through organic growth. Secure a continued strong
position in close-to-house luminaires.

RETAIL
Grow Retail profitably. Ensure the right customer offering to establish long-term relationships and grow the business. Growth requires concentration on focus markets clearly aimed at defined
customer segments.

CONTROLS AND CONNECTIVITY
Develop a broad customer offering. Ensure that products and solutions are compatible with market standards and systems. Build internal competence to strengthen the customer offering.
Create possibilities for upselling through customer-specific solutions that demonstrate customer benefits and value-creation over time.

Lighting expertise

FOUR STRATEGIC FOUNDATIONS

Broad product portfolio

Delivery capacity through a strong supply chain

High level of product service

HOW WE WORK An entrepreneurial culture with strong core values. Leverage Group scale and knowledge.
Attract, grow and retain the best competence.
MISSION To create a globally knitted together, customer insight driven company that leverages the Group's size
and compentencies while preserving the entrepreneurial culture in our local organisations.

FAGER HULT ANNUAL R EPORT 2017

13

OUR PRODUCT AREAS
With eleven strong brands, the Fagerhult Group is well positioned to serve the global market place. During 2017 a number of successful installations took place, helping customers to create modern and human-centric lighting solutions in indoor, retail as well as outdoor environments. The underlying drivers are not only customers pursuit of cost- and energy-efficiency, but also intelligent solutions that enable real-time adjustment to situation and need. Controls and Connectivity solutions
are gaining interest among existing as well as new customers.

PRODUCT AREA OVERVIEW

INDOOR
Indoor is Fagerhult's largest product area and accounts for 58 per cent of total sales. Ten of the Group's 11 brands develop and market lighting solutions for indoor use. Lighting solutions for office environments is the largest.

EXAMPLES OF CUSTOMER OFFERINGS:
· Intelligent lighting solutions for modern office environments.
· N eeds-oriented lighting in educational and learning environments.
· S pecial luminaires for hospital environments, wards, and examination rooms.
· Vandalism-proof luminaires for industrial and institutional environments.

RETAIL
Lighting is a central part of the retail concept, stimulating buying behavior as well as building the brand. Many of the Group's brands offer lighting products for fashion and food retailing.

EXAMPLES OF CUSTOMER OFFERINGS:
· Complete lighting solutions for retail chains in fashion and food retailing.
· Special products with unique designs for larger, specially designed retail concepts.
· D evelopment of lighting concepts for international fashion chains.
· P roducts for café and hotel environments.
· G roup wide bespoke solutions, for example car showrooms.

OUTDOOR
Fagerhult offers outdoor p roducts for pathways, carparks, streets and major roads. The new brands of WE-EF and LED Linear, offer high-quality luminaires which strengthen the offer for architectural and p restigious buildings, hotels and high-end residential.

EXAMPLES OF CUSTOMER OFFERINGS:
· Complete range of products for public environments such as parks, streets, and squares.
· Sensor-driven lighting solutions for footpaths, bicycle paths, and city streets.
· Development of concepts and product solutions for exterior lighting in public environments.
· S pecial luminaires with customer- unique designs for special environments and customers.

16

FAG E RH U LT A N N UA L R E P O RT 2 0 1 7

DEVELOPMENTS IN 2017:
During 2017, Indoor sales amounted to MSEK 2,975 with good growth in S weden, Estonia, France and Turkey and steady growth in many other m arkets. The shift to LED has been very successful in Indoor.

NET SALES PER BUSINESS AREA:
19%
41% 9%
31% n Northern Europe, 41% n UK and Ireland, 31% n Western and Southern Europe, 9% n Africa, Asia and the Pacific, 19%

DEVELOPMENTS IN 2017:
Net sales have increased 1.3 per cent year-on-year to MSEK 1,140. The largest growth regions were seen in the UK, Poland and Spain. The driving forces behind retail lighting are primarily energy saving, function, design, and lighting control. The largest growth opportunities, besides Europe are in emerging markets and newly developing economies.

NET SALES PER BUSINESS AREA:
2% 21%
60% 17%
n Northern Europe, 21% n UK and Ireland, 17% n Western and Southern Europe, 60% n Africa, Asia and the Pacific, 2%

PRODUCT AREA OVERVIEW
SHARE OF THE GROUP'S TOTAL NET SALES:
58%
Indoor remains the core application area for most regions and with great opportunities for growth, especially where the share is modest.
SHARE OF THE GROUP'S TOTAL NET SALES:
22%
In Retail, Germany, Spain and France d ominate sales in the segment. Great solutions are offered across the globe where service characteristics differ significantly.

DEVELOPMENTS IN 2017:
Outdoor increased its net sales 172.8 per cent to MSEK 1,056 compared with 2016. This is mainly the result of acquiring WE-EF, but the expanded product range under the Fagerhult brand also contributed significantly. Demand is driven by the need for energy-efficient LED lighting supplemented with smart control systems for adaptation to intensity of traffic and movement, for example, which also comprise major opportunities for growth in the future.

NET SALES PER BUSINESS AREA:
3% 29%
64% 5%
n Northern Europe, 29% n UK and Ireland, 5% n Western and Southern Europe, 64% n Africa, Asia and the Pacific, 3%

FAGER HULT ANNUAL R EPORT 2017

SHARE OF THE GROUP'S TOTAL NET SALES:
20%
The organic growth in Outdoor is masked by the acquisitive growth coming from WE-EF. A share of 20% from last year is a great result and comes from many brands.
17

CONTROLS AND CONNECTIVITY

Controls and Connectivity
Controls and Connectivity offers solutions for intelligent lighting control that contribute to optimising the lighting experience as well as to energy
and cost efficiency. This year's two investments in Organic Response and Seneco further strengthened the offering.

From having filled a single purpose ­ to provide light ­ today's luminaires have become a part of the whole ecosystem of intelligent environments in which sensors and control systems, together with the possibilities of digitisation, allow for lighting to be controlled and adapted according to the situation. Demand is driven on grounds of cost and energy savings, but also by the need to adapt lighting for increased comfort and a better lighting experience.
In line with this trend, Controls and Connectivity has come to play an increasingly important role in Fagerhult's offering. Indoors, the solutions contribute to optimising the lighting in everything from individual areas with a few luminaires to entire buildings where lighting is included in automated systems for directing and controlling the entire property. Outdoors, the s olutions sense the flow of traffic and the movement of people in both heavily populated areas and lightly populated locations, and help optimise the lighting according to need.



ment provides Fagerhult with access to a prize-winning indoor lighting concept. This is a sophisticated solution that can immediately be put to use quickly and easily upon installation and connection to the electricity grid ­ `plug and play'. To maximise the lighting experience, energy efficiency and cost efficiency, the system uses distributed intelligence, where the technology is an integrated part of the luminaires. Using a Web platform, data from the sensors can be collected for analysis of capacity, energy efficiency, and rated value. Mobile phone apps and cloud solutions create additional p ossibilities to optimise the value of the installation, even for private individuals.
The investment in Seneco A/S concerns an owner share of 20 per cent, and broadens Fagerhult's offering of solutions for wireless control of outdoor lighting. The company is one of the industry leaders globally as

INVESTMENTS STRENGTHEN INTELLIGENT LIGHTING OFFER During the year, two investments took place that will create exciting business opportunities for the Fagerhult Group in the field of intelligent lighting solutions: Organic Response and Seneco.
The investment in Organic Response concerns intellectual property rights and certain assets regarding the solution for lighting control and construction analysis known under the Organic Response brand. This invest-

Head office: Melbourne, Australia Field of technology: Integrated smart lighting solutions
With its research and develo p ment in IoT solutions, intimate
customer knowledge and global reach, Organic Response is a leading provider of lighting
controls technology and integrated smart lighting
s olutions.

Head office: Århus, Denmark Field of technology: Street light control solutions
Seneco is the global industry leader in street light controls. Focused on quality, reliability and innovation, Seneco offers a complete portfolio of controls and sensors, capturing the advantages and benefits of wireless and sensor technologies.

18

FAG E RH U LT A N N UA L R E P O RT 2 0 1 7

VINJETT

regards smart solutions for street lighting, and offers a complete portfolio of controls and sensors. In these solutions, data that is available via sensors can also be saved for analysis.
CONTROLS AND CONNECTIVITY SOLUTIONS CREATING NEW BUSINESS OPPORTUNITIES Both companies' solutions are compatible with F agerhult's luminaires, creating exciting business opportunities for adding additional value in lighting installations. Looking forward, many of the possibilities in intelligent lighting generally lie in continuing to investigate areas of use for the information on traffic

"Controls and Connectivity has come to play an increasingly important role in Fagerhult's offering."
flows and movement that can be collected by sensors and control systems, and how this is used in a larger context together with other participants. Fagerhult is ready to take an active role in this development and to continue developing and offering innovative lighting solutions in all product areas.

FAGER HULT ANNUAL R EPORT 2017

19

1

2 INDOOR

INDOOR

1. MODERN HERITAGE

The refurbishment of the Pepper Store office

spaces in Devonshire square, London, aimed to

highlight the buildings illustrious heritage within

a truly modern workplace.

To achieve the visual and illumination require-

3

ments, Fagerhult's Notor linear pendants were

adapted with an enhanced output, micro-prismatic

optic, custom lengths and black finish. Surface

mounted Pleiad, also finished in black, and

XOOTUBE from LED Linear completed the fit out,

ensuring a homogenous appearance with an

on-trend industrial expression.

2. NEW LIGHTS, NO FUSS Thanks to the innovative wireless solution of e-Sense Organic, facility managers Vika Eiendomsforvaltning managed a seamless upgrade to their workplace lighting, creating a better lit, energy e fficient office with minimal disturbance to the existing tenants. Integrating the sensor into Notor pendants installation was a simple, like for like replacement. The direct/indirect light distribution helped create a bright, vibrant space which reacts to both daylight and presence.

3. LINES OF LIGHT When global financial services provider Zurich wanted to revamp their Brisbane offices they turned to LTS to provide a lighting solution that would seamlessly integrate with the architectural elements. One of the defining aesthetics throughout the building is the contrast between the white surfaces and timber slot details in the ceiling. The wide assortment of the recessed linear Lichtkanal family enabled the design team to specify the right configuration to complement the wooden structure and plasterboard ceiling in the meeting rooms, reception and boardroom.



21

1

2 RETAIL

RETAIL
1. PRODUCTS IN FOCUS Corcel is a combination of high-end designer concept store and café, situated in one of Dubai's most 3 up-and-coming design hubs. Custom developed linear tubes are suspended high in the ceiling in eye catching clusters. Conversely, track mounted spotlights blend into the background, drawing the eye and focus to both the products and the distinctive print design along the back wall. Minimising the number of fixtures used help keep energy to a m inimum and create a theatrical lit-effect.
2. ZERO-CARBON RETAILER Tesco PLC is a British multinational grocery and general merchandise retailer. Together with W hitecroft Lighting, Tesco has embarked on a store lighting refurbishment programme that is forecast to cut CO2 emissions by over 12,000 tonnes per year. The long-term ambition is to become a zero- carbon retailer. The roll out programme consisted of manufacturing and delivering 11,500 units of Aerial LED and 21,000 units of a bespoke 1200x1200 recessed module, that were integrated within the existing lighting controls system.
3. PERSONAL SHOPPING The revamp of the Debenhams Stevenage fashion store not only enhanced its overall look and feel, but also reduce energy consumption and carbon emissions. A key element of the store was a new fitting room lighting concept, where the customer can easily modify the light conditions via a touch panel. At a simple press of a button, adjusting light levels, colour temperature and contrast, the customer can visualise how their outfit will look during work, dinner and outdoors.



23

1

2 OUTDOOR

OUTDOOR

1. ROOMS ON THE RIVER

The Chicago Riverwalk is a project aimed at

reclaiming the river for ecological, recreational

and economic benefits. To expand the pedestrian

capacity, five individually themed blocks were

developed across a build-out area. The design

3

concept focused on creating a playful, welcoming,

and interactive space, utilising colour changing

VarioLED from LED Linear. The luminaires were

selected due to their low maintenance, low glare

and fully submersible nature, essential in an area

with annual flooding.

2. WE-EF ILLUMINATES WAT PHRA K AEW The Buddhist temple, Wat Phra Kaew, Thailand, is one of Asia's most recognised landmarks. Here, WE-EF's FLC100 and FLC200 series projectors, with proven IOS® (Innovative Optical System) optics, support the need for high-precision lighting. Medium and very narrow light distributions are also used, often in combination with dedicated optical accessories such as spread lenses and glare shields. The new installation creates spectacular views from close and afar, bringing life to the sacred temple.

3. NEW LIGHT OVER STOCKHOLM "Design a luminaire with good lighting properties that suits both older and modern parts of the c apital." That was the challenge of the "New Light Over Stockholm" design competition, won by designer Olle Anderson in 1990. The luminaire was produced by ateljé Lyktan in three designs -- post, cable-suspended, and wall -- and is today one of the company's best-selling families of luminaires. A wide, black outer shade and a vaulted, grey inner shade together create a well-balanced distribution of light that provides illumination in a way that is both functional and attractive. The luminaire has now been redesigned with a LED light-source.



25

ABOUT FAGERHULT'S SUSTAINABILITY REPORT For the tenth year, Fagerhult is reporting on our sustainability work in accordance with the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) international reporting standard. The sustainability report follows version 4.0, Core level. The report is published once each year and the most recent sustainability report was published in April 2017. Fagerhult's sustainability report has been subjected to a limited assurance review by a third party, PwC.
Supplementary sustainability data and the GRI Index are available in a separate version at http://www.fagerhultgroup.com/en/sustainability

Fagerhult develops, manufactures and markets innovative and energy-efficient lighting solutions for professional indoor and outdoor environments. Offering more energy-efficient lighting systems and luminaires is Fagerhult's greatest contribution to a more sustainable development. We thereby help our customers to reduce their environmental impact and contribute to creating economic value by reducing the energy consumption of the luminaires. This also means lighting solutions developed using expertise and insight into the positive impact of light on people in a variety of environments and situations.
SUSTAINABILIT Y

STAKEHOLDER DIALOGUE AND MATERIALITY ANALYSIS

An Interesting Dialogue and a Materiality Analysis
The most significant sustainability aspects to address and communicate on have been identified based on the impact of the Group's operations on the economy, society, people and the environment,
and supplemented by analyses of driving forces in the business environment and stakeholder dialogues.

The Fagerhult Group is surrounded by numerous stakeholders who influence and are influenced by our oper ations to differing extents. Conducting dialogues with them is central; this occurs with the aim of balancing the various interests, expectations and needs. The hope is that, in the same way, the dialogues can lead to increased awareness of the Fagerhult Group and how our lighting solutions can contribute to sustainable value creation.
THE DIALOGUE WITH OUR STAKEHOLDERS Based on the Group's operations, the following s takeholder groups have been identified:
· Customers · Employees · Owners · Investors · Suppliers and business partners · Decision makers · Local communities · Stakeholder organisations
Stakeholder dialogues with each of these groups, in which the formats and the scope of the dialogues are adapted to the respective stakeholder group's needs and wishes, are held continuously throughout the year.

FOUR AREAS THAT BRING TOGETHER THE MOST SIGNIFICANT ISSUES A materiality analysis weighs the aspects relevant to the Group, given the companies' operations; the impact the operations have as regards the economy, society, people and the environment; and the aspects that influence the stakeholders' decision-making and their expectations.
The materiality analysis conducted in 2015 still forms the basis for the aspects identified as most important for us to address and communicate on. It included an analysis of our business environment and benchmarking against competitors, together with workshops and a number of in-depth interviews with investors, owners, and customers. The results of these interviews indicated the issues that the majority considered as the most important of all for the Group's operations.
Thereafter, internal efforts were begun to prioritise aspects and validate the selection through dialogues with our stakeholders. Finally, the aspects were adopted by Fagerhult's Group management.
An overview of the continued relevance of the analysis is conducted yearly; no changes were made for 2017.
In summary, the aspects that are to be regarded as the most important of all for the Fagerhult Group to address and communicate on have been gathered into the following four areas: Climate-smart products and solutions, Safe products and working environments, Responsible employer and Responsible enterprise.

28

FAG E RH U LT A N N UA L R E P O RT 2 0 1 7

STAKEHOLDER DIALOGUE AND MATERIALITY ANALYSIS

FAGERHULT'S CORE STAKEHOLDERS AND KEY ASPECTS

4 RESPONSIBLE
ORKING ENVIRONMENTS

ENTERPRISE

1

CLIMATE-SMART PRODU

Stakeholder organisations

Customers

Local c ommunitie s
Decision makers

Megatrends and sector
trends

Employees Owners

Suppliers/ business partners
E EMPLOYER
3

Investors SAFE PRODUCTS AND W

CTS AND SOLUTIONS

2

1 Climate-smart products and solutions > Lifecycle perspective in R&D > Sustainable products > Climate-smart solutions > Energy efficiency (products) > Transportation emissions
2 Safe products and working environments > Occupational health and safety > Health and wellbeing/safety (products) > Product responsibility/safe products
3 Responsible employer > Career development/training > Working conditions > Equality and diversity > Anti-corruption
4 Responsible enterprise > Business ethics > Choice of materials > Collaboration in the value chain > Societal commitment (new markets) > Internal energy savings > Systematic internal environmental work > Supplier reviews > Due diligence process (third party) > Human rights > Anti-corruption

RESPONSIBL

FAGER HULT ANNUAL R EPORT 2017

29

VALUE CREATION

A Value Creation Business Model
The Group's model for value creation illustrates the input resources required by the operations, the business model and the value created for stakeholder.

INPUT RESOURCES

Motivated and competent employees

>

3,432 knowledgeable, committed and 

motivated employees with a mandate to

make decisions in close partnership with

customers.

Strong local and niche brands

>

Well-established brands that provide strong

positions in their respective markets.

Adapted sales models

>

Provide customer insight and adapted solu-

tions for every market and product area.

BUSINESS MODEL Group-wide functions, support and resources Finance, M&A and HR Fagerhult Lighting Academy
A decentralise d model for the eleven brands that generate value through local decision-making and execution

Manufacturing facilities Production plants with high quality,

>

e fficiency and the ability to deliver close to

our main markets. Input materials such as

electronic components, metal and plastic

for the manufacturing of products.

Financial means Capital to finance the operating activities

>

and to invest in growth, organic or

through acquisitions, and in efficiency

enhancements. Financial value in the

form of dividends to owners, taxes and

reinvestments in the business.

Purchasing · S uppliers · P artners
4

Resources · P roduct development · M anufacturing
2 3 4

Indoor Retail Outdoor

Controls and Connectivity

3 4

The business model ­ a reflection of the value chain
The sections of the business model also illustrate the Group's value chain ­ from suppliers via the brands out to customers and end users. To address both possibilities and risks along the value chain, the Group needs to allocate responsibilities and commitments as follows:

1 Climate-smart products and solutions
> t o meet and exceed customer expectations in terms of quality, service and value creation.
> t o realise business opportunities and energy savings brought about by energy-efficient LED technology.

30

FAG E RH U LT A N N UA L R E P O RT 2 0 1 7

VALUE CREATION

Forums for: Purchasing, R&D, Manufacturing and Controls and Connectivity

Locally adapted marketing and sales
1 2 4

Customer segment Specifier level; architects, electrical consultants, lighting designers and end users
Contractor level; Installers and builders
1 2 4

OUTPUT VALUE > Safer and more secure public places and outdoor environments.
> Energy efficiency that reduces both environmental impact and costs, such as energy monitoring and a gradual shift to electric fuelled car fleets.
> Contributes to health and well-being in indoor e nvironments, at the office and in healthcare.
> Creates good work and study environments by contributing to improved performance and concentration.
> Builds brands, influences buying behaviour, and drives sales in shops, hotels, restaurants and cafés.
> Generates employment in the local community, as well as salaries and benefits for employees.
> Offers skills development and innovation strength among employees and subcontractors.
> Financial value in the form of dividends to owners, taxes and r einvestments in the business.
EXAMPLES OF IMPACT OF OPERATIONS > Indirect CO2 emissions in connection with transportation
to/from manufacturing centres, indirect impact from electricity and district heating purchased.

2 Safe products and working environments
> to meet expectations in terms of quality, service and value creation.
> t o ensure that all products and services adhere to accepted standards and are safe to use.

3 Responsible employer
> t o ensure our employees' health, safety and rights and show environmental consideration.
> to ensure diversity, equal opportunity and human rights.
> t o endeavour to have a constructive dialogue and collaboration between Group companies.

4 R esponsible enterprise
> t hat all companies conduct business according to current laws and regulations.
> that the Code of Conduct forms the basis for everything we do and how we act.
> that due diligence is taken in connection with every company acquisition.

FAGER HULT ANNUAL R EPORT 2017

31

CLIMATE-SMART PRODUCTS AND SOLUTIONS

Energy-efficient lighting that matches needs

TARGETS IN CLIMATE-SMART PRODUCTS AND SOLUTIONS:
T o meet and exceed customer expectations in terms of quality, service and value creation.
T o realise business opportunities and energy savings brought about by energy-efficient LED technology.

as L1001. At the German firm LTS, efficient linear LED modules have been developed that reduce energy use by 20 per cent with lumens retained2. Whitecroft Lighting has introduced the e-light LED, with the ability to improve efficiency by up to 15 per cent, which contributes to reduced energy usage over the entire working life of the luminaire. In future, the offering of e-light LEDs will be expanded to more products.

CONTINUED STRENGTH IN THE TECHNOLOGY SHIFT Driving forces behind the technology shift to LED are its long lifespan, low energy consumption, little heat generation, and the option of colour temperatures that promote greater well-being. The energy efficiency from LED means that luminaires use less energy to give as much or more light compared to a traditional bulb. This is a development that coincides well with Fagerhult's most important contribution: reducing environmental impact by developing products that consume as little energy as possible when in use.
The percentage of net sales for LED was more than 90 per cent for the whole year 2017, which means that we now consider the technology shift to LED has passed. Above all, demand is driven by new builds and renovations together with the need to change existing lighting to LED.

LED + CONTROL = THE FUTURE An additional perspective on development is the combi nation of LED technology and smart control systems. In its simplest form, the luminaires are then outfitted with components that facilitate maintenance, but there are already more advanced combinations of technology that use the luminaires as bearers of sensors or processors for the collection of a range of information. Technology can, for example, be added for a daylight and proximity

>90%
Percentage of net sales for LED in 2017

VALUE-CREATING, ENERGY-EFFICIENT SOLUTIONS WITH LED Fagerhult's ability to deliver increased LED sales is an effect of the continuous investments in product development, manufacturing and marketing of LED luminaires among the companies. Fagerhult Belysning before, for example, Constant Light Output (CLO) in more and more product families. This means that the driver in the luminaire compensates for the decrease in lighting effect in the diodes over time, which enables planning for fewer luminaires and reduced over-installed effects at an early stage. In a luminaire with CLO, the light that remains after a given working life is indicated

32

FAG E RH U LT A N N UA L R E P O RT 2 0 1 7

CLIMATE-SMART PRODUCTS AND SOLUTIONS

Impact in the form of indirect emissions

Focus on energy efficiency and best possible energy mix The task of making production more energy efficient is continuously in progress in all the companies, while simultaneously increasing the share of renewable energy. In accordance with the Act on Energy Audits in Large Companies, in 2017 an audit was conducted of energy use at the plant in Habo. This resulted in the need to take a number of measures, such as adjusting the regulation of ventilation to save energy. In future, it will be a question of working on prioritising the energy-saving measures identified as most profitable for the operations.
As the range of renewable energy increases, the Group will endeavour to gradually attain CO-neutral production. One challenge on the way lies in handling the energy mix that is available in each country in the

best possible way. For example, all plants in Sweden use renewable hydroelectric power that has a guarantee of origin3 and wood chip-based district heating. For the plants in UK and Germany the range of green electricity stands for almost half of the consumption. For the plants in Suzhou, China, and in Australia the range is considerably slimmer.
Insufficient data makes monitoring emissions more difficult A significant portion of indirect emissions from our operations stems from transportation of input materials to the plants and products to customers. All transportation is carried out by external carriers.
When, for example, the Swedish section of the Group procures transportation, the purchase is coordinated centrally. In the procurement, questions are asked on issues

including observance of laws and rules, whether there is an environmental policy in place, and on vehicle and fuel type. A summation of the responses shows, for example, that the share of vehicles with environmental class Euro 5 or higher is 72 per cent for the transportation in question.
On the other hand, monitoring and measuring emissions in order to calculate indirect emissions remains challenging, as available data from the carriers is insufficient. The Swedish companies' joint project around gathering emissions information from a majority of carriers indicated continued large variations in quality. Dialogue with the carriers is ongoing, but as far as this report is concerned, emissions from owned or leased company vehicles intended for passenger transportation, as well as from business trips involving air travel, are reported.

sensor-controlled lighting that automatically regulates lighting according to the time of day. e-Sense Motion is one example of energy-efficient control outdoors. Using proximity sensor control, the light is dimmed if no one is moving in the area, with security preserved by the light shining at its usual levels as soon as a presence is registered.
The mobile phone is a good example of the trend toward individualising products ­ a mass product that, in our hands, can be customised specifically to defined personal needs. e-Sense Tune is one example of how the user controls all three dimensions of lighting ­ the visual, the emotional and the biological ­ to create energyefficient lighting according to the situation and need.

energy consumption during use. As LEDs are further developed, substantial value is added by gradually reducing the energy c onsumption of lighting during use.
Based on the local markets' needs, some form of environmental data sheet can be produced to meet the requirements for transparent and comparable information about a luminaire's impact on the environment. For example, environmental data sheets for luminaires manufactured by Swedish companies are produced, showing that the selection of materials meets the requirem ents indicated in Byggvarubedömningen, and SundaHus. In terms of recycling, for example, the Swedish operations are affiliated with El-kretsen and thus are part of the national collection system for WEEE.

TOWARDS A GRADUAL REDUCTION IN ENERGY CONSUMPTION Fagerhult aims to limit the environmental impact of  its luminaires throughout their life cycle, from devel opment, manufacturing and use to recycling. Their e nvironmental impact comes primarily from emissions from transportation of input materials and products out to customers, as well as through the luminaire's

1. Under the EN 62717 standard, the expected working life of an LED luminaire with L and B ratings is reported, followed by a fixed period of time indicated in hours. The L rating describes how much luminous flux (in percentage of the new value) is expected to be generated after this period of time. The B value shows the percentage of expected shortfall during the same period of time.
Examples: L90 B10 50,000h = after 50,000 hours, the luminaire produces a luminous flux equivalent to 90% of the new value, with the risk that 10 per cent of the LEDs produce a lower luminous flux.
2. The luminous flux that the LED lamp emits is expressed in lumens (lm).
3. According to Fagerhult's supplier www.bixia.se

FAGER HULT ANNUAL R EPORT 2017

33

SAFE PRODUCTS AND WORKING ENVIRONMENTS

Adapted lighting that creates harmony

TARGETS IN SAFE PRODUCTS AND WORKING ENVIRONMENTS:
T o meet expectations in terms of quality, service and value creation.
T o ensure that all products and services adhere to a ccepted standards and are safe to use.

CAREFUL TESTS FOR USER SAFETY For the Group's companies in general, it is important that the tests and safety assessments carried out on luminaires follow applicable industry requirements. Teknik-Centrum, the well-equipped laboratory in Habo, can illustrate how safety inspections and approval of our own products takes place. When testing the safety of Fagerhult-brand luminaires, for example, the following safety risks are considered:
· Electrical risks
· Mechanical risks
· Thermal risks
· Exposure to electromagnetic fields
Based on the above risks, luminaires are certified against harmonised standards that concern safety, n ormally EN 60598-1 and associated supplementary sections. Every manufactured luminaire also undergoes final testing in production according to set rules and procedures. The luminaires are also certified in line with EMC, ErP and RoHS directives. Safety testing documentation conforms to the EU directives required for CE marking of luminaries. Another example can be taken from EagleLighting in Australia, where a special work group (the OHS Group) is tasked with conducting risk assessments at an early stage to take care of any safety risks with the luminaire.
LIGHTING THAT ADDS VALUE TO DAILY LIFE Our lighting needs can be viewed from several perspectives. Lighting not only plays a key role in creating safety

The Haga Teaching Hospital, the Hague, the Netherlands.
and security, it can also have a major impact on our well-being. An office environment or lecture hall with correctly adapted lighting can help us both to perform and to feel better. Other occupational groups such as health care personnel need flexible work lighting that shines brightly without blinding either patient or doctor, for examinations, treatments, and surgery at all hours of the day.
Based on the latest research findings and in close collaboration with care providers and scientists, much is being done to design innovative lighting solutions for patients and staff. For example, light's colour temperatures can create warm light that has a soothing effect and helps us to relax, or cold light that energises and activates us.
In concrete terms, this means customising lighting to follow our biological daily rhythm.

34

FAG E RH U LT A N N UA L R E P O RT 2 0 1 7

RESPONSIBLE ENTERPRISE

A condition for long-term growth

TARGETS IN RESPONSIBLE ENTERPRISE:
that all companies conduct business according to current laws and regulations.
that the Code of Conduct forms the basis for everything we do and how we act.
a robust Due Dilligence is taken in connection with every company acquisition.
THE GROUP'S BASIC REGULATIONS The Fagerhult Group's Code of Conduct provides clear guidelines for responsible enterprise by summarising the Group's opinion about issues such as human rights, labour practices, business ethics and anti-corruption, in addition to environmental considerations. All employees, the Board of Directors, Group management, and the management of the respective companies are covered by and must follow the Code of Conduct. The Code of Conduct has been implemented and applies, generally speaking, to all the companies; at Whitecroft Lighting, for example, the Code is supplemented by the company's own handbook that further clarifies the regulations and policies that apply. In general, in the event of new hires at the companies, the immediate supervisor is respon sible for ensuring that the employee is acquainted with the Code of Conduct. The Code must also be made available on the companies' intranet.
TOOLS FOR APPLYING REGULATIONS IN DAILY WORK The intent of systematising internal instruction in all the sections of the Code of Conduct together with the anti-corruption policy was realised during the year1. This took place in the form of online training, which is mandatory for all employees who, for example, work with purchasing and sales, and members of the m anagement of the respective companies.
In early December, the training link was sent out to
1. Using the system vendor Netigate.

840 Directors and employees in the above categories. By the end of 2017 76 per cent of the respondents had completed the training. The shortfall was partly due to December being the holiday season and partly due to people having left or being on maternity/paternity leave or leave of absence. The training will be completed as soon as they are back at work.
SUPPLEMENTARY VERSION OF THE CODE FOR SUPPLIERS A supplementary version of the Code of Conduct for Suppliers was implemented during the year among the suppliers for Fagerhult Belysning. The purpose is to c larify the central parts of the Code of Conduct and the company's expectations concerning our suppliers' c ompliance with laws and regulations. The supplier must confirm in writing that they have read the contents and that they commit to adhering to the code in every aspect of their operations, and that they will inform their subcontractors, if any, of the contents of the Code and compliance requirement.
EACH BRAND OWNS ITS SUPPLY CHAIN Fagerhult Group have a diverse supplier base with currently over 250 suppliers, which to a varying extent deliver everything from input goods and transportation to consultant and service providers. Input materials comprise chiefly electronic components, metal and plastic for the manufacturing of luminaires. Each company in the Group owns and is responsible for their own chains of suppliers, of which there are many in connection to the respective plants and main markets. The synergies created by the size of the Group exist mainly with regard to the purchase of diodes and standard electronic components, which essentially all companies use in their production. The procurements then occurs via the Group's joint forum. The purchases of assembled electronics components containing earth metals, albeit in small quantities, are purchased from well-established global companies. The Group has very limited insight into their extraction.
Generally speaking, the companies' purchasing functions are responsible for acquiring knowledge of

FAGER HULT ANNUAL R EPORT 2017

35

Sutton Yard, London, UK.

the suppliers' operations, for example, through dialogue and site visits. Supplier assessments are also performed. For example, Whitecroft Lighting conducts audits of suppliers in the form of interviews and forms for self- reporting with questions on what responsibility is taken as regards the environment, and employees' health and safety. A review of the Fagerhult Group's Code of Conduct is included at the Chinese plants; the Code is translated into Chinese as a point in connection with recruitment of new suppliers.
A further example is the Supplier Questionnaire that the Fagerhult brand's Swedish operations in Habo and Åhus use. The questionnaire contains questions about the supplier's financial status, quality agenda, environmental considerations, social responsibility and any certifications. Answers and signatures from the supplier are reviewed internally before final approval of the supplier. From 2017 onwards all new suppliers to the Fagerhult brand's should be reviewed according to these criteria.
STARTING POINT FOR GLOBAL OPERATIONS In some cases, the Group's operations are conducted in countries with varying levels of risk exposure regarding

corruption, freedom of association, the right to c ollective agreements, overtime work, child labour and forced labour, and political risks. China, Russia, the United Arab Emirates and Turkey are among them.
Zero tolerance applies to all operations in the Fagerhult Group. That is, all employees are to enjoy freedom of association and the right to collective agreements. No corruption, risk of overtime work beyond that prescribed by law, child labour or forced labour may occur. This is also established in the Group's Code of Conduct, which is to apply completely alongside other policies. In cases where, for example, the risk of corruption exists, no business transactions will be entered into and no agreements signed.
A SUMMARY OF COMMITMENTS IN CHALLENGING COUNTRIES Operations in China are conducted in Suzhou Industrial Park. The Group judges that working conditions correspond to an operation on par with the West. The China operations have a Swedish site manager who monitors whether the working conditions are consistent with Fagerhult's agreements, values, and other commitments. Employees at the plant are covered by collective

36

FAG E RH U LT A N N UA L R E P O RT 2 0 1 7

RESPONSIBLE ENTERPRISE

agreements and working hours and other conditions follow the directives of the industrial park. Furthermore, operations must comply with the local government authorities' requirements to comply with local laws and regulations governing forced labour and human rights. The Group's Code of Conduct has been translated into Chinese, and all employees ­ current and new ­ are introduced to its contents. As a way of reducing personal dependence and thus exposure to corruption, there is continual job rotation among vulnerable positions.
The Group's presence in the United Arab Emirates comprises a small sales company under the control of a Region Director, who is a member of Group management and in charge of ensuring compliance with policies and regulations.
The Russian operations comprise sales offices in St. Petersburg and Moscow and are under the control of the Region Director who is a member of Group management. As a matter of routine, employees sign a statement that they have studied the Code of Conduct.
A political risk ­ and thus a business risk ­ has developed around operations in Turkey in the years following the acquisition of Arlight. The Board of Directors and Group management believe that close and continual contact with company management is therefore of the greatest importance in order to monitor this development and ensure that it is met with relevant measures.
THE ACQUISITION PROCESS IN SHORT Upon acquisition of companies, Group management always initiates Due Diligence (DD). To an extent, the DD is adapted based on each suitable candidate for acquisition, with the possibility of broadening the analysis and adding questions, for example depending on the type of operation or the countries in which operations are conducted or there is a presence.
As process and content, the DD can overall be described in a number of steps.
1 An exploration of the acquisition in question, to get an image of how it can supplement the Group and contribute to the growth of business. This takes place in the form of a review of the operations' size, profitability, geographic location/global distribution, and product and technical areas. The business climate in the country or region is also evaluated at this stage, which for example includes political risks and risks of corruption. Historically, this has led to the Group taking decisions to terminate acquisition intentions.

"To an extent, the Due Diligence is adapted based on each suitable candidate for a cquisition, with the possibility of broadening the analysis and adding questions."
2 Contacts are established and relations are built between Fagerhult Group management and the management of the candidate for acquisition through meetings and site visits. With the decentralised organisation the Group is built on, fundamental trust in the person(s) who will lead the company in a potential acquisition is completely crucial for continuing the DD process.
3 An "indicative bid" is submitted to the company. This is a non-binding agreement on acquisition, which generates exclusivity in the event of continued negotiation.
4 In parallel, the actual company inspection is put into motion. External resources/competences are now involved in order to produce documentation for information and data collection, which the candidate for acquisition is given a number of months to compile.
5 The data and information collected is categorised and analysed as follows: > Financial inspection. > Legal and tax inspection. > CSR inspection that, alongside the environmental
aspects of the operations, includes labour conditions, health and safety, freedom of association, and human rights. > C ommercial inspection that contains aspects such as a macro assessment of the general economic conditions in the country as basis for an evaluation of opportunities for growth. The competitiveness of the operations, given the product area and market position in relation to the field of competitors, is additionally analysed. > Human Relations inspection focusing on an analysis of the organisation, existing employees' competences and functions, human due diligence, and so on.
An example of current acquisitions during 2017 that u nderwent the above DD are WE-EF and Flux.

FAGER HULT ANNUAL R EPORT 2017

37

RESPONSIBLE EMPLOYER

A sustainable working life for all employees

TARGETS IN RESPONSIBLE EMPLOYER:
t o ensure our employees' health, safety and rights and show environmental consideration.
t o ensure diversity, equal opportunity and human rights.
t o endeavour to have a constructive dialogue and collaboration between Group companies.
JOINT EFFORT FOR A GOOD WORK ENVIRONMENT Participation, motivation, commitment and satisfaction are key success factors for the development of all the Group's employees in their respective companies. The joint aspiration is to offer a work environment that encourages pride, security, and a sense of community. What unites and guides all the Group's employees is our core values, which are to be an integral part of all processes and daily work.
WORK UNDER EQUAL CONDITIONS AND STRIVING FOR INCREASED DIVERSITY As a result of this year's acquisition of WE-EF, Flux, and Organic Response, a further 490 employees have joined the Group. In total, the Fagerhult Group has 3,432 employees.
The Group's Code of Conduct has established that everybody, irrespective of gender, age, religion, sexual orientation, or ethnic background, is to be given the same opportunities for development and advancement as well as equal pay for equal work. Appreciating people's differences and various competences is self-evident in achieving increased diversity, which in turn is an

important contribution to creating a more innovative company culture. One practical example is the Personal Premium Platform initiative, which is carried out annually at the Swedish firm ateljé Lyktan. The basic idea is that every year, a new theme is presented for the employees to work further on in mixed occupational groups. Not only are a number of innovative ideas created this way, but it also becomes a good occasion for sharing competence and knowledge. For 2017, the theme was creating innovative solutions that minimise waste while retaining productivity.
In accordance with new legal requirements, a survey of wages at the operations in Habo was conducted during the year, which indicated no irrelevant differences in wages between men and women for comparable occupational groups. During 2018, a survey of salaries will be carried out at ateljé Lyktan.
LEADERSHIP DEVELOPMENT TO SHARE KNOWLEDGE AND EXPERIENCES The Fagerhult Group's leadership model is to provide guidance and governance for all managers in the Group. At the Group level, the Bright Leaders leadership programme was developed, with a focus on developing leadership and cooperation based on the conditions that a decentralised business model provides. In total, some 50 of the Group's managers have completed the programme. The cross-function, global `International Leader' initiative was also conducted this year, with a large number of participants from the different companies. This is in line with the ambition of utilising all available competence and experience among our m anagers around the world. It is a programme that also aims at highlighting how different cultures influence and impact leadership.

38

FAG E RH U LT A N N UA L R E P O RT 2 0 1 7

Fagerhult Belysning in Habo, Sweden.

Leadership is continually tested and continually develops both in daily work and through directed development initiatives around the companies. A few examples:
For managers at companies in the Swedish operations, the new `Chefsettan' leadership programme was introduced during the year. The programme, which runs for 18 months, is carried out in a number of training modules with subsequent network meetings. The goal of Chefsettan is not only to build stronger, more secure leadership, but also to strengthen collaboration and networking among the companies.
The Senior Leadership Development Program, designed in cooperation with Colin Williams, Associate

Professor at the Ashridge Business School, is carried out on a continual basis at Whitecroft Lighting. It is a programme that also inspired EagleLighting in Australia, which carried out a similar manager training programme in July 2017.
IMPORTANT DIALOGUE WITH EMPLOYEES Over the past seven years, the Group has been carrying out a Talent Management process, which evaluates and follows up the performance and career development of key personnel every other year. The recommendation from the Group management is to conduct development dialogues for all employees.

FAGER HULT ANNUAL R EPORT 2017

39

RESPONSIBLE EMPLOYER

"An important aspect of the skill supply is generally attracting more young talent to the lighting industry."

feedback culture. In future, FOKUS will be carried out every other year, but where follow-ups will occur regularly to follow the important follow-up work that will contribute to even better employee engagement and stronger leadership.

During 2017 development dialogues were conducted for 55 per cent of the Group's employees. However, variations do arise between companies. For example, there is an established uniform approach for the Swedish companies regarding the content, conduct and purpose of development dialogues. In autumn 2017, a revised employee appraisal model was implemented for salaried employees at Fagerhults Belysning and Fagerhult Belysning Sverige AB. Above all, it deals with clarifying the link between performance and salary.
At the German firm LTS, as at EagleLighting in Australia and Fagerhult's operations in Russia, employees have annual performance appraisals where performance and personal development are also evaluated.
During the year, Fagerhults Belysning, Fagerhult Belysning Sverige AB and ateljé Lyktan began measuring employee engagement, well-being, and leadership with the FOKUS employee engagement survey. The response frequency was 91 per cent and resulted in an Employee Satisfaction Index (ESI) of 67 and a Leadership Index (LIX) of 62 for Fagerhults Belysning and Fagerhults Belysning Sverige. The results for ateljé Lyktan in turn ended up at an ESI of 69 and an LIX of 68. The areas that need extra attention in future are leadership development, better balance for reduced workload, and a stronger

TRAINEE ­ AN ATTRACTIVE ENTRY INTO THE GROUP The Bright Prospects trainee programme is an essential part of the Fagerhult Group's skill supply and a way to bring young talent in to the Group. The second stream of Bright Prospects was launched in 2017, with the Swedish companies and Whitecroft Lighting as a common base. The trainee programme covers four young talents who, over the course of 18 months, each carry out three project periods of six months at one of the Group's companies, alternating with shorter periods for personal development and strategy. After a completed trainee period, all participants are offered a position in one of the Group's companies. The third stream of the Bright Prospects programme is planned to start in autumn 2018.
In addition, local trainee programmes are regularly carried out at Fagerhult's operations in Dubai, Designplan, and Whitecroft Lighting, which like the German companies LTS and LED Linear offer an apprenticeship programme.
An additional aspect of the skill supply is generally attracting more young talent to the lighting industry by the various companies of the Group being active at different types of labour market and job fairs, and conducting continual dialogues with students at universities and colleges with offers of study visits, degree projects, and internship placements.

PERCENTAGE OF EMPLOYEES PER GEOGRAPHICAL MARKET
17% Africa, Asia and the Pacific

18 % We stern and Southern
Europe

38% Northern Europe

27% UK and Ireland

40

MEMBERS OF THE BOARD AND SENIOR MANAGEMENT BY GENDER
86% 14%

EMPLOYEES BY GENDER
68% 32%
FAG E RH U LT A N N UA L R E P O RT 2 0 1 7

RESPONSIBLE EMPLOYER

Employee engagement in FOKUS
The keys to a workplace with employees who are motivated and engaged, who are doing well and who feel they are contributing to the development of operations
are called `employee engagement' and `employee experience'. The FOKUS Employee Engagement Survey helps us correctly prioritise our work by creating a healthy work situation and a sustainable work environment.

THE WORK ON THE EMPLOYER BRAND, FROM THE INSIDE As part of Fagerhult's work on our employer brand and employees' well-being and engagement, the FOKUS Employee Engagement Survey was carried out at Fagerhults Belysning AB, Fagerhult Belysning Sverige AB, and at ateljé Lyktan during 2017. Our plan is to conduct this survey every other year, with structured improvement work and follow-ups in between.
FOKUS is an important tool for measuring the degree of engagement and motivation in our employees, as well as how they perceive the leadership.
­ The result indicates the direction for strategic, longterm decisions we need to take, says Eleonor Svenningson, HR Development Manager at Fagerhults Belysning.
HIGH LEVEL OF PARTICIPATION TESTIFIES TO ENGAGEMENT FOKUS touches on five different areas: goals and commitments, engagement, leadership, well-being and health, and the company as an employer. The responses result in an Employee Satisfaction Index (ESI) and a Leadership Index (LIX), both measured on a scale of 0­100.
­ The high level of participation was especially gratifying ­ 91 per cent of our employees chose to take part. This is a very good figure, clearly showing that our employees are keen to share their opinions with us, Eleonor Svenningson says.
The survey at Fagerhults Belysning and Fagerhult Belysning Sverige showed that 74 per cent of employees were satisfied with their work situation. They felt they were getting on well with their fellow workers, and furthermore felt that Fagerhult was a secure workplace with a healthy work climate and good work environment. The results from FOKUS also showed areas with potential for improvement such as leadership, workloads, and a clearer feedback culture.

The employees at ateljé Lyktan feel that there is a good working situation marked by a great deal of freedom in their work and a fast pace of innovation in the operations. Ateljé Lyktan is regarded as a secure company with an inspiring work environment and good terms of employment. Areas that need to be improved are a more inspiring leadership that delegates more, and better handling of employee's suggestions for improvement.
A PROCESS THAT HELPS US FOKUS The results of an employee engagement survey increase expectations that management will take action to enable change. For this reason, it is particularly important to really listen to employee feedback in order to correctly prioritise future work.
­ One important parameter is that the directors understand the power of the survey and the expectations that come with it; that FOKUS aims to make employees feel prioritised, and that the company will work actively with the results to strengthen the employee experience. We call the work after the survey the FOKUS process. This means working in a structured manner with a few, but powerful, improvement activities where we invite people in to participate and there is regular follow-up, says Eleonor Svenningson.
­ We want our employees to see the value in taking part in the employee engagement survey. If they see that things are happening and action being taken as a result of their responses, I am convinced that engagement will also be generated.

Eleonor Svenningson
HR Development Manager at Fagerhults Belysning.

FAGER HULT ANNUAL R EPORT 2017

41

GOVERNANCE OF SUSTAINABILITY EFFORTS

Management of Fagerhult group's Sustainability efforts

The Fagerhult Group's global presence and decentralised o rganisation require that the Group, the companies, and our employees take responsibility for the impact of our operations on the environment, people and society. A core component of the Fagerhult Group's strategy is that each company is given substantial autonomy and scope to address their impact alongside their own strong power to make decisions. Our common corporate culture rests on the core values of Customer Focus, Performance Culture and Innovative Mindset, and is well- rooted in all of the companies.
SUSTAINABILITY GOVERNANCE IN THE FAGERHULT GROUP The overall strategic direction for the Fagerhult Group's sustainability efforts is determined by Group management. The Group's CEO has ultimate responsibility for sustainability issues. Governance is based on all parts of the Group following the respective country's laws and regulations, such as competition rules, environ mental legislation, labour law and collective agreements that impact our operations. Fagerhult respects international conventions on human rights, which act as guiding instruments for all our own operations. All employees have the right to choose whether they wish to be represented by a trade union. A total of 34 per cent of Group employees have collective agreements. Child labour, or labour performed through coercion or threat of violence, will not be tolerated under any circumstances. In all contexts, zero tolerance applies to all cases of bribery and corruption.
CODE OF CONDUCT AS GOVERNANCE INSTRUMENT The Fagerhult Group's Code of Conduct applies across the Group and to all employees. The Code of Conduct states the Group's views on human rights, labour conditions, diversity and equal opportunities. The Code also states the Group's views on environmental responsibility, and its position regarding differences between countries in respect of legislation, agreements and other regulations that affect operations. Managers within the company are responsible for communicating the content and importance of the Code of Conduct to their own part of the organisation, and for ensuring that business partners are also aware of it.
A supplementary version of the Code of Conduct was implemented during the year among the suppliers for Fagerhults Belysning. The purpose is to clarify the central parts of the Code of Conduct and expectations concerning suppliers' compliance with laws and regulations.
The Group's whistleblower function enables employees and others to anonymously report any incidents or actions in breach of our Code of Conduct. In 2017, no incidents related to

sustainability or ethics were submitted. The Fagerhult Group's general approach in terms of the precautionary approach concept is described in the Code of Conduct and the anti-corruption policy; see www.fagerhultgroup.com.
CLEAR SOCIAL AND ENVIRONMENTAL GUIDELINES Equal opportunities and treatment apply for all of the Group's employees irrespective of gender, marital status, sexual orien tation, ethnic or national background, etc. Diversity is encouraged at all levels in the Group.
The companies also supplement the Group's overall umbrella of the Code of Conduct, the anti-corruption policy, and the environmental policy with more of their own policies. Examples are the drug and alcohol policy, the policy for a safe and healthy workplace, the discrimination policy, and the recycling policy.
The environmental efforts of the Fagerhult group must in all aspects seek to meet or exceed the requirements in applicable legislation. An overall ambition of the environmental policy (see www.fagerhultgroup.com) is to limit the environmental impact of the luminaire during its working life ­ from development, manufacture, and use to recycling. The environmental management system constitutes a key tool. Our production units in Manchester and Sutton in the UK, Suzhou in China, I-Valo Oy in Finland and Habo, Åhus and Bollebygd in Sweden are environmentally certified under ISO 14001 and ISO 9001. These certifi cations also cover the Turkish firm Arlight, which is also certified in terms of working environment under OHSAS 18001:2007.

MEMBERSHIP IN ASSOCIATIONS
International ­ International Commission on Illumination (CIE). ­ F ederation of National Manufacturers Associations for
Luminaires and Electrotechnical Components (CELMA). 18 national industry associations from 12 countries. ­ Swedish Standards Institute (SIS).
National ­ Belysningsbranschen (Swedish trade association). ­ Sustainable Innovation AB (SUST). ­ The Swedish Chemicals Group at Swerea IVF. ­ N ätverket för miljöanpassad produktutveckling (Swerea IVF)
(network for environmentally adapted development). ­ S EK Svensk Elstandard (organisation for standardisation in the
field of electricity), TK 34 Ljusarmatur med tillbehör (luminaries and accessories).

42

FAG E RH U LT A N N UA L R E P O RT 2 0 1 7

SUSTAINABILITY REPORT

AB Fagerhult's sustainability report in accordance with the Swedish Annual Accounts Act

Fagerhult's sustainability report is submitted in the form of a Sustainability Report prepared pursuant to the GRI G4 framework. Reports regarding the Fagerhult Group's most important areas of sustainability, business model, policies, risk and performance indicators can be found on pages 26­42; the GRI Appendix at www.fagerhultgroup.com and in note 34 on pages 91­92.
The Board of Directors estimates that the sustainability information is sufficient to obtain an understanding of the Group's development, position, and earnings, as well as the consequences of its operations. The Sustainability Report indicates that stakeholder engagement is a central part of the work on defining materiality from a sustaina-

bility perspective. A materiality analysis weighs the aspects relevant to the Group, given the companies' operations: the impact the operations have as regards the economy, society, people and the environment; and the aspects that influence the stakeholders' decision-making and their expectations. This includes the environment, social conditions, personnel, respect for human rights and counteracting corruption. Moreover, the Group's business model, the risks that can be linked to the areas, the allocation of responsibilities, and policies/guidelines for governing important areas of sustainability as well as central performance indicators of relevance to the operations.

Auditor's report on the statutory sustainability report

To the general meeting of the shareholders in AB Fagerhult, corporate identity number 556110-6203.

ENGAGEMENT AND RESPONSIBILITY It is the board of directors who is responsible for the statutory sustainability report for the year 2017 on page 43 and that it has been prepared in accordance with the Annual Accounts Act.
THE SCOPE OF THE AUDIT Our examination has been conducted in accordance with FAR's auditing standard RevR 12 The auditor's opinion regarding the statutory sustainability report. This means

that our examination of the statutory sustainability report is substantially different and less in scope than an audit conducted in accordance with International Standards on Auditing and generally accepted auditing standards in Sweden. We believe that the examination has provided us with sufficient basis for our opinion.
OPINION A statutory sustainability report has been prepared.

Jönköping, 15 March 2018 Öhrlings PricewaterhouseCoopers AB

Peter Nyllinge Authorized Public Accountant
Auditor in Charge

Martin Odqvist Authorized Public Accountant

FAGER HULT ANNUAL R EPORT 2017

43

LIMITED ASSURANCE REPORT

Independent Auditor's Limited Assurance Report on AB Fagerhult's
Sustainability Report

To AB Fagerhult

INTRODUCTION We have been engaged by the Board and Group Management of AB Fagerhult to undertake a limited assurance of AB Fagerhult's Sustainability Report on page 26­42 in Fagerhult's Annual Report 2017 and the separate GRI appendix, which is published on the company's webpage.
RESPONSIBILITIES OF THE BOARD AND GROUP MANAGEMENT FOR THE SUSTAINABILITY REPORT The Board of Directors and Group Management are responsible for the preparation of the Sustainability Report in accordance with the applicable criteria, as explained on page 26 of the Sustainability Report and are the parts of the Sustainability Reporting Guidelines (published by The Global Reporting Initiative, GRI) which are applicable to the Sustainability Report, as well as the accounting and calculation principles that AB Fagerhult has developed. This responsibility includes the internal control relevant to the preparation of a Sustainability Report that is free from material misstatements, whether due to fraud or error.

issued by IAASB. A limited assurance engagement consists of making inquiries, primarily of persons responsible for the preparation of the Sustainability Report, and applying analytical and other limited assurance procedures. The procedures performed in a limited assurance engagement vary in nature from, and are less in extent than for, a reasonable assurance engagement conducted in accordance with IAASB's Standards on Auditing and other generally accepted auditing standards in Sweden. The procedures performed consequently do not enable us to obtain assurance that we would become aware of all significant matters that might be identified in a reasonable assurance engagement. Accordingly, we do not express a reasonable assurance conclusion.
Our procedures are based on the criteria defined by the Board of Directors and the Group Management as described above. We consider these criteria suitable for the preparation of the Sustainability Report.
We believe that the evidence we have obtained is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our conclusion below.

RESPONSIBILITIES OF THE AUDITOR Our responsibility is to express a conclusion on the S ustainability Report based on the limited assurance procedures we have performed.
We conducted our limited assurance engagement in accordance with ISAE 3000 Assurance Engagements Other than Audits or Reviews of Historical Financial Information

CONCLUSION Based on the limited assurance procedures we have performed, nothing has come to our attention that causes us to believe that the Sustainability Report is not prepared, in all material respects, in accordance with the criteria defined by the Board of Directors and Group Management.

Jönköping, 15 March 2018 Öhrlings PricewaterhouseCoopers AB

Peter Nyllinge Authorised Public Accountant

Karin Juslin Expert Member of FAR

44

FAG E RH U LT A N N UA L R E P O RT 2 0 1 7

Financial information

The Fagerhult share Five-year overview Administration report Corporate governance report The Board of Directors Senior management Income statements Balance sheets Changes in equity Cash-flow statements Accounting policies Notes Signatures Auditor's report Shareholder information Financial definitions Industry glossary Addresses

46 48 49 54 60 62 64 65 67 68 69 74 93 94 98 99 100 Inside cover

THE SHARE

The Fagerhult share
Fagerhult's share was listed in May 1997 and is traded on the Mid Cap list of the Nasdaq, Stockholm. Market capitalisation
at year end totalled about SEK 11 billion.

SALES AND TRADING The share symbol is FAG and its ISIN code is SE0010048884. One trading lot corresponds to one share. In 2017, total turnover for the share on Nasdaq in Stockholm was 9.1 million shares, at a combined value of MSEK 954, which corresponded to approximately 100 per cent of share turnover. Average share turnover per trading day was about 39,092, representing a value of SEK 3,803,000. An average of approximately 251 trades were made per trading day.
LIQUIDITY GUARANTEE In 2015, an agreement, under the framework of Nasdaq OMX Stockholm's liquidity guarantee system, was signed with ABG Sundal Collier Norge ASA aimed at increasing turnover in Fagerhult's share.
SHARE PRICE TREND At 31 December 2017, the closing price for Fagerhult's share was SEK 100.50 per share, corresponding to a market capitalisation of approximately SEK 11.5 billion. The price of the Fagerhult share rose 29 per cent in 2017. Over the same period, the Nasdaq Stockholm PI rose 6 per cent. The highest closing price of SEK 136.67 was noted on 2 May and the lowest on 9 January at SEK 76.67. The average share price for the year was SEK 105.
Total shareholder return for the Fagerhult share, defined as the price trend including reinvestment of the dividend of SEK 1.50, was 30 per cent.
SHARE CAPITAL At year end, Fagerhult's share capital amounted to MSEK 65.5 (65.5). At the Annual General Meeting (AGM) on 3 May 2017, a resolution was passed to increase the number of shares in Fagerhult through a 3-for-1 share split. The record day at Euroclear Sweden AB for implementing the share split was 16 June 2017. Following completion of the split, the number of shares in

Fagerhult rose from 38,550,000 to 115,650,000 with a quotient value of SEK 0.57 per share (1.70 prior to the split). All shares have equal voting rights and an equal participation in the company's earnings and capital. The AGM also resolved that the company be permitted to buy back its own shares. This option was not exercised in 2017. In connection with the allocation of shares tied to the Group's share-savings plan (refer to Note 2) and for the acquisition of subsidiaries (refer to Note 30), treasury shares were used. The number of treasury shares totalled 1,157,778 (1,832,031) after a llocation and the number of shares outstanding was 114,492,222. The percentage of shares held as treasury shares was 1.0 per cent. The Board of Directors proposes that the AGM resolve to grant the Board the c ontinued right to buy back the company's shares until the next General Meeting.
OWNERSHIP STRUCTURE At year end, Fagerhult had 5,559 (4,779) shareholders. The largest single shareholder was Investment AB Latour, in which the Douglas family are the main shareholders, with combined holdings of 48.8 per cent (49.1) of the share capital and votes in the company, based on the number of shares outstanding. The ten largest shareholders accounted for 84.1 per cent (86.1) of the share capital and voting rights of the shares outstanding. The proportion held by shareholders outside of Sweden was 14.7 per cent (13.4).
DIVIDEND Over the long-term, Fagerhult intends to distribute 30­50 per cent of consolidated net profit. At this dividend level, the Board is of the opinion that there is sufficient cash flow to finance expected future investments. The Board proposes to the AGM a dividend of SEK 2.00 (1.50) per share, representing a dividend yield of 2.0 per cent (1.9) based on the share price on 31 December 2017.

46

FAG E RH U LT A N N UA L R E P O RT 2 0 1 7

THE SHARE

OWNERSHIP STRUCTURE (AT 31 DEC 2017)
Shareholder Investment AB Latour SSB CL Omnibus AC, USA (US) The Svensson family, foundation and company Lannebo Fonder Swedbank fonder The Palmstierna family Nordea Fonder SEB Fonder NTC Fidelity Funds (US) La Financière de l'Echiquier (FR) Small business funds, Nordic (FI) Johan Hjertonsson Other owners with more than 20,000 shares (118 owners) Other owners with 10,001­20,000 shares (88 owners) Other owners with 1,001­10,000 shares (1,452 owners) Other owners with up to 1,000 shares (3,889 owners) AB Fagerhult, treasury shares Number of shares at year end

No. of shares 55,861,200 9,758,859 7,944,557 7,595,314 5,076,126 3,018,600 2,404,217 2,020,131 1,325,439 1,275,000 1,114,300 813,537 9,457,144 1,226,581 4,340,037 1,261,180 1,157,778
115,650,000

SHARE TURNOVER
Year Volume of shares traded, millions3 Value of traded shares, MSEK Average volume of shares traded/trading day3 Average value per trading day, SEK thousand Turnover rate, % Highest price paid during the year, SEK3 Lowest price paid during the year, SEK3
1) Paid 2 May 2017 2) Paid 9 January 2017

2013 6.2 129
24,687 517 5.4
25.22 18.33

2014 6.9 373
27,765 1,505
6.0 50.50 23.83

DATA PER SHARE3

Year Earnings per share before dilution, SEK Dividend per share, SEK Share price 31 Dec, SEK Dividend yield, % Equity per share, before dilution, SEK Cash flow per share, before dilution, SEK2

2013 1.61 0.81 24.94 3.2 9.07 1.95

2014 2.30 1.00 46.00
2.2 11.71 3.44

1) Proposed dividend 2) Cash flow from operating activities 3) Adjusted for the 3-for-1 share split in 2017

Share capital and voting rights, % 48.3 8.4 6.9 6.6 4.4 2.6 2.1 1.7 1.1 1.1 1.0 0.7 8.2 1.1 3.8 1.1 1.0
100.00

2015 5.7 275
22,821 1,098 4.9 56.00 42.83

2016 5.6 373
22,269 1,474 4.9 92.83 44.75

2017 9.1 954
36,092 3,803 7.9
136.671 76.672

2015 2.54 1.17 52.50
2.2 12.66
3.91

2016 3.35 1.50 77.83
1.9 12.66
3.91

2017 4.32 2.001 100.50
2.0 16.51 5.96

FIVE-YEAR SHARE PRICE TREND

Fagerhult 1150

SIX Generalindex

Carnegie Small CSX Sweden

Omsatt antal aktier i 1000-tal per månad

2,000000

OWNERSHIP DISTIBUTION
15% Foreign shareholders

1120

1,60000

90

1,220000

600

8000

3300

4000

00 22001133

22001144

n Monthly share turnover, thousands

22001155

22001166

0 22001177

Fagerhult SIX General index Carnegie Small CSX Sweden

85% Swedish owners

FAGER HULT ANNUAL R EPORT 2017

47

FIVE-YEAR OVERVIEW

Five-year overview

Income Statements (MSEK) Net sales (of which outside Sweden) Cost of goods sold Gross profit Selling expenses Administrative expenses Other operating income Operating profit Financial income Financial expenses Profit after net financial items
Balance-sheet items (MSEK) Intangible assets Property, plant and equipment Financial assets Inventories, etc. Trade receivables Other current assets Cash and cash equivalents Total assets
Equity Pension liabilities Deferred tax liabilities Other non-current interest-bearing liabilities Other non-current non-interest-bearing liabilities Current interest-bearing liabilities Current non-interest-bearing liabilities Total equity and liabilities
Key performance indicators and data per share 3 Sales growth, % Increase/decrease in operating profit, % Increase/de crease in operating profit after financial items, % Operating margin, % Profit margin, % Liquid ratio, % Net debt/EBITDA Equity/assets ratio, % Capital employed, MSEK Return on capital employed, % Return on equity, % Net debt, MSEK Net investments in non-current assets, MSEK Depreciation/amortisation of non-current assets, MSEK Number of employees Equity per share, SEK 3 Earnings per share, SEK 3 Dividend per share, SEK 3 Cash flow per share, SEK 2,3 Number of shares outstanding, thousands 3 Average number of shares outstanding, thousands 3

2013 3,095 (2,369) ­2,087 1,008 ­560 ­184
14 278
2 ­33 247

2014 3,736 (2,930) ­2,524 1,212 ­636 ­220
23 379
2 ­33 348

2015 3,909 (3,040) ­2,612 1,297 ­678 ­246
23 396
5 ­24 377

2016 4,491 (3,516) ­2,917 1,574 ­783 ­316
49 524
17 ­26 515

2017 5,170 (4,126) ­3,246 1,924 ­919 ­385
58 678
15 ­40 653

1,048 333 23 525 577 66 249
2,821
1,030 62 64
1,013 ­
59 594 2,821

1,448 387 26 574 676 68 353
3,532
1,329 66 65
1,267 37 60
708 3,532

1,466 392 35 602 678 94 472
3,739
1,437 66 63
1,341 53 1
778 3,739

2,069 448 34 685 761 86 731
4,814
1,627 68 131
1,752 239 133 864
4,814

2,709 686 54 761 838 99 950
6,097
1,890 90
283 2,685
162 5
982 6,097

0.3 10.3 15.5
9.0 8.0 38 2.4 37 2,163 13.3 18.7 885 65 88 2,204 9.07 1.61 0.81 1.95 113,508 113,508

20.7 36.5 40.9 10.1
9.3 46 2.2 38 2,723 15.6 22.1 1,040 110 95 2,370 11.71 2.30 1.00 3.44 113,508 113,508

4.6 4.6 8.4 10.1 9.6 61 1.9 38 2,846 14.4 20.9 937 118 107 2,451 12.65 2.54 1.17 3.91 113,589 113,589

14.9 32.4 36.5 11.7 11.5
73 1.9 34 3,581 16.8 24.9 1,222 169 121 2,787 14.30 3.35 1.50 3.41 113,818 113,761

15.1 29.3 26.8 13.1 12.6
96 2.2 31 4,670 16.8 28.1 1,830 177 158 3,241 16.51 4.32 2.001 5.96 114,492 114,318

1) Proposed dividend 2) Cash flow from operating activities 3) Share-related key performance indicators are adjusted for the 3-for-1 share split in 2017

48

FAG E RH U LT A N N UA L R E P O RT 2 0 1 7

ADMINISTRATION REPORT

Administration report

The Board of Directors of AB Fagerhult (publ.), Corporate Identity Number 556110-6203, hereby present the Annual Report for the Group and the Parent Company for the year 2017.
Operations
The Fagerhult Group is one of Europe's leading lighting groups and the largest in the Nordic region. We develop, manufacture, and market professional lighting systems for public environments with a focus on design, function, flexibility and energy- efficient solutions. The Group has sales companies in more than 25 countries with 9 manufacturing facilities in Europe and factories also in China, Australia, Turkey, South Africa, and Thailand.
Fagerhult's shares are listed on the Nasdaq, Nordic Exchange, Mid Cap list in Stockholm.
Changes in the Group
In March 2017, Fagerhult completed the acquisition of 100 per cent of the shares of WE-EF based in Bispingen, Germany. The WE-EF group companies included in the transaction are; WE-EF Leuchten GmbH, WE-EF Leuchten GmbH & Co. KG, WE-EF Trading & Design GmbH, all based in Germany, WE-EF Lumiere S.a.r.l, France, WE-EF Lighting Co. Ltd, Thailand, WE-EF Helvetica SA, Switzerland, WE-EF Lighting Ltd, UK, WE-EF Lighting Pty. Ltd, Australia and WE-EF Lighting USA LLC, USA. In addition and as part of the transaction, Fagerhult also acquired 100 per cent of the shares in Flux Eclairage S.A.S. based in Lyon, France. The results of the WE-EF companies and Flux have been consolidated in the Fagerhult Group from 1 March 2017 and included in the business area Western and Southern Europe. The addition of WE-EF to the Fagerhult Group has significantly strengthened the Group's position in the professional, global, outdoor lighting market.
In April 2017, Fagerhult acquired the intellectual property rights (IPR) and certain other assets of Organic Response Pty Ltd and Organic Response Investors Pty Limited. These IPR and assets relate to the lighting control and building analytics known under the Organic Response brand name and Fagerhult has set up OR Technologies Pty Limited, a 100 per cent owned subsidiary registered in Australia to develop and market the technology across the Group. The business has been consolidated in the Fagerhult Group from 1 April 2017 in the business area Africa, Asia and the Pacific.
On 4 September 2017, the Fagerhult Group acquired the remaining 49 per cent shares in LED Linear UK which, at that date, it became a 100 per cent owned subsidiary of LED Linear GmbH. It is part of the LED Linear GmbH strategy to acquire the remaining shares in the remaining and successful joint ventures. The business has been consolidated in the Fagerhult Group from 1 September 2017 and reported under the business area Western & Southern Europe.
In September 2017, Fagerhult acquired a 20 per cent share-

holding in Seneco AS, a Danish based company specialising in wireless lighting controls for outdoor environments. An option exists to acquire the remaining shares at a future point in time.
In May 2017, the Fagerhult Group divested the business in Slovakia for a nominal sum.
Sales and earnings
Activity levels in most of the Group's main markets demonstrated a positive picture for the year with mixed activity in the Group's remaining markets. For our larger markets, and on a consistent currency basis, growth has been strong in Sweden and the UK and for the remaining markets good growth has been delivered in Norway, Spain and Australia. Whilst the impact of the recently acquired WE-EF group of companies has been better than anticipated and our business in Turkey has performed well in a recovering market, the political situations in Russia, South Africa and the Arabian Gulf have presented some challenges to our businesses in these regions but the results have all been positive.
Fagerhult performed well and delivered strong results for 2017, all of our business areas delivered record performances with the vast majority of many countries, regions and businesses increasing sales and profitability. In financial terms, 2017 has been Fagerhult's best year to date, beating the previous best of 2016 for order intake, sales, operating profit, operating cash flow and earnings per share.
The Group's order intake totalled MSEK 5,238.4 (4,653.0), adjusted for currency effects of MSEK ­35.2 and acquisitions of MSEK 576.6, order intake increased 0.9 per cent year-on-year. Net sales totalled MSEK 5,170.3 (4,490.7), which is an increase of 2.6 per cent, adjusted for currency effects of MSEK ­20.9 and acquisitions of MSEK 581.5.
Operating profit recorded a year-on-year increase of MSEK 153.7 to MSEK 677.9 (524,2).
Financial items amounted to a negative MSEK 25.4 (negative 9.5). The increase of MSEK 15.9 was solely attributable to a higher interest charges on increased borrowings.
Earnings per share for 2017 was SEK 4.32 (3.35), both stated after the 3:1 share split in June 2017.
Our decentralised business model, combined with a high degree of cross Group collaboration, and a leading LED product offer with integrated lighting controls solutions have been the prime reasons behind the Group's positive development. Capital investment across the operational footprint remains at a high level and supports the design, marketing and sales activities in the business areas. Sales of LED products increased again during the year to in excess of 91 (77) per cent of the total sales for the whole year with the fourth quarter LED sales accounting for 93 (83) per cent. We consider that the transition to LED has been successfully completed and whilst the attention will remain on this topic, the focus turns to connected solutions.

FAGER HULT ANNUAL R EPORT 2017

49

ADMINISTRATION REPORT

Sales for Indoor Lighting increased 1.0 (7) per cent, sales in Retail Lighting increased 1.1 (18) per cent and Outdoor Lighting increased 42 (6) per cent, all changes are adjusted for currency effects and acquisitions.
BUSINESS AREAS
Fagerhult has chosen to divide its operations into four business areas based on geographical regions and one business area covering other activities:
­ Northern Europe ­ UK and Ireland ­ Western and Southern Europe ­ Africa, Asia and the Pacific ­ Other
In accordance with IFRS 8, the external reporting has been adapted so that segment reporting reflects the Group's operative leadership structure. The reporting procedure also includes disclosures regarding the development of the previous business areas: Indoor, Retail and Outdoor Lighting segments.
Northern Europe The business area comprises the Group's operations in the Nordic and Baltic countries, and Russia. The Group's factory in China, including manufacturing and purchasing, is also part of the business area. Development, manufacturing and sales are conducted in Sweden and Finland, while operations in other markets, with the exception of China, engage only in sales.
Net sales were MSEK 2,048.0, up from MSEK 2,029.5 last year, adjusted for currency effects net sales increased 0.2 per cent compared with 2016. The operating profit for the period was MSEK 266.2 (220.0) and the operating margin 13.0 (10.8) per cent. The increase in operating profit was mainly as a result of improved gross margins and efficiency improvements.

UK and Ireland
The business area comprises our companies in the UK and Ireland. The dominant unit is Whitecroft Lighting and both Whitecroft and Designplan engage in the development, manufacture and sale of lighting systems, while the Fagerhult branded businesses in the UK and Ireland engage in sales.
Net sales in 2017 were MSEK 1,211.1 compared with MSEK 1,195.7 in 2016, adjusted for currency effects, this represents a 6.5 per cent growth rate. The currency impact on net sales and operating profit was adverse at MSEK 59.1 and MSEK 9.7 respectively. Despite the strong currency headwinds, all business units contributed to the profitability increase for the business area and in local currencies all businesses performed ahead of last year. The operating profit for the period was MSEK 184.9 (180.9) and the operating margin 15.3 (15.1) per cent. The improvement was mainly due to an improved gross margins across all companies.
Western and Southern Europe
This business area comprises the operations in Germany, the Netherlands, France, Spain and Poland. In Germany the Group's business units are LTS Licht & Leuchten, LED Linear and the newly acquired WE-EF group of companies, with all three engaging in the development, manufacture and sales of lighting systems with LED Linear having a 100 per cent focus in LED systems and WE-EF a 100 per cent focus in the outdoor segment. The results of LED Linear Germany and the USA have been consolidated from the second quarter 2016 and contributed MSEK 228 in net sales in 2016 and MSEK 280 in net sales in 2017 with LED Linear UK having been consolidated from September 2017. The results of WE-EF have been consolidated from March 2017 and contribute MSEK 501 in net sales during the year.
Cumulative net sales for the year were MSEK 1,670.7, up from MSEK 1,044.4 the year earlier and excluding acquisitions and currency effects, sales grew 7.8 per cent in 2017 compared with last year. The operating profit for the same period was

OPERATING PROFIT, MSEK

SALES, MSEK

OPERATING MARGIN, MSEK

800

800

6000

6,000

15

15

700

600

600

500

400

400

300

200

200

100

5000

5,000

4000

4,000

3000

3,000

2000

2,000

1000

1,000

12

12

9

9

6

6

3

3

0

0

0

0

0

0

yr 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017

yr 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017

yr 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017

277.5 378.7 396.0 524.2 677.9

3,095 3,735 3,909 4,491 5,170

9.0 10.1 10.1 11.7 13.1

50

FAG E RH U LT A N N UA L R E P O RT 2 0 1 7

ADMINISTRATION REPORT

MSEK 181.0 (99.1), where the MSEK 81.9 increase was attributable to the acquisitions of LED Linear and WE-EF and a continued strong result in Spain and a further improved positions in both France and the Poland.
Africa, Asia and the Pacific
This business area comprises our operations in Australia, the United Arab Emirates, Turkey, South Africa and New Zealand. From April 2017, the results of the newly established OR Technologies Pty Ltd have been consolidated into this business area. The operations in Australia (including the specialist lighting controls company OR Technologies), South Africa and Turkey develop, manufacture and sell lighting systems while the operations in the UAE and New Zealand conduct sales. Net sales for the period were MSEK 692.5, compared with MSEK 652.8 in the preceding year.
Adjusted for currency effects and acquisitions, sales grew by 8.3 per cent, which was mainly attributable to Australia and Turkey. The political situations in South Africa and the UAE restricted the continued increase in performance in these regions.
The operating profit was MSEK 92.7 (86.8) and the operating margin 13.4 (13.3) per cent.
Financial position
The Group's equity/assets ratio at the end of the year was 31 (34) per cent. Cash and bank balances at year end amounted to MSEK 949.9 (731.6) and consolidated equity totalled MSEK 1,890.5 (1,627.1).
Net debt amounted to MSEK 1,830 (1,222). Cash flow from operating activities for the year totalled MSEK 681.1 (387.8). The increase of MSEK 293.3 was due to MSEK 190 EBITDA increase and MSEK 117 improvement in w orking capital compared to last year. Pledged assets and contingent liabilities were MSEK 47.2 (7.3) and MSEK 1.5 (1.5), respectively.

Employees
In 2017, the average number of employees increased by 454 to 3,241 (2,787). Adjusted for acquired units, the average number of employees increased by 14 people, or 0.5 per cent. The number of employees in the Group's foreign companies amounted to 2,486 (2,049), which corresponded to 77 (74) per cent of the total number of employees. The proportion of women during the year amounted to 31 (33) per cent of all employees. To further strengthen the Group's knowledge capital, the established goals for individual and organisational development have increased as a priority so too has the investment in developing talented individuals, both new and existing employees.
The company's health care initiatives have focused on preventative measures and healthy living to reduce absence due to illness. For information on salaries and remuneration; refer to Note 2.
Guidelines for remuneration to senior management
Remuneration to the CEO and other senior management consists of basic salary, variable remuneration, company car benefits and pensions. Annual variable remuneration is based on achieved goals and is maximised at 30­50 per cent of the basic salary.
These guidelines are also proposed for future years. In 2012, a long-term incentive scheme was introduced in the form of a performance-based share-savings plan for senior management. The first scheme was in place between 2012 and 2015. The AGMs in 2013, 2014, 2015, 2016 and 2017 resolved to approve additional share-savings plans that each extended over three years. For additional information; see Note 2.
Investments
The Group's gross investments in property, plant and equipment amounted to MSEK 120 (116), and primarily pertained to machinery and equipment.
Investments in subsidiaries amounted to SEK 829 million

EQUITY/ASSETS RATIO, %

EARNINGS PER SHARE, SEK

CASH FLOW FROM OPERATING ACTIVITIES PER SHARE, SEK

40

40

5

5

6

6

35

30

30

25

20

20

15

10

10

5

4

4

3

3

2

2

1

1

5

5

4

4

3

3

2

2

1

1

0

0

0

0

0

0

yr 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017

yr 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017

yr 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017

37 38 38 34 31

1.61 2.30 2.54 3.35 4.32

1.95 3.44 3.91 3.41 5.96

FAGER HULT ANNUAL R EPORT 2017

51

ADMINISTRATION REPORT

(342). At year end, current investments amounted to MSEK 50 (23).
Gross investments in intangible assets amounted to MSEK 57 (53), excluding acquisitions of subsidiaries. Current investments amounted to MSEK 0 (0).
Depreciation/amortisation for the year amounted to MSEK 158 (121), of which property, plant and equipment accounted for MSEK 108 (94).
Product development
Continuous product development is undertaken within the Fagerhult Group across each of the brands. The aim is to improve existing products, as well as developing new products. A basic principle is that development efforts should be carried out close to the markets and in collaboration with customers and end users. From an international perspective, Fagerhult holds a prominent position within the lighting design and technology field. Collaboration with the leading manufacturers of controls technologies, light sources and components is essential. Fagerhult's engineering centre, Teknik Centrum, includes one of Northern Europe's best equipped laboratories, where we can test the safety and performance of and approve our own products.
Development costs of MSEK 11 (13) were capitalised in the balance sheet for the year. Other costs are expensed as they arise.
For additional information; see Notes 10 and 28.
Sustainability report in accordance with the Swedish Annual Accounts Act
In accordance with Chapter 6, Section 11 of the Swedish Annual Accounts Act, AB Fagerhult has chosen to prepare its sustainability report separately from its annual report. The scope of the sustainability report is indicated on page 43 of this document.
Share buybacks
The AGM on 3 May 2017 authorised the Board to buy back the company's own shares. No shares were bought back during the year and further, the AGM resolved to increase the number of shares in AB Fagerhult by splitting each share into three shares (3:1 split), so the figures quoted here are adjusted for this. In c onnection with the allocation of shares tied to the Group's share savings plan, 197,331 treasury shares were used and in c onnection with the acquisition of WE-EF, 476,922 treasury shares were used. The number of treasury shares totalled 1,157,778 (1,832,031) after the allocation and use for the acquisition and the number of shares outstanding was 114,492,222 (113,817,969). The percentage of shares held as treasury shares was 1.0 (1.6) per cent.
The Board of Directors proposes that the AGM resolve to grant the Board continued authorisation, until the next AGM, to buy back the company's own shares. As treasury shares are not

entitled to dividends, they are excluded from the total number of shares in the proposed appropriation of profits stated below.
Risks A review of potential risks, including the manner in which these are managed, is found in Note 34.
The Fagerhult share There are no limitations on the transferability of shares (pre-emption clause). Nor are there any limitations as to the number of votes which each shareholder can exercise at general meetings. The company is not aware of any agreements between shareholders which could involve limitations on the right to transfer shares.
Share split The AGM resolved to increase the number of shares in AB Fagerhult by splitting each share into three shares (3:1 split) and to facilitate the 3:1 share split, the AGM also resolved to amend the Articles of Association by increasing the authorised number of shares from between 10 million to 40 million to between 30 million and 120 million.
Appointment and removal of Board members There are no separate provisions in the Articles of Association regarding the appointment or removal of Board members.
Parent Company AB Fagerhult's operations comprise Group Management, financing and the coordination of marketing, production, business and strategy development. The company's net sales amounted to MSEK 14.2 (18.0) for the period. Profit after financial items was MSEK 106.5 (22.8). The number of employees during the period was six (six).
Outlook for 2018 During the last three years, organic and acquisitive growth has led to a strong positive sales and earnings trend for the Group in all business and product areas.
During this period, the Group has, and will for the foreseeable future, continue to; capitalise on its master brand strategy, invest in research and development of luminaires (increasingly in lighting controls), exploit the synergies from acquisitions and increase the operational capability and capacity.
Future acquisitions are also key to continuing the Group's development and execution of strategy.
The Group has established a strong position in all of its main markets and product areas and as a result has increased its market share during this period.
For the last 24 months, most of the Group's main markets have displayed steady growth and management expects that the current high activity level to continue into the mid part of 2018.

52

FAG E RH U LT A N N UA L R E P O RT 2 0 1 7

We intend to continue making significant investment in product and technology development and to expand our operation and geographical presence.
We estimate that it is possible to continue strengthening the Group's market share in Indoor, Retail and Outdoor lighting as well as making continued progress in the controls and connectivity space.
Proposed appropriation of profits The Group's retained earnings according to the consolidated balance sheet amount to MSEK 1,818.7 (1,495,2).

The following profits are at the disposal of the AGM:

Profit brought forward

174.5 MSEK

Net profit for the year

300.9 MSEK

Profit carried forward

475.4 MSEK

The total number of dividend-bearing shares on 14 March 2018 amounted to 114,492,222. The Board of Directors proposes that the profit be appropriated as follows:

To be distributed as dividends to shareholders: SEK 2.00 per share  To be carried forward Total

229.0 MSEK 246.4 MSEK 475.4 MSEK

Board of Directors' statement regarding the proposed dividend
It is the opinion of the Board of Directors that the proposed dividend will not prevent the company from fulfilling its short or long-term obligations, nor will it prevent the company from making the necessary investments. Accordingly, the proposed dividend can be justified pursuant to the provisions of the Swedish Companies Act, Chapter 17, Section 3, paragraphs 2­3.
Considering that the operations of the Company continue to be profitable, the equity/assets ratio is at a satisfactory level. It is the Company's assessment that liquidity can be maintained at a similarly satisfactory level.

ADMINISTRATION REPORT

FAGER HULT ANNUAL R EPORT 2017

53

CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
Corporate Governance
Decentralised governance and decision-making is one of Fagerhult's strengths, and permeates the entire organisation. The objective of corporate governance is to ensure that this is conducted in a clear, effective, reliable and business-oriented manner. Corporate governance is designed to support the company's long-term strategies, market presence and competitiveness. At the same time, it should help maintain
confidence in Fagerhult among stakeholders, such as shareholders, customers, suppliers, capital markets, society and employees.

Auditors Audit Committee

Shareholders
Annual General Meeting Board of Directors
Managing Director and CEO Group management Local boards for the
respective subsidiaries Subsidiaries (total 46)

Nomination Committee Remuneration Committee

KEY EXTERNAL REGULATIONS · Swedish Companies Act · Nasdaq Stockholm's Issuer Rules · Swedish Corporate Governance Code (the Code) · Accounting rules and regulations
54

KEY INTERNAL REGULATIONS · Articles of Association · Formal work plan for the Board of Directors and terms
of reference for the CEO · Guidelines for remuneration to senior management ·Various policy documents and instructions (such as the Group's
Code of Conduct)
FAG E RH U LT A N N UA L R E P O RT 2 0 1 7

CORPORATE GOVERNANCE

Shareholders and general meetings of shareholders
The shareholders' rights to decide on Fagerhult's affairs are exercised at the Annual General Meeting (AGM), or if appropriate, the extraordinary general meetings, which is the company's highest decision making body. The AGM is to be held no later than six months after the end of the financial year and is usually held in April. At the AGM, the shareholders elect the company's Board of Directors and appoint external auditors, and decide on their fees. Furthermore, the AGM resolves on whether to adopt the income statements and balance sheets, to approve the appropriation of the company's profit and to discharge the Board and CEO from liability. The AGM also resolves on the composition of the Nomination Committee and its work, and makes decisions on principles for remuneration and other terms of employment for the CEO and other senior management.
The number of shareholders at year end was 5,559 (4,779). The largest individual shareholder is Investment AB Latour, in which the Douglas family are the main shareholders and hold a total of 48.3 per cent (48.3). For more information on the ownership structure, share capital, share price development, etc., please refer to the section on the Fagerhult share on pages 46­47 and to Note 32.
2017 Annual General Meeting
The 2017 AGM was held on 3 May in Habo. A total of 105 shareholders were present at the meeting, representing 66.0 per cent of the votes. Minutes from the AGM can be found on Fagerhult's website. All resolutions were passed with the required majority. Below is a selection of the resolutions passed at the meeting: ­ R esolution on the distribution of a dividend of SEK 4.50 per
share, equivalent to SEK 1.50 per share following the 3:1 share split. ­ Eric Douglas, Cecilia Fasth, Catherina Fored, Fredrik Palmstierna, Johan Hjertonsson and Jan Svensson were re-elected to the Board of Directors. ­ M orten Falkenberg was elected as a new member of the board. ­ Jan Svensson was re-elected Chairman. ­ J an Svensson was co-opted ("adjungerad") to the Nomination Committee and he was also granted the authority to appoint four additional members, one each representing the four largest shareholders and for the details of this to be published no later than in connection with the Company's third quarter report.

­ The AGM resolved to introduce a performance-based share-savings plan for senior management, "The Performance Based Share Program 2017".
­ The AGM resolved to grant the Board of Directors authorisation to buy back the company's own shares, corresponding to a maximum of 10 per cent of total share capital, for the period until the date of the next AGM.
­ The AGM resolved to increase the number of shares in AB Fagerhult by splitting each share into three shares (3:1 split) and to facilitate this by increasing the authorised number of shares by a factor of three.

Nomination Committee
The Nomination Committee is to be formed after the Chairman of the Board has identified the four largest shareholders in the Company in terms of the number of votes that are to make up the Nomination Committee along with the Chairman who is cop-opted ("adjungerad"). The identity of these shareholders is to be based on the shareholders' register and list of nominees maintained by Euroclear Sweden AB and refer to those shareholders registered under their own names or as members of an owner group as per 31 August 2017. It shall not be necessary to change the composition of the Nomination Committee if only marginal changes in the ownership of shares occur after this date. The mandate for the Nomination Committee is until a new Nomination Committee is appointed.

Largest shareholders as per 31 August 2017

Name

No. of shares

Share capital and voting rights, %

Investment AB Latour

55,861,200

48.3%

SSB CL Omnibus AC, USA

9,752,886

8.4%

The Svensson, family, foundation and company

8,144,389

7.0%

Lannebo Funds
Swedbank Robur Small Business Funds

7,585,920 4,711,199

6.6% 4.1%

Nordea Investment Funds

3,218,253

2.8%

The Nomination Committee consists of the following individuals together with the names of the shareholders that they represent; Jan Svensson as Chairman of the Board of AB Fagerhult co-opted not entitled to vote, Eric Douglas representing Investment AB Latour, Göran Espelund representing Lannebo Funds, Evert Carlsson representing Swedbank Robur Small Business

THE NOMINATION COMMITTEE AHEAD OF 2018 AGM COMPRISES:

Member of the Nomination Committee Jan Svensson (not entitled to vote) Eric Douglas Göran Espelund
Evert Carlsson Jan Särlvik

Representing Investment AB Latour Investment AB Latour Lannebo Funds Swedbank Robur Small Business Funds Nordea Investment Funds

Participation/votes: 48.3 % 48.3 % 6.6 %
4.1 % 2.8 %

Member of the Nomination Committee since 2008 2015 2004
2017 2017

FAGER HULT ANNUAL R EPORT 2017

55

CORPORATE GOVERNANCE

Funds and Jan Särlvik representing Nordea Investment Funds. The Nomination Committee for the 2018 AGM is also described on page 55.
The Committee's representatives have broad and extensive experience of Board work and work on Nomination Committees.
The work of the Nomination Committee takes place during the end of the financial year and at the start of the new financial year. Prior to an AGM at which auditors are to be appointed, the Nomination Committee collaborates with the Audit Committee, which works with the evaluation of the work of the auditors. The Nomination Committee is to observe the guidelines that apply to independent Board members under the Swedish Corporate Governance Code when making nominations to the AGM. Shareholders have the opportunity to submit written proposals to the Nomination Committee.
External auditors
The company's auditor, elected at the AGM, examines Fagerhult's annual report and consolidated accounts, the administration of the company by the Board of Directors and the CEO, and the annual accounts of subsidiaries, and submits an audit report.
The audit is conducted in accordance with the Swedish Companies Act, International Standards on Auditing (ISA) and generally accepted auditing standards in Sweden.
At the 2017 AGM, Öhrlings PricewaterhouseCoopers were re-appointed as auditors, with Peter Nyllinge as the Auditor-inCharge. Among his major auditing assignments, Peter Nyllinge also has Electrolux and SEB.
The auditor participated at the Board and Audit Committee meeting in February 2017 and then reported on the notes from the 2016 audit.
Auditing of the Group's companies around the globe is coordinated by Öhrlings PricewaterhouseCoopers. All of the activities of companies with a significant scope of operations are audited by PricewaterhouseCoopers in the respective country with the exceptions of the LED Linear and WE-EF groups who have a full scope audit by other auditors. For a number of smaller companies, the audit is performed by other accounting firms.
THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS
Board members
The Board of Directors determines issues concerning the Group's strategic focus, finances, investments, acquisitions,

sales, organisational matters and rules and policies. The Board of Directors is kept abreast of the company's operations through monthly reports provided by Group Management. The Board of Directors currently consists of seven members elected by the general meeting, as well as two Board members and two deputy members elected by the trade unions. Three (four) of the Board members represent ownership participations equivalent to 51 per cent (59) of the company's share capital and votes. The CEO is one of the members elected at the annual general meeting. With the exception of the trade union representatives, the CEO is also the only Board member employed by the Company. Company employees participate in Board meetings in a reporting capacity. The company's Chief Financial Officer serves as the Board's secretary.
During the fourth quarter of the year the CEO of Fagerhult, has informed the Board of Directors that he intends to resign as CEO during 2018. The board has appointed an external recruitment consultant to recruit a successor to the CEO. The current CEO will remain as CEO until a successor has taken office.
For further information concerning the Board members elected at the company's general meeting, refer to the section concerning the Board of Directors on pages 60­61 of this annual report.
The Board's work is regulated by the Swedish Companies Act, the Articles of Association and the formal work plan adopted by the Board.
Among other things, the Board's work plan contains rules stipulating the number of Board meetings to be held each financial year, the issues to be addressed at the meetings, and the division of duties between the Board of Directors and the CEO. The CEO's terms of reference set out the CEO's duties and obligation to report to the Board.
Normally, five Board meetings are held each year and one statutory Board meeting. Four of these meetings address quarterly reports and the year-end report. At least one of the Board meetings takes place in conjunction with a visit to, and an in-depth review of, one of the Group's companies. One Board meeting per year is assigned additional time, and at this meeting a specific focus is placed on strategic issues. The auditor of the company is present at Board meetings when needed, normally once a year. Notices and supporting documents are sent to the Board one week in advance of the Board meetings. When issues are to be decided upon, the Board usually receives supporting documents concerning these issues well in advance.

Board of Directors elected by the AGM Chairman, Jan Svensson Vice Chairman, Eric Douglas Board Member, Cecilia Fasth Board Member, Catherina Fored Board Member, Fredrik Palmstierna Board Member, Morten Falkenberg CEO, Johan Hjertonsson Total

Elected 2007 1993 2014 2013 1992 2017 2009

Born

Fee

1956 650,000

1968 450,000

1973 300,000

1964 300,000

1946 300,000

1958 300,000

1968

­

2,300,000

Number of shares/votes
55,861,2001 360,000 5,325 9,000
3,018,6001 29,529
813,537 60,097,191 (52%)

Independent in relation to
the owners No No Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes
5 (71 %)

Independent

Number of

in relation to meetings ­

the Company participated in

Yes

6

Yes

6

Yes

6

Yes

6

Yes

6

Yes

4

No

6

6 (86 %)

6

1) Sum total of directly and indirectly held shares and shares representing other owners.

56

FAG E RH U LT A N N UA L R E P O RT 2 0 1 7

CORPORATE GOVERNANCE

The Board appoints two different committees annually ­ the Audit Committee and the Remuneration Committee. The aim of these committees is to enhance and facilitate the Board's work, and to address matters related to each area.
Board of Directors' independence
Fagerhult's Board meets the stipulation in the Code that a majority of the elected members are independent of the company and its management, and that at least two of the members are independent in relation to major shareholders (that is, ownership exceeding 10 per cent). See the table on page 56. The Chairman of the Board, Jan Svensson is not considered independent, as he represents the company's main shareholder in their roles as CEO and major shareholder in Investment AB Latour, respectively. Eric Douglas represents the Douglas family. With the exception of the President and CEO Johan Hjertonsson, no members of the Board are employed by the Group. The Nomination Committee's assessment regarding whether each proposed member meets the independence requirements is announced in connection with the Committee's proposal. The CEO owns 813,537 shares in the company, corresponding to 0.7 per cent of the shares, which is stated in the presentation of the Board and management on pages 60­63. The holding is not classified as significant and the CEO has no partnership in companie s that have significant busine ss relationships with companies in the Fagerhult Group.
The work of the Board in 2017
The Board met six times during the year, with one of these meetings being the statutory Board meeting. Apart from two Board meetings when the same Board member was absent, all members of the Board were present at the other meetings including the statutory meeting. The company's auditor was present at one of the Board and Audit Committee meetings. This was the Board and Audit Committee meeting that addressed the annual accounts and, during which, the auditor submitted his findings.
Important matters dealt with during the year included, amongst other things: ­ Long-term operational goals ­ The strategic focus of the operations ­ Busine ss plans, financial plans and fore casts ­ Major investments ­ Decisions on long-term financing ­ Policies and instructions ­ Review of the Group's risk management ­ Interim reports and annual accounts ­ Reports by the Board's committees ­ Review of the Group's CSR position and developments ­ Follow-up of the external audit
Evaluation of the work of the Board
The Board will ensure that its work is continuously evaluated through a systematic and structured process. This evaluation is initiated by the Chairman of the Board. Among other things, the process includes an on-line questionnaire in which Board members have the opportunity to express their opinion of the Board's work and to propose ways to improve it. The results of the evaluation are disclosed to the Board, followed by discus-

CODE OF CONDUCT
Our global presence demands that our employees and business partners take responsibility for themselves and for each other. Therefore, we have created a regulatory framework, our Code of Conduct.
Our Code of Conduct should be followed by everyone included in our Group, employees as well as the Board and Management. We also communicate our Code of Conduct to our business partners, with the expectation that it is complied with.
Our Code of Conduct states, amongst other things, that we will act as a reliable and honest Group that lives up to its commitments. We believe in long-term business relationships in which we, together with our business partners, create a basis for strong financial results, concern for the environment and social commitment.
sions and decisions regarding changes in working methods. The Board continuously evaluates the work of the CEO and
Group Management.
The Audit Committee The main duty of the Audit Committee is to audit the Group's accounting and financial reporting, as well as to remain in continuous contact with the auditors and review their work plan and fees. Furthermore, the Committee is to assist the Nomination Committee in its choice of auditors and their fees prior to those AGMs at which the appointment of auditors takes place.
In 2017, the Audit Committee comprised the entire Board, with the exception of the CEO. During the year, the Audit Committee had one meeting with the company's auditor and two further meetings. Except for one member at one meeting, all Board members were present at the other meetings.
The Remuneration Committee The work of the Remuneration Committee is, on behalf of the Board, to prepare and negotiate issues concerning the salary and other remuneration to the CEO, and to approve the CEO's proposals for salaries and remuneration for the other members of senior management.
Its duties also include examining the fees to Board members in the event that they are engaged as consultants by the company's management. The Committee also addresses any Group-wide bonus system and option programmes.
Decisions concerning remuneration for the CEO are determined by the Board.
The Remuneration Committee consists of Jan Svensson (Chairman of the Board) and Eric Douglas (Vice Chairman of the Board). The Committee has had two meetings during the year, at which both members were present.
CEO and Group Management Fagerhult's President and CEO is responsible for leading and developing operating activities pursuant to the guidelines and

FAGER HULT ANNUAL R EPORT 2017

57

CORPORATE GOVERNANCE

instructions issued by the Board. The framework is provided by the terms of reference issued to the CEO, which are determined annually by the Board.
The CEO is assisted by Group Management, consisting of the heads of business areas and staff units. In consultation with the Chairman, the CEO compiles the necessary information and documentation which provides the basis for the Board's work and for the Board to make informed decisions. The CEO is responsible for bringing matters to the attention of the Board and for motivating proposed decisions. The CEO is responsible for and reports on an ongoing basis to the Board on the company's development. In addition, the CEO leads the work of the Group Management and makes decisions in consultation with other members of management.
During the year, the Group Management comprised the CEO, the CFO, three managers with responsibility for the regional business areas, two managers with functional responsibility for human resources and sustainable development, and production and logistics.
Group Management has at least five meetings per year during which it follows up operations, discusses matters affecting the Group and drafts proposals for strategic plans and budgets, which the CEO presents to the Board for decision. One longer meeting per year is held, during which the operations are planned and discussed in more detail.
Management of subsidiaries
Fagerhult's operations are organised into four business areas. These include 46 subsidiaries. The operations of the respective subsidiaries are controlled by their Boards. The Boards of the subsidiaries consist of, among others, the managing director of the subsidiary, at least one business area manager and, in most cases, the Group's CEO and Group's CFO. A formal work plan is established annually for each subsidiary, in which responsibilities and authorities are clearly delegated and where the work of the subsidiary's Board is governed.
Fagerhult has a decentralised structure, with a strong focus on responsibility and performance, which combines with clear, Group-wide processes to realise synergies. The Company's senior managers and specialists meet continuously to reach a broad consensus on important issues.
Fagerhult's Code of Conduct and Fagerhult's global presence demand that our employees and business partners take responsibility ­ for themselves and for each other. The Code clarifies Fagerhult's position on issues related to human rights, labour conditions, the environment, business ethics and communication. The Code applies to all Fagerhult employees regardless of their position. The Board and Group Management have a particular responsibility to promote the application of the Code of Conduct. The Code is also communicated to all of Fagerhult's business partners with the expectation that it is complied with. Fagerhult acts as a reliable and honest Group that lives up to its commitments.
Fagerhult believes in long-term business relationships in which we, together with our business partners, create a basis for strong financial results, concern for the environment and social commitment.
The Code of Conduct is available in its entirety at: http://www.fagerhultgroup.com/en/sustainability

REMUNERATION TO THE MANAGEMENT AND BOARD
Guidelines for remuneration Remuneration to the CEO and other senior management consists of basic salary, variable remuneration, other benefits and pensions. The balance between basic salary and variable remuneration is to be in proportion to the employee's responsibilities and authority.
For the CEO, annual variable remuneration is capped at six month's salary. The variable salary is based on the Group's earnings per share. For other senior management, annual variable remuneration is capped at 30­40 per cent of basic salary. Variable remuneration is typically based on improvement, compared to the previous year, in terms of each individual's respective responsibility for operating profit, the Group's earnings per share and the outcome of individual activity plans. These guidelines are also proposed for the coming year.
Long-term incentive scheme In 2012, a long-term incentive scheme was introduced in the form of a performance-based share-savings plan for senior management. The first plan was approved by the 2012 AGM and runs from 2012 to 2015. The AGMs in 2013, 2014, 2015, 2016 and 2017 resolved to approve additional share-savings plans that each extended over three years.
For further information on guidelines for remuneration, please refer to the material enclosed with the notice of the AGM. For additional information; see Note 2.
Remuneration to the Board Fees payable to Board members are determined annually by the AGM. Board members who are also employees of the company receive no Board fees. No separate fees are payable for work on the committees other than the standard Board fee. In 2017, remuneration was paid in accordance with the table on page 56.
Remuneration to the auditors In 2017, remuneration was paid in accordance with Note 26 on page 88.
INTERNAL CONTROL OF FINANCIAL REPORTING
Internal control aims to ensure accurate and reliable financial reporting and accounting in line with applicable laws and regulations, accounting standards and other requirements for listed companies.
Control environment The control environment comprises the values and ethics which the Board of Directors, Audit Committee, the CEO and Group Management communicate and operate under. The basis of internal control for financial reporting consists of the control environment together with the organisation, decision-making paths, authorities and responsibilities which are documented and communicated in governing documents. One example is the division of responsibilities between the Board and the CEO and instructions regarding the delegation of authority, as well as instructions applying to the accounting

58

FAG E RH U LT A N N UA L R E P O RT 2 0 1 7

CORPORATE GOVERNANCE

and reporting. Important internal control instruments include Fagerhult's Code of Conduct and values. The Code includes principles governing how business is to be conducted. These values represent a long-term commitment and a shared base connected to the business concept and strategies guiding employees in daily operations.
Fagerhult is characterised by a decentralised organisation based on goal-oriented management, where good performances are rewarded.
Financial reporting to the Board
The CEO is responsible for ensuring that the Board receives the reports required for its ongoing assessment of the company's and the Group's financial positions. Fagerhult's Board receives monthly financial reports and the Group's financial situation is addressed at each Board meeting.
Risk assessment
Regarding financial risk assessment, the risks are assessed as mainly relating to the potential for material misstatement in the reporting of the company's financial position and performance. To minimise these risks, governing documents have been established for accounting, for procedures for annual reporting and for follow-up of reported annual accounts. Fagerhult's Board regularly assesses reporting from a risk perspective. As a support for these assessments, profit/loss items and balance-sheet items are compared with previous reports as well as budgets and forecasts. The risks identified in the financial reporting are managed through the Group's control structure.
In addition to assessing the risks in the financial reporting, the Board and management work continuously to identify and manage significant risks affecting Fagerhult's business from an operational and financial perspective. Read more about risks on page 91.
Control activities and follow-up
Control activities involve all levels of the organisation and concern the measures selected to manage the Group's risks. To ensure completeness and accuracy in the financial reporting, instructions and guidelines are in place that have been communicated to the relevant personnel. The activities also limit risk from the identified risks. The Group's central control function analyses and monitors budget deviations, prepares forecasts, monitors significant variations between periods, and reports these to others within the organisation, thereby minimising the risk of errors in the reporting. Control activities also include follow-up and comparisons of earnings trends or significant individual items, account reconciliations and balances, and the approval of all proxy and attestation instructions, as well as accounting and valuation principles.
Monitoring of the effectiveness and compliance with these control activities takes place through programmed controls and through individually established procedures. The Group has a shared reporting system in which all reporting is carried out. Financial follow-up is carried out by Group Management in conjunction with regular visits to the subsidiaries, in parallel with development of the control function.

Information and communication
Fagerhult continuously provides information about the Group's performance and financial position to the market. The quality of e xternal financial reporting is ensured through various activities and procedures. The CEO is responsible for the accuracy and high quality of all information provided, for example, financial press releases and presentation materials for various meetings with the media, shareholders and investors. An information policy applies for external communication that provides guidelines to the presentation of such information. The policy is intended to ensure that Fagerhult's information requirements are met in an accurate and complete manner. The most important governing documents, in the form of policies and instructions, are kept up-to-date and are communicated via the appropriate channels, mainly electronically.
Internal information and communication is about creating awareness among the Group's employees about external and internal governing instruments, including authorities and responsibilities. During the year the CFO circulated to the relevant personnel a Financial Internal Guidelines document which complements the 2015 issued Minimum Internal Control Requirements. Fagerhult's whistle-blower policy means that each employee has the right to report suspected breaches of laws or regulations without fear of reprisal.
Evaluation of the need for a separate audit function
The Board and management have determined that a separate internal audit function will not be established in the Fagerhult Group. The Group's Finance department continually monitors compliance with the company's governance model, reporting principles and policies. In addition, the Finance department conducts ongoing analyses of the company's reporting and financial results to gain assurance regarding the trend.
Together with the controls implemented by the Group's management and the different business areas' e xisting control functions, discussions with the company's external auditors concerning the audit approach, as well as the auditing firm's extensive organisation are assessed as providing a satisfactory level of assurance. This means that a separate internal audit function is not considered necessary.
Activities in 2017
During the year, focus has been on integrating the recently acquired companies Arlight, Lighting Innovations, LED Linear, WE-EF & also establishing the OR Technologies business in the Group's internal control and on inventory valuation and inventory control linke d to the shift to LED te chnology. Focus and priority has also been given to various senior level recruitments, particularly within the local finance functions. Following the re-issue of the Minimum Control Requirements and the initial issue of the Financial Internal Guidelines, follow up work has been performed locally, at subsidiary board meetings and with the company's auditor to improve the internal control in many businesses with the process and results being discussed by the auditor and the CFO. This work continues with further internal control improvements. The Minimum Control Requirement document and process is based on the COSO framework and the follow-up of internal control pursuant to these guidelines has become an integrated part of Group governance.

FAGER HULT ANNUAL R EPORT 2017

59

THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS

1

2

3

4

5

6

7

8

9

10

11

60

FAG E RH U LT A N N UA L R E P O RT 2 0 1 7

THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS

The Board of Directors

1. JAN SVENSSON Chairman Born: 1956 Mechanical Engineer and M.Sc. in Business Administration. Managing Director and Board Member of Investment AB Latour. Chairman of Nederman Holding AB, Tomra Systems ASA and Troax Nordic AB. Board Member of Loomis AB, Assa Abloy AB, Oxeon AB and Alimak Group AB. Board Member of Fagerhult since 2007. Shares in AB Fagerhult: 55,888,200 (including Investment AB Latour)

2. ERIC DOUGLAS Vice Chairman Born: 1968 Certified Economist at high school level and 3 years of studies at Lund University within "Economics for Entrepreneurs." Self-employed since 1992. Chairman of the Board of Pod Investment AB and Sparbössan Fastigheter AB. Board Member of, amongst others, Investment AB Latour. Board Member of Fagerhult since 1993. Shares in AB Fagerhult: 360,000

3. CECILIA FASTH Born: 1973 M.Sc. Engineering CEO of Stena Fastigheter AB. Board Member of Fagerhult since 2014. Shares in AB Fagerhult: 5,325

4. CATHERINA FORED Born: 1964 Architect MSA. CEO of HSB Norra Stor-Stockholm. Board Member of Brunnberg & Forshed Arkitektkontor, Reomti Bygg AB and HSB Bostad. Board Member of Fagerhult since 2013. Shares in AB Fagerhult: 9,000

5. FREDRIK PALMSTIERNA Born: 1946 M.Sc. in Business Administration, MBA. Board Member of Nobia AB and The Viktor Rydbergs Schools Foundation. Board Member of Fagerhult since 1992. Shares in AB Fagerhult: 3,015,000 (incl. family and companies)

6. MORTEN FALKENBERG Born: 1958 M.Sc. in Business Administration. President and CEO of Nobia AB. Board Member of Nobia AB and Velux Group. Board Member of Fagerhult since 2017. Shares in AB Fagerhult: 29,529

7. JOHAN HJERTONSSON Managing Director and CEO of AB Fagerhult Born: 1968 M.Sc. in Business Administration. Board member of Nord-Lock International AB and Sweco AB. Board Member of Fagerhult since 2009. Shares in AB Fagerhult: 813,537

8. MAGNUS NELL Born: 1964 Employee Representative Shares in AB Fagerhult: 0

9. LARS-ÅKE JOHANSSON Born: 1961 Employee Representative Shares in AB Fagerhult: 2,480

10. BEATRICE SJÖBLOM Born: 1984 Deputy Employee Representative Shares in AB Fagerhult: 0

11. PATRIK PALM Born: 1984 Deputy Employee Representative Shares in AB Fagerhult: 0

FAGER HULT ANNUAL R EPORT 2017

61

SENIOR MANAGEMENT

1

2

3

4

5

6

7

62

FAG E RH U LT A N N UA L R E P O RT 2 0 1 7

SENIOR MANAGEMENT

Senior management

1. JOHAN HJERTONSSON Managing Director and Group CEO Born: 1968 M.Sc. in Business Administration Employed since: 2009 Shares in Fagerhult: 813,537
4. JENNY EVELIUS Head of Human Resources Born: 1969 M.Sc. in Business Administration Employed since: 2013 Shares in Fagerhult: 17,609
7. GEERT VAN DER MEER Regional Manager Born: 1965 Ph. Dr. in Physics Employed since: 2017 Shares in Fagerhult: 816

2. FRANK AUGUSTSSON Regional Manager Born: 1965 Technical College Graduate Employed since: 1986­2001, 2004 Shares in Fagerhult: 25,959
5. MICHAEL WOOD Chief Financial Officer Born: 1964 Chartered Accountant ACMA Employed since: 2005 Shares in Fagerhult: 3,702

3. ANDERS FRANSSON Managing Director Fagerhults Belysning AB Born: 1969 M.Sc. Engineering Employed since: 2005 Shares in Fagerhult: 21,495
6. MICHAEL KRAMER Regional Manager Born: 1966 Dr. ­Ing. Employed since: 2016 Shares in Fagerhult: 0

FAGER HULT ANNUAL R EPORT 2017

63

INCOME STATEMENTS

Income Statements

MSEK Net sales Cost of goods sold Gross profit

Note 1

Selling expenses Administrative expenses Other operating income Operating profit/loss

Financial income and expenses

Income from shares in subsidiaries

6

Intere st income and similar profit/loss items

3

Intere st e xpense s and similar profit/loss items

4

Total financial items

Profit after financial items

Group contributions received

Tax on profit for the year

8, 9

Net profit for the year

Net profit for the year attributable to shareholders of the Parent Company

Earnings per share, based on earnings attributable to shareholders of the Parent Company during the year1: Earnings per share before dilution, SEK Earnings per share after dilution, SEK Average number of shares outstanding before dilution, thousands Average number of share s outstanding after dilution, thousands Number of shares outstanding, thousands

GROUP

2017

2016

5,170.3

4,490.7

­3,245.7

­2,917.1

1,924.6

1,573.6

­919.4 ­384.9
57.6 677.9

­783.4 ­315.7
49.7 524.2

­ 15.0 ­40.4 ­25.4 652.5
­ ­158.1 494.4
494.4

­ 16.8 ­26.3 ­9.5 514.7
­ ­133.8 380.9
380.9

4.32 4.32 114,318 114,318 114,492

3.35 3.35 113,761 113,761 113,818

STATEMENT OF COMPREHENSIVE INCOME AND OTHER COMPREHENSIVE INCOME Net profit for the year
Other comprehensive income: Items that will not be reclassified to profit or loss: Remeasurements of pension plans Items that may be reclassified to profit or loss: Translation differences Other comprehensive income for the period, ne t after tax Total comprehensive income for the year
Total comprehensive income attributable to shareholders of the Parent Company

494.4

20

­2.2

34

­105.7

­107.9

386.5

386.5

Comprehensive income for the Parent Company is equivalent to net profit for the year. 1) Earnings per share are adjusted for the 3-for-1 share split in 2017

380.9
­0.8 ­60.4 ­61.2 319.7 319.7

PARENT COMPANY

2017

2016

14.2

18.0

­

­

14.2

18.0

­0.4 ­47.2
­ ­33.4

­1.6 ­52.8
­ ­36.4

143.3 40.2 ­43.6 139.9 106.5
237.0 ­42.6 300.9

46.9 32.2 ­19.9 59.2 22.8
166.0 ­31.5 157.3

64

FAG E RH U LT A N N UA L R E P O RT 2 0 1 7

Balance Sheets
MSEK ASSETS Non-current assets Intangible assets Goodwill Brands Other intangible assets Construction in progress and advance payments
Property, plant and equipment Land and buildings Plant and machinery Equipment, fixtures and fittings Construction in progress and advance payments
Financial assets Shares and participations in subsidiaries Other shares and participations Receivables from subsidiaries Deferred tax assets Other non-current receivables
Total non-current assets
Current assets Inventories, etc. Raw materials and consumables Work in progress Finished products and goods for resale Advance payments to suppliers
Current receivables Trade receivables Current tax assets Other receivables Receivables from subsidiaries Prepaid expenses and accrued income
Cash and cash equivalents/Cash and bank balances
Total current assets
TOTAL ASSETS

BALANCE SHEETS

Note

GROUP

2017

2016

PARENT COMPANY

2017

2016

10

1,831.0

1,626.1

­

­

699.2

335.2

­

­

179.2

107.4

­

­

0.1

­

­

­

2,709.5

2,068.7

­

­

11

261.2

112.0

­

­

236.5

208.0

­

­

137.5

105.1

­

­

50.4

22.6

­

­

685.6

447.7

­

­

13, 30 12
9 12

­ 18.3
­ 31.9 3.9 54.1
3,449.2

­ 11.8
­ 20.9 1.3 34.0
2,550.4

616.6 ­
2,838.8 ­ ­
3,455.4
3,455.4

616.6 ­
1,913.6 ­ ­
2,530.2
2,530.2

15 350.6 53.6 319.8 37.5 761.5

5

837.7

7.2

27.1

­

14

64.3

936.3

949.9

2,647.7

6,096.9

260.5 41.9
350.2 32.1
684.7
761.3 3.7
23.2 ­
59.3 847.5
731.6
2,263.8
4,814.2

­ ­ ­ ­ ­
­ ­ 1.3 22.1 21.5 44.9
547.9
592.8
4,048.2

­ ­ ­ ­ ­
­ ­ ­ 45.1 7.8 52.9
184.8
237.7
2,767.9

FAGER HULT ANNUAL R EPORT 2017

65

BALANCE SHEETS

Balance Sheets

MSEK EQUITY (Group/Parent Company1) Capital and reserves attributable to shareholders of the Parent Company Share capital Other contributed capital Translation differences/Statutory reserve Retained earnings incl./excl. net profit for the year Net profit for the year, Parent Company
Untaxed reserves Transfer to tax allocation reserve

Note

GROUP

2017

2016

31

65.5

205.0

­198.7

1,818.7

­

1,890.5

­

65.5 159.4 ­93.0 1,495.2
­ 1,627.1
­

LIABILITIES Non-current liabilities Borrowings Provisions for pensions and similar commitments Other liabilities Liabilities to subsidiaries Deferred tax liability
Current liabilities Borrowings Advance payments from customers Trade payables Current tax liabilities Other liabilities Liabilities to subsidiaries Accrued expenses and deferred income

16

2,684.6

20

90.2

21

162.0

­

9

282.9

3,219.7

1,752.1 68.3
238.5 ­
131.1 2,190.0

16

4.8

10.5

412.2

77.2

110.2

­

17

371.8

986.7

133.2 16.1
354.1 53.5 85.2 ­ 355.0
997.1

Total liabilities

4,206.4

3,187.1

TOTAL EQUITY AND LIABILITIES

6,096.9

4,814.2

1) Restricted equity: share capital and statutory reserve. Non-restricted equity: retained earnings and net profit for the year.

PARENT COMPANY

2017

2016

65.5 ­
159.4 174.5 300.9 700.3
8.6

65.5 ­
159.4 187.0 157.3 569.2
8.6

2,660.2 ­ ­
1.7 ­
2,661.9

1,742.3 ­ ­
1.7 ­
1,744.0

­ ­ ­ 24.1 0.4 637.1 15.8 677.4
3,339.3
4,048.2

133.0 ­ ­
11.3 ­
286.0 15.8
446.1
2,190.1
2,767.9

66

FAG E RH U LT A N N UA L R E P O RT 2 0 1 7

CHANGES IN EQUITY

Changes in equity

GROUP Equity at 1 January 2016 Net profit for the year Net investment hedges Other comprehensive income Comprehensive income for the period Performance-based share-savings plan Dividend, SEK 1.17 per share Equity at 31 December 2016 Net profit for the year Net investment hedges Other comprehensive income Comprehensive income for the period Performance-based share-savings plan Sale of treasury shares Dividend, SEK 1.33 per share Equity at 31 December 2017
PARENT COMPANY Equity at 1 January 2016 Performance-based share-savings plan Net profit for the year Dividend, SEK 1.17 per share Equity at 31 December 2016 Performance-based share-savings plan Net profit for the year Dividend, SEK 1.33 per share Equity at 31 December 2017

Note 29 2 33 29 2 33
Note 2
33 2
33

Share capital
65.5

Other contributed
capital
159.4

65.5

159.4

45.6

65.5

205.0

Reserves ­32.6
16.3 ­76.7 ­60.4
­93.0
­1.4 ­104.3 ­105.7

Retained earnings incl.
net profit for the year
1,244.8 380.9
­0.8 380.1
2.8 ­132.5 1,495.2 494.4
­2.2 492.2
2.7

­198.7

­171.4 1,818.7

Share capital
65.5
65.5
65.5

Statutory reserve 159.4
159.4
159.4

Retained earnings incl.
net profit for the year
317.8 1.7
157.3 ­132.5 344.3
1.6
300.9 ­171.4 475.4

Total equity 1,437.1 380.9
16.3 ­77.5 319.7
2.8 ­132.5 1,627.1 494.4
­1.4 ­106.5 386.5
2.7 45.6 ­171.4 1,890.5
Total equity 542.7
1.7 157.3 ­132.5 569.2
1.6 300.9 ­171.4 700.3

FAGER HULT ANNUAL R EPORT 2017

67

CASH-FLOW STATEMENTS

Cash-Flow Statements

MSEK Net profit for the year Tax Group contributions received Income from shares in subsidiaries Interest income and similar profit/loss items Interest expenses and similar profit/loss items Operating profit/loss
Adjustments for non-cash items: Depreciation/amortisation Profit/loss on the sale of property, plant and equipment Items in equity Exchange-rate differences
Interest received Interest paid Income tax paid Cash flow from operating activities before changes in working capital

Note
8.9
6 3 4

GROUP

2017

2016

494.4

380.9

158.1

133.8

­

­

­

­

­15.0

­16.8

40.4

26.3

677.9

524.2

158.2 1.0 0.3
­57.0 780.4
3.7 ­41.4 ­147.9 594.8

121.2 4.1 2.0
­71.6 579.9
1.8 ­19.4 ­143.8 418.5

Changes in working capital Changes in inventories Changes in receivables Changes in current liabilities Cash flow from operating activities
Investing activities Investments in subsidiaries Investments in intangible assets Investments in property, plant and equipment Changes in construction in progress and advance payments Increase in non-current receivables Decrease in non-current receivables Group contributions and dividends received Cash flow from investing activities
Financing activities Repayment of loans Borrowings Sale of treasury shares Dividends paid Cash flow from financing activities
Change in cash and cash equivalents Cash and cash equivalents at beginning of the year Translation differences in cash and cash equivalents Cash, cash equivalents at end of the year

46.5 34.2
5.6 681.1

21, 30 10 11 11 12 12

­828.9 ­57.2 ­119.9 ­27.7 ­6.2 ­ ­
­1,039.9

16

­133.0

16

841.8

45.6

­171.4

583.0

224.2 731.6 ­5.9 949.9

­38.6 ­56.8
64.7 387.8
­341.5 ­52.5 ­116.5
9.5 ­
1.8 ­
­499.2
­19.6 515.7
­ ­132.5 363.6
252.2 471.9
7.5 731.6

PARENT COMPANY

2017

2016

300.9

157.3

42.6

31.5

­237.0

­166.0

­143.3

­46.9

­40.2

­32.2

43.6

19.9

­33.4

­36.4

­ ­ 1.6 ­8.9 ­40.7 40.2 ­34.7 ­29.8 ­65.0

­ ­ 1.7 4.2 ­30.5 28.0 ­19.9 ­41.9 ­64.3

­ 8.0 351.5 294.5
­ ­ ­ ­ ­925.2 ­ 380.3 ­544.9
­133.0 917.9 ­
­171.4 613.5
363.1 184.8
­ 547.9

­ ­8.3 28.4 -44.2
­0.3 ­ ­ ­
­455.1 ­
212.9 ­242.5
­ 554.2
­132.5 421.7
135.0 49.8 ­
184.8

68

FAG E RH U LT A N N UA L R E P O RT 2 0 1 7

ACCOUNTING POLICIES

Accounting policies

The limited liability company's consolidated accounts have been prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS), as adopted by the EU, the Swedish Annual Accounts Act and the Swedish Financial Reporting Board's recommendation RFR1.
The Parent Company applies the same accounting policies as the Group, except in the instances stated below in the section Parent Company's Accounting Policies. The deviations arising between the Parent Company's and the Group's accounting policies result from limitations in the possibility of applying IFRS in the Parent Company primarily due to the stipulations of the Swedish Annual Accounts Act. The policies applied are unchanged compared with the preceding year.
All amounts are reported in millions of Swedish kronor (MSEK), unless stated otherwise. Assets and liabilities are valued at cost, unless stated otherwise. The amounts reported for financial assets and liabilities comprise an approximation of their fair value.
CONSOLIDATED ACCOUNTS Subsidiaries
The consolidated accounts include subsidiaries over which the Group has control, that is the right to determine the financial and operating policies, in a manner that generally derives from a shareholding of more than 50 per cent of the voting rights.
Companies acquired during the year are fully consolidated from the date on which control is transferred to the Group. Companies are deconsolidated from the date that control ceases.
The Group applies the acquisition method to recognise the Group's business combinations. The acquisition price paid for a subsidiary is the fair values of the assets transferred, the liabilities incurred and the shares issued by the Group. The consideration transferred includes the fair value of any asset or liability resulting from a contingent consideration arrangement. Acquisition-related costs are e xpensed as incurred. Identifiable assets acquired and liabilities assumed in a business combination are measured initially at their fair values at the acquisition date. For each acquisition, the Group determines whether all non-controlling interests in the acquired company are recognized at fair value or at the proportionate share of the acquired company's net assets. The amount by which the consideration, any non-controlling interest and fair value at the acquisition dates of previous shareholdings exceeds the fair value of the Group's share of identifiable net assets acquired is recorded as goodwill. If the consideration transferred is less than the fair value of the acquire d subsidiary's net assets, the difference is re cognise d dire ctly in profit or loss.
Inter-company gains on transactions between Group companies are eliminated in their entirety. There are no minority shareholdings within the Group.
TRANSLATION OF FOREIGN CURRENCIES Functional currency and presentation currency
Items included in the financial statements of each of the Group's entities are measured using the currency of the primary economic environment in which the entity operates (the functional currency). The consolidated accounts are presented in SEK, which is the Parent Company's functional and presentation currency.

Transactions and balance-sheet items Foreign currency transactions are translated into the functional currency using the exchange rates prevailing at the transaction dates. Foreign exchange-rate differences attributable to operating activities are recognised in operating profit, while exchange-rate differences attributable to the Group's financing are recognised under financial income and expenses. Exceptions to this include hedging transactions that meet the requirements for the hedge accounting of cash flows or net investments, for which e xchange -rate differences are recognised in other comprehensive income.
Subsidiaries The results and financial position of all subsidiaries (none of which has the currency of a hyper-inflationary economy) that have a functional currency different from the presentation currency are translated into the Group's presentation currency as follows:
­ assets and liabilities for each balance sheet are translated at the closing rate of exchange;
­ income and expenses for each income statement are translated at the respective average exchange rate (unless the average exchange rate is not a reasonable approximation of the cumulative effect of the rates prevailing on the transaction dates, in which case income and expenses are translated at the transaction-date rates); and
­ all resulting exchange-rate differences are recognised as a separate component of other comprehensive income.
Goodwill and fair value adjustments arising on the acquisition of a foreign entity are treated as assets and liabilities of the foreign entity and are translated at the closing rate.
INCOME TAX
Reported income tax includes tax which is to be paid or received for the current year and adjustments pertaining to previous years' current taxes and changes in deferred tax.
The measurement of all income tax liabilities and assets is performed at nominal amounts, applying the tax rates and provisions that have been enacted, or substantially enacted, and which are expected to apply when the related deferred tax asset is realised or the deferred tax liability is settled.
In the case of items recognised in profit or loss, related tax effects are also recognised in profit or loss. The tax effects of items that are recognised directly in equity are also recognised directly in equity.
Deferred tax is calculated using the balance-sheet method on all temporary differences arising between the tax bases of assets and liabilities and their carrying amounts. These temporary differences have primarily arisen through consolidation adjustments and transfers to tax allocation reserves.
Deferred tax assets pertaining to future tax deductions are recognised to the extent that it is probable that such deductions can be netted against surpluses in future taxation. Deferred tax liabilities pertaining to temporary differences attributable to investments in subsidiaries are not recognised in the consolidated accounts as the Parent Company can, in all cases, control the date for a reversal of the temporary differences and it is not assessed as probable that a reversal will take place within the foreseeable future.
The reporting of deferred tax is based on effective tax rates.

FAGER HULT ANNUAL R EPORT 2017

69

ACCOUNTING POLICIES

INVENTORIES
Inventories are reported using the first-in, first-out method at the lower of cost and net realisable value on the closing date.
The valuation of work in progress and finished products includes design costs, direct labour costs and other direct costs with a reasonable mark-up for indirect costs (based on normal production capacity). This item excludes borrowing costs.
Net realisable value is the estimated selling price in the on-going course of business, less applicable variable selling expenses.
TRADE RECEIVABLES AND OTHER RECEIVABLES
Trade and other receivables are recognised at cost, less any provision for impairment.
A provision for impairment of trade receivables is made when there is objective evidence that the Group will not be able to receive all amounts due according to the original terms of the receivable. Significant financial difficulties on the part of the debtor, the probability that the debtor will enter into receivership or undergo financial reconstruction and default or late payments are considered indicators that an impairment provision for trade receivables may be required. The amount of the provision is the difference between the carrying amount of the asset and the present value of estimated future cash flows, discounted at the original effective interest rate. The carrying amount of the asset is reduced using an impairment allowance account and the loss is recognised in profit or loss under Selling e xpenses. Recoveries of amounts previously written off are credited against Selling e xpenses in profit or loss.
REVENUE RECOGNITION Goods
Sales of goods are recognised upon delivery to customers, in accordance with the conditions of sale. Revenue refers to the fair value of goods sold, excluding VAT and discounts. Inter-company sales are eliminated in the consolidated accounts.
Other operating income Revenue from activities outside the Group's primary operations has been recognised as Other operating income.
Interest income Interest income is recognised on a time -proportion basis using the effective interest method.
Dividend income Income from dividends is recognised when the right to receive payment has been determined.
INTERNAL TRANSFER PRICING
The pricing of transactions such as intra-Group purchases and sales of goods and services, uses market terms.
LEASES
Leases in which a significant portion of the risks and rewards of ownership are retained by the lessor are classified as operating leases. Payments made under the lease term (net of any incentives received from the lessor) are expensed in profit or loss on a straight-line basis.

BORROWING COSTS
The Group capitalises borrowing costs which are directly attributable to the purchase, construction or production of an asset, and where a considerable amount of time is required to prepare the asset for use or sale, as a portion of the asset's cost. Other borrowing costs are recognised as expenses in the period in which they arise.

CASH-FLOW STATEMENT AND CASH AND CASH EQUIVALENTS
The cash-flow statement has been prepared using the indirect method. The recognised cash flow includes only those transactions that have resulted in receipts or payments. Cash and cash equivalents include cash and bank balances as well as short-term financial investments with maturities of less than three months. In both 2017 and 2016, cash and cash equivalents were comprised solely of cash and bank balances.

PROPERTY, PLANT AND EQUIPMENT
Land and buildings comprise, primarily, factories and offices. All property, plant and equipment (PPEs) are measured at cost less accumulated depreciation.
Cost includes expenditure that is directly attributable to the acquisition of the items. Subsequent expenses are included in the asset's carrying amount, or recognised as a separate asset, as appropriate, only when it is likely that future economic benefits associated with the asset will accrue to the Group, and when the asset's cost can be measured reliably. All other repairs and maintenance are recognised as e xpenses in profit or loss during the period in which they arise.
No depreciation is reported for land. Depreciation on other assets is calculated using the straight-line method to allocate their cost down to their residual values over their estimated useful lives, as follows:

Buildings Permanent equipment, service facilities, etc. in buildings Land improvements  Machinery and equipment  Vehicles and IT systems Computers and tools

25 years
10­20 years 20 years
5­10 years 5 years 3 years

The assets' residual values and useful lives are reviewed and adjusted, if appropriate, at each closing date.
An asset's carrying amount is immediately written down to its recoverable amount if the asset's carrying amount exceeds its estimated recoverable amount.

INTANGIBLE ASSETS Research and development
The Group incurs no expenses for research. Expenses arising from development projects (attributable to the development of new luminaires) are reported in the Group as intangible assets when it is likely that the project will be successful, in terms of its commercial and technical possibilities, and when the expenses can be reliably measured. Other development expenses are expensed as they arise. Development expenses previously recognised as an expense are not capitalised as assets in subsequent periods.

70

FAG E RH U LT A N N UA L R E P O RT 2 0 1 7

ACCOUNTING POLICIES

Capitalised development expenditure with a limited useful life is amortised on a straight-line basis from the point in time at which commercial production can be initiated. Amortisation is reported during the asset's expected useful life, which is usually three to five years. Amortisation is included in profit or loss under the item Cost of goods sold. Capitalised development expenditure is included under the item Other intangible assets.
Goodwill Goodwill consists of the amount by which the consideration, any non- controlling interest and fair value at the acquisition dates of previous shareholdings exceeds the fair value of the Group's share of identifiable net assets acquired. Goodwill on the acquisition of subsidiaries is recognised as an intangible asset. Goodwill is tested annually to identify any need for impairment and is recognised at cost less accumulated impairment. The gain or loss on the sale of an entity includes the remaining carrying amount for goodwill pertaining to the entity sold.
Goodwill is allocated to cash-generating units (CGUs), when testing for any impairment requirement. This allocation is made to the CGUs which are e xpected to benefit from the business combination which has given rise to the goodwill item. The Fagerhult Group allocates goodwill to all lines of business.
Brands This item mainly includes assets in the form of brands, which have arisen in conjunction with the acquisition of subsidiaries. These are valued at the fair value on the acquisition date and, thereafter, less amortisation and impairment. Brands are amortised over their estimated useful lives or, in cases where the brand has an indefinite useful life, an annual impairment test is carried out.
IMPAIRMENT OF NON-FINANCIAL ASSETS
Assets which have an indefinite useful life are not subject to amortisation and, instead, are tested annually for impairment. Assets that are subject to amortisation are reviewed for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount may not be recoverable. In those cases, in which the carrying amount exceeds the estimated recoverable amount, the carrying amount is immediately impaired down to the recoverable amount. The recoverable amount is the greater of an asset's fair value, less selling expenses and the asset's value in use. For the purposes of assessing impairment, assets are grouped at the lowest levels for which there are separate, identifiable cash flows (CGUs).
FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS
The Group classifies its financial instruments in the categories Financial assets at fair value through profit and loss, Available-for-sale financial assets and Loans receivable and Accounts receivable. The classification depends on the purpose for which the financial assets were acquired. Company management determines the classification of financial assets at initial recognition and, thereafter, re-examines the decision at each reporting occasion.
Financial instruments reported in the balance sheet include cash and bank balances, receivables, borrowings and operating liabilities.
Loans receivable and accounts receivable are non-derivative financial assets with fixed or determinable payments which are not listed on an active market. These characteristically arise in conjunction with the Group providing funds, goods or services directly to a customer without the intention to trade in the receivables. These are included in current assets

with the e xception of items with a maturity date later than 12 months after the closing date, which are classified as non-current assets. Loans receivable and accounts receivable are included in the items Other non-current receivables, Trade receivables and Other receivables in the balance sheet. Loans receivable and Accounts receivable are initially reported at fair value and, thereafter, at amortised cost on the basis of the effective interest method. Where necessary, provisions have been made for impairment.
Financial liabilities are initially valued at fair value, net after transaction costs, and thereafter, at amortised cost. The category "Financial liabilities" includes the items Borrowings, Trade payables, and Other liabilities.
Purchases and sales of financial instruments are reported on the trade date, that is, the date on which the Group commits itself to purchase or sell the asset. Financial instruments are initially valued at fair value plus transaction costs, which applies to all financial assets which are not valued at fair value in profit or loss. Financial assets at fair value through profit or loss are initially valued at fair value, while applicable transaction costs are recognised in profit or loss. Financial instruments are derecognised from the balance sheet when the rights to receive cash flows from the instruments have expired or been transferred, and the Group has substantially transferred all of the risks and rewards associated with ownership. Available-for-sale financial assets and financial assets at fair value through profit or loss are recognised after the acquisition date at fair value. Realised and unrealised gains and losses resulting from changes in fair value attributable to the category Financial assets at fair value through profit or loss are included in the income statement in the period during which they arise.
The Group makes an assessment at each closing date as to whether objective evidence e xists of an impairment requirement for a financial asset or group of financial assets.
Derivative instruments are reported in the balance sheet on the contract date and are valued at fair value, both initially and following subsequent re-valuations. Derivative instruments are not used for hedge accounting. Changes in fair value are, therefore, reported immediately in the income statement under Operating profit.
EQUITY
Transaction costs which are directly applicable to the issue of new shares or share options are reported, net after tax, in equity, with a deduction for the proceeds of the issue. In the case of a repurchase of shares, retained earnings are reduced by the amount paid for the shares. When treasury shares are sold, retained earnings increase by the amount received.
EMPLOYEE BENEFITS Pension commitments
Within the Group, there are both defined-contribution plans and defined-benefit plans. A defined-benefit plan is a pension plan stipulating a determined amount of pension benefit which the employee receives after retirement, usually based on several factors, such as age, length of service or salary. A defined-contribution plan is a pension plan according to which the Group pays a fixed amount to a separate legal entity and, therewith, has no obligation to pay additional premiums. Costs for employees' service during current or previous periods impact the Group's earnings.
In defined-benefit plans, benefits to employees and former employees are based on the employee's salary at the retirement date and on the number of years of service. The Group is liable for payment of the benefits.
The liability recognised in the balance sheet pertaining to definedbenefit plans is the present value of the defined-benefit commitments at

FAGER HULT ANNUAL R EPORT 2017

71

ACCOUNTING POLICIES

the closing date and is adjusted for unrecognised actuarial gains/losses for service during previous periods. The defined-benefit commitments are calculated yearly by an independent actuary, applying the projected unit credit method. This method allocates pension costs in pace with the employees' execution of services for the company, which increases their right to future remuneration. The company's commitments are valued at the present value of the expected future payments, utilising a discount rate corresponding to interest on first-class corporate bonds. The most important actuarial assumptions are stated in Note 20.
Actuarial gains and losses may arise in conjunction with determination of the present value of the commitments. These can arise from actual outcomes deviating from earlier assumptions or from changed assumptions. These items are then reported in Other comprehensive income in the period in which they arise. Costs of employment for previous periods are recognised directly in profit or loss.
For defined-contribution plans, the Group pays premiums into a public or privately administered pension insurance plan on an obligatory, contractual or voluntary basis. The Group has no additional payment obligations when these premiums are paid. The premiums are reported as pension costs when they fall due. Prepaid premiums are recognised as assets to the extent that cash repayment or a decrease in future payments may benefit the Group.
Share-based payments The Group has a share-savings plan, which is recognised as a plan settled through equity. The cost of the plan is calculated on the basis of the allocated shares' fair value at the time of allocation and is allocated over the term of the plan. In those cases, in which the plan may lead to costs in the form of social security contributions, the Group reserves the social security contributions on an ongoing basis at fair value, allocated over the term of the plan.
Termination benefits Termination benefits are payable when an employee's employment is terminated prior to the normal pensionable age or when an employee voluntarily accepts termination of employment in exchange for such benefits. The Group reports severance pay when there is a demonstrable obligation to terminate the employment according to a detailed, formal plan with no possibility of reinstatement, or when it is required to provide termination benefits as a result of an offer to encourage employees to leave service voluntarily. Benefits falling due more than 12 months after the closing date are discounted to present value.
Provisions Provisions for restructuring costs and statutory requirements are recognised when the Group has a legal or informal obligation to do so as a result of previous events, when it is more likely that an outflow of resources will be required to settle the obligation rather than not be required, and when the amount can be reliably calculated.
If there are a number of similar obligations, an assessment is made of the probability that an outflow of resources will be required to settle the entire Group's obligations. A provision is recognised even if the probability of an outflow for a separate item in this group of obligations is minimal.
EARNINGS PER SHARE
Earnings per share are calculated as net profit/loss for the year in accordance with the income statement in relation to the average number of shares outstanding before and after dilution.

SEGMENT REPORTING
Operating segments are reported in a manner consistent with the internal reporting provided to the chief operating decision maker. The chief operating decision maker is responsible for allocating resources and assessing the performance of the operating segments. The Group has identified this function as the CEO who makes the strategic decisions.
Expenses attributable to a particular segment are comprised of both direct expenses and a portion of Group-wide expenses. Unspecified expenses represent Group-wide expenses. The operating segments' assets consist mainly of intangible assets, property, plant and equipment, inventories and trade receivables. Segment liabilities consist mainly of trade payables, and accrual and deferral items.
DIVIDENDS
Dividends to AB Fagerhult's shareholders are recognised as liabilities in the consolidated financial statements in the period in which the dividends were adopted by the Parent Company's shareholders.
PARENT COMPANY'S ACCOUNTING POLICIES
The Parent Company's annual accounts have been prepared in accordance with the Swedish Annual Accounts Act and the Swedish Financial Reporting Board's recommendation RFR 2. RFR 2 stipulates that, in its annual accounts, the Parent Company is to apply International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS) as endorsed by the EU, where this is possible within the framework of the Swedish Annual Accounts Act, and with regard to the connection between accounting and taxation. RFR 2 specifies the e xceptions and supplements to be applied in relation to IFRS. Identified differences between accounting policies of the Group and the Parent Company mainly refer to IAS 12 Income taxes. The amounts transferred to untaxed reserves constitute taxable temporary differences. Due to the connection between accounting and taxation, deferred tax liabilities applicable to untaxed reserves are not disclosed separately in the Parent Company. Accordingly, these are reported in their gross amounts in the balance sheet. Appropriations are recognised at gross value in profit or loss.
Group contributions are recognised as appropriations.
SIGNIFICANT ESTIMATES AND ASSUMPTIONS
The preparation of the annual accounts requires that qualified estimates and assessments be made for accounting purposes. Furthermore, company management exercises its judgement in the application of the Group's accounting policies. Estimates and assessments can affect the income statement and the balance sheet, as well as any additional information which has been reported in the annual accounts. Consequently, changes in valuations and assessments can lead to changes in the annual accounts.
Impairment tests for goodwill and brands with indefinite useful lives For the Group, it has been determined that the estimates and assessments made in connection with impairment testing of goodwill are of significance for the consolidated accounts. Each year, the Group conducts tests to determine whether any impairment requirement exists for carrying amounts. The recoverable amounts of cash-generating units are determined based on value-in-use calculations. These calculations are based on certain assumptions regarding the future which, for the Group, are associated with a risk of material adjustments of carrying amounts during the

72

FAG E RH U LT A N N UA L R E P O RT 2 0 1 7

ACCOUNTING POLICIES

forthcoming financial year. Significant assumptions and the effects of reasonable changes of such are stated in Note 10.
If the estimated cost of capital applied in determining the pre-tax discount rate for the cash-generating units had been 1 per cent higher (for example 11 per cent instead of 10 per cent) than the management's assessment, this would still not have resulted in any impairment requirement.
APPLICATION OF NEW OR AMENDED STANDARDS Changes in accounting principles and disclosures New and amended standards applied by the Group
New standards, amendments and interpretations that come into effect for financial years beginning 1 January 2017 have no material impact on the consolidated financial statements.
New standards, amendments and interpretations of existing standards that have not been early-adopted by the Group. A number of new standards and interpretations come into effect for financial years starting after 1 January 2017, and have not been applied in the preparation of these financial statements. None of these standards or interpretations are expected to have any material impact on the consolidated financial statements, with the e xception of the following:
IFRS 15 Revenue from Contracts with Customers IFRS 15 introduces new requirements for revenue recognition and replaces IAS 18 Revenue and IAS 11 Construction Contracts and related interpretations. The new standard provides more detailed guidance in many areas not previously covered by the applicable IFRS, including recognition procedures for contracts with one or more parts, variable pricing, customers' right of return, etc. The standard has been adopted by the EU. The standard will be applied from the 2018 financial year.
In 2017, workshops were held and an investigation conducted to identify potential differences between the e xisting accounting policies and IFRS 15. Base d on the findings, follow-ups and analyse s were conducte d base d on the five -step model in IFRS 15.
Following this analysis, the assessment is that no material differences exist between the currently applicable accounting policies and guidance pertaining to identification of the performance obligations of the contract and allocation of the transaction price in IFRS 15. As with the existing policies, sales of products will be recognised when the transfer of risk under the contract has been effected which, according to the analysis performed, also meets the criteria for the transfer of control under IFRS 15.
Accordingly, the final assessment is that the introduction of IFRS 15 will have no material effect on the Group's financial position.
The Group has elected to apply the modified transitional method for the application of IFRS 15 from 1 January 2018. This will only impact the disclosure requirements that have to be met.
IFRS 9 Financial instruments IFRS 9 addresses the classification, measurement and recognition of financial assets and financial liabilities, and introduces new hedge accounting rules. The final version of IFRS 9 was published in July 2014. IFRS 9 replaces the parts of IAS 39 relating to the classification and measurement of financial instruments, and introduces a new impairment model. The standard has been adopted by the EU.
IFRS 9 will be applied by the Group for financial years starting from 1 January 2018. In accordance with the standard's transitional rules, the Group will not be recalculating comparative figures for the 2017 financial year.
In autumn 2017, an investigation was conducted with regard to the clas-

sification and measurement of the Group's financial instruments. It was noted that the new rules for classification and measurement will not impact the Group's financial position at the transition date, since the rules will not entail any change in terms of the measurement of the financial instruments in the Group's balance sheet at that date.
IFRS 9 introduces a new impairment model that is based on expected credit losses, and which takes into consideration forward-looking information. Historically, the Group has experienced extremely low credit losses and the customer base comprises stable companies. Moreover, even from a forward-looking perspective, the assessment is that the likelihood of default among our customers is low. Accordingly, the conclusion is that no further impairment of trade receivables is necessary.
The hedge accounting rules do not affect the Group since they are not being applied.
Therefore, IFRS 9 will not have any impact on the Group's financial position on application from 1 January 2018.
One project is ongoing and pertains to the analysis of which further information could be required to meet the disclosure requirements in the revised IFRS 7.
FRS 16 Leases.
IFRS 16 Leases was published in January 2016 by the IASB. The standard has been adopted by the EU and will replace IAS 17 Leases and associated interpretations IFRIC 4, SIC-15 and SIC-27. IFRS 16 requires assets and liabilities attributable to all leases, with the exception of short leases or leases of lowvalue assets, to be recognised in the balance sheet. This recognition is based on the view that the lessee has a right to use an asset during a specific period of time and at the same time an obligation to pay for this right. This means that the majority of the Group's existing operational leases will be recognised in the balance sheet from 2019.
The Group has started to analyse the impact IFRS 16 will have on the consolidated financial statements. The Group is preparing a full review of all leases, where the information is gathered and compiled as decision data for calculations and quantifications in conjunction with the conversion to IFRS 16. All Group leases are currently recognised as operational. In conjunction with the transition to IFRS 16, the majority of these contracts will be recognised in the balance sheet as right-of-use assets together with financial liabilities. Note 25 includes a specification of non-terminable rental agreements for the Group.
The Group has yet to decide which transition rule it will apply; either full retroactive application or partial retroactive application (which means that comparative figure s do not ne e d to be re state d).

FAGER HULT ANNUAL R EPORT 2017

73

NOTES

Notes

Note 1 | Segment reporting

Net sales and income Net sales (of which internal sales) Operating profit by line of business Unclassified costs Operating profit Financial income Financial expenses Tax expenses for the year Net profit for the year Other disclosures Non-current assets Other assets Unclassified assets Total assets Liabilities Unclassified liabilities Total liabilities Investments Depreciation/amortisation

Northern Europe 2017 2016 2,048.0 2,029.5 (289.4) (292.1) 266.2 220.0
448.3 436.0 2,255.2 1,401.7
486.4 449.2
66.2 93.4 63.1 61.8

UK and Ireland 2017 2016 1,211.1 1,195.7 (54.9) (54.1) 184.9 180.9
415.0 409.0 596.9 659.7
251.5 282.8
34.0 38.8 25.7 25.0

Western and Southern Europe
2017 2016 1,670.7 1,044.4
(40.6) (36.9) 181.0 99.1
2,133.2 1,242.0 959.2 605.9
696.4 493.9
32.1 17.6 56.6 24.2

External sales per market Sweden UK Germany Australia Norway Finland United Arab Emirates The Netherlands Denmark Spain South Africa USA Russia Turkey France Poland Other Total

1,030.7 7.3
19.3 0.1
230.8 165.6
­ 9.0 135.0 0.4
53.5 5.8 8.3 8.0
84.8 1,758.6

966.2 6.4
28.8 0.5
223.9 164.6
6.3 137.0
1.4
5.7 93.1
8.5 8.9 86.1 1,737.4

1,110.4 11.6
34.2 1,156.2

1,100.9 15.4
25.3 1,141.6

13.4 47.1 407.5 108.9 3.0 2.1 33.4 125.8 2.0 197.3 1.6 136.4 1.7 0.7 280.7 62.1 206.4 1,630.1

8.6 22.6 338.0 13.1
1.2 1.0 15.3 133.6 1.2 130.6 6.7 98.0 2.0 1.2 71.2 40.5 122.7 1,007.5

Non-current assets per market Sweden UK Germany France Turkey Thailand Australia Finland China South Africa Other Total

318.3

302.6

404.3

398.6 26.1 1,503.2 1,183.6 276.2 44.9

80.9 81.2 10.5 10.6

135.0 104.9

38.6 41.6 10.7 10.4 87.8 13.5 448.3 436.0 415.0 409.0 2,133.2 1,242.0

Africa, Asia and the Pacific
2017 2016

692.5 (67.1)
92.7

652.8 (48.6)
86.8

446.8 456.1 381.7 333.7
157.9 159.5
44.8 19.2 12.8 10.2

0.1

0.2

282.4 242.8

134.7

129.1 1.4 0.1

106.3 121.3

81.2 79.9

20.7 29.4 625.4 604.2

215.0 255.6 121.6 100.5

108.9 1,3
446.8

99.0 1.0
456.1

Other 2017 2016

Eliminations 2017 2016

Total 2017 2016

­46.9

­452.0 ­431.7 ­(452.0) ­(431.7) ­62.6

5,170.3 (0.0) 677.9 0.0 677.9 15.0 ­40.4
­158.1 494.4

4,490.7 (0.0) 524.2 0.0
524.2 16.8 ­26.3
­133.8 380.9

6.0

4.5 3,449.3 2,547.6

33.7 43.0 ­1,584.4 ­781.8 2,642.3 2,262.3

5.3

4.2

6,096.9 4,814.2

17.5 17.7 ­174.3 ­154.5 1,435.4 1,248.5

2,771.0 1,938.6

4,206.4 3,187.1

177.1 169.0

158.2 121.2

1,044.1 974.8 1,164.8 1,129.9
438.5 382.4 391.4 256.4 233.8 225.1 167.7 165.6 168.1 144.4 134.8 141.3 137.0 138.3 197.7 132.0 107.9 128.0 136.4 103.7 55.2 95.1
87.7 81.1 289.0 79.7
70.1 49.4 346.1 263.5 5,170.3 4,490.7

318.3 302.6

430.4 398.6

1,503.2 1,183.6

276.2 44.9

215.0 255.6

135.0

­

226.5 100.5

80.9 81.2

10.5 10.6

108.9 99.0

6.0

4.5 144.4 71.0

6.0

4.5 3,449.3 2,547.6

74

FAG E RH U LT A N N UA L R E P O RT 2 0 1 7

NOTES

Fagerhult has chosen to divide its operations into four business areas based on geographical regions and one business area covering other activities: ­ N orthern Europe. The business area comprises the Group's operations in the Nor-
dic and Baltic countries and Russia. The Group's plant in China, including manufacturing and purchasing, is also part of the business area. In Sweden and Finland, operations are comprised of development work, manufacturing and sales, while operations in other markets, with the exception of China, refer only to sales. ­ the UK and Ireland. The business area comprises our companies in the UK and Ireland. White croft Lighting and De signplan Lighting develop, manufacture and sell lighting systems. Other units engage in sales activities. ­ Western and Southern Europe This business area (previously Rest of Europe) includes operations in Germany, the Netherlands, France, Spain, Poland, Thailand, Switzerland and the US. The companies in WE-EF acquired during the year are also consolidated into this segment. The dominant operations are the German companies LTS Licht & Leuchten GmbH and LED Linear GmbH as well as WE-EF in Germany and Thailand, which develops, manufactures and sells lighting systems. Other units engage in sales activities. ­ Africa, Asia and the Pacific. The business area comprises the operations in Turkey, the United Arab Emirates (UAE), Australia, New Zealand and South Africa. The Australian, Turkish and South African operations develop, manufacture and sell lighting systems while the operations in the UAE refer to sales. ­ Other. This business area is mainly comprised of the Parent Company and certain Group-wide functions.

Information per product area
Indoor Lighting Retail Lighting Outdoor Lighting Total

SALES

2017

2016

2,975.2

2,979.0

1,139.6

1,124.8

1,055.5

386.9

5,170.3

4,490.7

Indoor Lighting This product area includes sales of indoor lighting for public environments, such as office s, schools, hospitals, industry, e tc.

Retail Lighting This product area includes sales of lighting systems, light sources and service to retail environments.

Outdoor Lighting This product area includes sales of outdoor products for the lighting of buildings, parks, recreational areas, pathways, etc.

The Group has no single customer where sales comprise more than 10 per cent of the Group's revenue.

Note 2 | Salaries, other remuneration and social security contributions

Parent Company Subsidiaries GROUP

Salaries and other remuneration

2017

2016

18.2

17.3

1,202.3

1,005.1

1,220.5

1,022.4

Social security contributions

2017

2016

13.1

13.9

293.7

246.1

306.8

260.0

(of which pension expenses)

2017

2016

(4.7)

(4.8)

(64.3)

(55.6)

(69.0)

(60.4)

Salaries and other remuneration to Board members, the CEO and senior management

Parent Company, 10 (11) employees Subsidiaries, 34 (28) employees GROUP

Salaries

(of which

and other

variable

remuneration remuneration)

2017

2017

22.3

(4.1)

73.7

(14.1)

96.0

(18.2)

Pension expenses
2017 2.3 8.9
11.2

Salaries

(of which

and other

variable

remuneration remuneration)

2016

2016

24.2

(4.7)

52.3

(7.7)

75.5

(12.4)

Pension expenses
2016 2.7 4.5 7.2

Remuneration to senior management during the year:
Parent Company Chairman of the Board, Jan Svensson Board Member, Eric Douglas Board Member, Cecilia Fasth Board Member, Morten Falkenberg Board Member, Catherina Fored Board Member, Fredrik Palmstierna President and CEO Other senior management (3 individuals)
Subsidiaries Other senior management (3 individuals) GROUP

Basic salary/

Variable

Board fees remuneration

0.6

­

0.5

­

0.3

­

0.3

­

0.3

­

0.3

­

4.5

1.8

5.3

2.3

12.1

4.1

5.5

1.2

17.6

5.3

Other benefits
­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ 0.1 0.2 0.3
0.2 0.5

Pension Share-based expenses payments

­

­

­

­

­

­

­

­

­

­

­

­

1.5

4.9

0.8

1.2

2.3

6.1

2.2

1.5

4.5

7.6

Total
0.6 0.5 0.3 0.3 0.3 0.3 12.8 9.8 24.9
10.6 35.5

Remuneration to the Board of Directors was determined at the 2017 AGM. No additional remuneration has been paid to the Board of Directors, with the exception of remuneration for travel expenses. Other senior management refers to the Group management and those individuals responsible for the various business areas. Other benefits refer to company cars.

Remuneration policy The Chairman of the Board and Board members receive Board fees in accordance with the resolutions of the AGM. Remuneration is not paid to members of the Board employed within the Group.

FAGER HULT ANNUAL R EPORT 2017

75

NOTES

Remuneration to the CEO is determined by the Board on the basis of proposals made by the Remuneration Committee. Remuneration to other senior management has been approved by the Remuneration Committee following proposals from the CEO.
Remuneration to the CEO and other senior management consists of basic salary, variable remuneration, company car bene fits and pensions. The balance between basic salary and variable remuneration is to be in proportion to the employee's responsibilities and authority.
For the CEO, annual variable remuneration is maximised at the equivalent of 50 per cent of fixed salary. The variable salary is based on the Group's earnings per share. In addition to the annual bonus, the CEO is covered by the performancebased share-savings plan described below.
For other senior management, annual variable remuneration is capped at 30­40 per cent of basic salary. Variable remuneration is typically based on improvement, compared to the previous year, in terms of each individual's respective responsibility for operating profit, the Group's earnings per share and the outcome of individual activity plans.
 Pensions The re tirement age of the CEO and other senior management is 65. De fine d- contribution pension insurance corre sponding to 35 per cent of the fixe d annual salary is paid for the CEO. Pension bene fits for other senior management are paid within the framework of the applicable ITP supplementary pension plan.  Severance Pay For the CEO, the notice period for termination of employment is six months if termination is initiated by the company and six months if initiated by the CEO If termination is initiated by the company without reason for termination, the CEO is entitled to severance pay corresponding to 12 months' salary. Severance pay is deducted against other earned income.
For other senior management, the notice period is 12 months if initiated by the company, and six months if initiated by the employee. No separate agreements exist regarding retirement age, future pension or severance pay to Board members and other senior management.  Performance-based share-savings plan The company's 2014 AGM resolved to implement a performance-based share- savings plan for the CEO, senior management and a number of key employees within the Group. Additional performance-based share-savings plans were then approved by the AGMs in 2015, 2016 and 2017. In the first plan, a total of 34 people

were offered the opportunity to participate, of which 31 accepted. In the second plan, 33 people were offered the opportunity to participate, of which 8 accepted. In the third plan, 35 people were offered the opportunity to participate, of which 28 accepted. In the fourth plan, 37 people were offered the opportunity to participate, of which 25 accepted.
Participation in the plan requires a personal investment in Fagerhult shares. Following, under normal circumstances, a three-year vesting period, a cost-free allocation of shares in Fagerhult can be made to the participants, provided that certain conditions are met.
In order for the share awards to be eligible for the allotment of shares, participants are required to remain in employment within the Group and to retain their entire investment in Fagerhult shares acquired within the framework of the plan during the vesting period. Some of the allocated share awards (known as performance share awards) also require meeting a financial performance target related to Fagerhult's average earnings per share. For the plan approved by the 2015, 2016 and 2017 AGMs, all share awards are so-called performance share awards, meaning that they are conditional on a financial performance target.
The 2014 plan was concluded in 2017. The conditions for the performance share awards pertaining to average earnings per share for 2014­2015 were fulfille d and 197,331 shares were allocated to the participants.
For the remaining three plans, in accordance with the conditions for the plans, the remaining participants have acquired a total of around 52,497 shares in Fagerhult. A total of approximately 159,000 share awards have been allocated to plan participants, of which 0 to the CEO and 159,030 to other senior management.
For the 2015 plan, the financial performance target pertains to average earnings per share for the 2015 to 2016 financial years, while the financial performance target for the 2016 plan pertains to average earnings per share for the 2016 to 2017 financial years and the financial performance target for the 2017 plan pertains to average earnings per share for the 2017 to 2018 financial years. For the 2015 plan, achievement of the financial performance targe t was 55.2 per cent, which implie d an allocation of 8,070 shares. Based on the profit for the year, this results in an impact of approximately SEK 0.01. Accordingly, a maximum of about 159,000 Fagerhult shares (including the 2015 plan) can be allocated under the terms of the three remaining plans. The valuation of the allocated share awards is based on the market price of the share at the time of allotment, with a deduction for the lack of dividend.
The total cost in 2017 for all share-savings plans was MSEK 7.3 (5.4) or SEK 0.06 (0.05) per share. Earnings per share at maximum allocation is estimated to be SEK 0.03 based on the profit for the year.

Note 3 | Interest income and similar profit/loss item
Interest income Exchange-rate gains Total Of which Group companies

GROUP

2017

2016

2.6

1.8

12.4

15.0

15.0

16.8

PARENT COMPANY

2017

2016

40.2

28.0

­

4.2

40.2

32.2

39.8

27.9

Note 4 | Interest expenses and similar profit/loss items
Interest expenses Exchange-rate losses Other financial expenses Total Of which Group companies

GROUP

2017

2016

35.3

21.9

1.9

­

3.2

4.4

40.4

26.3

PARENT COMPANY

2017

2016

31.5

17.1

8.9

­

3.2

2.8

43.6

19.9

0.4

0.6

76

FAG E RH U LT A N N UA L R E P O RT 2 0 1 7

NOTES

Note 5|Trade receivables
Maturity analysis of trade receivables outstanding Trade receivables, not yet due
Past-due trade receivables with no need for impairment: <3 months 3­12 months >12 months
Past-due trade receivables requiring impairment: <3 months 3­12 months >12 months
Provision for doubtful receivables Carrying amount
Change in provision for doubtful receivables Opening provision Acquisitions of subsidiaries Confirmed losses Reversed, unutilised provisions Provision for the year Translation differences Closing provision
Note 6 | Income from shares in subsidiaries
Dividends received Total
Note 7 | Depreciation/amortisation and impairment
Amortisation of intangible assets in the Group was MSEK 49.9 (27.2) and depreciation of property, plant and equipment totalled MSEK 108.3 (94.0). Impairment amounted to MSEK 0.0 (0.0). Depre ciation/amortisation and impairment are spe cifie d per function in the income statements as follows:
Brands Cost of goods sold Total
Other intangible assets Cost of goods sold Selling expenses Administrative expenses Total
Land and buildings Cost of goods sold Selling expenses Administrative expenses Total

GROUP

2017

2016

569.0

482.5

233.2 30.1
5.4 268.7
0.4 6.6 25.0 32.0
­32.0 837.7

233.8 40.2 4.8 278.8
0.4 4.8 22.9 28.1
­28.1 761.3

­28.1 1.3 2.0 0.7
­10.7 2.8
­32.0

­23.5 ­
0.6 1.3 ­8.0 1.5 ­28.1

PARENT COMPANY

2017

2016

­

­

­

­

­

­

­

­

­

­

­

­

­

­

­

­

­

­

­

­

­

­

­

­

­

­

­

­

­

­

­

­

­

­

­

­

­

­

PARENT COMPANY

2017

2016

143.3

46.9

143.3

46.9

GROUP

2017

2016

5.6

3.2

5.6

3.2

42.5

22.9

1.1

0.5

0.7

0.6

44.3

24.0

9.3

5.4

0.3

0.4

2.1

1.7

11.7

7.5

PARENT COMPANY

2017

2016

­

­

­

­

­

­

­

­

­

­

­

­

­

­

­

­

­

­

­

­

FAGER HULT ANNUAL R EPORT 2017

77

NOTES
Plant and machinery Cost of goods sold Total Equipment, fixtures and fittings Cost of goods sold Selling expenses Administrative expenses Total
Note 8 | Tax on profit for the year
Current tax Deferred tax Total Difference be twe en the Group's tax expense and the tax expense base d on current rate s Reported profit before tax Tax according to current tax rates Tax effect of non-deductible expenses Tax effect of non-taxable income Effe ct of foreign tax rate s Tax on profit for the year recognised in profit or loss
Note 9|Deferred tax
Deferred tax expense/income for the year Deferre d tax income referring to temporary difference s Deferre d tax e xpense referring to temporary difference s Total Temporary differences Temporary difference s referring to the following items have re sulte d in deferre d tax liabilities and deferred tax assets. These items have indefinite useful lives.
Deferred tax liabilities Surplus in acquired subsidiaries Other intangible assets Buildings Machinery and equipment Current receivables Untaxed reserves Non-current liabilities Current liabilities Total deferred tax liabilities Deferred tax assets Buildings Machinery and equipment Other financial asse ts Inventories Current receivables Pension provisions Non-current liabilities Current liabilities Total deferred tax assets Temporary differences relating to investments in subsidiaries for which deferred tax liabilities have not been recognised, as a sale would not result in taxation.
78

GROUP

2017

2016

60.3

58.0

60.3

58.0

12.3

13.2

13.7

7.4

10.3

7.9

36.3

28.5

PARENT COMPANY

2017

2016

­

­

­

­

­

­

­

­

­

­

­

­

GROUP

2017

2016

169.2

133.7

­11.1

0.1

158.1

133.8

652.5 143.6
7.1 ­9.4 16.8 158.1

514.7 113.2
11.1 ­7.1 16.6 133.8

PARENT COMPANY

2017

2016

42.6

31.5

­

­

42.6

31.5

343.5 75.6 0.3
­33.3 ­
42.6

188.8 41.5 0.3 ­10.3 ­ 31.5

GROUP

2017

2016

­17.3 6.2
­11.1

­14.1 14.2 0.1

PARENT COMPANY

2017

2016

­

­

­

­

­

­

GROUP

2017

2016

247.9 10.6 5.0 1.3 0.1 12.3 2.3 3.4 282.9

104.8 2.8 4.3 5.1 0.1
12.3 1.7 ­
131.1

1.3 0.1 0.4 6.1 1.1 6.9 2.8 13.2 31.9
1,190.2

­ ­ ­ 6.3 0.7 4.2 3.0 6.7 20.9
1,057.9

PARENT COMPANY

2017

2016

­

­

­

­

­

­

­

­

­

­

­

­

­

­

­

­

­

­

­

­

­

­

­

­

­

­

­

­

­

­

­

­

­

­

­

­

­

­

FAG E RH U LT A N N UA L R E P O RT 2 0 1 7

NOTES

Change in deferred tax assets Opening provision Change in temporary difference s re cognise d in profit or loss Change in temporary difference s re cognise d in e quity Translation differences Closing provision
Change in deferred tax liabilities Opening provision Acquisitions of subsidiaries Change in temporary difference s re cognise d in profit or loss Translation differences Closing provision

GROUP

2017

2016

20.9

23.5

10.0

­1.0

0.8

­1.6

0.2

31.9

20.9

131.1 148.7
­1.1 4.2 282.9

63.0 66.3 ­0.9
2.7 131.1

Note 10|Intangible assets
Goodwill Opening cost Acquisitions of subsidiaries Purchases Translation differences Closing accumulated cost Carrying amount

GROUP

2017

2016

1,626.1 214.3 3.6 ­13.0
1,831.0 1,831.0

1,257.8 355.2
13.1 1,626.1 1,626.1

Brands Opening cost Acquisitions of subsidiaries Purchases Translation differences Closing accumulated cost Opening amortisation Amortisation for the year Translation differences Closing accumulated amortisation Carrying amount

370.1 357.3
6.9 5.4 739.7 ­34.9 ­5.6
­ ­40.5 699.2

189.4 178.6
2.1 370.1 ­34.9 ­3.2
3.2 ­34.9 335.2

Other intangible assets Opening cost Acquisitions of subsidiaries Purchases Translation differences Closing accumulated cost Opening amortisation Acquisitions of subsidiaries Amortisation for the year Translation differences Closing accumulated amortisation Carrying amount

259.5 80.7 46.7 0.6
387.5 ­152.1
­10.4 ­44.3
­1.5 ­208.3 179.2

160.5 45.2 52.5 1.3
259.5 ­124.6
­1.4 ­24.0 ­2.1 ­152.1 107.4

The ite m Brands include s brands with book value s of MSEK 677.4 (306.6) and inde finite use ful live s. These assets are subject to annual impairment testing.
The item Other intangible assets includes capitalised expenditure for product development which is internally generated, at a carrying amount of MSEK 18.3 (13.4) and an IT system with a carrying amount of MSEK 70.7 (50.6).

PARENT COMPANY

2017

2016

­

­

­

­

­

­

­

­

­

­

­

­

­

­

­

­

­

­

­

­

PARENT COMPANY

2017

2016

­

­

­

­

­

­

­

­

­

­

­

­

­

­

­

­

­

­

­

­

­

­

­

­

­

­

­

­

­

­

­

­

­

­

­

­

­

­

­

­

­

­

­

­

­

­

­

­

­

­

­

­

FAGER HULT ANNUAL R EPORT 2017

79

NOTES

Construction in progress and advance payments Opening cost Land improvements during the year Reclassifications Carrying amount

GROUP

2017

2016

0.0

17.5

0.1

­

­

­17.5

0.1

0.0

PARENT COMPANY

2017

2016

­

­

­

­

­

­

­

­

Impairme nt te sting of goodwill and brands with inde finite use ful live s Goodwill and brands (with inde finite useful live s) are distribute d among the Group's cash-generating units (CGUs) and identifie d per segment as follows.

Northern Europe UK and Ireland Western and Southern Europe Africa, Asia and the Pacific Total

2017 154.1 256.6 1,731.1 366.6 2,508.4

GROUP 2016 151.5 257.9
1,127.3 396.0
1,932.7

Each year, the Group performs a test for each CGU to assess whether any need

Expenses

for impairment exists for goodwill and brands in line with the applied accounting The forecast of personnel costs is based on the expected inflation rate, increases

policies. The recoverable amount for each CGU is determined by value-in-use

in real salary (historical average) and the planned streamlining of the company's

c alculations, which comprise the present value of estimated future payments

production. The forecast is in line with previous experience and external sources

expected to arise from an asset during its useful life, including the calculated

of information.

residual value at the end of the asset's useful life. These calculations assume

estimated future cash flows based on financial forecasts for the coming five -year

Exchange rates

period, as approve d by management. To e xtrapolate cash flows beyond this

Exchange-rate forecasts are based on the current listed exchange rates and on

period, a growth rate of 1.0­2.5 per cent has be en applie d. The cash-flow me thod listed forward rates. The forecast is in accordance with external sources of infor-

has been applied.

mation.

Management has designated a budgeted operating margin based on the pre

vious results and on expectations of future market development. The discount

Variables applied

rate after tax which has been applied is 10 per cent (10). At present, the risk-free

Discount rate before tax of 10 per cent (10) for all CGUs except Africa, Asia and the

interest rate is historically low. After taking into account the risk-free interest rate Pacific where a rate of 12 per cent (12) is applie d.

and stock market risk premiums, the discount rate has been lowered compared

with the year earlier. It is estimated that the discount rate will apply for all seg-

Exchange rates

ments as the circumstances are, at the moment, similar.

EUR 9.58 (9.44)



GBP 10.97 (11.59)

Significant assumptions



Market share and growth

Sensitivity analysis

The current market share has been applied to future periods. Forecasts are based The recoverable amount exceeds the carrying amounts for goodwill by a signifi-

on previous experience and on external sources of information. The estimated

cant margin. This also applies to each individual assumption provided that:

growth rate used to extrapolate cash flows beyond the budget period was:

­ the discount rate before taxes was 1 per cent higher. 

Northern Europe

1.0 (2.0)%

­ the estimated growth rate used to extrapolate cash flows beyond the budget

UK and Ireland

1.0 (2.0)%

period was 0 per cent (0).

Western and southern Europe

2.5 (2.0)%

Afrika, Asia and the Pacific

2.0 (2.0)%

The most sensitive assumptions are the sales growth and cost trend. A change of

these assumptions by 1 per cent would not entail any impairment.

80

FAG E RH U LT A N N UA L R E P O RT 2 0 1 7

Note 11 | Property, plant and equipment
Land and buildings Opening cost Acquisitions of subsidiaries Purchases Sales and disposals Translation differences Closing accumulated cost Opening depreciation Acquisitions of subsidiaries Depreciation for the year Sales and disposals Translation differences Closing accumulated depreciation Carrying amount
Plant and machinery Opening cost Acquisitions of subsidiaries Purchases Sales and disposals Translation differences Closing accumulated cost Opening depreciation Acquisitions of subsidiaries Depreciation for the year Sales and disposals Translation differences Closing accumulated depreciation Carrying amount
Equipment, fixtures and fittings Opening cost Acquisitions of subsidiaries Purchases Sales and disposals Translation differences Closing accumulated cost Opening depreciation Acquisitions of subsidiaries Depreciation for the year Sales and disposals Translation differences Closing accumulated depreciation Carrying amount
Construction in progress and advance payments Opening cost Acquisitions of subsidiaries Land improvements during the year Reclassifications Translation differences Carrying amount
FAGER HULT ANNUAL R EPORT 2017

NOTES

GROUP

2017

2016

222.9 244.0
7.6 ­1.2 1.2 474.5 ­110.9 ­90.3 ­11.7 1.1 ­1.5 ­213.3 261.2

199.4 2.0 21.7 ­
­0.2 222.9 ­103.0
­0.2 ­7.5
­ ­0.2 ­110.9 112.0

856.7 133.5
74.9 ­8.7 ­2.1 1,054.3 ­648.7 ­118.7 ­60.3 8.5 1.4 ­817.8 236.5

824.2 20.8 59.7 ­36.0 ­12.0
856.7 ­631.2
­2.8 ­58.0 33.5
9.8 ­648.7 208.0

407.8 125.8
37.4 ­11.0
5.9 565.9 ­302.7 ­95.0 ­36.4
10.7 ­5.0 ­428.4 137.5

354.6 25.1 35.1 ­6.9 ­0.1 407.8
­266.2 ­12.1 ­28.5 5.3 ­1.2
­302.7 105.1

22.6

14.6

0.4

­

29.1

9.1

­2.1

­1.5

0.4

0.4

50.4

22.6

PARENT COMPANY

2017

2016

­

­

­

­

­

­

­

­

­

­

­

­

­

­

­

­

­

­

­

­

­

­

­

­

­

­

­

­

­

­

­

­

­

­

­

­

­

­

­

­

­

­

­

­

­

­

­

­

­

­

­

­

­

­

­

­

­

­

­

­

­

­

­

­

­

­

­

­

­

­

­

­

­

­

­

­

­

­

­

­

­

­

­

­

­

­

­

­

­

­

81

NOTES

Note 12|Financial assets
Shares and participations in subsidiaries Opening cost Acquisitions during the year Carrying amount
Receivables from subsidiaries Opening receivables Change during the year Closing receivables

PARENT COMPANY

2017

2016

616.6 ­
616.6

616.3 0.3
616.6

1,913.6 925.2
2,838.8

1,458.5 455.1
1,913.6

Other shares and participations Opening cost Acquisitions during the year Closing receivables
Other non-current receivables Opening receivables New receivables Paid receivables Closing receivables
The fair values of the Group's financial assets correspond with their carrying amounts.

GROUP

2017

2016

11.8

9.2

6.5

2.6

18.3

11.8

1.3

2.7

2.6

­

­

­1.4

3.9

1.3

PARENT COMPANY

2017

2016

­

­

­

­

­

­

­

­

­

­

­

­

­

­

Note 13 | Shares and participations in subsidiaries

De tails of wholly owne d subsidiarie s, their corporate identity numbers and registere d office s:

Subsidiaries: Fagerhults Belysning AB Fagerhult Retail AB Whitecroft Lighting Holdings Ltd, UK

Corporate Identity Number Registered office

556321-8659 556337-4924 03848868

Habo Bollebygd Ashton-under-Lyne

Elenco Lighting AB Cloud GmbH

556035-5090 HBR 78293

Borås Düsseldorf

Sub-subsidiaries: Fagerhults Belysning Sverige AB Ateljé Lyktan AB Fagerhult Belysning AS, Norway Fagerhult AS, Denmark Fagerhult OY, Finland I-Valo OY, Finland Fagerhult O, Estonia Fagerhult BV, Netherlands Waco NV, Belgium Fagerhult GmbH, Germany LTS Licht & Leuchten GmbH, Germany LED Linear GmbH, Germany LED Linear USA Inc, USA LED Linear UK Ltd, England Arlight Aydinlatma A.S., Turkey Lighting Innovations Africa (pty) Ltd, South Africa Whitecroft Lighting Ltd, UK Designplan Lighting Ltd, UK Fagerhult Lighting Ltd, UK Fagerhult Lighting Ltd, Ireland

556122-2000 556063-9634 937418906 63.128 0980280-0 1571418-8 10703636 96121 BE 0492.822.044 13135 B HRB 630906 HRB8188 SRV 131038296 8280741 790,361,767 2015/099974/07 03848973 00784246 3488638 98.834

Habo Åhus Oslo Ishöj Helsinki Iittala Tallinn IJsselstein Baaigem Hamburg Tettnang Neukirchen-Vluyn Niagara Falls London Kazan/Ankara Port Elizabeth Ashton-under-Lyne Sutton London Dublin

No. of shares Carrying amount

2,500 5,000 11,915 1,800
1

200.4 137.4 275.6
2.9 0.3

1000 2,000
100 65
6,000 2,020 5,400 2,250 9,400
1 1 1 3,000 150 50,000 1 2 360,300 40,000 100

1.0 4.4 0.5 2.1 0.1 83.9 1.6 10.3 20.1 10.3 672.3 514.5 54.3 29.5 318.4 16.5 3.6 120.6 0.5 5.6

82

FAG E RH U LT A N N UA L R E P O RT 2 0 1 7

NOTES

Fagerhult Sp.z.o.o, Poland Fagerhult France, France Fagerhult S.L., Spain Commtech Commissioning Services S.A., Spain Commtech Commissioning Services S.A., Peru Fagerhult Lighting System (Suzhou) Co. Ltd, China Eagle Lighting (Australia) Pty Ltd, Australia Organic Response Pty Ltd, Australia Fagerhult (NZ) Ltd, New Zealand Fagerhult SPb, Russia WE-EF Leuchten GmbH, Germany WE-EF Leuchten GmbH & Co. KG, Germany WE-EF Trading & Design GmbH, Germany WE-EF Lighting Co. Ltd, Thailand WE-EF Helvetica SA, Switzerland WE-EF Lighting Ltd, England WE-EF Lighting Pty. Ltd, Australia WE-EF Lighting USA LLC, USA WE-EF Lumiere S.A.S., France Flux Eclairage S.A.S, France

Corporate Identity Number Registered office

260213

Warsaw

391138385

Lyon

B84215722

Madrid

A83770263

Madrid

20601390486

Lima

3200044439

Suzhou

124400933

Melbourne

ACN618122

Melbourne

3233074

Christchurch

1097847074544

Saint Petersburg

HRB 101311

Bispingen

HRA 100660

Bispingen

HRB 101286

Bispingen

105524015230

Bangplee

CHE-115970534/CH-6

Geneva

5925012148

Nottingham

64570065

Braeside

2922528

Warrendale

398371088

Satolas-et-Bonce

504356346

Satolas-et-Bonce

No. of shares 1000 4,200 3,010
60,120 1 1
500,001 100 1 1 1 1 1
16,800 1,000
30,000 50,000
1 5,000 4,000

Carrying amount 0.1
33.1 15.6
7.2 0.0 22.0 32.5 5.1 0.2 0.0 3.4 313.2 0.3 132.8 11.1 3.9 110.0 27.9 202.8 52.5

Note 14 | Prepaid expenses and accrued income
Prepaid rent Insurance Licences Consultancy fees Supplier bonus Advertising and marketing Taxes and social security contributions Financial items Non-invoiced income Other items Total

GROUP

2017

2016

16.6

15.4

6.7

5.7

4.7

2.9

3.3

2.7

7.1

2.8

2.9

2.3

3.5

4.2

7.6

7.6

3.3

5.2

8.6

10.5

64.3

59.3

PARENT COMPANY

2017

2016

­

­

­

­

­

­

0.4

­

­

­

­

­

­

0.2

6.5

6.8

14.2

­

0.4

0.8

21.5

7.8

Note 15|Inventories, etc.
Raw materials and consumables Work in progress Finished products and goods for resale Advance payments to suppliers Total
Expenses arising for inventories that have been expensed are included in the item Cost of goods sold and amounted to 1,952.4 (1,802.7). Provision for obsolescence is included in the value of the inventories. Impairment amounted to 33.7 (43.2) and the amount recovered from previous years amounted to 9.3 (10.1).

GROUP

2017

2016

350.6

260.5

53.6

41.9

319.8

350.2

37.5

32.1

761.5

684.7

PARENT COMPANY

2017

2016

­

­

­

­

­

­

­

­

­

­

FAGER HULT ANNUAL R EPORT 2017

83

NOTES

Note 16 | Bank overdraft facilities and other borrowings

Agre e d bank overdraft facilitie s at year end amounte d to 250.0 (254.3) for the Group and 250.0 (250.0) for the Parent Company.

The Group's interest-bearing borrowings
Maturities for long-term loans: Within one year Between one and five years After five years Total

GROUP

2017

2016

4.8 2,378.6
306.0 2,689.4

133.2 1,452.1
300.0 1,885.3

PARENT COMPANY

2017

2016

2,354.2 306.0
2,660.2

133.0 1,442.3
300.0 1,875.3

Contracted interest rates on the closing date had contractual periods of three months.
Average contracted interest rate on borrowings: Long-term borrowings, SEK Long-term borrowings, EUR Long-term borrowings, GBP Long-term borrowings, ZAR Long-term borrowings, THB Total
Short-term borrowings, SEK Short-term borrowings, EUR Short-term borrowings, THB Short-term borrowings, GBP Total

2017

2017

2016

2016

Interest, % Liability, SEK Interest, % Liability, SEK

0.9

­

1.0

2,465.8

1.7

126.9

9.5

91.1

2.0

0.8

2,684.6

­

2.0

4.4

2.0

0.3

5.0

0.1

4.8

1.2

300.0

0.9

1,324.7

1.1

127.4

­

­

­

­

1,752.1

1.2

133.2

­

­

­

­

­

­

133.2

The carrying amount of the Group's borrowings corresponds with fair value, as the loans carry floating interest rates that are market-based.

Note 17 | Accrued expenses and deferred income
Accrued salaries and remuneration Customer bonuses Accrued social security contributions Claims Financial items Consultancy fees Rent Royalties Audit fees Shipping Repair and maintenance Temporary employees Other items Total

GROUP

2017

2016

151.1

127.4

55.2

73.8

36.1

33.4

15.8

16.0

23.3

42.4

17.1

7.9

11.6

12.3

6.6

6.3

3.6

3.4

4.3

4.0

3.8

2.4

4.6

2.2

38.7

23.5

371.8

355.0

PARENT COMPANY

2017

2016

7.7

7.7

­

­

4.0

2.7

­

­

2.7

4.0

1.2

1.3

­

­

­

­

­

­

­

­

­

­

­

­

0.2

0.1

15.8

15.8

Note 18|Pledged assets
For own liabilities Floating charges Real estate mortgages Total pledged assets

GROUP

2017

2016

­

4.3

47.2

3.0

47.2

7.3

PARENT COMPANY

2017

2016

­

­

­

­

­

­

Note 19|Contingent liabilities
Guarantee FPG Guarantees, customs authorities Guarantees for subsidiaries Total contingent liabilities

GROUP

2017

2016

0.9

0.9

0.6

0.6

­

­

1.5

1.5

PARENT COMPANY

2017

2016

­

­

­

­

45.4

46.0

45.4

46.0

84

FAG E RH U LT A N N UA L R E P O RT 2 0 1 7

NOTES

Note 20 | Provisions for pensions and similar commitments
Provisions for pensions PRI (interest-bearing) Provisions for other pensions Total

GROUP

2017

2016

65.9

64.9

24.3

3.4

90.2

68.3

PARENT COMPANY

2017

2016

­

­

­

­

­

­

Defined-benefit plans Within the Group there are de fine d-bene fit plans in Swe den, Turkey, Germany and France, whereby employe e s have the right to remuneration, after termination of employment, base d on final salary and length of service. The Group doe s not have any plan assets.
Pension insurance with Alecta ITP2 Plan commitments for retirement pensions and family pensions for salaried employees in Sweden are guaranteed through insurance with Alecta. According to a statement from the Swedish Financial Reporting Board, UFR 10, Classification of ITP plans finance d by insurance in Ale cta, this is a de fine d-be ne fit multi- employer plan. For the 2017 financial year, the company did not have access to information that would enable it to report its proportional share of the plan's obligations, plan assets and costs, which means the plan could not be reported as a defined-benefit plan. The ITP 2 pension plan which is secured through insurance with Alecta is, therefore, reported as a defined-contribution plan. Premiums for

de fine d-bene fit re tirement and family pensions are calculate d individually and depend, inter alia, on the insured party's salary, previously earned pension rights and remaining length of service. Expected fees for the next reporting period for ITP 2 insurance with Alecta amount to MSEK 25.0 (2016: MSEK 20.2). The Group's share of the total contributions to the plan is negligible. The collective funding ratio is the market value of Alecta assets as a percentage of insurance commitments calculated according to Alecta's actuarial methods and assumptions, which do not comply with IAS 19. The collective consolidation level is normally allowed to vary between 125 and 155 per cent. If Alecta's collective consolidation level falls below 125 per cent or exceeds 155 per cent, actions must be taken to create the conditions enabling the consolidation level to revert to the normal interval. For low consolidation levels, one measure could be raising the contractual premiums for taking up new insurance and e xpanding e xisting bene fits. With a high level consolidation, one measure could be to implement premium reductions. At the end of 2017, Alecta's surplus in the form of the collective consolidation level was 154 per cent (2016: 149 per cent).

DEFINED-BENEFIT PLANS The amounts recognised in the consolidated income statement are: Current service cost Interest expenses Total
Spe cification of change s in ne t de bt re cognise d in the consolidate d balance she e t: Net debt at beginning of year recognised in the approved balance sheet Acquisitions of subsidiaries Ne t cost re cognise d in profit or loss Benefit payments Settlement of pension plan Actuarial gains (­)/losses (+) Net debt at year end
The amounts recognised in the balance sheet are determined as follows: Present value of commitments Net debt at year end
TOTAL PENSION COSTS Total pension costs recognised in the consolidated income statement: Total costs for de fine d-be ne fit plans Total costs for defined-contribution plans Total pension costs
Pension costs are allocated in the consolidated income statement among the following items: Cost of goods sold Selling expenses Administrative expenses Financial expenses Total
ACTUARIAL ASSUMPTIONS Significant actuarial assumptions as of the closing date (expressed as weighted averages) Discount rate Future annual pension growth rate
Assumptions regarding future life expectancy are based on the insurance study DUS14.

2017
1.2 1.8 3.0
68.3 23.0
3.0 ­2.8 ­3.5 2.2 90.2
90.2 90.2

2016
­ 1.6 1.6
66.4 ­
1.6 ­2.6
­ 2.9 68.3
68.3 68.3

3.0

1.6

66.0

58.8

69.0

60.4

22.9

17.2

30.5

29.4

13.8

12.2

1.8

1.6

69.0

60.4

2.15% 1.90%

2.00% 1.50%

FAGER HULT ANNUAL R EPORT 2017

85

NOTES
Note 21|Other liabilities
Other liabilities pertain exclusively to liabilities for estimated earnout payments.
LED Linear GmbH, Germany LED Linear USA Inc, USA LED Linear UK Ltd, England Lighting Innovations (pty) Ltd, South Africa Total Change in liabilities for estimated earnout payments. Opening liabilities Liabilities paid: Arlight Aydinlatma A.S., Turkey Lighting Innovations (pty) Ltd, South Africa LED Linear GmbH, Germany New liabilities: LED Linear GmbH, Germany LED Linear USA Inc, USA LED Linear UK Ltd, England Reversal of liabilities in profit or loss: Arlight Aydinlatma A.S., Turkey Lighting Innovations (pty) Ltd, South Africa Translation differences Closing liabilities
Note 22 | Reconciliation of net debt
Net debt and changes in net debt are analysed below
Cash and cash equivalents Borrowings ­ due in <12 months (incl. overdraft facility) Borrowings ­ due in >12 months Net debt Cash and cash equivalents Borrowings ­ floating intere st Net debt
GROUP
Net debt at 1 January 2016 Cash flow Exchange-rate differences Net debt at 31 December 2016 Cash flow Exchange-rate differences Net debt at 31 December 2017
PARENT COMPANY
Net debt at 1 January 2016 Cash flow Net debt at 31 December 2016 Cash flow Net debt at 31 December 2017
86

GROUP

2017

2016

132.2

189.0

10.5

12.4

19.3

­

37.1

162.0

238.5

238.5

51.5

­ ­12.9 ­58.6

­10.0 ­ ­

­

189.0

­

12.4

18.6

­

­ ­23.9
0.3 162.0

­11.3 ­
6.9 238.5

PARENT COMPANY

2017

2016

­

­

­

­

­

­

­

­

­

­

­

­

­

­

­

­

­

­

­

­

­

­

­

­

­

­

­

­

­

­

­

­

GROUP

2017

2016

949.9

731.6

­4.8

­133.2

­2,684.6

­1,752.1

­1,739.5

­1,153.7

949.9 ­2,689.4 ­1,739.5

731.6 ­1,885.3 ­1,153.7

PARENT COMPANY

2017

2016

547.9

184.8

­

­133.0

­2,660.2

­1,742.3

­2,112.3

­1,690.5

547.9 ­2,660.2 ­2,112.3

184.8 ­1,875.3 ­1,690.5

Cash and cash equivalents/
overdraft facility 471.9 252.2 7.5 731.6 224.2 ­5.9 949.9

Borrowings due
<12 months ­1.3
­131.9 ­
­133.2 128.4 ­ ­4.8

Borrowings due
>12 months ­1,340.9 ­411.2 ­ ­1,752.1 ­932.5 ­ ­2,684.6

Total ­870.3 ­290.9
7.5 ­1,153.7
­579.9 ­5.9
­1,739.5

Cash and cash equivalents/
overdraft facility 49.8
135.0 184.8 363.1 547.9

Borrowings due
<12 months
­133.0 ­133.0
133.0 0.0

Borrowings due
>12 months ­1,321.1 ­421.2 ­1,742.3 ­917.9 ­2,660.2

Total ­1,271.3
­419.2 ­1,690.5
­421.8 ­2,112.3

FAG E RH U LT A N N UA L R E P O RT 2 0 1 7

NOTES

Note 23 | Purchases and sales between Group companies and other related parties
The Parent Company's total income from operations of MSEK 14.2 (18.0) refers to remuneration from subsidiaries for services performed. There have been no other purchases between the Parent Company and the subsidiaries or other related parties. Remuneration to members of the Board, the CEO and other senior management is reported in Note 2.

Note 24 | Average number of employees
Parent Company
Subsidiaries Sweden UK Germany Turkey South Africa Australia Thailand China France Finland Norway Spain The Netherlands USA United Arab Emirates Denmark Russia Poland Belgium Estonia New Zealand Ireland Switzerland Slovakia Total in subsidiaries Group total
Board members and senior management
Group Board members CEO and other senior management
Parent Company Board members CEO and other senior management

Number 6

2017 Men % 67

749

64

713

73

555

72

176

86

172

70

169

66

148

61

129

32

93

76

57

61

47

72

42

74

32

84

28

72

27

74

26

69

25

40

18

89

10

80

8

63

6

100

5

80

2

0

­

­

3,235

69

3,241

69

2017

Number

Men %

6

67

38

87

6

67

4

75

2016

Number

Men %

6

67

732

64

729

72

359

71

151

84

200

70

121

61

­

­

162

33

19

63

62

63

46

74

31

81

32

78

9

64

24

67

27

63

26

38

19

84

11

73

8

63

5

80

4

75

­

­

4

50

2,781

67

2,787

67

2016

Number

Men %

6

67

33

85

6

67

4

75

Note 25 | Operational leasing agreements
Leasing fees for the year
The nominal value of future minimum leasing fees for non-cancellable leasing agreements Within one year Between one and five years After five years Total In the consolidated accounts, operating leases essentially comprise leased properties/premises. Of the leasing fees for the year and future leasing fees, properties/premises accounted for MSEK 552.1 (533.5).

GROUP

2017

2016

84.5

82.6

88.1 208.7 237.3 534.1

84.8 194.1 235.3 514.2

PARENT COMPANY

2017

2016

0.1

0.2

0.1

0.1

0.2

­

­

­

0.3

0.1

FAGER HULT ANNUAL R EPORT 2017

87

NOTES

Note 26 | Remuneration to auditors
PricewaterhouseCoopers Audit Audit activities other than audit assignment Tax consulting Total

GROUP

2017

2016

4.6

4.2

0.7

1.3

2.0

1.8

7.3

7.3

Other accounting firms Audit Audit activities other than audit assignment Tax consulting Total

1.7

1.1

0.1

0.3

0.5

0.3

2.3

1.7

Out of the remuneration to the auditors for 2017 the following relate s to the audit firm Öhrlings Pricewaterhouse Coopers AB: Audit 1.7 MSEK, audit activities other than audit assignment 0.7 MSEK and tax consulting 1.3 MSEK.

PARENT COMPANY

2017

2016

0.3

0.3

­

­

0.5

0.5

0.8

0.8

­

­

­

­

­

­

­

­

Note 27 | Expenses by nature
Raw materials and consumables Change s in inve ntorie s of finishe d products and goods for re sale, and work in progre ss Expense s for employe e bene fits (Note s 2 and 20) Transportation expenses Expenditure for own properties and rented premises Advertising and selling expenses External services Temporary employees Travel expenses Consumables Own vehicle expenses Contract manufacturing Depreciation/amortisation and impairment (Notes 7, 10 and 11) Other costs Total
The total amount for raw materials and consumables refers to capitalised inventory values.

GROUP

2017

2016

1,933.7

1,863.6

18.7

­60.9

1,527.3

1,282.4

103.4

96.7

118.4

99.4

123.0

97.0

65.6

96.4

66.0

58.4

48.8

44.0

43.5

41.2

47.4

41.4

21.3

19.1

158.2

121.2

274.7

216.3

4,550.0

4,016.2

PARENT COMPANY

2017

2016

­

­

­

­

31.3

31.2

­

­

1.2

1.2

0.7

1.2

6.0

13.7

­

­

1.3

1.2

0.4

0.3

0.4

0.5

­

­

­

­

6.3

5.1

47.6

54.4

Note 28 | Expenses for product development
Expensed overheads for product development

GROUP

2017

2016

181.6

143.1

PARENT COMPANY

2017

2016

­

­

Note 29|Hedging
A certain portion of the expected inflow of foreign currencies is hedged. Currency hedges are primarily made using currency forward contracts. This refers primarily to payments from foreign subsidiaries. The total hedging of future payments involving the most sensitive net flows in foreign currencies, as compared with the expected flows during the coming seven months was, as per the closing date, NOK 73 per cent, EUR 39 per cent, GBP 44 per cent, AUD 42 per cent, CNY 41 per cent and PLN 83 per cent. The nominal value of these hedging contracts was MNOK 60.0 (4.5), MEUR 3.5 (0.9), MGBP 2.8 (1.2), MAUD 1.8 (0.0), MCNY 28.0 (6.4) and MPLN 4.6 (0.0). The Group does not apply hedge accounting for these contracts. Had the

Group redeemed its outstanding contracts on the closing date at the current forward rate, the earnings impact would have been a negative amount of MSEK 0.2 (pos: 0.1). The Group applies hedge accounting where the purchase consideration for acquired companies has to some extent been financed through borrowing in the acquired company's local currency. Net assets abroad that are subject to hedge accounting amount to MSEK 504 (796) and accumulated borrowings of MSEK 217 (215). Translation differences that affected comprehensive income amounted to an expense of MSEK 1.8 (expense: 9.8) before deferred tax of MSEK 0.4 (2.2).
Refer also to Note 34.

88

FAG E RH U LT A N N UA L R E P O RT 2 0 1 7

NOTES

Note 30 | Changes in the Group's composition ­ Acquisitions

Acquired companies WE-EF and Flux As announce d previously in the reports for the first and se cond quarters, which were published on 3 May and 17 August 2017 respectively, Fagerhult has acquired 100 per cent of the shares in WE-EF based in Bispingen, Germany and in Flux Eclairage based in Lyon, France. The companies have been consolidated in the Fagerhult Group from 1 March 2017 and reported under the business area Western & Southern Europe. Refer also to the press releases dated 23 December 2016 and 9 March 2017 as well as the 2016 Annual report.These acquisitions mean that the Group's sales from outdoor applications have an extrapolated value in excess of SEK 1 billion and that Outdoor Lighting's share of net sales is around 20 per cent.
WE-EF de signs and manufacture s outdoor lighting fixture s for a wide range of lighting application sectors. The company has two manufacturing units in Germany and one in Thailand together with assembly facilities in Australia and France. Sales activities primarily take place in Europe, particularly in Germany and France but also in other regions such as Australia, the UK, and the US. WE-EF is a leading brand in outdoor lighting with global recognition. Due to its extremely strong portfolio of outdoor lighting solutions, the company is highly reputed in the industry. This reputation is based on a long history of extremely innovative outdoor solutions designed and realised in Germany.
During the financial year that ended June 2016, WE-EF had 484 employees. The group had sales of MEUR 57 and profitability on a par with the Fagerhult Group. Fagerhult paid MEUR 83.9 for 100 per cent of the shares in the companies in the WE-EF group. Moreover, Fagerhult paid MEUR 5 for 100 per cent of the shares in the French outdoor lighting company Flux Eclairage S.A.S., which like WE-EF LUMIERE is locate d in Lyon, France. In the financial year that ende d 31 De cember 2015, Flux Eclairage had sales of around MEUR 5 and 20 employees.
The acquisition of WE-EF was financed through new credit facilities and 5 per cent was paid for through existing treasury shares in AB Fagerhult. The acquisition of Flux was financed solely through new credit facilities.
The WE-EF group companies included in the acquisition were; ­ WE-EF Leuchten GmbH; Bispingen, Germany ­ WE-EF Leuchten GmbH & Co. KG; Bispingen, Germany ­ WE-EF Trading & Design GmbH; Bispingen, Germany ­ WE-EF Lumiere S.A.S; Satolas-et-Bonce, France ­ WE-EF Lighting Co. Ltd; Bangplee, Thailand ­ WE-EF Helvetica SA; Geneva, Switzerland ­ WE-EF Lighting Ltd; Nottingham, UK ­ WE-EF Lighting Pty. Ltd; Braeside, Australia ­ WE-EF Lighting USA LLC; Warrendale, USA Also included: ­ Flux Eclairage S.A.S.; Satolas-et-Bonce, France.
Based on our analysis, goodwill (including labour) amounts to approximately MEUR 20.1, or approximately 35 per cent of the total proportional fair value of the identifie d asse ts. Identifie d asse ts primarily comprise te chnology MEUR 5.6, brands MEUR 37.3, customer relationships MEUR 1.2 and land MEUR 7.9. Goodwill comprises labour and the opportunities created through future product offerings, new markets and customers. Goodwill is supported by WE-EF group's growth potential and strong market position.
Synergies include the following: · S ales synergies, where the Fagerhult Group can achieve increased sales through marketing WE-EF's range of lighting solutions to the group's customers. · Cost synergies, where Fagerhult can obtain lower prices on components from suppliers, who WE-EF share, mainly related to higher purchase volumes. · Cost synergies, where Fagerhult can conduct product improvements based on WE-EF's experiences in the manufacture of outdoor products. · Synergies in product development, where Fagerhult can take advantage of WE-EF's technology and know-how with other outdoor products.

The company had an impact of MSEK 501.1 on Group sales and an impact of MSEK 23.0 on consolidated net profit, before transaction costs. If the company had been part of the Group from the beginning of the year, this would have meant an increase in sales and a net profit of around MSEK 600 before transaction of about MSEK 27.

The assets and liabilities arising from the acquisition Cash and cash equivalents Property, plant and equipment Financial assets Intangible assets Inventories Receivables Liabilities Deferred tax liabilities Net assets Net assets acquired Cash purchase consideration Cash and cash equivalents in the acquired company Change in consolidated cash and cash equivalents on acquisition

Fair value 73.2 199.0 3.5 426.8 115.8 116.6
­151.6 ­148.7 634.6 634.6 827.0 ­73.2 753.8

The nominal value of the acquired receivables was MSEK 116.6 and the fair value amounted to MSEK 116.6. Transaction costs amounted to MSEK 23.6 and were recognised under the item Administrative expenses in the Q4 2016 income statement.

Organic Response As part of the Fagerhult Group's strategy for developing lighting control solutions that meet the markets' and customers' needs within this technology segment and with the aim of increasing sales of the Group's luminaire brands, on 3 April 2017, Fagerhult acquired the intellectual property rights and certain assets of Organic Response Pty Ltd (Administrators Appointed) and Organic Response Investors Pty Ltd (Administrators Appointed).
These rights and assets pertain to the lighting control solution known under the brand name Organic Response.
Fagerhult paid MSEK 21.9 for the rights and the other assets. The acquired assets were valued at MSEK 18.2
Based on our analysis, goodwill (including labour) amounts to approximately MSEK 3.7. The identified assets comprise technology MSEK 11.9, brand MSEK 5.5 and other assets MSEK 0.8. Goodwill comprises labour and the opportunities create d through future product offerings, new marke ts and customers. Goodwill is supported by the growth potential of Organic Response and its strong market position.The business has been consolidated in the Fagerhult Group from 1 May 2017 in the business area Africa, Asia and the Pacific.

LED Linear UK On 4 September 2017, the Fagerhult Group acquired the remaining 49 per cent of the shares in LED Linear UK whereupon, this successful UK sales company became a wholly owned subsidiary.
In the first stage, Fagerhult paid MSEK 10.4 for 100 per cent of the shares in LED Linear UK, and a further MSEK 18.6 may be paid out depending on the company's performance over the three-year period until March 2020. The acquired assets were valued at MSEK 7.1 and the difference of MSEK 21.9 was recognised as goodwill. Transaction costs amounted to MSEK 0.5 and were recognised under the item Administrative expenses in the Q3 2017 income statement.
The business has been consolidated in the Fagerhult Group from 1 September 2017 and reported under the business area Western & Southern Europe.

The consideration consists of the following components:

Cash paid

781.4

Paid with Fagerhult treasury shares (476,922 shares)

45.6

Total consideration

827.0

Net assets acquired 

634.6

Goodwill192.4

FAGER HULT ANNUAL R EPORT 2017

89

NOTES

Note 31|Share capital
The share capital in AB Fagerhult totals SEK 65,535,000 (65,535,000) distributed amongst 115,650,000 (38,550,000) shares, with a quotient value of SEK 0.57 (1.70) per share. The number of treasury shares was 1,157,778, with a quotient value of
Change in the number of shares outstanding Number of shares outstanding at beginning of year 3-for-1 share split Allocation of treasury shares; refer to Note 2 and 30 Number of shares outstanding at year end

SEK 656,074. All shares outstanding entitle the holder to equal participation in the Parent Company's assets and profit and are fully paid-up. Each share entitles the holder to one vote.

2017

2016

37,939,323 75,878,646
674,253 114,492,222

37,863,051 ­
76,272 37,939,323

Note 32|Parent Company
The Parent Company's business name is Aktiebolaget Fagerhult. The company is a limited liability company, registered with the Swedish Companies Registration Office, with its registered office in the County of Jönköping, the Municipality of Habo, and with the Corporate Identity Number 556110-6203. The company's visiting address is Fagerhult, Habo, Sweden. AB Fagerhult is the Parent Company in
Ownership structure (at 31 Dec 2017) Shareholder Investment AB Latour SSB CL Omnibus AC, USA (US) The Svensson family, foundation and company Lannebo Fonder Swedbank fonder The Palmstierna family Nordea Fonder SEB Fonder NTC Fidelity Funds (US) La Financière de l'Echiquier (FR) Small business funds, Nordic (FI) Johan Hjertonsson Other Number of shares outstanding at the end of the period

the Fagerhult Group, one of Europe's leading lighting groups. The Group develops, manufactures and markets lighting systems for public environments. At year end, AB Fagerhult had approximately 5,559 shareholders. The ten largest shareholders together hold 84.1 (86.1) per cent of the shares outstanding.

No. of shares 55,861,200 9,758,859 7,944,557 7,595,314 5,076,126 3,018,600 2,404,217 2,020,131 1,325,439 1,275,000 1,114,300 813,537 16,284,942
114,492,222

% 48.8
8.5 6.9 6.6 4.4 2.6 2.1 1.8 1.2 1.1 1.0 0.7 14.2 100.0

Note 33 | Proposed appropriation of profits

The Group's retained earnings according to the consolidated balance sheet amount to MSEK 1,818.7 (1,495.2).

The following profits are at the disposal of the AGM: Profit brought forward Net profit for the year To be carried forward

174.5 300.9 475.4

The total number of dividend-bearing shares on 14 March 2018 amounted to 114,492,222. The Board of Directors proposes that the profit be appropriated as follows:

To be distributed as dividends to shareholders, SEK 2.00 per share To be carried forward Total

229.0 246.4 475.4

90

FAG E RH U LT A N N UA L R E P O RT 2 0 1 7

NOTES

Note 34|Risks
FINANCIAL RISKS Currency risk Currency risk arises when future business transactions, or reported assets or liabilities, are expressed in a currency which is not the Group's functional currency.
Transaction exposure The Group's transaction exposure arises primarily in the Swedish companies where a large proportion of revenue is generated by the global sales organisation and is not in SEK. Other companies mainly conduct operations in their national markets where revenue and costs are in the same currency.
Aside from currency risks on sales by the Swedish companies, risks also arise from the import of raw materials and components. Altogether, the Swedish companies have a surplus inflow of foreign currency. The direct commercial foreign exchange flow, after net calculations of flows in the same currencies, shows a surplus of MSEK 351 (474). In addition to this, there is also an indirect impact in conjunction with the purchase of raw materials and components. This results, over time, in a lower net exposure for the Group.
The Group's policy is to hedge all significant net cash flows. Incoming flows of foreign currency should be used for payment in the same currency. In addition, a ce rtain portion of the anticipate d ne t inflow from sale s and purchase s is he dge d by means of forward contracts after individual asse ssment at 50 per cent for the coming six-month period. On statistical assessment of the foreign-exchange position, a change in the Swedish krona against other currencies of 1 per cent, with all other variables being constant, would impact the Group's earnings by about MSEK 4 (5). The financial instruments are managed by the Parent Company's senior management.
Translation exposure Currency risk also arises in conjunction with the translation of foreign net assets and earnings, so-called translation exposure. This currency risk is not hedged and refers, primarily, to the translation of foreign subsidiaries' income statements and balance sheets. Earnings from foreign subsidiaries are translated into Swedish krona based on the average exchange rate for the year. The exposure of the Group's net assets outside of Sweden has increased as operations there have changed from previously pertaining to sales companies, to now also including production units. At the closing date, net assets in foreign companies corresponded to MSEK 1,904 (1,583) including goodwill.The Group applies hedge accounting where the purchase consideration for acquired companies has to some e xte nt be e n finance d through borrowing in the acquire d company's local currency.Net assets abroad that are subject to hedge accounting amount to MSEK 504 (796) and accumulate d borrowings of MSEK 217 (215).Translation difference s that affe cte d comprehensive income amounte d to an e xpense of MSEK 1.8 (expense: 9.8) before deferred tax of MSEK 0.4 (2.2).
A weakening of the Swedish krona by 1 per cent with all other variables remaining constant would result in an increase in equity of MSEK 19 (16) largely due to gains/losses on the translation of EUR and GBP. A change in the Swedish krona of 1 per cent against other currencies would result in a direct impact on net sales in the subsidiaries of approximately MSEK 39 (30) whilst the impact on results in the foreign subsidiaries would be MSEK 3 (3).
Interest-rate risk Fagerhult holds no significant interest-bearing assets, which is the reason the Group's income and cash flow from operating activitie s are, in all material aspects, independent of changes in market interest rates.

The Group's interest-rate risk arises in conjunction with long-term borrowing. In addition to pension liabilities of MSEK 90.2 (68.3), interest-bearing liabilities totalled MSEK 2,689.4 (1,885.3) and cash and cash equivalents were MSEK 949.9 (731.6). Borrowing on the basis of floating inte re st rate s e xpose s the Group to interest-rate risk as regards cash flow. Borrowing on the basis of fixed interest rates implies an interest-rate risk for the Group in terms of fair value. During 2017 and 2016, the Group's borrowings largely comprised loans with three -month fixed interest rates.
The Group analyses its exposure to interest-rate risk on a dynamic basis. Various scenarios are simulated, whereby refinancing, re-negotiation of existing trading positions, alternative financing and he dging are taken into consideration. Based on these scenarios, the Group calculates the earnings impact from a given change in interest rates. In each simulation, the same change in the interest rate is applied for all currencies. The scenarios are simulated only for those liabilities comprising the largest interest-bearing positions. Simulations performed show that the earnings impact of a 1 percentage point change would be a maximum of MSEK 18, with the current capital structure. The simulation is conducted quarterly to verify that the maximum possible loss is within the limits established by the executive management.
If interest rates on borrowing in Swedish krona as of 31 December 2017 had been 10 points higher/lower, but all other variables had been constant, then gains after tax for the financial year would have been MSEK 2.7 (1.9) higher/lower, primarily as an effect of higher/lower interest expenses for borrowings with floating interest rates.
Credit risks Credit risks are managed at Group level. Credit risks arise if the counterparty does not fulfil its commitments in conjunction with lending within the framework of cash management policies and through credit exposure to clients and banks, including receivables and agreed transactions. If the Group's customers have received a credit rating from an independent rating institution, these ratings are used. Where no independent credit assessment exists, a risk assessment is made of the customer's credit status in which the entity's financial position is considered, as well as previous experience and other factors. Individual risk limits are set based on internal or external credit ratings, in accordance with the limits set by the Group management. The application of credit limits is frequently reviewed. No s ignificant losses occurred in either 2017 or 2016. The majority of receivables from customers are guaranteed through credit insurance. A total provision of MSEK 32.0 (28.1) was made for those trade receivables not expected to be received.
Liquidity risk Liquidity risk is managed by ensuring that the Group has sufficient cash and cash equivalents and short-term investments in a liquid market, available financing through agreed credit facilities and the possibility to close market positions. The Group has a strong financial position. At present, no new borrowing requirements exist, but should such requirements arise, there is currently no difficulty in obtaining external credit, as long as such credit meets certain covenants, on the borrower, such as debt-to equity and interest coverage ratio, which are at present satisfied.
Management also meticulously follows rolling forecasts for the Group's liquidity reserve on the basis of anticipated cash flows.
The table below presents an analysis of the Group's financial liabilities to be settled net, specified according to the contractual time to maturity, as of the closing date. The amounts stated in the table are the contractual, undiscounted cash flows. Amounts falling due within 12 months correspond with the carrying amounts, as the effect of discounting is negligible.

As of 31 December 2017 Repayment of bank loans Interest payments Trade payables and other liabilities 1
As of 31 December 2016 Repayment of bank loans Interest payments Trade payables and other liabilities 1

Less than 1 year
4.8 35.5 981.9

Between 1 and 2 years
770.4 31.9 142.7

Between 2 and 3 years
426.6 26.8 19.3

Between 3 and 4 years
788.2 23.1 ­

133.2 16.8
863.9

655.5 16.0
159.2

382.7 8.1
79.3

413.9 7.0 ­

1) Of this amount, MSEK 412.2 (354.1) pertained to Trade payables the majority of which fall due within 30 days of the closing date.

Between 4 and 5 years More than 5 years

393.4 11.3 ­

306.0 5.1 ­

300.0

3.7

2.7

­

­

FAGER HULT ANNUAL R EPORT 2017

91

NOTES

Capital risk The Group's objective with regard to the capital structure is to secure the Group's ability to continue operating, so that it can continue to generate returns for shareholders and benefits for other stakeholders, and to maintain an optimal capital structure to keep the cost of capital down. To maintain or adjust the capital structure, the Group may change the dividend paid to shareholders, repay capital to shareholders, issue new shares or sell assets to reduce debt. The Group monitors capital on the basis of debt/equity ratio. This ratio is calculated as interest-bearing liabilities in relation to equity. The debt/equity ratio at 31 December 2017 was 2.2 per cent (1.9).
OPERATIONAL RISKS Price risk Price risk in the Group's operations primarily arise in conjunction with the purchase of input material used in manufacturing. Dominant components, such as electronic control systems and sheet metal, have the single greatest impact on the cost of manufactured products, excluding processing costs. The Group's exposure to price risk on financial instruments is minimal.
Risk associated with plants and inventories In addition to the above risks, all of which, in principle, impact the Fagerhult Group's cash flows, restricted capital in both non-current assets and inventories is also exposed to risk. Rationalisations and a high level of utilisation of investments made have meant the value of capitalised assets has been possible to maintain at a comparatively low level. Consequently, the risk of a permanent impairment of non-current assets is considered unlikely. Risks associated with inventories are primarily related to obsolescence resulting from overproduction and out-of-date technology. Fagerhult's business concept includes customer- order driven production. This implies flexible production in which the need for inventories is reduced and with that, the risk of obsolescence.
IT security As computer-aided technology has assumed an increasingly greater scope within the companies, security requirements have also increased. The functional security of the databases and e-mail servers is checked via daily backups. Battery backup and diesel generators provide protection against operational disruption in the main manufacturing facility in Habo from where the majority of the Group's computer operations are controlled. To date, no costs have arisen as a result of damage. The interne t conne ction is fixe d and comple tely isolate d from other ne tworks via hardware firewalls. Access via public networks is secured via security devices. User access to the system is regulated via Group authorisations and entitlements based on actual assignments and roles within the company.
Insurance The Fagerhult Group purchases and manages Group-wide insurance policies for property and liability risks, thereby creating co-ordination gains and cost advantages.
SUSTAINABILITY RISKS In various ways, Fagerhult's operations are associated with sustainability risks. In conjunction with the preparation of the Sustainability Report, the most significant sustainability risks in our own operations and in our value chain were identifie d. The analysis re sulte d in an numbe r of areas among those state d in the Swedish Annual Accounts Act where the operations significantly impact people and the environment: the environment; personnel; social conditions; respect for human rights; and anti-corruption.

The environment On the environmental side, financial risks are associate d with rising energy costs. Therefore, Fagerhult continuously improve s energy e fficiency across all operations and diligently follows and estimates the need for energy.
Personnel To create safe and healthy workplaces means that the employees do not risk being harmed. This is a core belief for Fagerhult. Based on procedures and guidelines, intensive and proactive efforts are driven to minimise risk in the work environment. This is partly to build a safety culture and attitude whereby employees look to their own and their colleagues safety.
Social conditions and human rights Social risks apply mainly to a lack of respect for human rights in countries where Fagerhult operates. The Group's Code of Conduct forms the basis for everything we do and how we act. The Code of Conduct has been translated into a number of languages, for example Chinese, and all employees -- current and new -- are introduced to its contents.
Anti-corruption Zero tolerance for corruption applies to all operations in the Fagerhult Group. The risks associated with corruption comprise not only the generally negative effect on a community, but also the risks that could impact the Group, for example fines and reputational damage as well as lost business and customers. The Code of Conduct is the basis for Fagerhult's ongoing work with this issue, which is also of central importance for acquisitions. Further support is available in the form of the Group's anti-corruption policy, whereby online training is now mandatory for employees who, for example, work with purchasing and sales.
Sustainable supply chain Both social and environmental risks can arise along the supply chain, often associated with the type of product or service being produced. Each of the Group's brands owns and is responsible for its own supply chain. They are also responsible for acquiring knowledge of the suppliers' operations, for example, through dialogue, self assessments and site visits. The normal approach is to apply the prudence concept for all partnerships.
Product development The main risk for the Group's product development comprises inadequate product quality, which can, in the worst case scenario, lead to someone being harmed. In other cases it could lead to the Group's reputation being negatively impacted and lost customers. A quality policy together with product development guidelines is in place to minimise risk in terms of product quality. These are complemented by regular product quality training.
Note 35 | Events after the balance-sheet date
Between the closing date and the date on which this annual report was signed, no significant events or information has arisen concerning the circumstance s per the closing date or thereafter, which may have a positive or negative effect on the Group, or any of the companies contained therein, and which require any further disclosures, other than those provided above.

92

FAG E RH U LT A N N UA L R E P O RT 2 0 1 7

SIGNATURES

Signatures

The Board of Directors and the CEO certify that the consolidated accounts have been prepared in accordance with international financial reporting standards, IFRS, as adopted by the EU, and that they provide a true and fair view of the Group's financial position and the results of its operations. The annual report has been prepared in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles in Sweden and provides a true and fair view of the Parent Company's financial position and results.

The administration report for the Group and Parent Company provides a true and fair overview of the development of the Group's and the Parent Company's operations, financial position and results, and describes significant risks and uncertainty factors facing the Parent Company and other companies within the Group.
The income statements and balance sheets will be submitted for adoption at the AGM on 23 April 2018.

Habo, 14 March 2018

Jan Svensson Chairman

Eric Douglas Vice Chairman

Cecilia Fasth Board member

Morten Falkenberg Board member

Catherina Fored Board member

Fredrik Palmstierna Board member

Johan Hjertonsson President and CEO

Magnus Nell Employee Representative

Lars-Åke Johansson Employee Representative

Our audit report was submitted on 15 March 2017 Öhrlings PricewaterhouseCoopers AB

Peter Nyllinge Authorised Public Accountant
Auditor-in-Charge

Martin Odqvist Authorised Public Accountant

FAGER HULT ANNUAL R EPORT 2017

93

AUDITOR'S REPORT

Auditor's report
To the general meeting of the shareholders of AB Fagerhult, Corporate Identity Number 556110-6203

REPORT ON THE ANNUAL ACCOUNTS AND CONSOLIDATED ACCOUNTS
Opinions
We have audited the annual accounts and consolidated accounts of AB Fagerhult for the year 2017. The annual accounts and consolidated accounts of the company are included on pages 46­93 in this document.
In our opinion, the annual accounts have been prepared in accordance with the Annual Accounts Act and present fairly, in all material respects, the financial position of parent company as of 31 December 2017 and its financial performance and cash flow for the year then ended in accordance with the Annual Accounts Act. The consolidated accounts have been prepared in accordance with the Annual Accounts Act and present fairly, in all material respects, the financial position of the group as of 31 December 2017 and their financial performance and cash flow for the year then ended in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS), as adopted by the EU, and the Annual Accounts Act.
A Corporate Governance Report has been prepared. The information provided in this Corporate Governance Report and in the statutory administration report is consistent with the other parts of the annual accounts and consolidated accounts, the information in the Corporate Governance Report is in accordance with the stipulations of the Annual Accounts Act.
We, therefore, recommend that the general meeting of shareholders adopt the income statement and balance sheet for the parent company and group.
Our opinions in this report on the annual accounts and consolidated accounts are consistent with the content in the supplementary report presented to the parent company's and group's Audit Committees in accordance with the Auditors Ordinance (537/2014), article 11.
Basis for Opinions
We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards on Auditing (ISA) and generally accepted auditing standards in Sweden. Our responsibilities under those standards are further described in the Auditor's Responsibilities section. We are independent of the parent company and group, in accordance with the professional ethics for accountants in Sweden, and have, otherwise, fulfilled our ethical responsibilities in accordance with these requirements. This includes that, based on our best knowledge and belief, no disallowed services as stipulated in the Auditors Ordinance (537/2014), article 5.1, have been provided to the audited company or, as applicable, its parent company, nor as regards the companies it controls within the EU.
We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our opinions.

Our audit approach The focus and scope of the audit
We designed our audit by determining materiality and assessing the risks of material misstatement in the consolidated financial statements. In particular, we considered where management made subjective judgements; for example, in respect of significant accounting estimates that involved making assumptions and considering future events that are inherently uncertain. As in all of our audits, we also addressed the risk of management override of internal controls, including, among other matters, consideration of whether there was evidence of bias that represented a risk of material misstatement due to fraud.
We tailored the scope of our audit in order to perform sufficient work to enable us to provide an opinion on the consolidated financial statements as a whole, taking into account the structure of the group, the accounting processes and controls, and the industry in which the group operates.
Fagerhult's operations are undertaken in slightly less than 30 countries around the world. Each of the local operations has their own finance function reporting to the head offices in Sweden.
Even if the operations are quite distributed, the four entities, Fagerhults Belysning AB, Fagerhults Belysning Sverige AB, Whitecroft Lighting Ltd. in the UK and LTS Lich & Leuchten GmbH in Germany, together, comprise a decisive portion of the entire group. It was both natural and necessary to execute a full audit on these four entities. In Sweden, the audit was executed by the group team, while in the UK and Germany the local PwC teams executed the audits. The group team has studied the work undertaken by these local unit auditors to ensure that sufficient audit work has been performed, but has also communicated on an ongoing basis with the local teams to maintain a clear understanding of the manner in which the audits have been executed. In addition to these four units, after consultation with Fagerhult's Board of Directors and group management, it was determined that the group audit was to include a further 29 units where full audits have been executed. A total of 16 of these units in the various countries have been audited by the PwC network.
As regards just a few companies, whose combined operations represent only a very limited portion of the total operations of the group, the group audit team has undertaken analytical procedures. Local statutory audits have been executed on all of the entities in the group with such requirements even if the entity in question has not been included in the reporting on the audit of the consolidated accounts, or has not been included in the audit time schedule.
In addition, the group team has audited the group consolidation, the group's annual financial statements and a number of complex transactions and issues. These have included acquisition analyses and impairment testing of intangible assets with indefinite useful lifetimes, brands and goodwill.
Our overall conclusion is that we have evidenced that sufficient

94

FAG E RH U LT A N N UA L R E P O RT 2 0 1 7

AUDITOR'S REPORT

audit activities have been executed, and that such activities have taken place primarily through the utilisation of PwC's own network.
Materiality
The scope of our audit was influenced by our application of materiality. An audit is designed to obtain reasonable assurance whether the financial statements are free from material misstatement. Misstatements may arise due to fraud or error. They are considered material if individually, or in aggregate, they could reasonably be expected to influence the economic decisions of users taken on the basis of the financial statements.
Based on our professional judgement, we determined certain quantitative thresholds for materiality, including the statements

as a whole. These, together with qualitative considerations, helped us to determine the scope of our audit and the nature, timing and extent of our audit procedures, and to evaluate the effect of misstatements both individually, and in aggregate, on the financial statements as a whole.
Key audit matters Key audit matters of the audit are those matters that, in our professional judgment, were most significant in our audit of the annual accounts and consolidated accounts of the current period. These matters were addressed in our audit of, and in forming our opinion thereon, the annual accounts and consolidated accounts as a whole, but we do not provide a separate opinion on these matters.

KEY AUDIT MATTER
Valuation of intangible assets with indefinite useful lifetimes, brands and goodwill
On page 72 in the section, Significant Estimates and Assumptions, amongst the Accounting Principles and in Note 10, Fagerhult describes its valuation of intangible assets with indefinite useful lifetimes which are comprised of brands and goodwill.
Of the group's balance sheet total, MSEK 2 508 or 41% is comprised of intangible assets with indefinite useful lifetimes. As these assets are not amortised on an ongoing basis, an impairment test is to be exe cuted at least once a year. Fagerhult undertook such a test during the fourth quarter 2017.
Such a test includes the assumptions undertaken regarding, amongst other things, future growth, profitability and the discount factor. In other words, the assessments and estimations which are required to be made by the management and Board of Directors are complex.
As these tangible assets comprise a significant amount and the required assumptions include assessments and estimations which, taken individually, can have a decisive influence on the valuation, this is a particularly significant area for the audit.

HOW OUR AUDIT ADDRESSED THE KEY AUDIT MATTER
As a first step, we determined, together with PwC's valuation specialists, that the applied impairment tests, one per segment, were implemented according to established principles and methods.
The assumptions of greatest importance to the impairment tests which were made by the management and Board of Directors, referred to growth, profitability and the discount rates. We have assessed these assumptions by comparing these factors against Fagerhult's budget and strategic plan, and also against historical outcome. We have also undertaken an independent assessment with the starting point on the premises of the markets in which the cash generating units operate. We have checked the discount rates against observable market data.
We have also examined significant assumptions to determine if they are consistent with previous years.
With the starting point being the impairment tests, we implemented simulations and undertook sensitivity analyses in order to understand the manner in which a given change could impact the values and which could indicate a possible impairment requirement. These tests have also provided the basis of our control of the information provided in Note 10 of the annual report.
As a final, overall control, we have compared the company's stock market value in relation to its calculated net realisable value.
In conclusion, in our audit of the valuation of intangible assets with indefinite useful lifetimes, that is, the brands and goodwill, we have made no observations which are significant to the audit as a whole.

Acquisition analysis regarding WE-EF and Flux Eclairage
Fagerhult publically announced its acquisition of WE-EF and Flux Eclairage on 9 March 2017. The acquisition is described in detail in Note 30. As stated in this Note, the total price, including the calculated additional purchase price, is MSEK 827.
Reported equity in the companies amounted, at point of acquisition, to MSEK 285 which implies that the company management and Board of Directors would, at that point in time, have allocated an excess value of MSEK 542. This allocation is based on the fair value of the assets and liabilities in WE-EF and Flux Eclairage at point of acquisition.
The calculation of such an allocation, that is an acquisition analysis, includes a number of estimations and assessments, each of which can have a significant impact on the reported assets and liabilities.
Both the size and complexity of the estimations required in the acquisition analysis has implied that we deem this matter to be of major significance in the audit.

We have, together with PwC's valuation specialists, examined the acquisition analysis to ensure that it has been prepared on the basis of accepted principles and models.
When we examined the analysis, we found that Fagerhult had identified the assets we expected to be identified based on our experience from previous acquisitions, similar companies and our industry knowledge.
We examined to determine that the factors applied in quantifying the fair value of the assets, such as future cash flows, discount rates, and assumed useful lifetimes were also in line with accepted practice and what we could expect. We could also conclude that the factors were consistent with previous years' assessment in other acquisitions.
Finally, we have also examined the information provided by Fagerhult in Note 30.
Based on our examination of the acquisition analysis, we made no observations which were significant to the audit in its entirety.

FAGER HULT ANNUAL R EPORT 2017

95

AUDITOR'S REPORT

KEY AUDIT MATTER

HOW OUR AUDIT ADDRESSED THE KEY AUDIT MATTER

Obsolescence in the inventories due to technological developments
On page 70 under the heading, "Inventories", and in Note 34, Fagerhult describes the valuation and risks associated with the inventories.
Fagerhult manufactures products which are primarily based on LED technology. There continues to be a rapid development of this technology in which the next LED generation can be both cheaper and more energy effective than with previous generation.
As a result of this, management and the Board of Directors are required to evaluate and assess the manner in which LED technological changes will impact the demand for the existing inventories during future years.
That it has been of significance in the audit to examine obsolescence arising from technology development is due to the fact that the value of the inventories is significant, with a total book value of MSEK 724, and is also due to the fact that the management's and Board of Director's obsolescence assessments include estimations and judgments.

The respective subsidiaries in Fagerhult have the responsibility of assessing the requirement of an obsolescence write-down that can arise in the inventories. This applies as it is the local companies' management who can best estimate market conditions.
Consequently, we have instructed each local audit team to undertake a special examination to ensure that correct provisions are reported. In the case there is a so-called general obsolescence scale, we have examined to ensure that this has been applied consistently between years and has been updated with regard to changed premises.
As a change in technology can take place very rapidly, it is not entirely certain that the requirement of an obsolescence write-down is identified via traditional analyses of slow moving inventory items. Consequently, we have also obtained confirmation regarding obsolescence by executing other audit activities, for example, by reviewing the minutes of Board Meetings, by being present at stock-taking, and through our understanding of the industry and of new product and market developments. We have also studied and analysed the follow-up and monitoring undertaken by group management in this context
Everything considered, we have made no observations of significance to the audit as a whole in our audit of the obsolescence in the inventories.

Other information than the annual accounts and consolidated accounts
This document also contains other information than the annual accounts and consolidated accounts and is found on pages 1­45 and 98­101. The Board of Directors and the Managing Director are responsible for this other information.
Our opinion on the annual accounts and consolidated accounts does not cover this other information and we do not express any form of assurance conclusion regarding this other information.
In connection with our audit of the annual accounts and consolidated accounts, our responsibility is to read the information identified above and consider whether the information is materially inconsistent with the annual accounts and consolidated accounts. In this procedure we also take into account our knowledge otherwise obtained in the audit and assess whether the information otherwise appears to be materially misstated.
If we, based on the work performed concerning this information, conclude that there is a material misstatement of this other information, we are required to report that fact. We have nothing to report in this regard.
Responsibilities of the Board of Directors and the Managing Director
The Board of Directors and the Managing Director are responsible for the preparation of the annual accounts and consolidated accounts and for ensuring that they provide a fair presentation in accordance with the Annual Accounts Act and, concerning the consolidated accounts, in accordance with IFRS as adopted by the EU. The Board of Directors and the Managing Director are also responsible for such internal control as they determine necessary

to enable the preparation of annual accounts and consolidated accounts that are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error.
In preparing the annual accounts and consolidated accounts, The Board of Directors and the Managing Director are responsible for the assessment of the company's and the group's ability to continue as a going concern. They disclose, as applicable, matters related to going concern and to applying the going concern basis of accounting. The going concern basis of accounting is, however, not applied if the Board of Directors and the Managing Director intend to liquidate the company, to cease operations, or have no realistic alternative but to do so.
Auditor's responsibility
Our objectives are to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the annual accounts and consolidated accounts as a whole are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error, and to issue an auditor's report that includes our opinions. R easonable assurance is a high level of assurance, but is not a guarantee that an audit conducted in accordance with ISAs and generally accepted auditing standards in Sweden will always detect a material misstatement when it exists. Misstatements can arise from fraud or error and are considered material if, individually or in the aggregate, they could reasonably be expected to influence the economic decisions of users taken on the basis of these annual accounts and consolidated accounts.
A further description of our responsibility for the audit of the annual accounts and consolidated accounts is available on the Swedish Inspectorate of Auditors' website: www.revisorsinspektionen.se/revisornsansvar. This description is part of the auditor's report.

96

FAG E RH U LT A N N UA L R E P O RT 2 0 1 7

AUDITOR'S REPORT

REPORT ON OTHER LEGAL AND REGULATORY REQUIREMENTS
Opinions
In addition to our audit of the annual accounts and consolidated accounts, we have also audited the administration of the Board of Directors and the Managing Director of AB Fagerhult for the year 2017 and the proposed appropriations of the company's profit or loss.
We recommend to the general meeting of shareholders that the profit be appropriated in accordance with the proposal in the statutory administration report and that the members of the Board of Directors and the Managing Director be discharged from liability for the financial year.
Basis for Opinions
We conducted the audit in accordance with generally accepted auditing standards in Sweden. Our responsibilities under those standards are further described in the Auditor's Responsibilities section. We are independent of the parent company and the group in accordance with professional ethics for accountants in Sweden and have otherwise fulfilled our ethical responsibilities in accordance with these requirements.
We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our opinions.
Responsibilities of the Board of Directors and the Managing Director
The Board of Directors is responsible for the proposal for appropriations of the company's profit or loss. At the proposal of a dividend, this includes an assessment of whether the dividend is justifiable considering the requirements which the company's and the group's type of operations, size and risks place on the size of the parent company's and the group's equity, consolidation requirements, liquidity and position in general.
The Board of Directors is responsible for the company's organization and the administration of the company's affairs. This includes among other things continuous assessment of the company's and the group's financial situation and ensuring that the

company's organization is designed so that the accounting, management of assets and the company's financial affairs otherwise are controlled in a reassuring manner. The Managing Director shall manage the ongoing administration according to the Board of Directors' guidelines and instructions and, among other matters, shall take measures necessary to ensure that the company's accounting is executed in accordance with the law, and shall handle the management of assets of the company in a reassuring manner.
Auditor's responsibility
Our objective concerning the audit of the administration, and thereby our opinion about discharge from liability, is to obtain audit evidence to assess, with a reasonable degree of assurance, whether any member of the Board of Directors or the Managing Dire ctor in any material re spe ct: · has undertaken any action or been guilty of any omission which
can give rise to liability to the company, or · has, in any other manner, acted in contravention of the Compa-
nies Act, the Annual Accounts Act or the Articles of Association.
Our objective concerning the audit of the proposed appropriation of the company's profit or loss and thereby, our opinion about this, is to assess with reasonable degree of assurance whether the proposal is in accordance with the Companies Act.
Reasonable assurance is a high level of assurance, but is not a guarantee that an audit conducted in accordance with generally accepted auditing standards in Sweden will always detect actions or omissions that can give rise to liability to the company, or that the proposed appropriation of the company's profit or loss is not in accordance with the Companies Act.
A further description of our responsibility for the audit of the administration is available on the Swedish Inspectorate of Auditors' website: www.revisorsinspektionen.se/revisornsansvar. This description is part of the auditor's report.
Öhrlings PricewaterhouseCoopers AB, Torsgatan 21, 113 97 Stockholm, was appointed AB Fagerhult's auditors by the general meeting of shareholders held on 3 May 2017. We have served as auditors in the company for more than 20 years.

Jönköping, 15 March 2018 Öhrlings PricewaterhouseCoopers AB

Peter Nyllinge Authorized Public Accountant
Auditor in Charge

Martin Odqvist Authorized Public Accountant

FAGER HULT ANNUAL R EPORT 2017

97

SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION

Shareholder information

2018 Annual General Meeting
The Annual General Meeting of shareholders in AB Fagerhult will be held on Monday 23 April 2018, at 5:00 p.m. in Fagerhult, Habo.
Registration
Shareholders wishing to take part in the Annual General Meeting of shareholders must be registered in the shareholders' register kept by Euroclear Sweden AB on Tuesday, 17 April 2018 and register their intention to take part in the meeting to Fagerhult no later than 17 April 2018.
Registrations can be made via e-mail to arsstamma@fagerhult.se or by telephone on +46 8-522 359 75 or by post to AB Fagerhult, SE-566 80 Habo, Sweden. Shareholders who have registered their shares with a nominee shareholder must, in good time prior to 17 April 2018, t emporarily re-register the shares in their own name, through the nominee shareholder, to have the right to participate in the general meeting of shareholders.
The notification must include the shareholder's name, personal/corporate identity number, address, telephone number and registered shareholding and, where applicable, information about representatives and assistants. If participation is by proxy,

this proxy must be sent to Fagerhult before the AGM.
Dividend The Board of Directors proposes to the AGM a dividend of SEK 2.00 per share. The proposed record date is 25 April 2018. In the event that the AGM adopts this proposal, the dividend will be distributed through the offices of Euroclear Sweden AB starting on 30 April 2018.
Nomination Committee The Nomination Committee for the 2018 AGM comprises the following members: · J an Svensson, Chairman of AB Fagerhult · Eric Douglas, Investment AB Latour, · Göran Espelund, Lannebo Fonder. · E vert Carlsson, Swedbank Robur Small
business fund · J an Särlvik, Nordea Fonder.
In order for the Nomination Committee to consider a proposal, it must be submitted well in advance of the AGM. Proposals may be submitted to the Nomination Committee by post to:
AB Fagerhult Att: Michael Wood Tegelviksgatan 32 SE-116 41 Stockholm, Sweden

Financial information 2018 · 23 April 2018, 2018 AGM · 23 April 2018, Interim report for Q1, 2018 · 22 August 2018, Interim report for Q2, 2018 · 23 October 2018, Interim report for Q3, 2018
Distribution policy A printed copy of the Annual Report is available upon request and can be ordered by sending an e-mail to ir@ fagerhult.se or by calling +46 36-10 85 00. All of Fagerhult's annual reports from previous years are available at www.fagerhultgroup.com
IR contact Michael Wood, CFO +46 8-522 359 48 ir@fagerhult.se
News, reports and share price performance Follow us by subscribing to our press releases and financial reports by e-mail and text message. You are also able to obtain information on the share's price performance. Register at www.fagerhultgroup.com

98

FAG E RH U LT A N N UA L R E P O RT 2 0 1 7

DEFINITIONS

Definitions A to Z

Number of employees Average number of full-time equivalents.
Return on equity Profit or loss according to the income statement as a percentage of the average (reported) equity.
Return on capital employed Profit/loss after financial items plus financial expenses in relation to the average capital employed.
Equity per share Equity divided by the number of shares outstanding.
Cash flow per share Cash flow from operating activities for the year divided by the average number of shares outstanding.

Liquid ratio Cash and cash equivalents in relation to current liabilities.
Cash and cash equivalents Cash and bank balances and short-term investments.
Net investments Investments for the year in property, plant and equipment, less income from the sale of non-current assets.
Net debt Interest-bearing liabilities less cash and cash equivalents.
Earnings per share Earnings according to the income statement in relation to the average number of shares out standing.

Operating margin Operating profit in relation to net sales.
Net debt/equity ratio Net debt in relation to equity.
Equity/assets ratio Equity in relation to total assets.
Capital employed Total assets less  non-interest-bearing liabilities.
Profit margin Profit after financial items in relation to net sales.
Other current assets The item refers to interim receivables, advance payments to suppliers, other receivables and Group receivables.

FAGER HULT ANNUAL R EPORT 2017

99

INDUSTRY GLOSSARY

Industry glossary

Luminaire power: Stated in watts (W) and is the total system power for a luminaire.
Luminaire Luminous Flux: The total light output in lumens (lm) that a luminaire emits.
Luminaire Luminous Efficacy: Defined as the ratio between luminaire luminous flux and luminaire power of an LED luminaire and stated in lumens per watt (lm/W).
Lighting Europe: The European trade association for luminaire and light source manufacturers.
DALI: (Digital Addressable Lighting I nterface) A standardised protocol for digital control.
Failure fraction ­ Fy: The failure of f raction at nominal lifetime and is given in per cent. For example, at 15 per cent failures, a factor of F15 is stated.
Color Rendering Index: Indicated as CRI on a scale from 0 to 100 and is a measure of a light source's ability to reproduce colours.
IP class: Specifies the degree of protection against access to live electrical parts and how waterproof and dustproof the luminaires are. Stated as IP f ollowed by two digits, e.g. IP23.
LEED: (Leadership in Energy and Environmental Design) is an international system for environmental certification for buildings. The certification focuses on reducing the use of resources such as land, water, energy and building materials.

LED: (Light-Emitting Diode) is a semiconductor light source. LED lights have long lifespans and high energy efficiency. The light is formed by electro luminescence.
Luminous Flux: The amount of visible light emitted from a light source. Measured in lumens (lm).
Luminous Intensity: Specifies the amount of light that radiates in a certain direction. Measured in candela (cd).
Luminous Intensity Distribution: The light distribution of a luminaire which is measured according to the CIE standard and stated in cd/1,000 lm. Reported in the table or with polar plot.
Luminous efficiency: Measurement of a light source's efficiency and is calculated as the luminous flux divided by the power the light source consumes (wattage). Measured in lumens per watt (lm/W).
LLMF: (Lamp Lumen Maintenance F actor). The light source's maintained luminous flux at any given time.
LMF: (Luminaire Maintenance Factor) Specifies the luminaire's pollution degree for a number of burning hours.
LSF: (Lamp Survival Factor) Specifies the number of light sources that still shine in a facility at any given time. (Expected shortfall of high quality LEDs can be assumed negligible and this f actor then becomes 1.0.)

Luminance: Indicates how bright a surface is dependent on the light reflected from an object in a specific direction. Measured in Candela per m2 (cd/m2).
MF: (Maintenance factor) The ratio between maintained illuminance and initial illuminance.
Rated Life: Defined as the number of burning hours after which a given part of the initial light output remains. Today, life expectancy is given as the number of hours when 70 per cent of the initial luminous flux remains and is designated as L70.
OLED: Abbreviation of organic light emitting diode.
PWM: (Pulse Width Modulation) A technique for light control with pulse width modulation recommended for LED.
Ra: An index that indicates light sources' ability to render colours. Given on a scale from 0 to 100 where 100 indicates perfect colour reproduction.
RGB technique: A technique whereby mixing red, green and blue light can create white light or coloured light of a user's choice.
UGR: (Unified Glare Rating) An international method developed by CIE to calculate an index of discomfort glare.
ZHAGA: An open consortium with the purpose of developing industry standards for LED components.

Production: Fagerhult in partnership with Intellecta Corporate. Printing: Elanders NRS Tryckeri 2018. Photography: Johnér/Maskot Bildbyrå AB (Inside cover), Helén Karlsson (page 5, 60, 62), Joel Dittmer/Studio Dittmer (page 6, 39), Shutterstock (page 8, 10, 11), Ralph Alphonso for WE-WF (page 9), James Newton for WE-EF (page 9), Frieder Blickle for WE-EF (page 9), Ulf Celander (page 11), Johnér/Magnus Ragnvid (page 14) Pirjo Lindfors (page 16), David Holmqvist (page 16), Johan Jansson (page 16, 25), Getty Images/Yagi Studio (page 19), Bjoern Lauen (page 22), Liz Leyden (page 23), www.cloud9.photos (page 23), Christian Philips Photography (page 24), Pittaya Nontapaoraraya (page 25), Johnér/Lina Karna Kippel (page 26), Jupiterimages (page 32), Michel Kievits (page 34), Marie Peterson (page 41), Other photos: Fagerhults Image Bank.

100

FAG E RH U LT A N N UA L R E P O RT 2 0 1 7

ADDRESSES

AB Fagerhult (publ) SE-566 80 Habo, Sweden Tel: +46 36 10 85 00 www.fagerhultgroup.com info@fagerhult.se
Fagerhults Belysning AB Åvägen 1, SE-566 80 Habo, Sweden Tel: +46 36 10 85 00 Fyrvaktaregatan 7 SE-296 81 Åhus, Sweden Tel: +46 44 28 98 00
Ateljé Lyktan AB Fyrvaktaregatan 7 SE-296 81 Åhus, Sweden Tel: +46 44 28 98 00 www.atelje-lyktan.se info@atelje-lyktan.se
Fagerhults Belysning Sverige AB SE-566 80 Habo, Sweden Tel: +46 36 10 85 00
Fagerhult Retail AB Rinnavägen 12 SE-517 33 Bollebygd, Sweden Tel: +46 33 722 15 00 retail-info@fagerhult.se
Fagerhult AS Sluseholmen 8A DK-2450 Copenhagen Denmark Tel: +45 43 55 37 00 www.fagerhult.dk post@fagerhult.dk
Fagerhult Belysning AS Strandveien 30, Pb 471 NO-1327 Lysaker Norway Tel: +47 22 06 55 00 www.fagerhult.no kundeservice@fagerhult.no
Fagerhult Oy Mannerheimintie 113 FI-00280 Helsinki Finland Tel: +358 9 777 1580 www.fagerhult.fi info@fagerhult.fi
I-Valo Oy Tehtaantie 3 b FI-14500 Iittala Finland Tel: +358 10 501 3000 www.i-valo.com info@i-valo.com

Fagerhult Lighting Ltd 33­34 Dolben Street London SE1 0UQ UK Tel: +44 207 403 4123 www.fagerhult.co.uk light@fagerhult.co.uk
Fagerhult Lighting Ltd Unit F1, Calmount Park Ballymount Dublin 12 Ireland Tel: +35 3 1426 0200 www.fagerhult.ie info@fagerhult.ie
Whitecroft Lighting Limited Burlington Street Ashton-under-Lyne Lancashire OL7 OAX UK Tel: +44 870 5087 087 www.whitecroftlighting.com email@whitecroftlight.com
Designplan Lighting Ltd 16 Kimpton Park Way Kimpton Business Park Sutton, Surrey SM3 9QS UK Tel: +44 208 254 2000 www.designplan.co.uk sales@designplan.co.uk
LTS Licht & Leuchten GmbH Waldesch 24 DE-88069 Tettnang Germany Tel: +49 75 42 / 93 07-0 www.lts-licht.de
LED Linear GmbH Pascalstr. 9 DE-47506 Neukirchen-Vluyn Germany Tel: +49 2845 98462-0 www.led-linear.com info@led-linear.com
LED Linear USA, Inc. 2186 Liberty Drive Niagara Falls NY 14304 USA Tel: +1 646 688 2714 www.led-linear.com usa@led-linear.com

LED Linear UK Ltd 8 Century Court Tolpits Lane, Watford Herts WD18 9RS UK Telephone +44 1923 618300 UK@led-linear.com
WE-EF LEUCHTEN GmbH Töpinger Straße 16 29646 Bispingen Tel: +49 5194 909-0 info.germany@we-ef.com
WE-EF LEUCHTEN GmbH & Co. KG Bispingen
WE-EF Trading & Design GmbH Bispingen
WE-EF LIGHTING Co. Ltd 57 Moo 5, Kingkaew Rd., Bangplee 10540 Samutprakarn Thailand Tel: +66 2 738 9610 info.asiapacific@we-ef.com
WE-EF HELVETICA SA Chemin Malombré 5 1206 Geneva Switzerland Tel: +41 22 752 4994 info.switzerland@we-ef.com
WE-EF LIGHTING Ltd Suite 2c, East Bridgford Business Park, Kneeton Road, East Bridgford NG13 8PJ Nottingham Tel: +44 844 880 5346
WE-EF LIGHTING Pty. Ltd 6/13 Downard Street 3195 Braeside, Victoria Australia
WE-EF LIGHTING USA LLC 410/D Keystone Drive Warrendale, PA 15086 USA Telephone + 1 724 742 0030
WE-EF LUMIERE S.A.S. ZAC de Chesnes Nord 6 Rue de Brisson CS80330 38290 Satolas et Bonce
FLUX ECLAIRAGE S.A.S. 6 Rue de Brisson CS80330 38290 Satolas et Bonce

Waco N.V. Hundelgemsesteenweg 80 BE-9890 Baaigem-Gavere Belgium Tel: +32 9362 4494 www.waco.be info@waco.be
Fagerhult OÜ Artelli 10c EE-10621 Tallinn Estonia Tel: +372 6 507 901 www.fagerhult.ee fagerhult@fagerhult.ee
Fagerhult France 105, Avenue Jean Jaurès Bâtiment B5 FR-69600 Oullins France Tel: +33 4 3722 6410 www.fagerhult.fr info@fagerhult.fr
Fagerhult BV Lichtschip 19, Postbus 320 NL-3990 GC Houten Netherlands Tel: +31 30 688 99 00 www.fagerhult.nl lighting@fagerhult.nl
Fagerhult Sp.z.o.o. Komitetu Obrony Robotników 48 PL-02-146 Warsaw Poland Tel: +48 22 749 12 50 www.fagerhult.pl info@fagerhult.pl
Fagerhult SPb Viborgskaya nab. 61, office 304 RU-197342 St Petersburg Russia Tel: +7 812 380 0148 www.fagerhult.ru info@fagerhult.ru
Fagerhult SL C/Estocolmo No 13 ES-282 32 Las Rozas, Madrid Spain Tel: +34 91 640 7246 www.fagerhult.es
Commtech Commissioning Services SA C/Estocolmo No 13 ES-282 30 Las Rozas, Madrid Spain Tel: +34 91 640 7246 www.fagerhult.es

Arlight Aydinlatma A. Saray Mahallesi 205. Sokak No:4 06980 Kazan Ankara Turkey Tel: +90 312 815 4661 www.arlight.net arlight@arlight.net
Eagle Lighting (Australia) Pty Ltd 17­19 Jets Cour Melbourne Airport, VIC 3045 Australia Tel: +61 3 9344 7444 www.eaglelighting.com.au
OR Technologies Pty Ltd Level 1, 2 Greenwood St Abbotsford, VIC 3067 Australia
Fagerhult Lighting Systems (Suzhou) Co Ltd. No. 11 Workshop 99 Gangtian Road, Suzhou Industrial Park Suzhou 215021 China Tel: +86 512 87 18 77 78 www.fagerhult.com
Fagerhult Lighting ­ Dubai Branch Grosvenor Business Tower, Office 307 Sheikh Zayed Rd 126287 Dubai United Arab Emirates Tel: +971 4329 7120 www.fagerhult.ae info@fagerhult.ae
Fagerhult (NZ) Ltd Level 1/18A Neilpark Drive East Tamaki Auckland 2013 New Zealand Tel: +64 21 509 248
Lighting Innovations (pty) Ltd 672 Old Cape Road Greenbushes, Port Elizabeth Eastern Cape 6390 South Africa Tel: +27 11 444 1168 www.lightinginnovations.co.za info@lightinginnovations.co.za

915.INT.1.18.13.1

W W W. FAG E R H U LT G R O U P. C OM

