16
ANNUAL REPORT 2016

ANNUAL FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
FOR THE PERIOD 01.01.2016 TO 31.12.2016 "FOLLI - FOLLIE COMMERCIAL MANUFACTURING
AND TECHNICAL SOCIETE ANONYME"
REG. NO.: 3027701000 23rd km ATHENS ­ LAMIA HIGHWAY 145 65, AG. STEFANOS, ATTICA
PURSUANT TO LAW 3556/2007
The attached financial statements for the period 01.01.2016-31.12.2016 were approved by the Company's Board of Directors on April 7th of 2017 and were published by being posted in the internet, at www.ffgroup.com. They have been translated from the original statutory
financial statements which have been prepared in Greek language. In the event that differences exist between this translation and the original Greek language financial statements, the Greek language financial statements will still prevail over this document.

Annual Report
2016
5

05 CONTENTS

Chairman's Message

06

Overview

08

Statement of the Board of Directors

26

Annual Board of Directors' Management Report 27

Independent certified auditors' accountants report 48

Financial Statements

50

Information about the group

57

Information about the article 10 of law 3401/2005 91

Condensed Financial Statements Of 2015

92

4

06
CHAIRMAN'S MESSAGE

Dear shareholders,

We look back at an eventful year 2016 influenced by ongoing uncertainties and geopolitical tensions. Despite all this Group managed to reach another excellent performance in 2016 based on an effective diversification in terms of business activities and regional exposure.

Our own brands Folli Follie and Links of London recorded an impressive performance driven by dynamic sales and improved profitability. The continuous demand for affordable luxury confirms our strategy and positioning in an industry which continuously gains customers worldwide.

We anticipate that 2017 will be another challenging but successful year, while addressing efficiently all global challenges at the same time, we remain focused on creating value to our stakeholders.

The performance of our domestic operations demonstrated impressively the resilience of our diversified brand portfolio and benefits of market share gains we experienced throughout the last couple of years.

All activities exhibited remarkable growth, The Jewellery, Watches and Accessories activity

whereas we expanded our footprint in new demonstrated its solid performance which

markets and we prepared the next stage of the accelerated in the last quarter of the year,

Group development.

proving the brands ability to capitalize on the

many opportunities available in existing as well

Our reported consolidated revenue rose by as new markets.

12,1% while Group net income increased by

almost 22%. These sound results were supported The Retail and Wholesale as well as the

by the resilience of our local activities and an Department Store activities experienced another

exceptional performance of the affordable luxury year of impressive recovery, translating a growing

6

division.

market share into rising revenues and profitability.

Annual Report
2016
7

we remain focused on creating value
to our shareholders.

We remain alert regarding the market dynamics and we are ready to adopt our business model in the changing conditions. For 2017 we are focused on our targets and are confident that we will continue to develop our brands irrespective of the challenges in the markets we operate. I wish to express my special thanks and appreciation to our customers, our loyal shareholders and colleagues, who achieved with enthusiasm and great commitment these outstanding results. Thank you for your loyalty and support.
Yours sincerely,
Dimitris Koutsolioutsos Chairman of the Board of Directors

08 OVERVIEW

Annual Report
2016

9

& Marshall, Samsonite and Technogym have trusted the FF Group with the exclusive distribution of their products.
he activities of the FF Group in the Beauty & Cosmetics sector are significant and involve the exclusive distribution of the globally acclaimed brands of COTY (Gucci, Boss, Escada etc) and BPI (Dolce&Gabbana Make up, Skincare & Fragrances), as well as the exclusive representation and distribution of Shiseido products in Greece and Cyprus. In 2016, the FF Group achieved an entrance to a wider distribution channel, through the exclusive representation and distribution of the Max Factor make up products in the Greek market. The FF Group also undertook the distribution in the Greek market of internationally known cosmetics brands such as: Molton Brown and Annick Goutal, amongst other, in its own beauty and lifestyle boutique Heaven on Earth.

Maintaining a key role in the global travel retail sector, even after the sale of Hellenic Duty Free Shops to the Swiss Dufry AG, the FF Group became a strategic partner of Dufry by joining the main shareholders of the Swiss Group. t the same time Mr. George Koutsolioutsos is member of the Board of Directors of Dufry. Dufry is a leading global travel retailer operating almost 2,200 duty-free and dutypaid shops in airports, cruise lines, seaports, railway stations and downtown tourist areas and operates in 64 countries in Europe, Africa, Eurasia, Central America & Caribbean, North America and South America.
The FF Group creates fashion globally and has established a strong presence counting more than 930 points of sale worldwide and employing almost 5,000 people worldwide.
The FF Group creates fashion globally and has
established a strong presence counting more than 930 points of sale
worldwide and employing almost 5,000
people worldwide.

The FF Group operates in 30 countries defining new The FF Group designs, produces and markets on a

trends in all sectors at which it activates. With a dynamic global level its two own brands:

structure and an impressive portfolio, the FF Group Folli Follie and award winning British jewelery Links

"accompanies" a consumer through all life phases: from of London. Famed for high quality and breakthrough

early childhood to adulthood, a consumer can relate to design, jewellery, watches and accessories Folli Follie

the FF Group and its brand portfolio. In the FF Group and Links of London have won a place in the hearts of

our mission is to bring fashion and the "feel-good factor" millions of consumers globally.

to people's everyday lives through our products and At the same time the Group maintains a leading

services that breathe luxury, creativity and passion. In the presence in the department stores field, the retail and

8 FF Group we approach every challenge with enthusiasm, wholesale channel within Greece and Europe. "Factory working as a team, aiming at making a positive impact Outlet", as well as "attica" department stores, are the

to the people around the globe, unveiling the bright Group's department stores in Greece that cover almost

side of their lives. Our vision is to become a truly global 70,000m2. Moreover, brands such as Ermenegildo

aspirational luxury player stretching from jewellery, Zegna, Juicy Couture, UGG Australia, Ted Baker, Scotch

watches and accessories to the edge of full-fashion.

& Soda, Guess, Nike, Converse, G-Star Raw, Franklin

10
IMPORTANT MILESTONES

1982 1994

Folli Follie company is founded in Greece by Mr. Dimitris Koutsolioutsos and his wife Ketty. First Folli Follie store opens in downtown Athens.
Launch of the Folli Follie women's watch collection.

1995 1996

Folli Follie enters the Japanese market, shop openings in New York, Hawaii, Guam.
Launch of the Folli Follie women's accessories collection.

1997

Folli Follie listed at the Athens Stock Exchange.

1998 Entry in key Asian markets.

1999

Folli Follie creates subsidiaries in France and UK.

10

2002

Folli Follie enters key European and Chinese markets and develops the Travel Retail business.

Annual Report
2016

2005

Opening of "attica", the biggest department store in Greece, in the center of Athens.

11

2006

Raising the stake at HDFS from 24,61% to 52,28%. HDFS acquires Links of London. Folli Follie obtains the Chinese retail license.

2007

Acquisition of Elmec Sport via HDFS.

2008

Acquisition of Folli Follie's affiliate in Japan.

2010

Merger of the companies Folli Follie S.A., HELLENIC DUTY FREE SHOPS S.A. and Elmec Sport S.A. all absorbed by HELLENIC DUTY FREE SHOPS S.A. Creation of the Folli Follie Group of Companies. The London Organising Committee of the Olympic and Paralympics Games appoints Links of London, as the Official Jewellerer of London 2012.

2011

Fosun International acquires a stake of 9,5% in FF Group through a capital increase excluding existing shareholders and increases successively its stake to 13,4%. Folli Follie opens new shops in Puerto Rico and Canada.

2012

The FF Group gains the exclusive distribution and representation of PROCTER & GAMBLE PRESTIGE perfumes in Greece. Opening of the third "attica" department store in Thessaloniki. In a joint venture between Duty Free Shops and Setur Servis Turistik A.S. a lease contract for the operation of the Tourist Port of Mytilene is signed for 40 years. In October, FF Group announces that it has signed an agreement to sell 51% of the travel retail business in the Swiss Dufry AG.

2013

In April the sale of the 51% stake of the travel retail business to Dufry AG. is completed. During December, the Group announced the sale of the remaining 49% of the travel retail business to Dufry AG and enters as a strategic investor to Dufry AG.

2014

FF Group announces exclusive wholesale and retail distribution rights for the Juicy Couture brand in all Continental Europe, UK, Ireland and Cyprus.

2015

The FF Group announces the exclusive representation and distribution of Shiseido products in Greece and Cyprus.

2016

The FF Group achieves an entrance to a wider distribution channel, through the exclusive representation and distribution of the Max Factor make up products in the Greek market.

12 ACTIVITY SEGMENTS

"WE CREATE FASHION" Folli Follie

Folli Follie is an international lifestyle fashion brand, which designs, manufactures and distributes jewellery, 12 watches and accessories. Folli Follie creates and offers fashion in 30 markets with more than 630 points of sale worldwide. Today, Folli Follie's core philosophy is to unveil the brightest side of women internationally, by offering a collection of versatile, original and fashionable designs of jewellery, watches and accessories.

The launch of Folli Follie in the very demanding Greek jewellery market was followed by an unprecedented success that convinced the owners to steer the brand towards additional categories of fashion accessories and led the way towards the brand's international expansion through strategic shop locations. In Japan and China, Folli Follie has over 65 and 240 points of sale respectively, whereas overall the brand has

Annual Report
2016

13

presence in the most fashionable streets of the world's major cosmopolitan cities: London (Oxford Street, Regent Street), Hong Kong (Central district), New York (Madison Avenue), Dubai, Athens, Beijing, Seoul, Honolulu and Macau.
Apart from the flagship stores in strategic locations, Folli Follie products are also sold through standalone shops and shop-in-shop in famous department stores, such as Isetan and Takashimaya in Japan, Lotte and Hyundai in Korea, El Corte Ingles in Spain. Folli Follie has a direct control of its international distribution network by vertically integrating its operations from production to retail. As a result, it has established a direct line of communication with its customers having adopted the required flexibility to respond to their changing demands. In 2015 Folli Follie introduced the new Concept Store that incarnates the inspiring vision of the founders of the brand, and eloquently represents

an aspect of the new era, in which Folli Follie is ready to step into. The Folli Follie Concept Stores have already been introduced in hi-fashion streets all over the world with the initial "door-openings" taking place in Hong Kong, Tokyo, Beijing, Hawaii, Sidney, Valencia and Athens. In addition, Folli Follie has a strong presence in the travel retail market with points of sale in numerous airports duty free shops around the world, such as Beijing, Hong Kong, Seoul, Athens, Vancouver, Taipei, Hawaii and Guam among others, whereas Folli Follie products are also available in-flight in major international airlines, such as Japan Airlines, EVA Airlines, Cathay Pacific, Air China, China Eastern, Qantas, ANA Airlines, AeroMexico, Korean Airlines, Qatar Airways, United Airlines, Etihad Airways etc. Folli Follie has presence in Haitang Bay, Hainan Island, China, the world's largest duty free shopping centre, which opened on September 2014.

In 2015 Folli Follie introduced the
new Concept Store that incarnates the inspiring vision of the founders of the
brand.

Folli Follie established itself as a true pioneer in the market when it introduced, amongst its first collections unique jewellery creations made of silver combined with murano glass and later on complete jewellery collections made of stainless steel in silver or gold colour combined with diamonds - a trend followed by many others.
In 2016, Folli Follie presented the Fashionably Silver collection with a great variety of thematic designs from timeless pieces to the most on trend designs that satisfies even the most exclusive jewelry demands. Depending on the materials used (sterling silver, stainless steel, precious and semi precious stones) and in a wide price range covering all needs, the company offers an unrivaled assortment of styles for the creation of a unique style. The fact that nowadays, ladies watches are no longer considered as simple time pieces or expensive jewels, but everyday fashion accessories, to be mixed and matched, contributed to the development and establishment of Folli Follie watches in the field of fashion. Thanks to their trendy design, their high quality, and unmatched offer in styles the watches of the Ceramic Collection, the Leather Collection, the Jewellery Watches, the Slim Watches and specifically the Match Point, the Heart4Heart and the Santorini Flower Watches are amongst the few that have been embellishing female wrists worldwide.
The recent exciting news of the brand include the addition of Swiss Made timepieces in the Santorini Flower watch Collection. In addition to its jewellery and watches lines, Folli Follie offers comprehensive assortments in fashion accessories, such as handbags, wallets, small leather goods, belts, pashminas and sunglasses. The exclusively designed pieces add breadth to the company's identity and are now globally recognized amongst accessories brands. The Folli Follie team of designers works restlessly in taking iconic motifs

and translating them into unique designs that go through the entire Folli Follie product range, always with impeccable style. The iconic motif approach is yet another aspect that demonstrates the insightful process of the Folli Follie designing teams. Over the past few years, the Folli Follie consumer follows the exciting journey of the Heart4Heart motif, and most recently the Santorini Flower motif from a very successful necklace, translated into an exciting watches collection, into a complete jewellery line with many distinct offerings and into unique bags and purses. All Folli Follie jewellery, watches and accessories lines complement each other, offering a "full fashion concept" and providing at the same time a contemporary, alternative and fresh experience to customers over the world.
Folli Follie's jewellery, accessories and watches collections are presented throughout the year, addressing the ever-changing lifestyle of the fashion addicts. The company's experienced design team consists amongst other of Italian, Swiss, British, Chinese and Greek top designers, who work together for the presentation of complete jewellery, watches and accessories collections. The collections' highlight is the premium Kk Collection, which includes unique and limited edition jewellery and accessories pieces, inspired and supervised by Mrs. Ketty Koutsolioutsos, co-founder of Folli Follie. Furthermore, the emphasis given to the unique design does not stop at the product itself but extends into all Folli Follie visible associations and image of the company, such as: shop layout, décor, window display, product presentation, furniture, packaging, promotional material and of course integrated communication strategy. In other words, the company's artistic team in collaboration with the Branding, Marketing and Public Relations Department strive to create a "Folli Follie world" which ensures a consistent, characteristic brand image amongst all Folli Follie shops and products, immediately recognizable by the global consumer.

14

Annual Report
2016
15

Links of London

Links of London is the iconic international jewellery brand that captures London's wit, spirit and heart. As one of our most coveted jewellery brands, Links of London has continued to captivate customers with striking jewellery collections, statement watches and a selection of exquisite gifts.
Since its launch in 1990, imaginative design, uncompromised craftsmanship and the use of the finest materials have remained integral to each new collection, ensuring that each piece remains a timeless contemporary classic.
Today, the in-house design team leads the brand through the next stage of growth and evolution, through the product development of successful iconic collections, including Sweetie and Friendship. The future will see further new product launches and diversification, charging the brand with a renewed freshness whilst offering beautiful contemporary pieces that draw inspiration from London's vibrant and dynamic landscape. In 2015, Links of London presented the Timeless Collection; an awarded collection that marks the passage of 25 years since the creation of the brand.
In addition, the Links of London 2016 collections reinforce the brand's reputation for being a leader in both watches

and jewellery for men and women and will no doubt fuel further significant growth for Links of London watches internationally.
The introduction of the Swiss Made Driver Dashboard timepiece into this motor-inspired collection has speedily become Links of London's most powerful design to date. The new Driver Dashboard model takes a centre stage along with a number of other distinctive Swiss made launches, including Driver, Brompton and Regent Collections, signaling the continued growth and strength of its timepiece offering.
With a view to further development in the field of men's and women's watches, Links of London announced in December 2015, the operation of its first stand-alone shop, in Regent Street, London, exclusively for watches.
Alongside this, Links of London continues to expand its distribution with particular attention on the UK. Links of London has over 130 points of sale respectively in locations such as Europe, the Far East and the Americas. Moreover, Links of London has opened a new store in Haitang Bay, Hainan Island, China, among other prestigious brands.

"WE SHARE FASHION"

The FF Group has a very dynamic fashion business unit that places it among the most important businesses in the fashion scene in Greece and South Eastern Europe. Loyal to its corporate goal of being named as one of the most important Groups in the global fashion sector, the FF Group is proud to take its business to an international level.

Placing emphasis in the fashion element, the FF Group handles each brand as a distinct entity, ensuring that each brand's DNA and philosophy is brought forward. From buying procedures, to retail and wholesale operations, from consumer care, to marketing and communications, the FF Group employs an unparalleled team of experts that work closely to secure the successful placement of each fashion brand to the markets in which it is distributed.
With a corporate history full of success stories for many brands, the FF Group is acknowledged to be an ideal partner in Greece and other European markets for many globally acclaimed fashion houses, trendy brands, sportswear companies that may address many different audiences.
With insightful strategic thinking, deep knowledge and understanding of the specificities of each market the FF Group team is bound to work restlessly to ensure the successful course of each brand in its portfolio in the market in which it is distributed. Whether for a wholesale account only, or for a more complex case that involves retail operations and a complete

marketing and communication plan, the FF Group is placed among the most hi-profile distributors in the European fashion scene.
Namely, the FF Group operations in the wholesale/ retail sector expand from the sportswear section, as it distributes exclusively the brand Nike in Romania and Bulgaria, and the whole range of Converse products in the markets of Greece, Cyprus, Romania and Bulgaria, to globally acclaimed fashion brands as Juicy Couture, Ermenegildo Zegna, UGG Australia, Guess, Ted Baker, Franklin & Marshall, Calvin Klein Jeans, Converse, Scotch & Soda, G-Star Raw and many other. The Group's portfolio in terms of children's fashion is also impressive, covering brands such as Monnalisa, Hitch-

Annual Report
2016

Hiker, Converse, Levi's Kidswear and others.

At the same time, the FF Group starts the strategic

17

Moreover, from the beginning of 2010, FF Group development of its own multi brand concept stores

distributes in Greece the Samsonite bags and Collective and Kix. Collective Stores are multi brand

accessories, opening in 2013 the first Samsonite stores, offering a wide range of the most famous

mono-brand store. Two mono-brand stores operate fashion brands and a unique shopping experience.

in Thessaloniki and one in The Mall Athens.

The Collective family has already more than 10

Since 2010, the FF Group has undertaken the stores in Greece.

distribution of Technogym's products, the world's

leading international supplier of products, services In May 2016 the FF Group inaugurated the new

and solutions in the Wellness and Fitness fields. flagship "Collective" store in Bucharest. The new

The new Technogym showroom with technology- store opened its doors to the public in a total area of

driven fitness and wellness equipment and solutions 1,200 m2 on three floors and managed to impress

is located in Athens, 29 A. Papandreou street, in for its splendid interior design.

Marousi.

The FF Group

is placed among

the most hi-profile

16

distributors in the

European fashion scene.

"WE HOUSE FASHION"
The FF Group is active in the field of retail with department stores and outlet stores. The first discount department store in Greece called "Factory Outlet" opened in 1999 in Piraeus street at the southern part of Athens with a space of 13,000 m2. The second discount department store opened in 2006 at the commercial park of Athens International Airport, with a 14,000 m2 space. The FF Group participates with 46% in the company that operates three up-scale department stores in the Greek market under the brand name "attica, the department store". The flagship store of the chain is an impressive eight-storey department store of 25,000 m2 is located in the heart of Athens, and two other stores in the shopping mall "Golden Hall" and "The Mall Athens".

a fifth attica department store started its operation at the city centre of Thessaloniki.

In addition, on April 2012 another "attica" department store opened in "Mediterranean Cosmos Mall" a shopping Mall in the second largest city in Greece, Thessaloniki, with 5,000m2 space. In September 2014

Moreover, the FF Group has a reconstruction program in place for two groups of buildings, a privately owned building of 12,000 m2 at the centre of Bucharest in Romania, which was recently renovated. The Group's total investment in the renovation of the historic building, which covers a total area of 5.000m², is 10million . The FF Group invested in one of the most historic buildings of Athens' center, MINION department store, giving it a new and improved look with the artwork of renouned Greek artist Giannis Kottis. The artistic lifting of the multi-storey building is an aesthetic upgrade of a rough area of the center of Athens. The impressive banner, of 140x28 meter dimensions, which covers a 4.000 m2 surface, adds a splash of color to the grey urban scenery, by depicting the fruits of nature.

"WE SHARE BEAUTY"

FF Group continued its strategic development, with the extension of its activities via

another dynamic distribution channel of famous brands and created a new business

function, Beauty & Cosmetics. More specifically, the FF Group undertook the exclusive

18

distribution and representation of the globally acclaimed brands of COTY (Gucci, Boss,

Escada etc) and BPI (Dolce&Gabbana Make up, Skincare & Fragrances), as well as the

exclusive representation and distribution of Shiseido products in Greece and Cyprus.

The cooperation with Shiseido marks an important addition to our existent portfolio for

our Beauty and Cosmetics activity into skincare, and stands for a strong commitment to further development and internationalize this division outside the Greek core market.
Moreover, the FF Group achieved the entrance to a wider distribution channel, through the exclusive represantation and distribution of the Max Factor make up products in the Greek market. Max Factor is a cosmetic brand with great history and heritage. The FF Group, together with the acquisition of Heaven on Earth, the beauty and lifestyle boutique, acquired the exclusive wholesale distribution of Molton Brown in Greece and Cyprus, Annick Goutal and Lip Smackers, amongst others.

Annual Report
2016
19

"WE LOVE TO TRAVEL"
Involvement in Travel Retail
The Group had been very actively involved in the travel retail sector since 2002 when it first developed activity in the sector. Via HELLENIC DUTY FREE SHOPS S.A. (HDFS), the exclusive duty free operator in Greece, the FF Group had the exclusive right for selling duty free products at all exits of Greece. HDFS had always been characterized for rapid growth, development and the high quality services, whereas it offered a great variety of products to all travellers in competitive prices, in an impressive of 115 stores at 45 sales points throughout Greece (21 airports, 11 border stations, 13 ports).

enables the FF Group to further exploit new markets, where Dufry has already presence while simultaneously Dufry benefits from the presence and the knowhow that the FF Group has in markets where Dufry's presence is limited.
Through this strategic partnership the FF Group will join the Group of Dufry's AG main shareholders led by Travel Retail Investments SCA. In addition, since 2014 Mr George Koutsolioutsos is a member of the Board of Directors of Dufry.

In 2012 the FF Group announced that it signed an agreement to sell 51% of the travel retail business to the Swiss Dufry AG, a transaction which was completed during 2013 in two tranches with an additional sale of the remaining 49% stake of Hellenic Duty Free Shops and FF Group's entrance as a strategic investor to Dufry AG.
It is worth mentioning that this was completed much earlier than originally scheduled, evidencing HDFS' strong performance and prospects as well as Dufry's total commitment and strategic interest for this activity. Apart from the financial aspects of the transaction and the direct involvement in Dufry's global Duty Free Business, this agreement reinforced the strategic partnership between the FF Group and Dufry, as it

Dufry's, history goes back to 1865, today Dufry AG is a leading global travel retailer operating 2,200 duty-free and duty-paid shops in airports, cruise lines, seaports, railway stations and downtown tourist areas the Group operates in 64 countries in Europe, Africa, Eurasia, Central America & Caribbean, North America and South America. Dufry employs more than 30.000 people. The Company is headquartered in Basel, Switzerland.

"WE CARE"
Corporate Responsibility
The FF Group's Corporate Responsibility scheme is based upon a wider strategic approach and is defined by the philosophy of each and every distinct company. Every corporate responsibility act is defined by the management's commitments towards the employees, the shareholders, the clients, the suppliers, and the society at large. In a wider sense, these stakeholders constitute the family, in which the FF Group grows, operating with responsibility and respect. The Group's Corporate Responsibility scheme applies globally, in all markets that the company enters, confirming its respect to all the relevant communities and corresponding to each region's needs.
Taking always into account the diversity and particularity of each one of the 30 countries of its operation, the Group develops and implements a holistic and focused Corporate Social Responsibility Programme, according to the basic axes that the Headquarters in Athens define. With the basic axes evolving around Culture and Sports, Society and

Environment, the FF Group's Corporate Responsibility Programme spreads through both a national and international level.
Culture/Sports Axis
Being a Group that operates in many different countries, the FF Group embraces culture and arts as global means of communication that unite civilizations. Thus, culture has been a major feature of the social contribution of the FF Group: the cooperation with organizations which promote culture and arts is considered as of really high importance in order to preserve each region's cultural heritage and also to support the artists' efforts. The FF Group is a member and support actively Benaki Museum in Athens.
In the past, the FF Group has sponsored several cultural events in Greece and abroad, events such as the first Kabuki Theater in Megaron-the Athens

Annual Report
2016

21

Concert Hall, Stefanos Korkolis' concert in Herodeion and Dionysis Savopoulos' concert in Benaki Museum in Athens. Our philosophy regarding arts and culture is transferred globally: in October 2005, Folli Follie was honoured to support the Hong Kong closing concert of the Greek performer Nana Moushouri, who is a UNESCO Good Will Ambassador. Moreover, in May 2007, during Mrs Dora Bakoyannis', Minister of External Affairs visit in China, Folli Follie sponsored the renowned Greek singer, Alkistis Protopsalti's concert, in the Forbidden City of Beijing.
Folli Follie also sponsored the "Sensitivity Questioned" exhibition that was hosted at Ileana Tounta Gallery, in Athens in 2010. The exhibition was dedicated to femininity through the eyes of a male, with the participation of famous Greek and international artists.
In March 2013, the FF Group sponsored the 7th Panorama of Contemporary Greek Cinema,

organized in Paris by the Greek Cultural Centre.
In 2014 and 2015, the Group sponsored the performances of Theatroparea `08, which is a nonprofit organization and part of the proceeds were donated to charities.
Along the Sports axis, Folli Follie honoured the Vouliagmeni female polo team ­ European Champion 2010 ­ by dedicating and naming a sports watch collection "Water Champ". Folli Follie, as a company which always promotes its Hellenic heritage and roots wanted to express its gratitude to the "golden girls" of the female polo team. The "Water Champ" collection is one of the company's most symbolic watch collections and enjoys a great success.
In August 2012, Folli Follie sponsored the sailing race "Aegean Regatta 2012". The race took place in Greece for the 11th consecutive year, starting from the island of Mytilene in the North Aegean sea and

Taking always into account the diversity and particularity of each one of the 30 countries of its operation, the Group develops and implements 20 a holistic and focused Corporate Social Responsibility Programme.

reaching its final destination, the island of Syros in the Cyclades. Folli Follie shares with the "Aegean Regatta" Tournament the same respect and admiration towards Greece and also the strong will to promote the country's beauty abroad. For this reason, Folli Follie offered to the participants a 2 days free docking in the Tourist Port ("Marina") of Mytilene, the port from where the yachting boats started their race and awarded the winners with the Folli Follie "Regatta" collection watches.
In 2012, the FF Group through Converse and in collaboration with the municipality of Piraeus, took over the repair of an abandoned basketball court, in a neglected neighborhood, rejuvenated it by painting it with vivid colors and offered it back to the local community. This activation provided the neighborhood's young inhabitants with a new and pleasant place of entertainment and sports.
In 2012 and 2013, Folli Follie honouring its Greek Heritage and aiming to stand by any initiative that promotes the modern face of Greece, sponsored the "Spetses Classic Yacht Race", which featured some of the most renowned classic yachts in Greece using as a backdrop the beautiful island of Spetses in Greece.

Additionally, Folli Follie in 2013 was a proud supporter of Spetses Mini Marathon in Spetses, Greece, showcasing how sportsmanship and athletic lifestyle can be ideally combined with striking style.
Another Corporate Responsibility initiative of the FF Group, and one that the company takes great pride in, is the Folli Follie sponsoring the Greek Delegation of the X Special Olympics World Winter Games in Peyong Chang, Korea in 2013. Links of London, the Creators of the Official Jewellery Collection of London 2012 Olympic Games, proudly supported the first ladies running competition which took place in Greece, the "Ladies Run" for three consecutive years (20122014). Hundreds of women, who are passionate for running, were gathered in Laimos, Vouliagmeni, participated in the race and each one of them was awarded with the exclusively designed and limited edition Ladies Run bracelet.

22

Annual Report
2016

Society Axis
The activities of the FF Group extend to long-lasting charity initiatives throughout Greece and globally, covering the needs of schools, non-profit institutions and NGOs that involve children, the tenderest part of society as well as women. In addition, the FF Group continues to demonstrate its sensitivity to social solidarity issues that are not direct business actions but topics, which the company feels a great responsibility to bring to the public's attention.
As for the rest of the world, the FF Group sponsors various charitable causes dedicated to public welfare, such as the Cancer Fund in Hong Kong, where it has been the major sponsor of the "Pink Revolution" campaign for a series of years.
In autumn 2009, Folli Follie designed and distributed internationally two limited edition bracelets in collaboration with the leading non-profit organisation "Save the Children", and part of their proceeds was donated to support its remarkable activities.
During 2011 Folli Follie also supported the nonprofit organization "The Art of Elysium" through the opening of the new Folli Follie boutiques in New York (Soho & Lord & Taylor). This organization was established in 1997 and its objective is to encourage working actors, artists and musicians to voluntarily dedicate their time and talent to children who are battling serious medical conditions. For this purpose, FF Group's employees in New York were prompted to participate in the workshop that took place in the Hospital for Joint Diseases, by sharing their personal talents with these children. The works that were created in this workshop were presented during the opening of Folli Follie's shop in shop at Lord & Taylor.
In Spain, Folli Follie actively supports the purposes for the last five years (2010-2014) of the "SOS Foundation" through the launch of a specially designed collection, and part of this collection proceeds were offered to the International "SOS Foundation". In order to honour Mrs Ketty Koutsolioutsos, co-founder of Folli Follie, a department of a nursery that was built in Cangut Village in Senegal, was named as "Ketty's Nursery".
In 2013 and 2014, Folli Follie Greece joined forces

23 with the non-profit association I LIVE FOR ME and designed a limited edition bracelet inspired by the association's logo, the butterfly. Folli Follie and I LIVE FOR ME found in the face of Tonia Sotiropoulou, a famous Greek model/ actress, the ideal ambassador for this initiative.
Links of London is also an active participant of the FF Group's social responsibility programs focused on Greek society and especially children. During 2008, the brand offered part of its "Friendship Bracelet" proceeds to the "Mazi gia to Paidi" non-profit organisation.
In 2010, Links of London also organized an ambassadors' initiative, named "Sweetie... It's all about you!", to support the causes Links of London of "Make-A-Wish" foundation in Greece. Antigoni Drakoulakis, Calliope Karvounis, Sia Kossiones, Helena Kountouras, Katerina Lechou, Nina Lotsaris, Nantia Mpoule, Maria Naupliotou, Ioanna Pappas, Rea Toutountzi and Zeta Fountas accepted Links of London proposal and participated as the Goodwill Ambassadors in the successful Social Responsibility Campaign that was created for this cause. The support
towards the "Make-A-Wish" foundation continued for a second year through the collaboration with the renowned Greek singer Antonis Remos, who designed a friendship bracelet, profits of which were donated to the organization.

For three consecutive years (2010-2012) Links of London supported Make-A-Wish® foundation and created a limited edition handmade bracelet signed by Vicky Kaya, who is the Ambassador of Make-AWish® Greece. An important part of the bracelets' sales proceedings were offered to Make-A-Wish®, with the aim to fulfill all the wishes of children from 3-18 years old, who suffer from serious illness and encourage them to continue fighting for their lives. The "Make-A-Wish" foundation sponsorship was completed with a major charity event, maximizing the impact of this great initiative.
In addition, Links of London created for the Fall/ Winter 2011 collection 7 cord bracelets, each one of them representing activation against hunger throughout the world. Part of the bracelets proceeds were offered to FEED Foundation, a non-profit organization, which was formed by Lauren Bush and Ellen Gustafson and is dedicated to supporting programs and organizations that are effectively working to fight hunger and eliminate malnutrition throughout the world. This activation was held with great success in the United Kingdom and the United States and set a good example to other countries where Links of London is present.
The close relationship that the FF Group has developed with Japan during the past 25 years led to actively demonstrating its support towards those affected by the devastating earthquake and subsequent tsunami that struck Japan on March 2011. Folli Follie brand donated 10% of global sales of the entire Heart4Heart Collection and Links of London 10% of the global sales of the classic Friendship Bracelet to support the Japanese Red Cross.
In December 2012, the FF Group supported the reconstruction of the building of Merimna, which is a nonprofit organization with the main goal of caring for children and families who are facing a serious illness, loss or death.
The FF Group takes great pride in the initiative of its employees based in Greece. During December 2013, an FF Group employee task force organized 24 a three-day charity bazaar in which FF Group products were sold and the FF Group employees offered their services voluntarily. The FF Group Christmas Charity Bazaar lead to raising 80,000 , all of which were offered to the organization "Mazi

gia to Paidi", reaching out to thousands of children in need in Greece.
During October 2015 the FF Group's employees with the Management's support organized the gathering of food, clothes, shoes, blankets and hygiene items in order to offer relief to refugees and people that are in a difficult socio-economic condition, supporting the Ark of the World and the Municipality of Athens. Additionally, the Group supported this initiative with the offering of 2,500 pair of shoes and 90 boxes with clothes.
During 2015, Factory Outlet helped the project of the Ark of the World and a visit to the center building of the organization in Athens, sealed a strong support relationship. Moreover, the Factory Outlet has undertaken entirely the completion of the Apiary in the border Ark of Pogoniani. The apiary has recently started operating and offering creative activities and opportunities for learning to the children that are hosted in the small village of Ioannina.
In June 2016 FF Group actively supported the social facilities of Lesvos Island with a donation of major importance.
Since the mid of November 2016 Folli Follie supports the Foundation Coeurs Pour Tous Hellas and its charity work for poor children with congenital or acquired heart diseases. Folli Follie in association with the Foundation Coeurs Pour Tous Hellas (CPTH) found in the face of Smaragda Karydi, Vasso Laskaraki, Katerina Papoutsaki and Katerina Geronikolou, the ideal Ambassadors. These well-known and beloved actors embraced gracefully with enthusiasm this initiative which aims to give hope to needy children and their families.
Part of the proceeds from all the purchases of Heart4Heart jewelry, watches and accessories will be offered to support the Foundation. The emblematic Folli Follie motif - consisting of 4 hearts - becomes a symbol of hope and the inspiration behind this initiative of unconditional love.

Environment Axis
The FF Group is strongly activated towards the environmental protection and examines all countries' needs individually, focusing on programmes that offer concrete results and cover specific needs.
In June 2008, the FF Group also delivered a number of works to Artemida village, Municipality of Zacharo, Prefecture of Ilia, Greece, as a contribution of social solidarity after the destructive wildfires that affected the wider area of western Peloponnese in August 2007.
With the environment and the sustainable development always in mind, the FF Group Headquarters, as well as the Factory Outlet retail stores, are housed in ecofriendly buildings, promoting programmes of recycling and battery recycling, energy saving by which the employees, the third-party partners and the visitors abide.

Annual Report
2016
25

a STATEMENT OF THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS (according to article 4 §2 of law 3556/2007)
Under the aforementioned status, especially being assigned for this purpose by the Board of Directors of the Societe Anonyme under the name "FOLLI-FOLLIE COMMERCIAL MANUFACTURING AND TECHNICAL SOCIETE ANONYME", from now on called "Folli Follie Group.", we declare and confirm that, to the best of our knowledge
(i): the Group's Full Year 2016 Financial Report, which has been conducted in accordance with the International Accounting Standards in effect, gives a true and fair view of the assets, liabilities, equity and financial results of the Company and the Group as well as of the companies that are included in the consolidation taken as a whole, in accordance with § 3-4 of article 4 of Law 3556/2007.
(ii): the Group's Full Year 2016 report of the Board of Directors reflects in a true development, performance and position of Folli Follie Group in accordance with article 4 of Law 3556/2007.
Agios Stefanos, April 7th, 2017 The members of the Board of Directors:

CHAIRMAN EXECUTIVE MEMBER OF THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS
DIMITRIOS KOUTSOLIOUTSOS

C.E.O. EXECUTIVE MEMBER OF THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS
GEORGE KOUTSOLIOUTSOS

DEPUTY C.E.O. - GENERAL MANAGER EXECUTIVE MEMBER OF THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS
EMMANOUIL ZACHARIOU
26

b BOARD OF DIRECTORS ANNUAL REPORT (for the fiscal period 01.01-31.12.2016)

Annual Report
2016
27

To the Regular General Meeting of Shareholders of the year 2016

Dear Shareholders, The present Board of Directors Financial Report for the period 01.01.2016-31.12.2016 was prepared according to the provisions of §6-§8 article 4 of L. 3556/2007 as well as the relevant executive decisions 1/434/3-72007 and 7/448/11.10.2007 issued by Hellenic Capital Market Commission board, as well as the article 136 of L. 2190/1920.

The Board of Directors Annual Report includes the information specified by the aforementioned provisions which, according to the management of the firm, constitute an accurate depiction of the development, performance and position of the Company in the period under review. It also includes additional information, for risks that may arise in relation to the size and complexity of its operations, when necessary, in order to derive meaningful and comprehensive information on the activities of the company, named "FOLLI-FOLLIE COMMERCIAL MANUFACTURING AND TECHNICAL SOCIETE ANONYME" with a distinctive title "FOLLI FOLLIE GROUP" and its subsidiaries.

The present report includes, along with the Company's financial statements for the Full Fiscal Year 2016, other information and statements required by law and is divided into the following sections:
. Review for the Full Year 2016

Consolidated results (Continuing operations)
P&L Statement in  mil. Sales Revenue Gross Profits Operating Profits (EBIT) Profit before taxes, financing & investing results, depreciation and amortization

2016 1.337,28 612,230 262,27
291,86

2015 1.193,04 581,23 238,54
265,01

CNG% 12,09% 5,35% 9,95%
10,13%

Specifically, revenues (continued operations) amounted to 1.337,28 million in 2016, from 1.193 million in 2015, increased by 12,09%. EBITDA reached 291,9 mio, increased by 10,13%. Profit before taxes amounted to  253,48 mio in 2016, compared to  225,27 mio in 2015, increased by 12,52%. Net profits after tax & minority rights are reported at 222,47 mio, with the respective amount for 2015 was 182,64 mio, an increase of 21,8%.

FF GROUP operates in four core business segments: a) The design, processing and distribution of jewellery, watches and other relevant accessories (bags, belts,
pashminas, sunglasses, small leather goods, etc.). b) T he operation of department stores and outlets. c) W holesale and retail of branded clothing, footwear, perfumes and limited involvement in other activities

The Group, except for the Greek market, which represents the 22,3% of its turnover, operates through its subsidiaries in European countries, in North America, in Middle East, in Africa and in Asia

Details on the various operating segments:

) Jewellery - Watches ­ Accessories TThis segment deals with the design, manufacturing, processing and marketing of jewellery, watches and other similar fashion accessories like handbags, small-sized leather goods, belts, pashminas and sunglasses. The Group's Commercial activities primarily focus on wholesale and retail products, under the brand Folli Follie, covering a spectrum of 30 countries. In addition, through its subsidiary company Links of London Limited, Group's products are available through an extensive points of sale network across Europe, Middle East, Africa and North America, as well as via selected outlets engaged in wholesale transactions on a global basis.

) Department Stores The Group operates five department stores, under the brand name "Attica", through its subsidiary "Attica Department Stores S.A.". The flagship store, which is the largest one, is located in Athens city centre, while there are two more Attica stores running inside two of the greatest malls within the broader Athens area. More precisely, the first one in located in a fancy mall called "Golden Hall", whereas the second is established in "The Mall" of Athens. With respect to the two remaining stores, both are located in Thessaloniki, the second city of Greece in terms of size. The older of the two is placed inside the mall "Mediterranean Cosmos", located in the city's suburbs, while the latest was opened in the Thessaloniki city centre. Aside from Attica Stores, the Group is successfully operating two discount department stores under the brand name "Factory Outlet" at Piraeus Street and at the commercial park of Athens International Airport.

C) Retail ­ Wholesale The Retail-Wholesale sector is operated by the Group's subsidiaries FF Group Romania SRL, FF Group Bulgaria EOOD and FF Holdings S.A. The Group's retail distribution network covers more than 30.000 m2 in the three countries, Greece, Romania and Bulgaria.
This segment includes the following: i. Wholesale of clothing, shoes, accessories and fragrancies. Group's distributions regard the sale of: sports
apparel and footwear, as well as general active wear and street wear collections with special interest in apparel, footwear, fashion accessories, kids clothing, footwear and fashion accessories (fashion), children's clothing, travel goods and perfumes.

ii. Retail sales of footwear, clothing accessories for mono-brand/and multi-brand retail apparel, footwearaccessories and perfumes.

   . Jewellery-Watches-Accessories Department Stores Retail / Wholesale Total

SALES PER SEGMENT (after eliminations) Continuing Operations

2016

2015

%

977,8

857,0

14,1%

181,4

171,4

5,9%

178,1

164,7

8,1%

1.337,3

1.193,0

12,1%

% in total 73,1% 13,6% 13,3% 100,0%

Sales per segment (post elimination)
28 · Revenues of the segment "Jewellery-Watches-Accessories" rose during the year 2016 by 14,1% to 977,8 million compared to 857 million in the corresponding year of 2015.
· Revenues in "Department Stores'' increased during 2016 by 5,9% with revenues reaching 181,4 million from 171,4 million in the corresponding year 2015.
· Subsequently, the sector "Retail and Wholesale" reported for the year 2016 revenues of 178,1 million from 164,7 million in 2015, increased by 8,1%.

Annual Report
2016

Financial Position of the Group and ratios

29

FF GROUP

Liquidity

General

Current Assets / Current liabilities

Direct

(Current Assets-Inventories) / Current liabilities

Cash

(Cash + Securities) / Current liabilities

Working Capital

(Receivables + Inventories) - (Suppliers + Other Current Liabilities)

Activity

Velocity of money Net sales / Current Assets

Recovery

(Average Receivables / Net sales )*365

Inventory turnover Cost of goods / Average stock

Days Inventory

(Average stock/ (Cost of goods ) *365

Financial

Indebtedness

International Equity / Total Equity

Loans to Equity

International Equity / Total equity

Profitability

Gross profit

Gross profit / Sales

Return on Assets Net Profit / TOTAL ASSETS

Return on Equity Net Profit / Total equity

31.12.2016 6,22 4,19
119,04% 1.024.379.207,53
0,74 169,31
1,35 270,95
26,93% 0,37
45,79% 8,80% 12,04%

31.12.2015 6,88 4,71
117,49% 894.871.684,79
0,77 171,28
1,43 255,60
27,27% 0,37
48,72% 8,45% 11,62%

. Significant events during 2016

External Environment

The growth of the world economy has consolidated at low rates in 2016. Overall, the global economy is entering a new cycle where the economic and political developments will closely interact under conditions of deleveraging and pressure on incomes. China's transition to a more consumption- and service-based economy continues to influence other emerging market economies, notably commodity producers and countries exposed to China's manufacturing sector.

The very fast income growth recorded since the entry of Greece in the Euro area and until 2008, supported mainly by external debt, gave way to a fall of about the same intensity until 2016. Nevertheless, even heavily wounded, the Greek economy has not fallen below the level recorded before the entry in the Euro, while it does not lack pulse and positive prospects. A new growth cycle is feasible, yet it cannot start automatically, particularly as the access to foreign capital will necessarily remain limited.

Financial market sentiment towards emerging market economies has improved with expectations of lower interest rates in advanced economies, reduced concern about China's near-term prospects following policy support to growth, and some firming of commodity prices.
Beyond 2017, global growth is projected to gradually increase. This recovery in global activity is expected to be driven entirely by emerging markets and developing economies with China maintaining its transition towards consumption- and services-based growth, and continued resilience in other countries. It also reflects the increasing weight in the world economy of large emerging market economies, such as China and India that are growing well above the world average.

The conditions for improvement in the immediate future are certainly present, as revealed by various indicators, such as industrial production, exports of goods and some types of investment. The economy has passed through exceptionally difficult paths, yet it still has a pulse. Regarding economic prospects in 2017, growth is expected to pick up and register a positive figure on the back of structural reforms and privatization. Private consumption is not expected to gain momentum in the near future; therefore, recovery is anticipated to be investment driven.
The Greek crisis is taking its course in an unstable and unclear European and international environment. The process of separation of the UK from the EU creates the need for Europe to make significant decisions.

The Greek economy is expected to show a modest recov-

ery in the short-run in the current year. Several functions Business Developments of the Group 2016 of the economy are gradually recovering from the shock

of the summer of 2015, returning closer to normality. In addition, reforms in the labour and product markets have a positive, albeit delayed, contribution. The improvement of economic sentiment indicator, resurging manufacturing production and good prospects in tourism industry all reflect stronger activity. Therefore, growth recovery is expected to surface in 2017, as Greece reaps the benefits of the adjustment programme, boosted by the restoration of confidence of the prospects of Greek economy and therefore investment pick-up, on the back of the speeding

Links of London: First stand-alone watch store on Regent Street, London (Jan 22, 2016) Designed in house by Links of London's store designers, the Regent Street store encapsulates the brand's British heritage drawing inspiration from a quintessential Georgian Townhouse. The watch store will house the entire Links of London watch range, encompassing 15 different collections including Swiss made, Swiss movement and automatic timepieces

up of the state property privatizations.

New exclusive distribution agreement with P&G

Prestige for MAX FACTOR (February 18, 2016) Private consumption is expected to remain subdued as in- Within FF Group's strategy of growth and development, dicated by the slumping consumer confidence indicator. the Group announces the expansion of its Beauty & Cos30 Households are heavily affected by the new fiscal aus- metics division activities with the exclusive representation terity measures such as VAT increases; reforms in person- and distribution of the Max Factor products in the Greek al income taxation and the pension system. Furthermore, market. the more intensive and extensive use of electronic means The new partnership with Max Factor marks an imporof payment stimulates GDP and tax revenues, reducing tant addition to the FF Group Beauty & Cosmetics portfocorrespondingly the unrecorded activity.

Annual Report
2016

31

lio, increasing this way its share in the cosmetics market. Through the distribution of the globally famous makeup products brand, the Group achieves an entrance to a wider distribution channel.
FF Group invests in the renovation of a historic building in Bucharest (May 26, 2016) The renovated historic building houses the new flagship "Collective" store of Romania, luxury offices and a fine rooftop restaurant. The flagship "Collective" store opened its doors to the public in a total area of 1,200 m2 on three floors and managed to impress for its splendid interior design. Combining classical and minimal elements, "Collective" store offers a wide range of fashion brands. The amazing roof top of the building will become the place to be after the upcoming launch of the well-known restaurant «Biutiful» with a stunning view of downtown Bucharest.
Links of London: is expanding its network by opening its first store in Cyprus (November 23, 2016) A new sophisticated and modern space in the center of Nicosia, located in Stasikratous Street 30, houses all the latest collections of jewelry, watches and accessories of Links of London. Specially designed to provide a luxurious experience, following the global standards, the new store is inspired by the architecture of London townhouses, harmoniously combining classic and modern elements within its elegant environment.

Folli Follie: expands with a new Concept Store in Westfield World Trade Center in New York (Dec 22, 2016) Located in downtown Manhattan, the new Folli Follie Concept Store is placed in the heart of the renewed Shopping Center of New York with 365,000 square footage of retail space in the architectural beauty of the Oculus. Representing Westfield's slogan, the "New New York Place To Be", the choice of the location for the new Folli Follie Concept Store in North America is of strategic importance, as the area represents something more than a fabulous shopping destination and a place of remembrance, a place of rebirth
General meeting of shareholders resolutions
Shareholders General eeting dated June 24th, 2016
«FOLLI-FOLLIE COMMERCIAL MANUFACTURING SOCIETE ANONYME», under the trade name «FF GROUP» (hereinafter, the "Company") announces that, today this Friday the 24th June 2016, Friday, at 12:00 pm, at the offices of the Company in Agios Stefanos, Attica, 23rd klm. of Athens ­ Lamia National Road, the shareholders of the Company convened into a General Meeting pursuant to announcement of the respective invitation.
In the General Meeting were present or represented shareholders representing 72,23% (quorum) of the Company's share capital, namely 48.359.449 shares and voting rights out of a total of 66.948.210.

Links of London: is opening its first concession in Galeries Lafayette Montparnasse (Nov 30, 2016) Links of London, opens its first concession in the ultimate shopping destination, in Galeries Lafayette Montparnasse, in Paris.
Folli Follie: expands its network in South Africa (Dec 12, 2016) The new Folli Follie Concept Store in South Africa is situated at Nelson Mandela Square, Johannesburg. The entrance of FF Group in the market of South Africa is of strategic importance, as it expands the Group's presence globally. This action consists the start of our strategic plans for further expansion of the Folli Follie network in Johannesburg, as well as in Pretoria and Cape Town.

More specifically, today the Shareholders General Meeting adopted the following resolutions:
1. Approval of the annual company's and consolidated financial statements for the fiscal year 1st January 2015 ­ 31st December 2015, after having heard the reports of the Board of Directors on the realization of the above fiscal year and the Chartered AuditorAccountant.
2. R esolution on the non-distribution of dividend to the shareholders.
3. Release of the members of the Board of Directors and the Chartered Auditor-Accountant from any liability to compensate for the fiscal year 2015.

4. Election of Mr. George Varthalitis, son of John, (SOEL nr. 10251) as an ordinary Chartered Auditor ­ Accountant and Mr. Ioannis Toliopoulos, son of Vassileios, (SOEL nr. 12381) as a deputy Chartered Auditor ­ Accountant for the fiscal year 2016, both members of the auditing company under the trade name "ECOVIS VNT Auditing s.a." (ELTE No 045 and SOEL No. 174) and definition of their remuneration due for that year.

Subject 1o
48.315.329 shares voted in favor, i.e. 99.9% of the total shares there represented. 915 shares voted against, i.e. a percentage of 0.02% of the total shares there represented. 43.205 shares abstained, i.e. a percentage of 0.08% of the total shares there represented.
Subject 2o

5. Approval of all kinds of fees and compensations paid to the members of the Board of Directors in fiscal year 2015 and prior approval of all kinds of fees and compensations to be paid during fiscal year 2016.

48.284.227 shares voted in favor, i.e. 99.84% of the total shares there represented. 13.801 shares voted against, i.e. a percentage of 0.03% of the total shares there represented. 61.421 shares abstained, i.e. a percentage of 0.13% of the total shares there represented.

6. A pproval of provision of guarantees, facilities (including share capital increases) in favor of affiliated com- Subject 3o

panies of the group according to article 42 e par. 5 48.216.939 shares voted in favor, i.e. 99,71% of the total of cl 2190/1920 and authorization to the Board of shares there represented. 99.106 shares voted against, Directors for the materialization of the said decision. i.e. a percentage of 0,20% of the total shares there rep-

resented. 43.404 shares abstained, i.e. a percentage of 7. Election of the new members of the Board of Directors 0,09% of the total shares there represented.
and definition of the members of the Auditing Commit-

tee according to article 37 of Law 3693/2008, for five (5) year term, as follows:
1. Dimitrios Koutsolioutsos 2. Aikaterini Koutsolioutsou 3. Georgios Koutsolioutsos 4. Emmanouil Zachariou 5. Jiannong Qian

Subject 4o
41.113.719 shares voted in favor, i.e. 85.02% of the total shares there represented.5.698.726 shares voted against, i.e. a percentage of 11.78% of the total shares there represented. 1.547.004 shares abstained, i.e. a percentage of 3.2% of the total shares there represented.

6. Irini Nioti 7. Zacharias Mantzavinos 8. Evangelos Koumanakos 9. Periklis Stamatiadis 10. Ilias Kouloukountis 11. Ilias Koukoutsas

Subject 5o
37.693.436 shares voted in favor, i.e. 77.94% of the total shares there represented.5.299.063 shares voted against, i.e. a percentage of 10.96% of the total shares there represented. 5.366.950 shares abstained, i.e. a percentage of 11.1% of the total shares there represent-

From the above members of the Board of Directors, ed.

Mr Periklis Stamatiadis, Evangelos Koumanakos and Zacharias Mantzavinos are elected as members of Subject 6o

the Auditing Committee.

47.561.582 shares voted in favor, i.e. 98.35% of the

8. Validation of the decision of the Board of Directors of the Company dated 06-04-2016 as per the election of Mr. Koumanakos Evangelos as member of the Board of Directors and the Auditing Committee to have

total shares there represented. 200.826 shares voted against, i.e. a percentage of 0.42% of the total shares there represented. 597.041 shares abstained, i.e. a percentage of 1.23% of the total shares there represented.

replaced the resigned member Mr. Georgios Aronis. Subject 7o

32

In the aforementioned annual general meeting, share- 36.127.951 shares voted in favor, i.e. 74.71% of the

holders represented the 72.23% of the total shares were total shares there represented.6.734.750 shares voted

present. This amounts to 48.359.449 out of the total of against, i.e. a percentage of 13.93% of the total shares

66.948.210 shares.

there represented. 5.496.748 shares abstained, i.e. a per-

centage of 11.36% of the total shares there represented.

Annual Report
2016

Subject 8o

of the Group and of the leasing contracts with relating to

35.997.012 shares voted in favor, i.e. 74.44% of the total shares there represented.11.258.030 shares voted against, i.e. a percentage of 23,28% of the total shares

buildings and equipment of the Group, namely the fact that these agreements are denominated at a floating rate linked to EURIBOR. Therefore, the Group is exposed to

33

there represented. 1.104.407 shares abstained, i.e. a percentage of 2.28% of the total shares there represent-

an interest rate fluctuation risk. As part of addressing this risk, the Group uses interest rate risk hedging tools.

ed. ii) Foreign Exchange Risk:

) Risk of reduced gross profitability due to apprecia-

Treasury shares

tion of foreign currencies: The risk derives from the fact

that the company (and the group) purchases the greatest

As of 31.12.2016 the Company holds 584.083 treasury part of its products in prices expressed in USD and sells

shares.

these products to the markets in which it is active in prices

expressed in local currencies. The Group's products'

sales prices are finalized several months before their

C. Significant Events after the ending period and until the preparation date of the Report

receipt and repayment and any possible dollar revaluation, in relation to local currencies, would increase the cost of sales, without allowing the increase of sale prices, thus depriving the Group from a part of its gross profit.

There are no subsequent events from the end of the period and until the preparation date of this report which influence significantly the financial statements of the Group.

Also, part of the Group's disposal expenses, and mostly royalties, is expressed in US dollars. Thus, any possible US dollar revaluation in relation to the Euro would increase the Group's operating expenses. The management of this risk is performed by the Group's cash man-

agement department, in collaboration with the pertinent

commercial management, and the strategy and general

D. Main risks and uncertainties for planning are provided by the company's Board of Direc-

2016

tors. Commercial managements take into consideration the foreign exchange rate change risk during the deter-

The main risks of the current financial year according mination of their products' retail sale prices. The Group

to the Administration are the following:

also uses foreign exchange risk setoff products, mostly

forward type agreements.

Risks associated with the macroeconomic environment b) Risk from the conversion of financial statements ex-

· The uncertainty stemming from the Greek financial cri- pressed in foreign currency: The Group has investments

sis is likely to impose adverse effects to the business, in foreign companies, which operate in currencies other

the operating results and the financial position of the than Euro and thus their financial statements are not pre-

Group.

pared in Euro. The Group is exposed to a risk from the

· Changes in consumers' behaviour.

conversion of the said financial statements to Euro, to be

· The Group is susceptible to economic and political consolidated in the Group's financial statements.

risks, as well as uncertainties pertaining to countries

where it operates.

iii) Price risk ­ Inflation:

· Market Risk

According to administration, the Group runs no risk from

- Interest Rate Risk

price fluctuation, since it does not own a significant se-

- Foreign Exchange Risk

curities portfolio and the prices of the products it sells do

- Prices - Inflation

not present particular fluctuations. Thus, the international

· Credit Risk

increase of inflation pressure in combination with the dis-

· Liquidity Risk

turbance of the international financial system may modify

· Inventory Risk

consuming habits, affecting the group's sales and profit-

ability.

Market Risk

Credit Risk

i) Interest Rate Risk:

This is the risk caused by the potential breaching of con-

This risk stems from bond loans and short-term bank loans tractual obligations on behalf of the trading parties. With

regard to the confrontation of the credit risk from wholesale, the Group channels the sales through the most renowned department stores in the countries in which it maintains its activities, as well as via a trustworthy network of selected franchisees. In addition, the Group deals with this kind of risks by getting involved in credit insurance contracts.
Liquidity risk Despite the unprecedented financial crisis and the liquidity downside on a global basis, the Group retains high liquidity due to its adopted capital structure as well as the retail nature of the greatest proportion of its sales. What is more, the Group acts with a view to the reinforcement of this liquidity, through the successful opening of discount outlets, aiming to the disposal of the older stock and the limitation of expenses.
Inventory risk This risk is a result of the intense retaining of older stock from certain companies of the Group and concerns its inability to dispose this stock or to distribute it in prices lower than those eventuated during its appraisal process. This risk is alleviated via specialized disposal areas-markets such as: Outlet type discount department stores, discount outlets and large hotel units, located in countries that the Group is commercially active. The Group has evaluated its older stock at its net realizable value. The estimation of these values is based on the management's experience and the actual market data. Furthermore, management believes that this evaluation method (essentially forecasting for stock evaluation) covers the inventory risk entirely.
External Factors that may affect the financial results and the share price The supply and demand for products, as well as the cost, sales and results of the Issuer and the Group overall, are affected by various external factors, such as political instability, financial uncertainty and the market recession. These risks affect each company in a different degree, regardless of the sectors they are doing business in.
E. L abour and environmental issues
On December 31, 2016 the Group employed 4.996 employees, over 5.162 employees on December 31, 2015. The corresponding figures for the Company are 1.099 versus 1.104. The Group employs (a) employees with permanent contracts, (b) wage workers, and (c) hourly employees. Additionally, a Labour union was formed in consolidated companies Attica Department Stores S.A. (About 180 members). The Group fully respects the environmental legislation of the countries it operates. More precisely, it participates in recycling programs and ensures the accurate application of the relevant laws in terms of (a) packaging, (b) electrical accumulators and other vehicles equipment, as well as (c) electrical and electronic equipment. It has also signed contracts with certified companies responsible for managing recycled material. The Group's cooperation with suppliers is based on standards prohibiting any form of child labour, discrimination or inflicted labour, securing the health and safety of the employees involved in the production process, as well as equality of payments and respect of the life quality. We visit our suppliers regularly in order to ensure that every single one of them complies with the principles of social responsibility inspired by us.
34

Annual Report
2016

35

F. Transactions with Affiliates

The receivables and liabilities of the Group's affiliates, from and to the parent company, as well as the income and expenses of each company caused by their transactions with the parent company within 2016, according to IAS 24, are the following:

For the Group

Purchases of goods Folli Follie SA

1/1- 31/12/2016

Executives

Other Related Parties

1/1- 31/12/2015

Executives

Other Related Parties

0,00

0,00

Attica Department Stores SA

3.275.292,00

2.976.667,00

TOTAL Sales of services - Other income Folli Follie SA

0,00 3.275.292,00 0,00

0,00 2.976.667,00 0,00

Attica Department Stores SA

36.996,00

32.455,00

TOTAL Get services - Other expenses

0,00

36.996,00

0,00

32.455,00

Folli Follie SA

0,00

0,00

Attica Department Stores SA

73.161,00

22.584,00

Sales of Goods Folli Follie SA

TOTAL

0,00

73.161,00

43.897,82

0,00

22.584,00

18.929,36

Attica Department Stores SA

2.887,00

0,00

TOTAL

0,00

Transactions & remunaration of board members & managers

46.784,82

0,00

18.929,36

Folli Follie SA

3.292.826,81

0,00 3.312.982,32

0,00

Attica Department Stores SA

358.985,33

0,00

283.672,25

0,00

TOTAL

3.651.812,14

0,00 3.596.654,57

0,00

Receivables Folli Follie SA Attica Department Stores SA Planaco SA
Payables Folli Follie SA Attica Department Stores SA Planaco SA

TOTAL TOTAL

31/12/2016

Executives

Other Related Parties

31/12/2015

Executives

Other Related Parties

0,00

85.215,76

0,00

305.419,00

0,00

0,00

0,00

390.634,76

0,00

47.374,22

0,00

305.683,00

0,00

0,00

0,00

353.057,22

0,00 0,00 78.105,08 78.105,08

0,00 169.825,00
0,00 169.825,00

0,00 0,00 12,94 12,94

0,00 642.562,00
0,00 642.562,00

For the Company

Sales of Goods
FOLLI-FOLLIE H.K. - Group FOLLI-FOLLIE JAPAN LTD FOLLI FOLLIE UK LTD FOLLI FOLLIE FRANCE SA FOLLI FOLLIE SPAIN SA FF CYPRUS LTD PLANACO SA LINKS OF LONDON LTD FF GROUP ROMANIA SRL FF GROUP BULGARIA EOOD MOUSTAKIS SA ATTICA DEPARTMENT STORES SA COLLECTIVE PATRAS SA FF HOLDINGS SA STENABY FINANCE LTD FF GROUP FINANCE LUXEMBOURG SA FF COSMETICS SA
TOTAL

1/131/12/2016
1.019.865,96 170.783,07 0,00 12.552,08 114.540,09 469.212,93 1.900,46
9.388.459,44 2.516.005,87
674.240,45 468.837,15 8.526.492,14
159.125,47 1.568.113,30
0,00 0,00
784,40 25.090.912,81

1/131/12/2015
1.096.820,33 130.350,52 0,00 17.756,33 61.882,36 283.260,40 13.884,75
7.666.631,54 4.974.146,53 3.432.671,99 1.153.359,94 11.996.384,24
357.538,55 1.103.830,20
0,00 0,00
0,00 32.288.517,68

Sales of Services - Other Income
FOLLI-FOLLIE H.K. - Group FOLLI-FOLLIE JAPAN LTD FOLLI FOLLIE UK LTD FOLLI FOLLIE FRANCE SA FOLLI FOLLIE SPAIN SA FF CYPRUS LTD PLANACO SA LINKS OF LONDON LTD FF GROUP ROMANIA SRL FF GROUP BULGARIA EOOD MOUSTAKIS SA ATTICA DEPARTMENT STORES SA COLLECTIVE PATRAS SA FF HOLDINGS SA STENABY FINANCE LTD FF GROUP FINANCE LUXEMBOURG SA FF COSMETICS SA
TOTAL

1/1-

1/1-

31/12/2016 31/12/2015

1.306,71 0,00 0,00
3.904,97 6.014,64 89.187,33 6.965,77 361.730,01 34.515,17 11.061,58 64.686,72
0,00
28.683,13 407.799,59
0,00 0,00
92.594,93 1.108.450,55

4.521.788,97 12.700,00 0,00 4.057,46 5.377,46 14.680,24 7.072,00
278.483,77 21.537,17 10.916,65
164.361,40 0,00
89.972,48 388.048,91
0,00 0,00
0,00 5.518.996,51

1/1-

1/1-

31/12/2016 31/12/2015

1/1-

1/1-

31/12/2016 31/12/2015

Purchase of Goods
FOLLI-FOLLIE H.K. - Group FOLLI-FOLLIE JAPAN LTD FOLLI FOLLIE UK LTD FOLLI FOLLIE FRANCE SA FOLLI FOLLIE SPAIN SA FF CYPRUS LTD PLANACO SA LINKS OF LONDON LTD FF GROUP ROMANIA SRL FF GROUP BULGARIA EOOD MOUSTAKIS SA ATTICA DEPARTMENT STORES SA COLLECTIVE PATRAS SA FF HOLDINGS SA STENABY FINANCE LTD FF GROUP FINANCE
36 LUXEMBOURG SA
FF COSMETICS SA
TOTAL

4.907.706,95 0,00 0,00 0,00 0,00 0,00 0,00
1.103.633,43 1.522.802,84
225.625,87 0,00
157.960,12
93.109,05 358.224,22
0,00 0,00
40.691,93 8.409.754,41

Get Services - Other Expenses
6.195.424,11 FOLLI-FOLLIE H.K. - Group 0,00 FOLLI-FOLLIE JAPAN LTD 0,00 FOLLI FOLLIE UK LTD 0,00 FOLLI FOLLIE FRANCE SA 0,00 FOLLI FOLLIE SPAIN SA 0,00 FF CYPRUS LTD 0,00 PLANACO SA
835.534,03 LINKS OF LONDON LTD 305.721,30 FF GROUP ROMANIA SRL 192.599,82 FF GROUP BULGARIA EOOD
271,75 MOUSTAKIS SA 171.488,11 ATTICA DEPARTMENT
STORES SA 323.245,18 COLLECTIVE PATRAS SA
6.053,87 FF HOLDINGS SA 0,00 STENABY FINANCE LTD 0,00 FF GROUP FINANCE LUXEMBOURG SA 0,00 FF COSMETICS SA
8.030.338,17 TOTAL

1.336.465,18 264,00 0,00 0,00 0,00
64.347,36 5.622,51
155.299,91 15.564,28 0,00 0,00
135.130,62
0,00 0,00 0,00 0,00
1.959,04 1.714.652,90

36.472,33 0,00 0,00 0,00
3.291,38 0,00
1.020,00 117.797,92
0,00 0,00 0,00 161.537,96
0,00 175,60
0,00 0,00
0,00 320.295,19

Annual Report
2016

31/12/2016 31/12/2015

31/12/2016 31/12/2015 37

Receivables
FOLLI-FOLLIE H.K. - Group FOLLI-FOLLIE JAPAN LTD FOLLI FOLLIE UK LTD FOLLI FOLLIE FRANCE SA FOLLI FOLLIE SPAIN SA FF CYPRUS LTD PLANACO SA LINKS OF LONDON LTD FF GROUP ROMANIA SRL FF GROUP BULGARIA EOOD MOUSTAKIS SA ATTICA DEPARTMENT STORES SA COLLECTIVE PATRAS SA FF HOLDINGS SA STRENABY FINANCE LTD FF Group Finance Luxembourg SA FF Cosmetics
TOTAL

37.225.134,22 368.438,53 4.465,37 347.321,60
4.461.979,22 1.836.974,80 6.957.210,22 55.110.936,23 1.449.249,44
60.515,41 0,00
13.145.805,68
0,00 7.312.863,22
15.940,29 5.000,00
64.152,17 128.365.986,40

30.070.317,33 192.516,01 5.209,14
2.440.068,55 0,00
1.414.787,26 6.118.702,68 32.300.621,40 5.003.379,34
166.738,78 247.107,58 1.342.113,94
0,00 5.828.482,34
12.851,48 0,00
116.975,24 85.259.871,07

Payables
FOLLI-FOLLIE H.K. - Group FOLLI-FOLLIE JAPAN LTD FOLLI FOLLIE UK LTD FOLLI FOLLIE FRANCE SA FOLLI FOLLIE SPAIN SA FF CYPRUS LTD PLANACO SA LINKS OF LONDON LTD FF GROUP ROMANIA SRL FF GROUP BULGARIA EOOD MOUSTAKIS SA ATTICA DEPARTMENT STORES SA COLLECTIVE PATRAS SA FF HOLDINGS SA STRENABY FINANCE LTD FF Group Finance Luxembourg SA FF Cosmetics
TOTAL

580,63
521,28 0,00 0,00
786,50 64.347,36
0,00 4.275.464,06
24.989,86 0,00 0,00
69.851,13

-2.768.252,73
259,40 0,00 0,00
786,50 0,00 0,00
2.913.601,53 0,00 0,00 0,00
95.390,74

0,00 931.686,35
0,00 229.854.932,64

238.786,24 345.356,83
0,00 224.473.359,50

46.890,09

0,00

235.270.049,90 225.299.288,01

Corporate Social Responsibility

"We Care" The FF Group's Corporate Responsibility scheme is based upon a wider strategic approach and is defined by the philosophy of each and every distinct company. Every corporate responsibility act is defined by the management's commitments towards the employees, the shareholders, the clients, the suppliers, and the society at large. In a wider sense, these stakeholders constitute the family, in which the FF Group grows, operating with responsibility and respect. The Group's Corporate Responsibility scheme applies globally, in all markets that the company enters, confirming its respect to all the relevant communities and corresponding to each region's needs.
Taking always into account the diversity and particularity of each one of the 30 countries of its operation, the Group develops and implements a holistic and focused Corporate Social Responsibility Programme, according to the basic axes that the Headquarters in Athens define. With the basic axes evolving around Culture and Sports, Society and Environment, the FF Group's Corporate Responsibility Programme spreads through both a national and international level.
Culture/Sports Axis Being a Group that operates in many different countries, the FF Group embraces culture and arts as global means

of communication that unite civilizations. Thus, culture has been a major feature of the social contribution of the FF Group: the cooperation with organizations which promote culture and arts is considered as of really high importance in order to preserve each region's cultural heritage and also to support the artists' efforts. The FF Group is a member and support actively Benaki Museum in Athens.
In the past, the FF Group has sponsored several cultural events in Greece and abroad, events such as the first Kabuki Theater in Megaron-the Athens Concert Hall, Stefanos Korkolis' concert in Herodeion and Dionysis Savopoulos' concert in Benaki Museum in Athens. Our philosophy regarding arts and culture is transferred globally: in October 2005, Folli Follie was honoured to support the Hong Kong closing concert of the Greek performer Nana Moushouri, who is a UNESCO Good Will Ambassador. Moreover, in May 2007, during Mrs Dora Bakoyannis', Minister of External Affairs visit in China, Folli Follie sponsored the renowned Greek singer, Alkistis Protopsalti's concert, in the Forbidden City of Beijing. Folli Follie also sponsored the "Sensitivity Questioned" exhibition that was hosted at Ileana Tounta Gallery, in Athens in 2010. The exhibition was dedicated to femininity through the eyes of a male, with the participation of famous Greek and international artists.

In March 2013, the FF Group sponsored the 7th Panora- X Special Olympics World Winter Games in Peyong

ma of Contemporary Greek Cinema, organized in Paris Chang, Korea in 2013.

by the Greek Cultural Centre.

Links of London, the Creators of the Official Jewellery

In 2014 and 2015, the Group sponsored the performanc- Collection of London 2012 Olympic Games, proudly

es of Theatroparea `08, which is a non-profit organiza- supported the first ladies running competition which took

tion and part of the proceeds were donated to charities. place in Greece, the "Ladies Run" for three consecutive

Along the Sports axis, Folli Follie honoured the Vouliagmeni female polo team ­ European Champion 2010 ­ by dedicating and naming a sports watch collection "Water Champ". Folli Follie, as a company which always promotes its Hellenic heritage and roots wanted to

years (2012-2014). Hundreds of women, who are passionate for running, were gathered in Laimos, Vouliagmeni, participated in the race and each one of them was awarded with the exclusively designed and limited edition Ladies Run bracelet.

express its gratitude to the "golden girls" of the female polo team. The "Water Champ" collection is one of the company's most symbolic watch collections and enjoys a great success.

Society Axis The activities of the FF Group extend to long-lasting charity initiatives throughout Greece and globally, covering the needs of schools, non-profit institutions and NGOs

In August 2012, Folli Follie sponsored the sailing race "Aegean Regatta 2012". The race took place in Greece for the 11th consecutive year, starting from the island of Mytilene in the North Aegean sea and reaching its final destination, the island of Syros in the Cyclades. Folli Follie shares with the "Aegean Regatta" Tournament the same

that involve children, the tenderest part of society as well as women. In addition, the FF Group continues to demonstrate its sensitivity to social solidarity issues that are not direct business actions but topics, which the company feels a great responsibility to bring to the public's attention.

respect and admiration towards Greece and also the strong will to promote the country's beauty abroad. For this reason, Folli Follie offered to the participants a 2 days free docking in the Tourist Port ("Marina") of Mytilene, the port from where the yachting boats started their race and awarded the winners with the Folli Follie "Regatta"

As for the rest of the world, the FF Group sponsors various charitable causes dedicated to public welfare, such as the Cancer Fund in Hong Kong, where it has been the major sponsor of the "Pink Revolution" campaign for a series of years.

collection watches.

In autumn 2009, Folli Follie designed and distributed

In 2012, the FF Group through Converse and in collaboration with the municipality of Piraeus, took over the repair of an abandoned basketball court, in a neglected neighborhood, rejuvenated it by painting it with vivid colors

internationally two limited edition bracelets in collaboration with the leading non-profit organisation "Save the Children", and part of their proceeds was donated to support its remarkable activities.

and offered it back to the local community. This activa- During 2011 Folli Follie also supported the non-profit or-

tion provided the neighborhood's young inhabitants with ganization "The Art of Elysium" through the opening of

a new and pleasant place of entertainment and sports. the new Folli Follie boutiques in New York (Soho & Lord

In 2012 and 2013, Folli Follie honouring its Greek Heritage and aiming to stand by any initiative that promotes the modern face of Greece, sponsored the "Spetses Classic Yacht Race", which featured some of the most renowned classic yachts in Greece using as a backdrop the beautiful island of Spetses in Greece.

& Taylor). This organization was established in 1997 and its objective is to encourage working actors, artists and musicians to voluntarily dedicate their time and talent to children who are battling serious medical conditions. For this purpose, FF Group's employees in New York were prompted to participate in the workshop that took place in the Hospital for Joint Diseases, by sharing

Additionally, Folli Follie in 2013 was a proud supporter of their personal talents with these children. The works that

Spetses Mini Marathon in Spetses, Greece, showcasing were created in this workshop were presented during the

how sportsmanship and athletic lifestyle can be ideally opening of Folli Follie's shop in shop at Lord & Taylor.

38 combined with striking style.

In Spain, Folli Follie actively supports the purposes for

Another Corporate Responsibility initiative of the FF Group, and one that the company takes great pride in, is the Folli Follie sponsoring the Greek Delegation of the

the last five years (2010-2014) of the "SOS Foundation" through the launch of a specially designed collection, and part of this collection proceeds were offered to the International "SOS Foundation". In order to honour Mrs

Annual Report
2016

Ketty Koutsolioutsos, co-founder of Folli Follie, a depart- States and set a good example to other countries where

ment of a nursery that was built in Cangut Village in Sen- Links of London is present.

egal, was named as "Ketty's Nursery".

The close relationship that the FF Group has developed 39

In 2013 and 2014, Folli Follie Greece joined forces with with Japan during the past 25 years led to actively dem-

the non-profit association I LIVE FOR ME and designed onstrating its support towards those affected by the dev-

a limited edition bracelet inspired by the association's astating earthquake and subsequent tsunami that struck

logo, the butterfly. Folli Follie and I LIVE FOR ME found in Japan on March 2011. Folli Follie brand donated 10%

the face of Tonia Sotiropoulou, a famous Greek model/ of global sales of the entire Heart4Heart Collection and

actress, the ideal ambassador for this initiative.

Links of London 10% of the global sales of the classic

Links of London is also an active participant of the FF Group's social responsibility programs focused on Greek society and especially children. During 2008, the brand offered part of its "Friendship Bracelet" proceeds to the "Mazi gia to Paidi" non-profit organisation.

Friendship Bracelet to support the Japanese Red Cross. In December 2012, the FF Group supported the reconstruction of the building of Merimna, which is a nonprofit organization with the main goal of caring for children and families who are facing a serious illness, loss or death.

In 2010, Links of London also organized an ambassadors' initiative, named "Sweetie... It's all about you!", to support the causes Links of London of "Make-A-Wish" foundation in Greece. Antigoni Drakoulakis, Calliope Karvounis, Sia Kossiones, Helena Kountouras, Katerina Lechou, Nina Lotsaris, Nantia Mpoule, Maria Naupliotou, Ioanna Pappas, Rea Toutountzi and Zeta Fountas accepted Links of London proposal and participated as the Goodwill Ambassadors in the successful Social Responsibility Campaign that was created for this cause. The support towards the "Make-A-Wish" foundation continued for a second year through the collaboration with the renowned Greek singer Antonis Remos, who designed a friendship bracelet, profits of which were donated to the organization.
For three consecutive years (2010-2012) Links of London supported Make-A-Wish® foundation and created a limited edition handmade bracelet signed by Vicky Kaya, who is the Ambassador of Make-A-Wish® Greece. An important part of the bracelets' sales proceedings were offered to Make-A-Wish®, with the aim to fulfill all the wishes of children from 3-18 years old, who suffer from serious illness and encourage them to continue fighting for their lives. The "Make-A-Wish" foundation sponsorship was completed with a major charity event, maximizing the impact of this great initiative.
In addition, Links of London created for the Fall/Winter 2011 collection 7 cord bracelets, each one of them representing activation against hunger throughout the world. Part of the bracelets proceeds were offered to FEED Foundation, a non-profit organization, which was formed by Lauren Bush and Ellen Gustafson and is dedicated to supporting programs and organizations that are effectively working to fight hunger and eliminate malnutrition throughout the world. This activation was held with great success in the United Kingdom and the United

The FF Group takes great pride in the initiative of its employees based in Greece. During December 2013, an FF Group employee task force organized a three-day charity bazaar in which FF Group products were sold and the FF Group employees offered their services voluntarily. The FF Group Christmas Charity Bazaar lead to raising 80,000 , all of which were offered to the organization "Mazi gia to Paidi", reaching out to thousands of children in need in Greece.
During October 2015 the FF Group's employees with the Management's support organized the gathering of food, clothes, shoes, blankets and hygiene items in order to offer relief to refugees and people that are in a difficult socio-economic condition, supporting the Ark of the World and the Municipality of Athens. Additionally, the Group supported this initiative with the offering of 2,500 pair of shoes and 90 boxes with clothes.
During 2015, Factory Outlet helped the project of the Ark of the World and a visit to the center building of the organization in Athens, sealed a strong support relationship. Moreover, the Factory Outlet has undertaken entirely the completion of the Apiary in the border Ark of Pogoniani. The apiary has recently started operating and offering creative activities and opportunities for learning to the children that are hosted in the small village of Ioannina.
In June 2016 FF Group actively supported the social facilities of Lesvos Island with a donation of major importance.
Since the mid of November 2016 Folli Follie supports the Foundation Coeurs Pour Tous Hellas and its charity work for poor children with congenital or acquired heart diseases. Folli Follie in association with the Foundation Coeurs Pour Tous Hellas (CPTH) found in the face of

Smaragda Karydi, Vasso Laskaraki, Katerina Papoutsaki and Katerina Geronikolou, the ideal Ambassadors. These well-known and beloved actors embraced gracefully with enthusiasm this initiative which aims to give hope to needy children and their families.
Part of the proceeds from all the purchases of Heart4Heart jewelry, watches and accessories will be offered to support the Foundation. The emblematic Folli Follie motif - consisting of 4 hearts - becomes a symbol of hope and the inspiration behind this initiative of unconditional love.
Environment Axis The FF Group is strongly activated towards the environmental protection and examines all countries' needs individually, focusing on programmes that offer concrete results and cover specific needs.
In June 2008, the FF Group also delivered a number of works to Artemida village, Municipality of Zacharo, Prefecture of Ilia, Greece, as a contribution of social solidarity after the destructive wildfires that affected the wider area of western Peloponnese in August 2007.
With the environment and the sustainable development always in mind, the FF Group Headquarters, as well as the Factory Outlet retail stores, are housed in eco-friendly buildings, promoting programmes of recycling and battery recycling, energy saving by which the employees, the third-party partners and the visitors abide.
Trends, Prospects and expected development of the Group Greater China and Asia overall continue to be the key growth drivers of the Group, supported by strong demographics of a strengthening middle class. We continue with the expansion strategy for our own brands Folli Follie and Links of London in Asia supported by our strategic partner Fosun International. Simultaneously, online penetration in the channel mix is accelerating in all the segments of our operations. Investing in new technologies in order to achieve omni-channel while continue to leverage on our diversified geographic exposure and product portfolio will support our overall growth profile.

Eastern and Chinese New Year) as well as during the summer sales season. For retail and wholesale of clothing & footwear, during the first and third quarter of each year. During these periods wholesale sales are positively affected by planned purchases of large wholesale customers for the periods spring/summer, autumn/winter.
Corporate Governance Statement
) Corporate Governance Principles The Company has adopted Principles of Corporate Governance, as defined by the current Greek legislation and international practice.
) Corporate Governance Code Our company hereby states the adoption of the widely accepted Corporate Governance Code of the Hellenic Federation of Enterprises (SEV) for Listed Companies. This code can be found at the SEV's website, under the following address: The Company complies with the specific practices for listed companies provided by the Greek Code of Corporate Governance (EKED): http:// www.ecgi.org/codes/documents/hellenic_cg_code_ oct2013_en.pdf.
The company may proceed to amendments in the Code and the Corporate Governance Principles applied. The term "Corporate Governance" describes the way in which companies are managed and controlled. Corporate governance is in particular a system of relations between the company's management, the Board of Directors (BoD), its shareholders and other stakeholders, constitutes the structure through which the objectives of the company are approached and set, identifies the key risks that are faced during its operation identifies the means of achieving corporate goals, organizes the system of risk management and enables the monitoring of the management's performance during the procedure of the implementation of the above. and enable monitoring of performance management in the implementation process of the above.

Our domestic activities were extremely resilient during Effective corporate governance plays an essential role in

the last two years; we achieved significant market share promoting the competitiveness of enterprises, strengthen-

gains and continued to invest into expanding our store ing internal operating structures and growth from innova-

network with new store concepts where experience to at- tive actions, while increased transparency has improved

tract customers plays a key role. Regarding the prospects the transparency for the economic activity of private

40 of the Greek market, they are positively correlated with companies and public organizations and institutions in

those of the Greek economy.

a wider sense with obvious benefit for shareholders and

the investment community. Seasonality has a significant impact on the Group. For

the activity jewellery, watches and accessories season- In October of 2013 the new Corporate Governance

ality can be observed during the holidays (Christmas, Code of the Hellenic Federation of Enterprises (SEV) for

Annual Report
2016

Listed Companies was released, which amended the Board of Directors' operation

original in the framework of the first revision of the Greek · At the beginning of each calendar year, the Board of

Council of Corporate Governance (ESEDA). ESEDA was founded in 2012 and is the result of the collaboration

Directors does not endorse a calendar of meetings 41 or a 12-month action plan, since its convention and

between the Athens Stock Exchange (ATHEX) and the meeting are easy to arrange whenever the company

Hellenic Federation of Enterprises (SEV), and recog- needs or the law provides it, without requiring a prede-

nized jointly the contribution of corporate governance termined action plan.

for the continuous improvement of the competitiveness · The Chairman does not have regular meetings with

for Greek enterprises and the gain of credibility for the non-executive members, without the presence of ex-

Greek market and works since then systematically since ecutive members, to discuss their performance and

towards this direction.

rewards and other relative issues, since any issue is

discussed with the presence of all members.

· There are no introductory information programs en-

Deviations from the Corporate Governance Code and justification

sured by the Board of Directors for new members, nor a constant occupational training for other members, since the persons suggested to be elected as Board

Board of Directors' role and competencies · The Board of Directors has not proceeded to the es-
tablishment of a separate committee supervising the procedure of candidacy submission for election in the Board of Directors and preparing suggestions to the Board of Directors with regard to the rewards of the executive members and main top executives, given that the Company's policy in relation to these rewards

of Directors' members have proven and ample experience and organizational ­ administrative skills. · There is no specific term for the provision of sufficient resources to the Board of Directors' committees for the fulfilment of their duties and the recruitment of external consultants, since all relative resources are approved on occasion by the company administration, based on the various corporate needs.

is not fixed and settled.

Board of Directors' Evaluation

Board of Directors' size and composition · The Board of Directors consists of 6 executive mem-
bers, 5 non-executive members and 2 independent, non-executive members. This balance has provided the Board with effective and productive operation during the last years. · The Board of Directors does not appoint an independent Vice Chairman among its independent members, but an executive one, since the assistance of the Board of Directors' Vice Chairman and Chairman is considered extremely important for the exercise of the Board's executive duties.

· There is no established procedure for the evaluation of the Board of Directors' and its committee's evaluation, nor is the performance of the Board of Directors' Chairman evaluated during the procedure presided by the independent Vice Chairman or another non-executive Board of Directors' member in lack of an independent Vice Chairman. This procedure is not considered necessary in light of the company's organizational structure.
· Regular and non-executive members do not convene without the presence of executive members, in order to evaluate the performance of executive members and determine their rewards.

Duties and behaviour of Board of Directors' Members · The detailed notification of any occupational com-
mitments of the Board of Directors' members is not required (including significant non-executive commitments in companies and non-profit foundations) be-

· The Board of Directors does not describe in the corporate governance annual statement its evaluation procedure, as well as the evaluation procedure for its committees, since no such evaluation procedures are applied.

fore their appointment in the Board of Directors.

Internal Audit System

Board of Directors' candidate members · There is no committee promoting the candidacies for
the Board of Directors, since due to the company's structure and operation, this type of committee is not considered necessary at the moment.

The internal audit system consists of all auditing arrangements and procedures constantly covering all company activities and contributing to its effective and safe operation, the efficiency and efficacy of corporate tasks, the credibility of financial information and compliance with the applicable laws and regulations.

The Company has a sufficient and effective internal audit The Company's Audit Committee consists of the fol-

system with clearly described procedures, aiming to the lowing members of the Board of Directors:

effective management of its available resources, accord-

ing to the Board of Directors' decisions and the management of the most significant risks. In particular, the company's I.A.S. aims are the following: · Constant implementation of the corporate strategy

Mantzavinos Zaharias Non-executive member and Audit Committee Chairman

with effective use of the available resources.

Periklis Stamatiadis

· Acknowledgment and management of all sorts of risks

Independent non-executive member

assumed by the Company. · Reassurance of the completeness and credibility of the
data and information required for the accurate and

Evangelos Koumanakos Independent non-executive member

timely determination of its financial condition and the

compilation of trustworthy financial statements.

The Audit Committee monitors and supervises the perfor-

· Compliance with the institutional framework govern- mance of the internal audit by the internal audit direction.

ing the Company's operation, including internal regu- It is convened regularly and during its meetings, it evalu-

lations and codes of ethics.

ates and utilizes the auditing work findings provided by

· Prevention and avoidance of erroneous actions and ir- the supervisory authorities and internal audit division.

regularities that could endanger the Company's repu-

tation and interests as well as the reputation and inter- The Audit Committee Chairman convenes the Commit-

ests of its shareholders and other interested parties. tee, presides in its meetings, introduces the issues to be

discussed and in general coordinates and supervises the

Audit Committee

Committee work. The Committee Chairman informs the

The Audit Committee is a Committee of the Board of Di- BoD on the Committee's work in the framework of the

rectors' and is convened in order to assist the Board in BoD meetings.

fulfilling its obligations for the monitoring and evaluation of the Internal Audit System adequacy and effectiveness, Remunerations

based on the findings and comments of internal and ex- · The Board of Directors' executive members' contracts

ternal auditors as well as the ones provided by supervi- do not include any term according to which the Board

sory authorities' audits.

of Directors may claim the refund of the entire or part

of the bonus that has been allocated, due to revised

The members of the Audit Committee are appointed by financial statements of previous financial years or in

the Company's General Shareholders' Meeting. The Au- general, based on erroneous financial data used for

dit Committee consists of at least two (2) non-executive the estimation of this bonus.

members and one independent non-executive member · There is no rewards committee, consisting exclusively

of the Board of Directors, who presides over its meetings of non-executive members, independent by their ma-

and has sufficient knowledge and experience in account- jority, dealing with the determination of the Board of

ing and auditing issues. The Audit Committee is convened Directors' executive and non-executive members' re-

regularly. The exact time schedule is determined by the wards. Thus, there are no provisions for the duties of

Committee itself.

the said committee, the frequency of its meetings and

other issues regarding its operation. The composition

Information on the composition and operation of the Audit Committee:

of such a committee, in light of the company's structure and operation, has not been considered necessary so far.

According to article 37 of L. 3693/2008, all listed com- · Each Board of Directors' executive member's reward

panies ("public interest" according to the law) must have is not approved by the Board of Directors further to

an Audit Committee consisting of three members of the a suggestion by the rewards committee without the

42 Board of Directors, at least two non-executive ones and one independent non-executive member.

presence of its executive members, given that no such rewards committee exists.

General Meeting · No deviation was found.

Annual Report
2016
Information on the operation of the shareholders' General Meeting and its basic authorities and description of the shareholders' rights and their exercise.
43 General Meeting of shareholders The Board of Directors ensures that the preparation and performance of the shareholders' General Meeting facilitates the effective exercise of the shareholders' rights, who can be completely updated on all issues related with their participation in the General Meeting, including the agenda issues and their rights during the General Meeting. The Board of Directors utilizes the shareholders' General Meeting to facilitate an effective and open discourse with the company. In combination with the provisions of Law, the company posts at its website, at least twenty (20) days before the General Meeting, in Greek and English, information regarding the following · The date, time and place of the shareholders' General Meeting; · The basic participation rules and practices, including the right to introduce issues in the agenda and submit ques-
tions, as well as the deadlines within which the above rights may be exercised; · The voting procedures, representation terms and documents used for voting via a representative; · The suggested Meeting agenda, including drafts of the decisions to be discussed and voted and any other sup-
porting documents; · The suggested list of candidate members for the Board of Directors and their CVs (if members are to be elected);
and · The total number of shares and voting rights on the day the meeting is convened.
At least the company's Board of Directors' Chairman, the Vice Chairman and the Managing Director attend the shareholders' General Meeting, in order to provide information on issues of their competence, placed for discussion, and on questions or clarifications requested by the shareholders. The General Meeting Chairman has ample time for the submission of questions by shareholders.
General Meeting basic authorities The shareholders' General Meeting is the Company's superior body and has a right to decide generally on any corporate case. Its lawful decisions also commit absent and disagreeing shareholders.
The General Meeting is the only pertinent body to decide on the following: · Any issue submitted to it by the Board of Directors or eligible parties, according to the provisions of the Law or the
Articles of Association, to call for its convention; · Amendments on the Articles of Association. Such amendments are those regarding the increase or reduction of
share capital, the Company's dissolution, the extension of its duration and its merger with another company; · The election of the Board of Directors' members and the auditors, and determination of their rewards; · The approval or amendment of annual financial statements prepared by the Board of Directors and the disposal
of net profit; · The approval, by special voting performed with nominal call, of the Board of Directors' management and the re-
lease of the board of Directors and auditors of any liability further to the voting of the Annual Financial Statements and the hearing of the report on the Board of Directors' activities and the general status of the corporate cases. The company's Board of Directors' and its employees may participate in the above voting, but only with shares they hold by ownership; · The hearing of auditors with regard to the company's books' and accounts' audits they have performed; · The issuing of bond loans with rights over profits, according to article 3b of Law 2190/1920 and convertible bond loans; · The appointment of liquidators in case of the company's dissolution; · The filing of lawsuits against Board of Directors' members or the auditors, for breach of their duties as deriving from the Law and Articles of Association.
Shareholders' rights and their exercise Each shareholder who appears as such in the records of the body which keeps the securities of the company is entitled to attend and vote at the company's General Meeting of shareholders. The exercise of these rights does not

require the blocking of shares or to follow any similar procedure. Shareholders are entitled to attend the General Meeting or may be represented therein by a person they legally authorize. The rights of the company's shareholders are originated from the share itself and are in proportion to the share capital, to which the paid value of the share is attributed to. Each share grants all rights pursuant to the Law 2190/1920 as amended and in force, and the company's articles of association. The Chairman of the Board and the Vice President, are available to meet with shareholders with significant holdings, and discuss with them corporate governance related issues. The President also ensures that the views of shareholders are communicated to the Board.

G. Information on the Board of Directors' composition and operation
Board of Directors' composition TThe Board of Directors, acting collectively, assumes the administration and management of corporate cases to the company's and its shareholders' benefit, ensuring the application of the corporate strategy and the fair and equivalent treatment of all shareholders. It generally decides on all issues regarding the company, except for those that according to the Law or the Articles of Association, are vested in the competence of the shareholders' General Meeting. The Board of Directors' members are elected by the General Meeting. The General Meeting also determines which members shall be independent, non-executive ones. The Board of Directors determines which of its members shall be executive and which non-executive. The company's Board of Directors is the trustee of the Corporate Governance Principles of the company. The Board of Directors consists of nine (9) to thirteen (13) members. It is elected with secret voting by the General Meeting, with a three-year service extended until the regular General Meeting of its retirement year. In any case, this service cannot exceed the number of four years. Board of Directors' members may be shareholders or not, and are always re-electable.

Today the Board of Directors consists of five executive members, four non-executive members and two independent non-executive members. From the non-executive members, two fulfil its prerequisites, according to the provisions of L. 3016/2002 on Corporate Governance and are considered independent. Executive members are employed by the company or provide services to it by exercising administrative duties. The Board of Directors' non-executive members do not exercise administrative duties to the company.

Members of the Board of Directors:

NAME 1. Koutsolioutsos Dimitrios 2. Koutsolioutsos Ekaterini 3. Koutsolioutsos Georgios 4. Zachariou Emmanuel 5. Nioti Eirini 6. Jiannong Qian 7. Koukoutsas Ilias 8. Mantzavinos Zacharias 9. Kouloukountis Ilias 10. Stamatiadis Periklis 11. Koumanakos Evangelos

SEAT Chairman, Executive member Vice Chairman, Executive member Managing Director, Executive member Executive member Executive member Non-executive member Non-executive member Non-executive member Non-executive member Independent non-executive member Independent non-executive member

START DUTY
24/6/2016 24/6/2016 24/6/2016 24/6/2016 24/6/2016 24/6/2016 24/6/2016 24/6/2016 24/6/2016 24/6/2016 24/6/2016

END DUTY
24/6/2021 24/6/2021 24/6/2021 24/6/2021 24/6/2021 24/6/2021 24/6/2021 24/6/2021 24/6/2021 24/6/2021 24/6/2021

44

BRIEF CVS OF THE BOD MEMBERS:

Annual Report
2016

Mr. Dimitrios Koutsolioutsos is the founder and Chairman of FOLLI FOLLIE SA. Since the formation of the FF Group, 45 he holds the position as Chairman and executive member of the Board of Directors of FF Group. He has a degree in Economics from the University of L. Bocconi, Milan.
Ms. Aikaterini Koutsolioutsou is Vice Chairman of FF Group. She holds a degree in Sociology and Anthropology from a British University and finished her postgraduate studies in Italy. In 1982, she founded together with her husband Dimitrios Koutsolioutsos the company Folli Follie in Greece.
Mr. Georgios Koutsolioutsos has been appointed since January 2011 as Chief Executive Officer of FF Group. Born and raised in Milan, he graduated from the Italian Faculty of Athens, and then studied Economics at the University of Hartford in Paris. He holds a postgraduate degree in Business Administration and Marketing from the Hartford University of Connecticut in United States. His professional career started in New York, where he worked for two years in the field of jewellery retail. In 1992 he joined the family established company Folli Follie, having under his responsibility the international expansion, as well as the development of the investor relations of the company following the company's listing in the Athens Stock Exchange.
Mr. Emmanouil Zachariou is Deputy Managing Director and executive member of the Board of Directors of FF Group since January, 2011. Coming from a background with a long working experience in wholesale and retail. For 18 years he was the Commercial Manager, Vice President and minority shareholder of the Athens Stock Exchange listed company "Sportsman S.A." and in the last 10 years he was the General Manager, Vice President and minority shareholder of the company ALOUETTE S.A.
Ms. Eirini Nioti is executive member of the Board of Directors of FF Group. She studied finance at St. George Commercial College. She has been working for FOLLI FOLLIE SA since 1986 and is head of the treasury management of FF Group.
Mr. Jiannong Qian was appointed non-executive member of the Board of Directors of FF Group since May 26th, 2011. He is a graduate of Economics from Shandong University and holds a postgraduate degree in Economics from a German university. Mr. Qian is Vice President of Fosun Group and President of Fosun Tourism &Commercial Group. Mr. Qian studied in Germany and held senior management positions in two German companies. He then joined China Nepstar as CEO and successfully IPOed the company in US, which made it the first Chinese retail company listed in US. In 2009, Mr. Qian started to manage tourism & commercial investments for Fosun. In the tourism sector, he has led the initial investment and the later privatization of Club Med; he has also led the development of the world's third Atlantis resort in Sanya, the investments in CITS and Thomas Cook. member of the Issuer.
Mr. Ilias Koukoutsas is non-executive member of the FF Group Board of Directors. He is a graduate of Accounting from the Technological Educational Institute of Athens and holds a degree in Business Administration from the Athens University of Economics and Business. He worked at Lampropoulos Brothers Department Stores from 1981 until 2001 and when he withdrew he held the position of Commercial Manager. He was a member of the Board of Directors of Retail Sales Association of Greece. He started working with Elmec Sport in 2002
Dr. Zacharias Mantzavinos is a non-executive member of FF Group's Board of Directors. He is Professor emeritus of the Dental School of the University of Athens with postgraduate studies in the Dental School of the University of Pennsylvania United States. He has published more than 100 scientific papers in Greek and international magazines, and has been Dean of the Dental School and Chairman for two periods. He has also been Member of the first Managing Committee of the Aegean University, the Highest Scientific Council of the State, the American Academy of Periodontology, the Pierre Fouchard Academy, the International College of Dentists and other Greek and foreign companies.

Mr. Ilias Kouloukountis is an independent non-executive member of the Board of Directors of FF Group. He studied at the Athens College, at Millfield School in Somerset and at King's College of the University of Durham in the United Kingdom. He started working in 1966 at A.G.PAPPADAKIS & CO LTD. In 1971 in combination with the family business he founded the companies OFF SHORE CONSULTANCE INC. in Piraeus and OFF SHORE UK LTD. in London. From 1997 to 2000 he was Manager and General Administrator of the company KASSIAN MARITIME NAVIGATION
AGENCY LTD. Since 2000 he has been Chairman and General Director of EQUITY SHIPPING CO LTD.

Mr Periklis Stamatiadis is an independent non-executive member off the FF Group Board of Directors. He brings 32 years of International top management experience in the FMCG sector. A top Executive with a 28 years career at Johnson& Johnson, where he held the position of Company Group Chairman and was a member of the Group Operating Committee of the Consumer Group. Mr. Stamatiadis has a proven track record in managing, building and turning around large complex businesses which he led across all continents. He has also been responsible for the management of global brands in a variety of businesses and has a wide expertise in the M&A area.
Dr. Evangelos Koumanakos is a non-executive independent member of the FF Group Board of Directors since April 2016. Dr. Koumanakos is teaching Financial Accounting at the University of Ioannina, previous to this he was teaching Public Management in the course "Financial and Management Accounting of Public Enterprises and Organizations" University of Peloponnese. He worked as external assessor for a various organizations and programs among others European Transfer program of Innovation-Leonardo Da Vinci, the European Association for University Lifelong Learning. He worked further as scientific director and coordinator in various European programs. He has published scientific articles in the many economic journals on Accounting, Auditing and Financial Analysis and contributed with chapters in three financial book publications.
Relations with shareholders Communication with shareholders
-no deviation was found
H. The explanatory report of the Board of Directors to the Shareholders' Regular General Meeting.
(According to §7 of article 4, L.3556/2007)
. Share Capital Structure The Company's share capital amounts to  20,084,463 divided into 66,948,210 common shares with a nominal value of  0.30 each and is paid in full. Each share corresponds to one voting right. All shares are publicly listed in the Athens Stock Exchange and lie in the category of Big Capitalization. Each share embodies all rights and obligations determined by the Law and the FF Group S.A. Article of Association, which do not entail any restrictive provisions in excess of those provided by the Law. The shareholders' liability is limited to the nominal value of the shares they own. The ownership of the shares entails the owner's acceptance of the Folli Follie Group's Articles of Association and the lawful decisions of the shareholders' General Meetings. The Folli Follie Group Articles of Association do not grant any special rights in favour of specific shareholders, nor do they include any terms regarding capital restructures and shareholders' rights amendments that entail restrictive provisions in excess of those provided by the Law. Shareholders exercise their rights in relation to the management of the company via the General Meetings. Each shareholder has a right to participate in the shareholders' General Meeting either in person or via a representative. Each share provides the right of one vote. 10 days prior to the Regular General Meeting, each shareholder may request the annual financial statements and relative reports of the company's Board of Directors and Auditors. Shareholders representing 5% of the paid-up share capital of the Company have the right to request from the company's pertinent Court of First Instance the appointment of one or several auditors particularly for the company audit, according to articles 40 and 40e of L. 2190/1920. They many also request for a shareholders' Extraordinary General Meeting to be convened. In such a case, the Board of Directors must convene this Meeting within 30 days after the submission of the request to the Board of Directors' Chairman. In this request, the shareholders must state the issues on which the General Meeting must decide. Shareholders have a preference privilege in each future increase of the company's share capital, according to their participation in the existing share capital as determined in article 13, paragraph 5 of C.L. 2190/1920. Each share's dividend will be paid within two months further to the date of the Regular General Meeting which approved the annual financial statements. The place and way of payment shall be notified to the shareholders via the press. Dividends are distributed from profit already taxed to the legal entity and thus the shareholder has no tax obligations on the amount of dividends they collect. Dividends that have not been claimed for five years shall be deleted in favour of the State. Any differences between the company on the one hand and the shareholders or any third party on the other hand, 46 are subject to the exclusive competence of the regular courts and the company is defended only before the courts pertinent at its head offices area.
. Limitations in the transfer of company shares The transfer of company shares takes place according to the procedures determined by the law and the Regulation of the Athens Stock Exchange and based on the company's articles of association; no limitations apply to their transfer.

Annual Report
2016

C. Significant direct or indirect holdings within the meaning of Articles 9 to 11 of Law 3556/2007

On 31.12.2016, the following shareholders held more than 5% of total voting rights

Dimitrios G. Koutsolioutsos: 36,14%

47

FF Investment Luxemburg 1 and 2 S.A.R.L: 13.89% (both companies belong to Fosun Group)

Fidelity Investments: 8,77%

D. Holders of any shares with special control rights There are no shares of the Company that provide their holders with special voting rights.

E. Restrictions on voting rights There are no restrictions of voting rights to shares arising from the Company.

F. Agreements among the shareholders of the Company The Company is not aware of any potential agreements between the shareholders or the voting rights exercise arising from its shares. The share is indivisible as to the exercise of rights and any obligations emanated from such exercise. If, for any reason, there are more owners or beneficiaries of a share, these are represented against the company, by a person appointed after a mutual agreement.

G. Rules for appointing and replacing members of the Board and to amend the Articles of Incorporation. For the appointment and replacement of Board members, as well as for the imposition of amendments in the Articles of Incorporation (when required), the company complies with the provisions of Law 2190/1920 (as applicable)

H. Jurisdiction of the Board or some of its members in relation to the issuance of new shares or share buybacks: 1. The company is not accountable for the coverage its own shares. 2. Relying on the principle of "equal treatment" of the same-level shareholders and the provisions of Law 3340/2005, as applicable, the Company may acquire its own shares itself or through a person using his own name but acting on its behalf. In order to execute such procedure, the Company should get an approval from the General Meeting, which establishes the terms and conditions of such acquisitions. In particular, it determines the maximum number of shares that can potentially be acquired, the validity duration of this approval, which cannot exceed twenty-four (24) months and in case of acquisition for value, the minimum and maximum value of the acquisition.

I. Significant agreement that is implemented, modified or terminated in the event of a change in the control of the Company, following a public offer and the effects thereof
Does not exist.

J. A greements that the Company has made with members of the Board of Directors and its staff, entailing a compensation in case of their resignation, dismissal without cause, termination of their service or employment as a result of the public offer. There are no agreements between the Company and its Board members or staff that foresee compensations, es-
pecially in case of resignation, dismissal without valid reason, termination of their duty or employment in case of a
public offer due to a takeover bid.

K. Dividend policy Despite the positive results of the Group within the context of the prevalent market crisis and towards the further strengthening of the financial position of the company in conjunction with the intense investment plans in place the Board will propose at the Annual General Meeting, not to distribute to the shareholders dividend for the fiscal year 2016.

L. Significant events after the year end On the balance sheet date and until the approval of the Financial Statements by the Board, there were no events significantly influencing these financial statements.

Ag. Stefanos, April 7th, 2017

CHAIRMAN OF THE BOARD DIMITRIOS KOUTSOLIOUTSOS

MANAGING DIRECTOR GEORGIOS KOUTSOLIOUTSOS

EXECUTIVE MEMBER EMMANOUIL ZACHARIOU

c INDEPENDENT CERTIFIED AUDITORS' ACCOUNTANTS REPORT To the Shareholders of "FOLLI ­ FOLLIE GROUP SA"
Report on Stand-alone and Consolidated Financial Statements
We have audited the Stand ­alone and consolidated financial statements of «FOLLI FOLLIE GROUP SA», which comprise the Stand­alone and consolidated balance sheet as at 31st December 2016, and the Stand ­alone and consolidated income statement and statement of comprehensive income, statement of changes in equity and cash flow statement for the year then ended and a summary of significant accounting policies and other explanatory information.
Management's Responsibility for the company Stand-alone and Consolidated Financial Statements
Management is responsible for the preparation and fair presentation of these Stand ­alone and consolidated financial statements in accordance with the International Financial Reporting Standards, as adopted by the European Union, and for such internal controls as management determines is necessary to enable the preparation of Stand­ alone and consolidated financial statements that are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error.
Auditor's Responsibility
Our responsibility is to express an opinion on these Stand­alone and consolidated financial statements based on our audit. We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards on Auditing, which have been transposed into Greek Law (GG / B' / 2848 / 23.10.2012). Those standards require that we comply with ethical requirements and plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the Stand ­alone and consolidated financial statements are free from material misstatement. An audit involves performing procedures to obtain audit evidence about the amounts and disclosures in the Stand ­alone and consolidated financial statements. The procedures selected depend on the auditor's judgment, including the assessment of the risks of material misstatement of the Stand ­alone and consolidated financial statements, whether due to fraud or error. In making those risk assessments, the auditor considers internal control relevant to the entity's preparation and fair presentation of the Stand­alone and consolidated financial statements in order to design audit procedures that are appropriate in the circumstances, but not for the purpose of expressing an opinion on the effectiveness of the entity's internal control. An audit also includes evaluating the appropriateness of accounting policies used and the reasonableness of accounting estimates made by management, as well as evaluating the overall presentation of the Stand­alone and consolidated financial statements. We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our audit opinion.
Opinion 48 In our opinion, the Stand ­alone and consolidated financial statements present fairly, in all material respects, the
financial position of the Company «FOLLI FOLLIE GROUP SA» and its subsidiaries as at 31st December 2016, and their financial performance and cash flows for the year then ended in accordance with the International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS), as issued by the European Union.

Annual Report
2016
49

Report on Other Legal and Regulatory Requirements
Taking into consideration, that management is responsible for the preparation of the Board of Directors' report and Corporate Governance Statement that is included to this report according to provisions of paragraph 5 article 2 of Law 4336/2015 (part B), we note the following:
a) In the Board of Directors' Report is included the Corporate Governance Statement that contains the information that is required by article 43bb of Codified Law 2190/1920.
b) In our opinion the Board of Directors' report has been prepared in accordance with thelegal requirements of articles 43a and 107A and paragraph 1 (c and d) of article 43bb of the Codified Law 2190/1920 and the content of the Board of Directors' report is consistent with Stand­alone and consolidated financial statements for the year ended December 31, 2016.
c) B ased on the knowledge we obtained from our audit for the company «FOLLI FOLLIE GROUP SA» and its environment, we have not identified any material misstatements to the Board of Directors report.

Certified Public Accountants Business Consultants S.A. 396, Mesogion Avenue
15341, Ag.Paraskevi-Athens, Greece SOEL Reg.No: 174

Athens, 11 April 2017 The Certified Public Accountant
George I. Varthalitis SOEL Reg. No: 10251

d

FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
1. Statements of Financial Position for the Group and the Company
1.1. Statement of Financial Position of the Group

THE GROUP
Assets
Non-current assets Tangible fixed assets Investment Property Intangible assets Goodwill Investments in subsidiaries Investments in Associates Investments available for sale
Deferred tax claims
Other long term assets Total non-current Current assets Inventories Trade receivables Other current assets Derivatives Other financial assets at fair value through profit Cash & cash equivalent Total current assets Total assets
Equity & Liabilities
Equity of shareholders of the parent company Share capital Share Premium Other reserves Other equity Retained earnings
Minority interests Total equity
Liabilities
Long-term liabilities Long-term borrowings Deferred tax liabilities Employee benefit liabilities Total long-term provisions Other long-term liabilities Total long-term liabilities Short-term liabilities Short-term borrowings Derivatives Trade and other payables
50 Current Income tax
Current tax liabilities Dividends payable Total short term liabilities Total liabilities Total equity & liabilities

Notes 4 4 5 5 7 7
8
9 10 10
11
12 12 12 12 12
13 19 14 15 16
14 17 18 18

31.12.2016

31.12.2015

274.258.534,70 75.202.118,34 36.624.817,44 95.397.528,78 0,00 676.004,16
204.611.230,09 0,00
94.537.948,19 781.308.181,70
585.996.587,97 654.740.733,02 213.076.078,99
1.168.353,50 15.704.931,02 328.184.700,98 1.798.871.385,48 2.580.179.567,18

197.018.259,62 75.285.901,43 42.747.496,06 94.707.301,22 0,00 631.023,17
195.153.199,19 0,00
45.136.123,53 650.679.304,22
490.327.968,61 585.865.489,69 214.794.679,99
1.750.137,59 18.740.760,00 245.450.700,72 1.556.929.736,60 2.207.609.040,82

20.084.463,00 81.855.417,03 272.990.062,87 113.968.233,92 1.362.538.329,58 1.851.436.506,40 32.926.311,46 1.884.362.817,86

20.084.463,00 81.730.417,03 264.828.624,99 69.117.157,55 1.140.207.546,99 1.575.968.209,56 29.720.774,10 1.605.688.983,66

361.742.555,40 21.086.022,34 4.442.997,91 1.847.874,13 16.651.444,03
405.770.893,81
72.519.388,55 0,00
140.949.078,16 66.009.515,46 10.419.911,66 147.961,68
290.045.855,51 695.816.749,32 2.580.179.567,18

332.643.035,38 21.420.614,55 5.040.581,06 4.788.593,01 11.670.289,44
375.563.113,44
45.035.170,21 0,00
133.552.626,45 39.757.406,66 8.011.740,40 0,00
226.356.943,72 601.920.057,16 2.207.609.040,82

1.2. Statement of Financial Position of the Company

THE COMPANY
Assets
Non-current assets Tangible fixed assets Investment Property Intangible assets Goodwill Investments in subsidiaries Investments in Associates Investments available for sale
Deferred tax claims
Other long term assets Total non-current Current assets Inventories Trade receivables Other current assets Derivatives Other financial assets at fair value through profit Cash & cash equivalent Total current assets Total assets
Equity & Liabilities
Equity of shareholders of the parent company Share capital Share Premium Other reserves Other equity Retained earnings
Minority interests Total equity
Liabilities
Long-term liabilities Long-term borrowings Deferred tax liabilities Employee benefit liabilities Total long-term provisions Other long-term liabilities Total long-term liabilities Short-term liabilities Short-term borrowings Derivatives Trade and other payables Current Income tax Current tax liabilities Dividends payable Total short term liabilities Total liabilities Total equity & liabilities

Notes 4 4 5 5 6 6 7
8
9 10 10
11
12 12 12 12 12
13 19 14 15 16
14 17 18

Annual Report
2016
51

31.12.2016

31.12.2015

47.596.164,90 75.150.146,14
2.234.505,57 39.373.861,68 209.892.157,35
1.725.000,00 146.394.049,59
0,00 1.313.641,86 523.679.527,09
40.019.303,51 82.670.411,55 93.286.075,58
192.029,50 0,00
29.494.616,60 245.662.436,74 769.341.963,83

45.929.766,18 75.285.901,43
2.521.534,61 39.373.861,68 214.770.996,29
1.450.000,00 137.429.044,66
0,00 1.407.257,33 518.168.362,18
37.671.158,84 72.146.994,77 66.150.559,81
778.104,61 0,00
61.283.352,71 238.030.170,74 756.198.532,92

20.084.463,00 81.730.417,03 291.005.667,18 -85.554.366,48 115.284.875,06 422.551.055,79
0,00 422.551.055,79

20.084.463,00 81.730.417,03 283.297.729,14 -85.554.366,48 140.249.492,33 439.807.735,02
0,00 439.807.735,02

251.297.897,98 21.375.203,35 2.290.083,00 1.623.241,09 3.011.000,01
279.597.425,43
22.268.773,63 0,00
42.175.078,71 0,00
2.749.630,27 0,00
67.193.482,61 346.790.908,04 769.341.963,83

242.066.785,17 21.750.235,77 2.179.175,80 1.624.382,84 3.942.283,35
271.562.862,93
6.361.030,07 0,00
36.133.054,52 0,00
2.333.850,38 0,00
44.827.934,97 316.390.797,90 756.198.532,92

2. Statement of Comprehensive Income for the Group and Company 2.1. The Group

Turnover Cost of goods Gross Profit Other operating income Administration expenses Selling expenses Other operating expenses Operating income Financial income Financial expenses Investments in Associates Profit/Loss (before the tax) Income tax Deferred Tax Profit/Loss (after the tax) Depreciation & amortization Profit before taxes depreciation & amortisation

Notes 20
19 22 22 23
24 24
25

The Group

01.01. - 31.12.2016 Continuing operations
1.337.275.219,48

01.01. - 31.12.2015 Continuing operations
1.193.043.273,00

-724.972.158,60

-611.815.104,96

612.303.060,88

581.228.168,04

16.359.491,13

12.184.818,67

-67.139.846,33

-72.059.864,32

-282.081.565,65

-268.665.837,12

-17.173.291,51

-14.144.524,59

262.267.848,52

238.542.760,68

12.588.131,66

9.457.609,53

-21.148.685,18

-22.447.497,47

-228.973,12

-282.190,84

253.478.321,88

225.270.681,90

-26.883.647,17

-37.499.504,90

315.377,46

-1.137.741,65

226.910.052,17

186.633.435,35

29.588.757,39

26.463.865,57

291.856.605,91

265.006.626,25

Other comprehensive income / (expenses): Recognised in Equity
Amounts not reclassified to income statement Revaluation of liabilities for employee benefits
Amounts may be reclassified to income statement in subsequent periods
Financial assets available for sale Valuation of Assets Valuation of financial instruments Deferred taxes non-participants in Profit Other income / expenses not participating in profit for the period Foreign translation exchange differences Other comprehensive income, net of taxes Total comprehensive income after taxes

-283.623,28
9.207.546,90 -230.976,37 55.517,00 0,00 0,00
45.539.685,20 54.288.149,45 281.198.201,62

0,00
-22.786.470,04 1.469.616,00 -459.421,53 0,00 294.910,71
104.223.060,00 82.741.695,14
269.375.130,49

Profit is attributable to: Shareholders of the parent company Non controlling interests Total

222.466.621,12 4.443.431,05
226.910.052,17

182.639.194,65 3.994.240,40
186.633.435,05

Total comprehensive income attributable to:
52 Shareholders of the parent company
Non controlling interests Total

276.823.085,00 4.375.116,62
281.198.201,62

265.326.483,23 4.048.646,96
269.375.130,19

Earnings / Losses per share Basic and diluted (in euros):

3,35150

2,74441

Annual Report
2016

2.2. The Company
Turnover Cost of goods Gross Profit Other operating income Administration expenses Selling expenses Other operating expenses Operating income Financial income Financial expenses Investments in Associates Profit/Loss (before the tax) Income tax Deferred Tax Profit/Loss (after the tax) Depreciation & amortization Profit before taxes depreciation & amortisation

Notes 20
21 22 22 23
24 24
25

53

The Company

01.01. - 31.12.2016 Continuing operations
146.088.508,88

01.01. - 31.12.2015 Continuing operations
152.730.393,64

-85.695.327,78

-86.715.042,76

60.393.181,10

66.015.350,88

5.426.504,12

9.333.428,25

-15.201.944,64

-14.405.657,36

-58.269.569,03

-60.494.272,53

-2.912.760,40

-1.347.413,17

-10.564.588,85

-898.563,93

9.225.258,68

7.127.438,04

-23.952.637,29

-22.402.458,53

0,00

0,00

-25.291.967,46

-16.173.584,42

0,00

-3.300.443,71

423.269,19

-451.997,49

-24.868.698,27

-19.926.025,62

6.195.692,19

6.040.182,68

-4.368.896,66

5.141.618,75

Other comprehensive income / (expenses): Recognised in Equity
Amounts not reclassified to income statement Revaluation of liabilities for employee benefits
Amounts may be reclassified to income statement in subsequent periods
Financial assets available for sale Valuation of Assets Valuation of financial instruments Deferred taxes non-participants in Profit Other income / expenses not participating in profit for the period Foreign translation exchange differences Other comprehensive income, net of taxes Total comprehensive income after taxes

-95.919,00
8.965.004,93 0,00 0,00 0,00 0,00 0,00
8.869.085,93 -15.999.612,34

0,00
-16.924.218,37 1.694.032,81 -440.448,53 91.880,00 0,00 0,00
-15.578.754,09 -35.504.779,71

Profit is attributable to: Shareholders of the parent company Non controlling interests Total

-24.868.698,27 0,00
-24.868.698,27

-19.926.025,62 0,00
-19.926.025,62

Total comprehensive income ttributable to: Shareholders of the parent company Non controlling interests Total

-15.999.612,34 0,00
-15.999.612,34

-35.504.779,71 0,00
-35.504.779,71

Earnings / Losses per share Basic and diluted (in euros):

-0,37465

-0,29942

54

3. Statement of Changes in Equity for the Group and the Company 3.1. The Group

Balance at 1.1.2015 Earnings After taxes Valuation of financial assets
Valuation of investments available for sale Exchange Differences Actuarial loss / (gain) Other income not calculated in profit for the period
Subsidiary's Capital increase Expenses
Deferred tax in equity

Share Capital
20.084.463,00 0,00 0,00
0,00 0,00 0,00 0,00
0,00
0,00

Share Premium
95.000.573,97 0,00
0,00

Consolidation Differ-
ences
-85.563.675,68
0,00
0,00

0,00

0,00

0,00

0,00

0,00

0,00

0,00

0,00

0,00

0,00

0,00

0,00

The Group

Fair Value Reserves

Own shares

Other Reserves

0,00 -7.234.415,20 298.929.257,44

0,00

0,00

0,00

0,00

0,00 1.469.616,00

0,00

0,00 -22.786.470,04

0,00

0,00

0,00

0,00

0,00

250.317,16

0,00

0,00

0,00

0,00

0,00

0,00

0,00

0,00

-459.421,53

Retained earnings
965.291.618,19 182.639.194,95
0,00
0,00 0,00 0,00 0,00
0,00
0,00

Income tax relating to items of the total income Total comprehensive income for the period,net of tax Capital increase Capital Return Various Expenses/income in Equity Capital increase expenses Minority interest resulted from Subsidiaries' rates change Dividends payable Acquisition of minority shareholding Changes from Purchases of subsidiaries Transfers Liquidation of Participations Purchase / Sale of own shares Balance at 31st December 2015 Balance at 1.1.2016 Earnings After taxes Valuation of financial assets
Valuation of investments available for sale Exchange Differences Actuarial loss / (gain) Other income not calculated in profit for the period
Subsidiary's Capital increase Expenses
Deferred tax in equity

0,00

0,00

0,00

0,00
13.270.156,94 -13.270.156,94
0,00 0,00
0,00
0,00 0,00 0,00 0,00 0,00 0,00 20.084.463,00 20.084.463,00 0,00 0,00
0,00 0,00 0,00 0,00
0,00
0,00

0,00

0,00

-13.270.156,94 0,00 0,00 0,00

0,00 0,00 0,00 0,00

0,00

0,00

0,00 0,00 0,00 0,00 0,00 0,00 81.730.417,03 81.730.417,03 0,00
0,00

0,00 0,00 0,00 -1.260,00 0,00 0,00 -85.564.935,68 -85.564.935,68 0,00
0,00

0,00

0,00

0,00

0,00

0,00

0,00

0,00

0,00

0,00

0,00

0,00

0,00

0,00

0,00

0,00

0,00

0,00

0,00 -21.525.958,41

0,00

0,00

0,00

0,00

0,00

163.036,43

0,00

0,00

0,00

0,00

0,00

-416.911,86

0,00

0,00

0,00

0,00 0,00 0,00 0,00 0,00 0,00 0,00 0,00 0,00
0,00

0,00 0,00 0,00 0,00 0,00 -4.918.066,64 -12.152.481,84 -12.152.481,84 0,00
0,00

0,00 0,00 0,00 -168.316,77 0,00 0,00 276.981.106,83 276.981.106,83 0,00
-94.584,55

0,00

0,00 9.207.546,90

0,00

0,00

0,00

0,00

0,00

-283.623,28

0,00

0,00

-136.391,82

0,00

0,00

0,00

0,00

0,00

55.517,00

182.639.194,95
0,00 0,00 0,00 0,00
0,00
-6.729.843,06 0,00
1.701.520,85 -2.694.943,94
0,00 0,00 1.140.207.546,99 1.140.207.546,99 222.466.621,12 0,00
0,00 0,00 0,00 0,00
0,00
0,00

Income tax relating to items of the total income
Total comprehensive income for the period,net of tax Capital increase Capital Return Various Expenses/income in Equity Capital increase expenses Minority interest resulted from Subsidiaries' rates change Dividends payable Acquisition of minority shareholding Changes from Purchases of subsidiaries Transfers Liquidation of Participations Purchase / Sale of own shares Balance at 31st December 2016

0,00
0,00
0,00 0,00 0,00 0,00 0,00 0,00 0,00 0,00 0,00 0,00 0,00 20.084.463,00

0,00

0,00

0,00

0,00

0,00 0,00 0,00 0,00 0,00 0,00 0,00 0,00 125.000,00 0,00 0,00 81.855.417,03

0,00 0,00 0,00 0,00 0,00 0,00 0,00 0,00 1.260,00 0,00 0,00 -85.563.675,68

0,00

0,00

0,00

0,00

0,00

0,00 8.748.464,25

0,00

0,00

0,00

0,00

0,00

0,00

0,00

0,00

0,00

0,00

0,00

0,00

0,00

0,00

0,00

0,00

0,00

0,00

0,00

0,00

144.416,30

0,00

0,00

0,00

0,00

0,00

525.624,22

0,00

0,00

0,00

0,00 -1.257.066,89

0,00

0,00 -13.409.548,73 286.399.611,60

222.466.621,12
0,00 0,00 -3.299,35 0,00 0,00 -96.912,88 0,00 0,00 -35.626,30 0,00 0,00 1.362.538.329,58

Currency exchange differences
47.549.850,01 0,00
0,00
0,00
104.213.246,99 0,00 0,00
0,00
0,00

Total shareholders' equity
1.334.057.671,73 182.639.194,95
1.469.616,00
-22.786.470,04
104.213.246,99 250.317,16 0,00
0,00
-459.421,53

Minority Interests
26.799.057,11 3.994.240,40
9.813,01 44.593,55

0,00

0,00

104.213.246,99 265.326.483,53 4.048.646,96

0,00 0,00 0,00 0,00

0,00 -13.107.120,51
0,00 -416.911,86

0,00 -1.072.454,45
0,00 0,00

0,00

0,00

0,00

0,00 0,00 0,00 2.918.996,23 0,00 0,00 154.682.093,23 154.682.093,23 0,00
0,00

-6.729.843,06 0,00
1.701.520,85 54.475,52 0,00
-4.918.066,64 1.575.968.209,56 1.575.968.209,56
222.466.621,12
-94.584,55

0,00 0,00 0,00 -54.475,52 0,00 0,00 29.720.774,10 29.720.774,10 4.443.431,05

0,00 45.471.370,77
0,00 0,00

9.207.546,90 45.471.370,77
-283.623,28 -136.391,82

68.314,43

0,00

0,00

0,00

55.517,00

0,00

0,00

45.471.370,77 276.686.456,14 4.511.745,48

0,00 0,00 0,00 0,00 0,00 0,00 0,00 0,00 -621.554,40 0,00 0,00 199.531.909,60

0,00 0,00 -3.299,35 0,00 0,00 -96.912,88 144.416,30 0,00 -5.296,48 0,00 -1.257.066,89 1.851.436.506,40

0,00 -1.071.504,60
0,00 0,00 -240.000,00 0,00 0,00 0,00 5.296,48 0,00 0,00 32.926.311,46

Total Equity
1.360.856.728,84 186.633.435,35 1.469.616,00
-22.786.470,04 104.223.060,00
294.910,71 0,00
0,00
-459.421,53
0,00
269.375.130,49
0,00 -14.179.574,96
0,00 -416.911,86
0,00
-6.729.843,06 0,00
1.701.520,85 0,00 0,00
-4.918.066,64 1.605.688.983,66 1.605.688.983,66
226.910.052,17 -94.584,55
9.207.546,90 45.539.685,20
-283.623,28 -136.391,82
0,00
55.517,00
0,00
281.198.201,62
0,00 -1.071.504,60
-3.299,35 0,00
-240.000,00 -96.912,88 144.416,30 0,00 0,00 0,00
-1.257.066,89 1.884.362.817,86

3.2 The Company

Balance at 1.1.2015 Earnings After taxes Valuation of financial assets Valuation of investments available for sale Exchange Differences
Actuarial loss / (gain)
Other income not calculated in profit for the period Subsidiary's Capital increase Expenses Deferred tax in equity Income tax relating to items of the total income Total comprehensive income for the period,net of tax Capital increase Various Expenses/income in Equity Capital increase expenses Minority interest resulted from Subsidiaries' rates change Dividends payable Acquisition of minority shareholding Transfers Liquidation of Participations Purchase / Sale of own shares Balance at 31st December 2014 Balance at 1.1.2016  1.1.2016 Earnings After taxes Valuation of financial assets Valuation of investments available for sale Exchange Differences Actuarial loss / (gain) Other income not calculated in profit for the period Subsidiary's Capital increase Expenses Deferred tax in equity Income tax relating to items of the total income Total comprehensive income for the period,net of tax Capital increase Capital Return Various Expenses/income in Equity Capital increase expenses Minority interest resulted from Subsidiaries' rates change Dividends payable Acquisition of minority shareholding Transfers Liquidation of Participations Purchase / Sale of own shares Balance at 31st December 2016

Share Capital
20.084.463,00 0,00 0,00 0,00 0,00 0,00 0,00 0,00 0,00 0,00
0,00
13.270.156,94 -13.270.156,94
0,00
0,00
0,00 0,00 0,00 0,00 0,00 0,00 20.084.463,00 20.084.463,00 0,00 0,00 0,00 0,00 0,00 0,00 0,00 0,00 0,00
0,00
0,00 0,00 0,00 0,00 0,00 0,00 0,00 0,00 0,00 0,00 20.084.463,00

Share Premium
95.000.573,97 0,00 0,00 0,00 0,00
0,00
0,00 0,00 0,00 0,00

Consolidation Differ-
ences
-85.554.366,48 0,00 0,00 0,00 0,00
0,00
0,00 0,00 0,00 0,00

0,00

0,00

-13.270.156,94 0,00 0,00

0,00 0,00 0,00

0,00

0,00

0,00 0,00 0,00 0,00 0,00 0,00 81.730.417,03 81.730.417,03 0,00 0,00 0,00 0,00 0,00 0,00 0,00 0,00 0,00

0,00 0,00 0,00 0,00 0,00 0,00 -85.554.366,48 -85.554.366,48 0,00 0,00 0,00 0,00 0,00 0,00 0,00 0,00 0,00

0,00

0,00

0,00 0,00 0,00 0,00 0,00 0,00 0,00 0,00 0,00 0,00 81.730.417,03

0,00 0,00 0,00 0,00 0,00 0,00 0,00 0,00 0,00 0,00 -85.554.366,48

The Company

Fair Value Reserves

Own shares

Other Reserves

0,00 -7.234.415,20 309.938.734,80

0,00

0,00

0,00

0,00

0,00 1.694.032,81

0,00

0,00 -16.924.218,37

0,00

0,00

0,00

0,00

0,00

0,00

0,00

0,00

0,00

0,00

0,00

0,00

0,00

0,00

-440.448,53

0,00

0,00

0,00

0,00

0,00 -15.670.634,09

0,00 0,00 0,00

0,00 0,00 0,00

0,00 0,00 0,00

0,00

0,00

-145.971,73

0,00 0,00 0,00 0,00 0,00 0,00 0,00 0,00 0,00 0,00 0,00 0,00 0,00 0,00 0,00 0,00 0,00

0,00 0,00 0,00 0,00 0,00 -4.918.066,64 -12.152.481,84 -12.152.481,84 0,00 0,00 0,00 0,00 0,00 0,00 0,00 0,00 0,00

0,00 0,00 0,00 1.328.082,00 0,00 0,00 295.450.210,98 295.450.210,98 0,00 8.965.004,93 0,00 0,00 0,00 0,00 0,00 0,00 0,00

0,00

0,00 8.965.004,93

0,00

0,00

0,00

0,00

0,00

0,00

0,00

0,00

0,00

0,00

0,00

0,00

0,00

0,00

0,00

0,00

0,00

0,00

0,00

0,00

0,00

0,00

0,00

0,00

0,00

0,00

0,00

0,00 -1.257.066,89

0,00

0,00 -13.409.548,73 304.415.215,91

Retained earnings
168.141.563,01 -19.926.025,62
0,00 0,00 0,00 91.880,00 0,00 0,00 0,00 0,00
-19.834.145,62
0,00 0,00 0,00
0,00
0,00 -6.729.843,06
0,00 -1.328.082,00
0,00 0,00 140.249.492,33 140.249.492,33 -24.868.698,27 0,00 0,00 0,00 -95.919,00 0,00 0,00 0,00 0,00
-24.964.617,27
0,00 0,00 0,00 0,00 0,00 0,00 0,00 0,00 0,00 0,00 115.284.875,06

Currency exchange differences
0,00 0,00 0,00 0,00 0,00
0,00
0,00 0,00 0,00 0,00
0,00
0,00 0,00 0,00
0,00
0,00 0,00 0,00 0,00 0,00 0,00 0,00 0,00 0,00 0,00 0,00 0,00 0,00 0,00 0,00 0,00 0,00
0,00
0,00 0,00 0,00 0,00 0,00 0,00 0,00 0,00 0,00 0,00 0,00

Total shareholders' equity
500.376.553,10 -19.926.025,62
1.694.032,81 -16.924.218,37
0,00
91.880,00
0,00 0,00 -440.448,53 0,00
-35.504.779,71
0,00 -13.270.156,94
0,00
-145.971,73
0,00 -6.729.843,06
0,00 0,00 0,00 -4.918.066,64 439.807.735,02 439.807.735,02 -24.868.698,27 8.965.004,93 0,00 0,00 -95.919,00 0,00 0,00 0,00 0,00
-15.999.612,34
0,00 0,00 0,00 0,00 0,00 0,00 0,00 0,00 0,00 -1.257.066,89 422.551.055,79

Minority Interests
0,00 0,00 0,00 0,00 0,00
0,00 0,00 0,00 0,00
0,00
0,00 0,00 0,00
0,00
0,00 0,00 0,00 0,00 0,00 0,00 0,00 0,00 0,00 0,00 0,00 0,00 0,00 0,00 0,00 0,00 0,00
0,00
0,00 0,00 0,00 0,00 0,00 0,00 0,00 0,00 0,00 0,00 0,00

Total Equity
500.376.553,10 -19.926.025,62
1.694.032,81 -16.924.218,37
0,00 91.880,00
0,00 0,00 -440.448,53 0,00
-35.504.779,71
0,00 -13.270.156,94
0,00
-145.971,73
0,00 -6.729.843,06
0,00 0,00 0,00 -4.918.066,64 439.807.735,02 439.807.735,02 -24.868.698,27 8.965.004,93 0,00 0,00 -95.919,00 0,00 0,00 0,00 0,00
-15.999.612,34
0,00 0,00 0,00 0,00 0,00 0,00 0,00 0,00 0,00 -1.257.066,89 422.551.055,79

Annual Report
2016
55

4. Cash Flow Statement

Cash Flows related to Operating Activities Net Profit before taxes (Continuing operations) Adjustments Depreciation and Amortisation Provisions Exchange differences Results (income, expenses, gains and losses) from investing activities Interest and related expenses Adjustments related to working capital or other operating activities Decrease/(increase) of Inventories Decrease/(increase) of Receivables Increase/(decrease) of payable accounts (except Banks) Minus Interest paid and similar expenses Income Tax paid Net cash inflows/(outflows) from Operating Activities (a)

The Group

01.01. -

01.01. -

31.12.2016 31.12.2015

253.478.321,88 225.270.681,90

29.588.757,39 14.592.098,95 53.826.824,02
-9.252.550,63
16.923.705,82

26.463.865,57 1.357.037,35
82.638.468,65
1.387.454,73
14.093.081,20

-107.116.582,02 -112.232.844,80
62.313.918,15

-117.619.726,53 -97.210.083,62 -30.687.906,32

-9.621.749,00 -52.393.541,27
140.106.358,49

-7.668.166,60 -40.163.843,09
57.860.863,24

The Company

01.01. -

01.01. -

31.12.2016 31.12.2015

-25.291.967,46 -16.173.584,42

6.195.692,19 10.356.385,44
0,00
-7.111.897,57
12.540.566,44
0,00
-3.006.326,26 -37.471.832,38
3.980.348,90 0,00
-3.544.406,14 0,00
-43.353.436,84

6.040.182,68 771.501,00 0,00
3.030.151,80 11.690.852,55
-1.871.235,00 -30.710.329,39
-9.468.319,07
-5.265.937,95 -3.762.116,94 -45.718.834,74

Investing Activities Purchases of subsidiaries, associates and other investments Acquisition of minorities Proceeds from the sale of Travel Retail activity Adjustments related to the sale of Travel Retail activity Purchases of tangible and intangible assets Proceeds from sale of tangible and intangible assets Interest received Dividends received Proceeds from sale of financial assets Decrease/(increase) of other long-term receivables Net cash inflows/(outflows) from Investing Activities (b)

-4.771.975,10 -240.000,00
-98.355.823,78 1.547.218,26 336.550,92
4.413.144,27 -1.205.962,38 -98.276.847,81

-48.363.629,00
-66.032.272,07 1.537.180,69 1.865.952,54 0,00
27.695.440,83 -14.015.996,21 -97.313.323,22

-4.100.010,50 -240.000,00
-2.205.149,76 1.449.568,98
180.334,06 723.706,14
0,00 -1.137.824,22 -5.329.375,30

-9.070.150,89 0,00 0,00 0,00
-3.438.861,04 22.627,45
423.743,98 1.000.000,00 -1.794.629,17
-50.035,02
-12.907.304,69

Financing Activities Capital increase Proceeds from Loans Proceeds from leases Payment of Loans Payments for leases Own Stock Expenses related to capital increase Dividends paid / Return capital Net cash inflows/(outflows) from Financing Activities (c)

50.132.836,41 588.600,32
-2.199.149,08 -5.192.273,30 -1.257.066,89
-1.168.457,88
40.904.489,58

40.840.592,76 3.623.278,05
-25.380.703,57 -4.157.693,90 -4.918.066,64 -174.490,50
-21.962.578,77
-12.129.662,57

20.000.000,00
-1.848.857,08 -1.257.066,89
16.894.076,03

0,00 0,00 0,00 -1.796.581,21 -4.918.066,64 -145.971,73 -19.981.978,77
-26.842.598,35

56

Net increase / (decrease) in cash and cash equivalents (a) + (b) + (c)

82.734.000,26

-51.582.122,55

-31.788.736,11 -85.468.737,78

Cash and cash equivalents at beginning of the Year

245.450.700,72 297.032.823,27 61.283.352,71 146.752.090,49

Cash and cash equivalents at end of the Year

328.184.700,98 245.450.700,72 29.494.616,60 61.283.352,71

Annual Report
e 2016 INFORMATION ABOUT THE GROUP 57 1. General Information

The company "FOLLI-FOLLIE COMMERCIAL MANUFACTURING AND TECHNICAL SOCIETE ANONYME" under the distinctive title "FOLLI FOLLIE GROUP" is a Societe Anonyme registered in Greece, in the Registry of Societes Anonymes with number: 3027701000, placed in Agios Stefanos, Attica. The Company is active in the fields of jewellery manufacturing, department stores operation, as well as in apparel and footwear industry. These financial statements include the financial statements of «FOLLI FOLLIE GROUP» and its subsidiaries, (together referred to as Group), covering the period from January 1 2015 up to December 31 2015, approved by the Board of the Company on April 7th, 2017.

1.1. Group Structure The consolidated financial statements include the financial statements of the parent company and its subsidiaries. The structure of the Group, is presented in the following table:

Company Name
FOLLI FOLLIE FRANCE SA FOLLI FOLLIE SPAIN SA FOLLI FOLLIE UK LTD FOLLI FOLLIE GROUP SOURCING LTD FOLLI FOLLIE ASIA LTD FOLLI FOLLIE TAIWAN LTD FOLLI FOLLIE KOREA LTD FOLLI FOLLIE SINGAPORE LTD FOLLI FOLLIE MACAU LTD FOLLI FOLLIE MALAYSIA LTD FOLLI FOLLIE THAILAND LTD FOLLI FOLLIE SHANGHAI (PILION LTD) FOLLI FOLLIE SHENZHEN LTD FF BUSINESS DEVELOP. & TECH. CONSULTING LTD FF ORIGINS LTD FOLLI FOLLIE GUAM LTD FOLLI FOLLIE HAWAII LTD FOLLI FOLLIE HONG KONG INTERNATIONAL LTD FOLLI FOLLIE JAPAN LTD FF GROUP FINANCE LUXEMBOURG SA FF GROUP FINANCE LUXEMBOURG II SA STRENABY FINANCE LTD FOLLI FOLLIE HOLDINGS SA SALES MANAGER HELLAS (CLOUDBIZ) ATTICA DEPARTMENTS STORES SA LINKS (LONDON) LIMITED LINKS OF LONDON (INTERNATIONAL) LTD LINKS OF LONDON COM LTD (UK) LINKS OF LONDON INC (USA) JUICY COUTURE EUROPE LTD JUICY COUTURE IRELAND LTD LINKS OF LONDON (ASIA) LTD LINKS OF LONDON JAPAN CO. LTD FF GROUP ROMANIA SRL APPAREL ROMANIA SRL. FF GROUP BULGARIA EOOD MOUSTAKIS SA FF CYPRUS WARLABY TRADING LIMITED NARIACO INVESTMENTS LIMITED PLANACO SA COLLECTIVE SA FF COSMETICS MARINA MITILINIS SA COSMAOBRANDS SA

Head Office
FRANCE SPAIN UK HONG KONG HONG KONG TAIWAN S. KOREA SINGAPORE MACAU MALAYSIA THAILAND CHINA CHINA HONG KONG HONG KONG GUAM HAWAII HONG KONG JAPAN LUXEMBURG LUXEMBURG UK GREECE GREECE GREECE UK UK UK USA UK IRELAND CHINA JAPAN ROMANIA ROMANIA BULGARIA GREECE CYPRUS CYPRUS CYPRUS GREECE GREECE GREECE GREECE GREECE

Direct % Participation
100,00% 100,00% 100,00%
99,99%
100,00% 100,00% 100,00% 100,00%
48,99% 32,51%
100,00% 100,00% 100,00% 100,00%
100,00% 100,00% 100,00%
50,00%

Indirect % Participation
99,99% 99,99% 99,99% 99,99% 99,99% 99,99% 99,99% 99,99% 99,99% 99,99% 99,99% 99,99% 99,99% 99,99% 99,99%
13,39% 100,00% 100,00% 100,00% 100,00% 100,00% 100,00% 100,00% 100,00%
0,00% 49,00%
0,00% 0,00% 0,00% 100,00% 100,00%
23,00%

Total
100,00% 100,00% 100,00%
99,99% 99,99% 99,99% 99,99% 99,99% 99,99% 99,99% 99,99% 99,99% 99,99% 99,99% 99,99% 99,99% 99,99% 99,99% 99,99% 100,00% 100,00% 100,00% 100,00% 48,99% 45,90% 100,00% 100,00% 100,00% 100,00% 100,00% 100,00% 100,00% 100,00% 100,00% 49,00% 100,00% 100,00% 100,00% 100,00% 100,00% 100,00% 100,00% 100,00% 50,00% 23,00%

Consolidation Method
Full Full Full Full Full Full Full Full Full Full Full Full Full Full Full Full Full Full Full Full Full Full Full Full Full Full Full Full Full Full Full Full Full Full Full Full Full Full Full Full Full Full Full Equity Method Equity Method

The affiliate companies, presented in the individual financial statements, are valued based on their acquisition value minus any possible impairments. The subsidiary company Sales Manager Hellas was acquired during the second semester of 2016. In addition, the companies FF Business Development and Tech. Consulting Ltd, FF Origins Ltd and FF Group Finance Luxembourg II s.a were established in the second semester of 2016 and are structured entities consolidated via the Full Consolidation Method.
2. Important accounting policies of the Group
2.1. Basis of Preparations The attached financial statements of the Group and Company (from now on referred as financial statements) have been prepared in accordance with the International Financial Reports Standards (from now on referred as "IFRS") that have been approved by the European Union.
2.2 New standards and interpretation
· "Amendment of IAS 16 and IAS 38 Clarification of Acceptable Methods of Depreciation and Amortization". The amendment provides clarification regarding the acceptable depreciation methods. It is effective for annual periods beginning on or after 01.01.2016. It is not expected to have a material impact on the financial statements of the group or the company.
· " Amendment of IFRS 11 Accounting for Acquisitions of interests in Joint Operations". The amendment requires the acquirer of an interest in a joint operation in which the activity constitutes a business, as defined in IFRS 3 Business Combinations, to apply all of the principles on business combinations accounting in IFRS 3 and other IFRSs except for those principles that conflict with the guidance in this IFRS. In addition, the acquirer shall disclose the information required by IFRS 3 and other IFRSs for business combinations. It is effective for annual periods beginning on or after 01.01.2016. It is not expected to have a material impact on the financial statements of the group or the company.
· " IFRS 14 Regulatory Deferral Accounts". The Standard describes regulatory deferral account balances as amounts of expense or income that would not be recognized as assets or liabilities in accordance with other Standards, but that qualify to be deferred in accordance with this Standard because the amount is included, or is expected to be included, by the rate regulator in establishing the price(s) that an entity can charge to customers for rate-regulated goods or services. It permits a first-time adopter within its scope to continue to account for regulatory deferral account balances in its first IFRS financial statements in accordance with its previous GAAP when it adopts IFRS. It is effective for annual periods beginning on or after 01.01.2016. It is not expected to have a material impact on the financial statements of the group or the company.
· "Agriculture: Bearer Plants ­ Amendments to IAS 16 and 41". The amendments are effective for annual periods beginning on or after 01.01.2016. The standard is not relevant to the activities of the group or the company.
· "Equity Method in Separate Financial Statements ­ Amendments to IAS 27". The amendments are effective for annual periods beginning on or after 01.01.2016. Under new amendments, interests in subsidiaries, associates and joint ventures, in the separate financial statements of an investor can be measured in accordance with equity method as it is stated in IAS 28. It is not expected to have a material impact on the financial statements of the company.
58 · "Disclosing Initiative ­ Amendments to IAS 1". (Effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2016). It is not expected to have material effect on the financial statements.
· "Sale or Distribution of Assets Between an Investor and its Associate or Joint Venture ­ Amendments to IFRS 10 and IAS 28". (Effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2016). It is not expected to have material effect on the financial statements.

Annual Report
2016

· "Investments Entities ­ Applying the Consolidation Exception ­ Amendments to IFRS 10, IFRS 12 and

IAS 28". (Effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2016). It is not expected to have material

effect on the financial statements.

59

New Standards and Interpretations Effective for Annual Periods Beginning after 01.01.2017

· " Complete IFRS 9 Financial instruments" issued in July 2014. The new standard is effective for annual periods beginning on or after 01.01.2018, but it is not endorsed yet by the European Union. The standard is not expected to have a material impact on the financial statements of the group or the company.

· " IFRS 15 Revenue From Contracts With Customers". The standard replaces IAS 11 and 18, as well as Interpretations 13,15,18 and 31. Under the new standard an entity recognizes revenue by following 5 steps. It is effective for annual periods beginning on or after 01.01.2017. It is not expected to have a material impact on the financial statements of the group or the company.

· "Amendments to IAS 7 Statement of Cash Flows". It requires disclosure of changes in liabilities arising from financing activities. (Effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2017). It is not expected to have material effect on the financial statements.

· "Amendments to IAS 12 Income Taxes". (Effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2016). It is not expected to have material effect on the financial statements.

· "Amendments to IAS 7 Statement of Cash Flows". It concerns the recognition of deferred tax assets for unrealized losses. (Effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2017). It is not expected to have material effect on the financial statements.

· " New IFFRS 16 Leases" It introduces a single lessee accounting model and requires a lessee to recognize assets and liabilities for all leases with a term of more than twelve months. Lessor continues to classify its leases as operating or finance and to account for those two types of leases differently. (Effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2019). It is expected to have effect on the financial statements in relation to the accounting treatment of operating leases from the perspective of lessee under superseded IAS 17.

· " Classification and measurement of share based payments transactions ­ Amendments to IFRS 2". It was approved in July of 2016 and is effective for annual periods beginning on or after 01.01.2018. It is not expected to have any effect on the financial statements.

· "Annual improvements of 2014-2016 to IFRS 1, IFRS 10 and IAS 28". They were approved in December of 2016 and are effective for annual periods beginning after 01.01.2018 for IFRS 1 and IAS 28 and after 01.01.2017 for IFRS 10. They are not expected to have any effect on the financial statements.

· "Transfers of investment property", amendment to IAS 40 that was approved in December of 2016 and is effective for annual periods beginnin.

· "IFRIC 22 Foreign Exchange Transactions And Prepayment Of Consideration". It was approved in December 2016 and is effective for annual periods beginning on or after 01.01.2018. It is not expected to have any effect on the financial statements.

· "Application of IFRS 9 Financial Instruments to IFRS 4 Insurance Contracts". It was approved in September 2016 and provides exemption to insurance entities from the application of IFRS 9 up to 31.12.2020. It is not relevant to the activities of the company.

· "Clarifications on the pplication of IFRS 15 Revenue From Contracts With Customers". It was approved in December 2016 and is effective for annual periods beginning on or after 01.01.2018. It is not expected to have any effect on the financial statements.

2.3. Consolidation

the distribution of dividends or other transactions with

shareholders of the associate recognized against the

2.3.1 Subsidiaries

carrying value of the participation. No effect on the net

The consolidated financial statements incorporate the result or equity is recognized in these transactions.

financial statements of the parent company and its

subsidiaries. Controlling procedures take place as long When the share of losses group in an associate equals or

as the parent company is able to define the financial and exceeds the carrying amount of the investment, including

operational activities of an affiliate, with a view to gaining any other unsecured receivables, the Group does not

some benefit. The results, assets and liabilities of the recognize further losses, unless the Group has incurred

subsidiaries are integrated into the financial statements obligations or made payments on behalf the associate.

based on the method of complete consolidation. The The accounting policies of associates are changed

financial statements of the subsidiaries have been where necessary to ensure consistency with the policies

prepared as per the same accounting policies followed adopted by the Group.

by the company. Inter-company transactions, balances,

as well as incomes and expenses are eliminated during In the financial statements of the parent company,

consolidation. The accounting goodwill derived from investments in associated companies are valued in

businesses acquisition, is registered as a non-depreciable accordance with IAS 28, at acquisition cost less any

asset, subject to annual impairment audit, in case it is accumulated losses from impairment

positive. If it is negative, it is registered as income in the

financial results of the Group. The goodwill captures 2.3.3 Currency translations

the difference between the acquisition price and the (a) Operating currency and presentation currency

reasonable value of the separate assets, the liabilities The figures of the financial statements regarding the

and potential liabilities of the acquired company.

Group's subsidiaries and the parent company are noted

in Euro; which is the currency of the financial environment

2.3.2 Associates

within which they operate (functional currency).

Associates are companies in which the group has the

ability to exercise significant influence and are not (b) Transactions and balances

subsidiaries or joint ventures. Significant influence is Any transactions in foreign currencies are converted into

the power to participate in decisions on financial and the functional currency, based on the valid exchange rates

business policies of the company, but not the control over on the transactions' dates. Any profits or losses stemming

those policies. Significant influence normally exists when from currency differences that generated during the

the Group holds between 20% and 50% of the voting clearing of such transactions throughout the fiscal year, or

rights through ownership of shares or through another upon the conversion of the currency figures expressed in

type of agreement.

a foreign currency based on the current exchange rates,

applicable on the date of the Balance Sheet publication,

Investments in associates are initially recognized at are registered in the financial results. Any exchange rate

cost and for consolidation purposes, the equity method differences derived from non-currency elements valued

is used. The goodwill included in the carrying amount at their reasonable price, are considered as a section

(cost) of the investment and is reviewed for impairment of the reasonable value; thus they are registered in the

as part of the investment. When a group entity transacts same section with the differences of reasonable value.

with an associate of the Group, any intercompany profits The figures presented in the financial statements of the

and losses are eliminated to the extent of participation Group's companies are based on the prevailing currency

of the Group at the relevant associate. All subsequent of the specific country where each company is active.

changes in the rate of participation in the equity of the The individual financial statements of the companies

associate are recognized in the carrying amount of the participating in the consolidation, which had initially

group's investment.

presented in a currency other than the Group's currency

for presentation purposes, have been converted into .

60 Changes stemming from profits or losses of associates Assets and liabilities have been translated into , based are recognized in the consolidated income statement on the exchange rate on the closing date of the balance

and changes that have been directly recognized in sheet. Incomes and expenses have been translated into

equity of associates are recognized in the consolidated the currency used for the Group's presentation purposes,

equity of the group. Any changes recognized directly based on the average exchange rates of each fiscal

in equity and are not associated with the result, such as year. Any differences resulting from this procedure are

Annual Report
2016

transferred to the reserve fund for subsidiary balance devaluated up to the recoverable amount. The retrievable

sheets translation in a foreign currency, in the net position, amount of property, infrastructure and equipment is the

through the remaining total earnings.

greater between the net selling price and their usage 61 value. To calculate the usage value, the expected future

cash flows are discounted at their current value using

2.4 Tangible Assets

the pre-tax discount rate that reflects market's current

estimations regarding the time value of money value and

Tangible Assets are consistently valued at the acquisition the risks related to the corresponding asset.

cost less depreciation. Acquisition cost includes all When the tangible assets' accounting values exceed

expenses directly attributable to the acquisition of these their recoverable value, the difference (devaluation) is

assets. Subsequent expenditures increase the book initially recognised as a decrease in the fair value reserve

value of tangible assets, only if it is believed that future (it case there is one linked with the asset in question)

economic benefits will pump into the group and their cost which is reported in equity accounts. Every devaluation

can be measured reliably. Establishments in third party loss exceeding the reserve corresponding to a specific

properties (opening of shops) are depreciated based asset is directly recognised as expense in the income

on the estimated lease duration. Depreciations are statement.

calculated using the straight line method over their useful

life, as follows:

2.5 Investments in property

Asset Category

Operational Years

Buildings (privately owned)
Electro-Mechanical etc. installations on privately owned buildings
Installations on third parties' property
Mechanical equipment
Motor vehicles

50 20-25
8-12 7-9 7-9

Investments in property are investments related to all those properties (including land, buildings or parts of buildings), purchased by the group, and used for leasing purposes. Property investments are initially registered at their acquisition cost including any transaction costs. Subsequently they are valued at fair value. Management determines the fair value using various valuation methods. The purpose of using a specific valuation method is the determination of the transaction

Other equipment

7

price on the valuation date, on a commercial basis,

driven by regular business considerations. The

The self-produced tangible assets constitute an addition evaluation methods, include among others, the use of

to the acquisition cost of the tangible assets in values recent commercial-based transactions, the reference to

that incorporate the direct payroll cost of the personnel the current fair value of a substantially similar instrument,

participating in the manufacturing procedure, the cost of as well as the analysis of the discounted cash flows.

consumed materials and other general costs.

The estimation of the properties fair value was conducted

Tangible assets' residual values and useful lives are by a registered real estate expert who has the skills and

subject to review on the date of the balance sheet. experience required for the assessment procedure and

If the residual values, the expected useful life or the is totally irrelevant to the group. The reassessment /

expected consumption rate of future financial benefits assessment concerns only the land and buildings and

incorporated in an asset change, these changes are does not take into consideration the engineering or

treated as changes in accounting estimations. In case of other mobile equipment of the Company. Since there

a tangible asset sale, the differences between the value is no establishment of horizontal or vertical ownerships

received and its accounting value are recognised as of the buildings, the distinction of the estimated value

profit or losses in the results.

between the land and a building was considered as

the proportional land area per building, based on

The accounting value of tangible assets is checked for the above said structure. The book value reported in

devaluation when there are relevant indications, i.e. in the Group's financial statements, reflect the market

circumstances showing that the accounting value may conditions on the date of balance sheet generation.

not be retrievable. If there is such an indication that the Any gain or loss resulting from a change in fair value

accounting value exceeds the estimated recoverable of properties investments is recognized in the income

amount, the assets or cash-generating units are statement incurred.

Transfers towards the category of real estate investments are only conducted in case of a change in their perceived use, as a result of the end of the privateuse period on behalf of the Group, the finalization of an asset's construction, or the utilization of an operating lease derived from a third party. Accounting transfers of properties from "investments" into "owner-occupied" category are only executed in case of a change on their utilization purposes, evidenced by their establishment as owner-occupied assets or their classification as held for sale properties. For the transfer of property from the category of "investments" into the category of "owneroccupied", the reasonable cost of the property used for its subsequent accounting manipulation, is its fair value on the date of the change of use. Gains or losses resulting from the removal or disposal of the investment in property, are recognized in the income statement of the period that the removal or disposal took place.
Group's real estate investments refer to two properties located at Piraeus Street and at the airport. The reasonable value of the investment properties of the Group, equal to approx. 75 mil., was estimated by an independent and chartered assessor at the beginning of 2016.
2.6 Intangible Assets

2.6.3 Assets Impairments Intangible assets with indefinite useful lives that are not amortized, are reviewed for impairment at least annually. The assets subject to amortization are reviewed for impairment when there are indications that their carrying value may not be recoverable. The retrievable amount is the higher between the fair value less the costs required for the disposal and the value in use of the asset. The use value is determined by discounting the future cash flows using the appropriate discount rate. If the recoverable value is less than the undischarged, then the latter is reduced down to its recoverable amount. Impairment losses are recognized as expenses in the income statement of the period they incurred, unless the asset has been readjusted so that the impairment loss decreases the corresponding revaluation reserve. When in a later period the impairment loss should be reversed, the carrying value of the asset is increased up to the level of the revised estimate of recoverable amount, provided that the new book value does not exceed the residual value as it would have been determined if the impairment losses had not been registered in previous periods. The reversal of the loss is recognized as an income, unless the asset has been readjusted. In this case, the reversal increases the corresponding revaluation reserve. For the assessment of impairment losses, assets are included in the smallest possible cash-generating units.

2.6.1 Trademarks and Licenses

2.7 Financial Assets

The acquired trademarks and licenses are initially

recognized at historical cost.

2.7.1 Initial Recognition

The licenses have a finite useful life and are carried Financial assets are recorded in the Group's balance

at cost less accumulated depreciation. Depreciation sheet, since it becomes part of the contractual provisions

is calculated using the method of the useful life with a of the instrument.

view to the allocation of trademarks and licenses costs The assets of the group are classified in the following

throughout their estimated useful life

categories:

· Loans and receivables, receivables from trading

2.6.2 Other Intangible Assets

activities

This category incorporates the Group's rental rights,

· Current and time deposits

initially recognized at their acquisition cost. After the initial

· Financial assets at fair value through profit

recognition, intangible assets are measured at cost less

· Financial assets available for sale, and

accumulated depreciation and any impairment loss that

· Investments held to maturity.

may have occurred. It also includes purchased software

used in administration or production process. The Financial assets are divided into different categories by

acquired licenses related to software are capitalized on management, based on their characteristics and the

the basis of the incurred expenses during the acquisition purpose for which they were acquired.

62 and installation of the software. The costs associated with The category in which each financial instrument is classified, the maintenance of computer software are recognized in differs from the others as different rules apply with respect

the period in which they occur. The capitalized costs are to their valuation and the recognition of each designated

depreciated based on the straight-line method over their financial result either in the income statement or directly in

estimated useful lives.

equity. Financial assets are recognized depending on the

accounting date that the trade was executed.

Annual Report
2016

2.7.2 Financial Assets at fair value through results

2.8 Inventories

Financial assets deriving their fair value through the

income statement, include assets held primarily for Inventories are valued at the lower price between 63

commercial purposes valued by the group at fair price the acquisition value and net realizable value. Cost is

through income statement upon initial recognition. In calculated based on the weighted average cost. Net

addition, derivative financial assets which do not qualify realizable value is estimated based on the inventories

for accounting hedge are classified in this category.

current selling prices in the context of the ordinary

Financial assets included in this category are valued at course of business and after the deduction of any selling

fair value through the results and cannot be reclassified expenses where applicable.

to another category. The financial assets that have been

classified in this in this category include shares listed on

the Athens and Cyprus Stock Exchange and mutual fund 2.9 Loans, receivables from business and

shares.

other receivables

2.7.3 Investments held until maturity The held-to maturity investments are non-derivative financial assets with fixed or determined payments and fixed maturity. The financial assets classified as held-to maturity investments as long as management is willing and able to hold them until maturity.

Loans and receivables are non-derivative financial assets with fixed or determinable payments that have no quoted price in the active market. They come into existence when the Group provides money, products or services directly to a debtor with no intention of commercial claim.

After initial recognition, investments that fall into this category are valued at residual cost, using the effective interest rate method. The residual cost is the amount in which the financial asset was initially measured or the financial liability after the deduction of principal repayments, including or excluding any accumulated depreciation of any difference between that initial amount and the amount payable at maturity, calculated with the method of effective interest rate, after the deduction of any devaluation. The calculation includes all fees and units paid or received between the parties, which are considered an integral part of the effective interest rate, the transaction costs and any discount or impairment.
Moreover, if there is any evidence that a financial asset has declined in value, then the investment is valued at the present value of projected cash flows and any difference from the book value of the investment is recognized in the income statement as a loss.
Fair Value The fair value of the investments in an active market is demonstrated by reference to quoted market prices on the balance sheet date. If the market for an investment is not active, management determines the fair value using valuation techniques. The purpose of using a valuation technique is the determination of the transaction price on the measurement date, based on an entirely commercial context, driven by regular business considerations. The evaluation methods include among others, the use of recent commercial-based transactions, the reference to the current fair value of a relevant instrument, as well as the analysis its of discounted cash flows.

Loans and receivables are measured at unamortized cost, using the effective interest method, less any devaluation provisions. Every change in the value of loans and receivables is recognized in the income statement when the loans and receivables are eliminated or undergo a value discount, as well as during the application of the effective interest method.
The receivables from commercial activities are initially recognized at fair value and subsequently are measured at unamortized cost using the effective interest rate method. Appropriate allowance for estimated irrecoverable amounts, are recognized in the income statement when there is objective evidence that the asset has been impaired. The recognized provision is measured as the difference between the book value of the asset and the present value of its expected cash flows discounted at the applicable effective interest rate upon the initial recognition. For some receivables, impairment checks are executed per individual requirement (e.g. for each customer separately) whenever the recovery of the claim has been declared overdue on the date of the financial statements or in cases where objective evidence indicates the need for an impairment. Other assets are pooled and tested for impairment in total. The amount of impairment losses is the difference between the carrying value and the estimated future cash flows of the receivables. The amount of impairment loss is recorded as an expense in the financial results.
Receivables and loans are included in current assets, except those falling due after twelve months from the

balance sheet date. These are characterized as noncurrent assets. They are also classified as commercial and other receivables in the balance sheet and constitute a vast proportion of the Group's financial assets.
2.10 Cash equivalents
Cash and cash equivalents include the cash deposited in the bank or held in hand, as well as short term highly liquid investments such as repos and deposits maturing in less than three months. For the preparation of the cash flow statement, cash and cash equivalents consist of cash and cash equivalents as defined above, excluding the outstanding balances of bank overdrafts.

instrument and are deleted when the group is exempted from the liability or this is cancelled or expired. Liabilities from financial leases are measured at initial value less the amount of financial capital repayments, while interest is recognized as an expense item in the "Financial expenses" in the Income Statement. Trade payables are recognized initially at their nominal value and subsequently are measured at the unamortized cost. Gains and losses are recognized in the Income Statement when the liabilities are eliminated, as well as when the effective interest rate method is applied. Dividends to shareholders are recognized in the account "Dividends Payable", when approved by the General Meeting of Shareholders.
Liabilities from trading activities are recognized initially at their fair value and subsequently are measured at the undepreciated cost using the effective interest rate method.

2.11 Share Capital

2.12.3 Bank Loans

All loans are initially recognized at cost, which is the fair

Common shares are classified as equity. Direct costs value of the amount received, irrespective of their direct

linked with the issuance of shares, are considered issuing expenses. After the initial recognition, loans are

after the deduction of the relative income tax. Direct evaluated at their undepreciated cost, based on the

costs associated with the issuing of shares towards method of the effective interest rate, and any difference

the acquisition of other companies are included in is recorded in the financial results during the loan period.

the acquisition cost of the purchased company. The

acquisition cost of treasury shares after the exclusion of

income tax (if applicable), is shown as a deduction in the 2.13 Accounting Income Tax

group's equity, until the aforementioned shares are sold

or canceled. Any gain or loss from the sale of treasury 2.13.1 Current Income Tax

shares, free of direct transaction costs and other income Current tax claims / liabilities include those claims or

tax, if any, is presented as an equity reserve.

obligations imposed by the tax authorities relating to the

current or previous reporting periods that have not been

paid until the balance sheet date. They are calculated

2.12 Financial Obligations

according to the prevailing tax rates and tax laws on

the basis of the taxable profits each year. All changes

2.12.1 Initial Recognition

on the current tax claims or liabilities are recognized as

The financial liabilities are registered in the Group's expense in the income statement.

balance sheet once the group becomes part of the

contractual provisions of the instrument. The group's 2.13.2 Deferred Income Tax

financial liabilities include bank loans and overdraft Deferred income tax is calculated based on the liability

accounts (overdraft), trade and other payables, as well method which focuses on the temporary differences. This

as financial leases.

involves the comparison of the book value of the claims

and liabilities on the consolidated financial statements

Financial liabilities are classified in the following with their respective tax bases. Deferred tax claims are

categories:

recognized to the extent that they are likely to be offset

· Financial liabilities available at fair value through against future income taxes.

64

·

financial results Financial liabilities available at depreciated cost.

The group recognizes a previously unrecognized deferred tax claim to the extent that a future taxable profit is likely

to be generated.

2.12.2 Financial Obligations (other than loans)

The deferred tax claim is reviewed on every balance

Financial liabilities are recognized when the group is sheet date and is reduced up to the extent that a sufficient

involved in a contractual agreement of the financial taxable profit that would allow the recovery of such claim

Annual Report
2016

is not likely to be generated.

by the investment of contributions thereof. A contribution

Deferred tax liabilities are recognized for all taxable payable by the group in a defined contribution plan is

temporary differences. Tax losses can be transferred to recognized as a liability after removal of the levy paid 65 subsequent periods are recognized as deferred tax liabilities. and a corresponding output.

Deferred tax claims and liabilities are measured based

on the tax rates expected to apply during the settlement 2.14.2.2 D efined Benefit Liabilities ­ Retirement Benefit

period of the claim or liability, taking into account the tax

due to service exit

rates (and tax laws) substantially prevailing on the date of The obligation in the balance sheet for defined benefit plans

Balance Sheet.

is the present value of the liability for the defined benefit

under the Law 2112/20 and changes resulting from any

Changes in deferred tax claims or liabilities are recognized actuarial gains or losses and past service cost. Actuarial

as part of the income tax on the income statement, except gains and losses arising from experience adjustments and

for those resulting from specific changes on assets or changes in the proportional cases at the end of the previous

liabilities, which are recognized directly in the Group's year exceeded 10% of defined benefit obligation, are

equity and result in a relative change in deferred tax claims charged or credited to the results based on the expected

or liabilities being charged / credited to the relevant average remaining working lives of employees participating

equity account.

in this program.

2.14 R etirement Benefits and Short-term Employee Benefits
2.14.1 Short-term Benefits Short-term benefits for employees (other than benefits for the termination of employment) in cash and in kind are recognized as an expense when accrued. Any unpaid amount is recorded as a liability, unless the amount already paid exceeds the amount of benefits. Then, the company recognizes this excessive amount as an asset (prepaid expense) only to the extent that the prepayment will lead to a series of lower future payments or a refund..
2.14.2 Benefits payable after leaving service The Group has both programs of fixed contributions as well as programs of fixed provisions.
2.14.2.1 Defined Contribution The staff group is mainly covered by the main State Insurance Agency on the private sector (IKA) provided pension and medical benefits. Each employee is required to contribute part of their monthly salary to the fund, while contributing a portion covered by the group. Upon retirement, the pension fund responsible for paying pension benefits to employees. Consequently, the Group has no legal or constructive obligation to pay future benefits under this program.
Under the defined contribution plan, the group's obligation (legal or constructive) is limited to the amount agreed to contribute to the organization (e.g. fund) that manages contributions and provides benefits. Thus, the amount of benefits the employee will receive is determined by the amount paid by the group (or the employee) and paid

Past service cost is recognized directly in profit or loss, unless the changes in pension plans are optional for the retention of workers in service for a specified period (vesting date). In this case, the service cost is amortized on a regular basis until the date of vesting of benefits. The termination benefits paid service when employment is terminated by the group before the normal retirement date, or when an employee accepts voluntary retirement from service in return for these benefits. The group recognizes these termination benefits when demonstrably committed to either terminate the employment of workers according to a detailed formal plan without possibility of withdrawal or providing termination benefits as a result of the bid to encourage voluntary redundancy. Where termination benefits attributable to service rendered beyond twelve months after the balance sheet date, discounted to present value.
The actuarial study was conducted by an independent actuary using the method of projected unit credit (projected unit credit method). Specifically, the study involved the investigation and calculation of actuarial sizes required by the standards set by International Accounting Standards (IAS 19) and is required to be registered in the balance sheet and income statement of each company.
2.15 Other Provisions
Provisions are recognized when a present commitment is likely to lead to a reliably-estimated outflow of economic resources for the Group. The timing or the amount of the outflow can be uncertain. A present obligation arises from the existence of a legal or constructive obligation resulting from past events. Each formed prediction is used only for the expenses that it was originally meant to cover. Provisions are

reviewed on each balance sheet date and are adjusted in order to reflect the best current estimate. The provisions are valued at the expected cost required for the present commitment to be settled, based on the most trustworthy evidence available on the balance sheet date, including the risks and uncertainties related to this commitment. When the effect of time value of money is significant, the amount of the provision is the present value of the expenses expected to be required for the settlement of the obligation.

payments are made in advance, at the beginning of the lease.
2.18.1.2 Operational Leases All other leases are treated as operating leases. The payments related to operating lease contracts are recognized as an expense in the financial results based on the straight-line method (correlation between revenue and expense). The relative costs, such as maintenance and insurance are recognized as an expense when incurred.

When discounting method is used, the book value of a forecast increases in each period so as to reflect the passage of time. This increase is recognized as an expense in financial results. When there is a number of similar commitments, the likelihood that an outflow will be required towards a settlement, is determined by taking into account the category of commitments, as a whole. A provision is recognized even if the possibilities of an outflow included in the category of commitments are limited. If it is not likely that an outflow of resources embodying economic benefits will be required for the settlement of the commitment, the provision is reversed.
2.16 Contingent liabilities
Contingent liabilities are not recognized in the financial statements but are disclosed, unless the probability of resource outflows incorporating economic benefits is minimal.

2.18.2 Group Company as Lessor 2.18.2.1 Operational Leases When the Group does not transfer all risks and benefits of the asset, leases are classified as operating leases. Initial direct costs incurred by lessors in negotiating and agreeing an operating lease are added to the book value of the leased asset and recognized, throughout the whole lease period, as rental income.
2.19 Revenue Recognition
Revenues are recognized to the extent that the economic benefits that will flow into the Group are likely to be measured reliably. Revenues are free of added value tax, discounts and returns. Income among Group's companies, which are consolidated based on the full consolidation method, are entirely eliminated.
The recognition of revenue is as follows:

2.17 Contingent assets
Possible inflows of economic benefits for the group not being able to be recognized as assets, are considered contingent assets and are disclosed in the notes of the financial statements.

2.19.1 Sales of Goods Revenues are recognized, when the significant risks and benefits stemming from the ownership of goods are transferred to the buyer and the collection of receivables is reasonably assured. The wholesale sales of goods are mainly executed on credit.

2.19.2 Services

2.18 Leasing

Revenues from service contract agreements with a

predetermined value, are recognized based on the

2.18.1 Company Group as lessee

stage of the transaction on the balance sheet date.

2.18.1.1 Finance Leases

Under this method, the income is recognized based

The ownership of a leased asset is transferred to the on the proportion of services provided until the date of

lessee, if and only if all risks and benefits associated financial statements, with respect to the total of services

with the leased asset are transferred to him, independent to be performed.

66 of the legal form of contract. At the beginning of the leasing period, the asset is recognized at fair value or if When the result of a transaction cannot be estimated

lower, at the present value of minimum lease payments reliably, the income is recognized only to the extent that

including extra payments if any, covered by the lessee. the recognized expenses are recoverable.

A corresponding amount is recognized as an obligation In cases of changes in the initial estimates of revenues,

of the lease irrespective of whether some of the lease expenditures, or the level of integration, these changes

Annual Report
2016
may lead to increases or decreases in the estimated revenues or costs and are recorded in the period's revenues.

2.19.3 Dividends

67

The dividend income is recognized when the right to receive payment.

2.19.4 Interest Income Interest income is recognized based on the time proportion, as well as using the effective interest rate method.

2.19.5 Income from Rents Income from rents is recognized on the accrual basis in accordance with the terms of the relevant agreements.

3. Financial Information per segment
The operational sectors of the Group are strategic units selling different goods. They are monitored and managed separately by the board of Directors, because these goods are of completely different nature in terms of market demand and gross profit margin.
The sectors of Group are the following:
J ewellery, Watches, Accessories: This sector includes the processing and distribution of jewelleries, watches and relevant accessories.
Department Stores: This sector deals with the operation of the department stores.
Clothing - Footwear: This sector concerns the wholesale and retail sales of branded clothing, footwear as well as perfumes and cosmetics.
Other Activities: This sector includes the sales to exterior customers which are below 5
The accounting policies underlying the operating sectors are the same as those used for the generation of the financial statements. The efficiency of the sectors is calculated based on the profitability, on a pre-tax income and without taking into account figures such as non-recurring and foreign exchange transactions that management monitors in total.

Annual Report
2016
69
68

RESULTS PER SEGMENT FOR THE PERIOD ENDED AT 31.12.16 AND 31.12.15

amounts in  mil.
REFERENCE PERIOD Sales to external customers Sales intersectoral Cost of sales Cost of sales sectors Gross Margin Other operating income Selling Cost Selling expenses crosscutting Administration cost Administration cost crosscutting Other operating cost Segment operating earnings ()
PREVIOUS REPORTING PERIOD Sales to external customers Sales intersectoral Cost of sales Cost of sales sectors Gross Margin Other operating income Selling Cost Selling expenses crosscutting Administration cost Administration cost crosscutting Other operating cost Segment operating earnings ()

Jewellery - Watch Accessories
1.008.173 843
-533.713 -1.082
474.221 10.180
-172.195 -300
-49.937 0
-15.214 246.755
891.037 1.465
-442.442 0
450.061 23.934
-186.027 -172
-53.630 0
-12.052 222.115

GROUP

Clothing - Footwear

Department stores

187.515 9.835
-124.092 -352
72.905 4.577
-60.203 -9
-12.366 0
-1.867 3.036

181.404 299
-107.683 -9.234 64.787 4.514
-52.312 0
-4.906 0
-593 11.490

177.114 11.017
-116.473 -476
71.183 6.173
-56.751 -43
-14.569 0
-1.712 4.282

171.518 205
-99.016 -11.996 60.712
4.083 -47.929
0 -4.443
0 -202 12.222

Total
1.377.091 10.977
-765.488 -10.668 611.913 19.271
-284.710 -309
-67.210 0
-17.673 261.281
1.239.669 12.687
-657.931 -12.472 581.954 34.190
-290.707 -214
-72.642 0
-13.966 238.616

Eliminations Consolidated data

-39.816 -10.977 40.516 10.668
390 -2.911 2.628
309 70 0
500 986
-46.625 -12.687 46.115 12.473
-723 -22.005 22.041
214 582
0 -178
-68

1.337.275 0
-724.972 0
612.303 16.359
-282.082 0
-67.140 0
-17.173 262.268
1.193.044 0
-611.816 1
581.230 12.185
-268.666 0
-72.060 0
-14.144 238.546

Amounts in  thousand
31.12.2016
Tangible & Intangible Assets Inventories Trade & other receivables Cash & cash equivalent
Other assets non-allocated Total
Trade & other payables Other liabilities non allocated Equity Total

BALANCE SHEET OF THE GROUP AS OF 31.12.16

Jewellery-WatchAccessories

GROUP
Clothing-Footware

Department Stores

Total

Eliminations

Consolidated Data

210.792 481.345

111.099 43.785

106.188 65.828

428.078 590.959 783.206 328.024 2.130.267 1.107.259 3.237.526

53.405 -4.962 -128.465
0 -80.022 -578.493 -658.515

481.483 585.997 654.741 328.024 2.050.245 528.766 2.579.011

151.593

56.647

89.492

297.732 829.025 2.110.769 3.237.526

-156.783 -275.326 -226.407 -658.515

140.949 553.699 1.884.363 2.579.011

Geographical Segments
Sales Non current Assets

Greece 299.381.934,21 452.566.144,76

Rest of Europe 146.083.286,81 111.734.825,68

Asia 891.809.998,43 217.007.211,26

Total 1.337.275.219,45
781.308.181,70

70

4. Own-used tangible assets ­ Investments in real property
The book value of assets, for the Group and Company respectively, as shown in the consolidated balance sheet for the periods presented were as follows:

Cost Balance at 1.1.2015 Additions Disposals New subsidiaries Transfers Exchange Differences Balance at 31.12.2015 Balance at 1.1.2016 Additions Disposals New subsidiaries Evaluation Transfers Exchange Differences Balance at 31.12.2016 Accumulated amortisation Balance at 1.1.2015 Amortisation charge Fair value impairment Depreciation of new subsidiaries Decrease of amortisation Transfers Exchange Differences Balance at 31.12.2015 Balance at 1.1.2016 Amortisation charge Fair value impairment Depreciation of new subsidiaries Decrease of amortisation Transfers Exchange Differences Balance at 31.12.2016 Net Book amount 31.12.2015 Net Book Amount 31.12.2016

Land

Buildings & Building Installations

The Group

Plant & Machinery

Vehicles

Furniture, fittings & equip-
ment

PPE in course of construction

Total

Investment Property

39.855.803,38 0,00 0,00 0,00 0,00
1.723.615,25 41.579.418,63 41.579.418,63
0,00 0,00 0,00 3.790.897,44 0,00 637.755,48 46.008.071,55

107.966.964,34 8.808.053,01 -1.936.343,94 0,00 440.141,45 4.481.042,08
119.759.856,94 119.759.856,94
55.373.103,65 -4.186.825,96
0,00 4.014.111,94 8.042.571,88 1.506.845,05 184.509.663,50

11.237.659,59 775.743,28 -44.347,43 0,00 -186.310,55 394.312,67
12.177.057,56 12.177.057,56
812.803,21 -184.560,38
0,00 0,00 246.493,01 -1.113.975,24 11.937.818,16

0,39 0,00 0,00 0,00 0,00 0,00 0,00 0,39 0,39 0,00 0,00 0,00 0,00 0,00 0,00 0,39 41.579.418,24 46.008.071,16

35.653.317,87 9.650.785,91 0,00 0,00 -1.010.235,91 0,00 3.783.041,95
48.076.909,82 48.076.909,82
9.643.163,19 0,00 0,00
-3.309.220,87 0,00
-51.042,93 54.359.809,21 71.682.947,12 130.149.854,29

9.354.358,28 967.520,22 0,00 0,00 -40.024,31 -104.440,61 317.633,57
10.495.047,15 10.495.047,15
969.273,95 0,00 0,00
-145.318,70 0,00
-965.831,95 10.353.170,45
1.682.010,41 1.584.647,71

3.699.590,54 6.210.973,37
-80.167,50 0,00 -0,10
-24.338,20 9.806.058,11 9.806.058,11
85.989,63 -4.763.168,92
0,00 0,00 0,00 9.910,62 5.138.789,44

85.541.002,98 7.800.611,13 -3.776.590,90 2.532.370,90 698.290,60 2.362.894,20
95.158.578,91 95.158.578,91 36.058.688,62 -4.877.944,58
410.853,74 0,00
230.361,94 -2.206.878,00 124.773.660,63

45.896.215,76 5.296.837,71 -345.397,95 0,00 -1.150.013,52 -151.196,94
49.546.445,06 49.546.445,06
1.688.289,13 0,00 0,00 0,00
-9.238.135,93 400.738,37
42.397.336,63

294.197.236,59 28.892.218,50 -6.182.847,72 2.532.370,90 -197.892,12 8.786.329,06
328.027.415,21 328.027.415,21
94.018.874,24 -14.012.499,84
410.853,74 7.805.009,38
-718.709,10 -765.603,72 414.765.339,91

83.284.534,28 357.473,78 0,00 0,00 252.892,12 0,00
83.894.900,18 83.894.900,18
272.143,57 -17.730,00
0,00 268.033,08 720.671,09
0,00 85.138.017,92

2.030.345,84 348.858,02 0,00 0,00 -54.873,44 0,00 -27.357,29
2.296.973,13 2.296.973,13
849.779,03 0,00 0,00
-1.015.311,56 0,00
8.746,03 2.140.186,63 7.509.084,98 2.998.602,81

60.399.643,44 8.306.764,43 0,00 1.283.543,76 -2.555.843,66 105.621,27 1.619.994,92
69.159.724,16 69.159.724,16
8.734.257,81 0,00
394.480,59 -3.386.122,66
1.296,00 -2.573.541,82 72.330.094,08 25.998.854,75 52.443.566,55

980.223,41 0,00 0,00 0,00 0,00 0,00
277,53 980.500,94 980.500,94
0,00 0,00 0,00 0,00 0,00 343.043,51 1.323.544,45 48.565.944,12 41.073.792,18

108.417.889,23 19.273.928,58 0,00 1.283.543,76 -3.660.977,32 1.180,66 5.693.590,68
131.009.155,59 131.009.155,59
20.196.473,98 0,00
394.480,59 -7.855.973,79
1.296,00 -3.238.627,16 140.506.805,21 197.018.259,62 274.258.534,70

7.246.523,87 0,00
1.362.032,32 0,00 0,00
442,56 0,00
8.608.998,75 8.608.998,75
0,00 1.334.923,18
0,00 -8.022,35
0,00 0,00 9.935.899,58 75.285.901,43 75.202.118,34

Cost Balance at 1.1.2015 Additions Disposals New subsidiaries Transfers Exchange Differences Balance at 31.12.2015 Balance at 1.1.2016 Additions Disposals New subsidiaries Evaluation Transfers Exchange Differences Balance at 31.12.2016 Accumulated amortisation Balance at 1.1.2015 Amortisation charge Fair value impairment Depreciation of new subsidiaries Decrease of amortisation Transfers Exchange Differences Balance at 31.12.2015 Balance at 1.1.2016 Amortisation charge Fair value impairment Depreciation of new subsidiaries Decrease of amortisation Transfers Exchange Differences Balance at 31.12.2016 Net Book amount 31.12.2015 Net Book Amount 31.12.2016

Land

Buildings & Building Installations

12.243.777,69 0,00 0,00

46.727.679,48 915.439,92 -415.988,18

0,00 0,00 12.243.777,69 12.243.777,69 0,00 0,00 0,00
1.960.884,76
0,00
0,00
14.204.662,45

73.038,92 0,00
47.300.170,14 47.300.170,14
439.079,28 -70.450,22
0,00
4.014.111,94
-583.053,67
0,00
51.099.857,47

0,00 0,00 0,00 0,00 0,00 0,00 0,00 0,00 0,00 0,00 0,00 0,00 0,00 0,00 0,00 0,00 12.243.777,69 14.204.662,45

18.798.938,42 1.856.532,32 0,00 0,00 -262.092,76 -971,17 0,00
20.392.406,81 20.392.406,81
2.003.445,76 0,00 0,00
-70.450,22 0,00 0,00
22.325.402,35 26.907.763,33 28.774.455,12

The Company

Plant & Machinery

Vehicles

Furniture, fittings & equip-
ment

PPE in course of construction

Total

Investment Property

1.444.428,99 21.775,00 -42.349,98

2.421.904,41 0,00
-18.297,16

22.513.734,43 1.118.758,38 -931.313,64

2.250,00 776.627,06
0,00

85.353.775,00 2.832.600,36 -1.407.948,96

85.592.406,76 357.473,78 0,00

0,00 0,00 1.423.854,01 1.423.854,01 13.313,99 -25.508,46 0,00
0,00
0,00
0,00
1.411.659,54

0,00 0,00 2.403.607,25 2.403.607,25 5.280,49 -1.867.503,71 0,00
0,00
0,00
0,00
541.384,03

393.696,02 0,00
23.094.875,19 23.094.875,19
912.128,25 -503.605,20
0,00
0,00
22.320,00
0,00
23.525.718,24

-774.627,06 0,00
4.250,00 4.250,00 159.937,42
0,00 0,00
0,00
-164.187,42
0,00
0,00

-307.892,12 0,00
86.470.534,28 86.470.534,28
1.529.739,43 -2.467.067,59
0,00 5.974.996,70 -724.921,09
0,00 90.783.281,73

252.892,12 0,00
86.202.772,66 86.202.772,66
220.171,37 -17.730,00
0,00
268.033,08
720.671,09
0,00
87.393.918,20

1.086.477,63 86.342,29 0,00 0,00 -38.368,52 -9,74 0,00
1.134.441,66 1.134.441,66
70.573,34 0,00 0,00
-25.508,46 0,00 0,00
1.179.506,54 289.412,35 232.153,00

998.907,01 216.539,64
0,00 0,00 -7.559,43 0,00 0,00 1.207.887,22 1.207.887,22 76.916,81 0,00 0,00 -874.997,94 0,00 0,00 409.806,09 1.195.720,03 131.577,94

16.686.511,73 1.910.731,19 0,00 0,00 -791.215,52 5,01 0,00
17.806.032,41 17.806.032,41
1.967.565,40 0,00 0,00
-501.195,96 0,00 0,00
19.272.401,85 5.288.842,78 4.253.316,39

0,00 0,00 0,00 0,00 0,00 0,00 0,00 0,00 0,00 0,00 0,00 0,00 0,00 0,00 0,00 0,00 4.250,00 0,00

37.570.834,79 4.070.145,44 0,00 0,00 -1.099.236,23 -975,90 0,00
40.540.768,10 40.540.768,10
4.118.501,31 0,00 0,00
-1.472.152,58 0,00 0,00
43.187.116,83 45.929.766,18 47.596.164,90

9.554.396,35 0,00
1.362.032,32 0,00 0,00
442,56 0,00
10.916.871,23 10.916.871,23
0,00 1.334.923,18
0,00 -8.022,35
0,00 0,00 12.243.772,06 75.285.901,43 75.150.146,14

Annual Report
2016
71

5. Own-used intangible assets ­ Investments in real property

The Group

Cost Balance at 1.1.2015

Software Progr.

Rental rights

Concessions, Licenses & Similar Rights

Total

18.612.139,00 6.729.672,86

4.336.375,57 29.678.187,43

Additions

33.174.058,83 175.000,00

3.433.520,96 36.782.579,79

Disposals

-80.313,48 -432.000,00

0,00 -512.313,48

New subsidiaries

74.201,31

0,00

0,00

74.201,31

Transfers

0,00

0,00

0,00

0,00

Exchange Differences

-1.502.136,84

45.957,20

568.701,63 -887.478,01

Balance at 31.12.2015

50.277.948,82 6.518.630,06

8.338.598,16 65.135.177,04

Balance at 1.1.2016 Additions

50.277.948,82 6.518.630,06

2.783.900,95

51.669,00

8.338.598,16 65.135.177,04 175.000,00 3.010.569,95

Disposals

-1.677.460,13 -798.908,10

-320.178,35 -2.796.546,58

New subsidiaries

0,00

0,00

0,00

0,00

Transfers

-6.212,00

0,00

0,00

-6.212,00

Exchange Differences

1.334.680,53 -113.784,96

159.551,41 1.380.446,98

Balance at 31.12.16

52.712.858,17 5.657.606,00

8.352.971,22 66.723.435,39

Accumulated amortisation Balance at 1.1.2015 Amortisation charge

15.831.538,43 2.757.170,76 3.853.614,76 542.084,59

-601.058,85 17.987.650,34 1.432.205,32 5.827.904,67

Decrease of amortisation

-590,19 -270.657,10

0,00 -271.247,29

Amortisation of new subsidiaries

53.718,24

0,00

0,00

53.718,24

Transfers

2.408,61

-0,29

-2.409,42

-1,10

Exchange Differences

-1.560.339,06

34.094,04

315.900,84 -1.210.344,18

Balance at 31.12.2015

18.180.350,79 3.062.692,00

1.144.637,89 22.387.680,68

Balance at 1.1.2016 Amortisation charge

18.180.350,79 3.062.692,00 6.325.608,25 668.677,73

1.144.637,89 22.387.680,68 1.063.074,25 8.057.360,23

Decrease of amortisation

-404.663,38 -123.488,45

0,00 -528.151,83

Amortisation of new subsidiaries

0,00

0,00

0,00

0,00

Transfers

-1.296,00

0,00

0,00

-1.296,00

Exchange Differences

213.068,46 -87.868,43

57.824,84

183.024,87

Balance at 31.12.16

24.313.068,12 3.520.012,85

2.265.536,98 30.098.617,95

Goodwil
94.826.726,50 0,00 0,00 0,00 0,00
171.036,72 94.997.763,22 94.997.763,22
1.054.236,02 0,00 0,00 0,00
-364.008,46 95.687.990,78
290.462,00 0,00 0,00 0,00 0,00 0,00
290.462,00 290.462,00
0,00 0,00 0,00 0,00 0,00 290.462,00

Net Book amount 31.12.2015 32.097.598,03 3.455.938,06 Net Book Amount 31.12.2016 28.399.790,05 2.137.593,15

7.193.960,27 42.747.496,36 6.087.434,24 36.624.817,44

94.707.301,22 95.397.528,78

The analysis of goodwill as of 31.12.2016 is as following:
72 · A n amount of  39.374 thousands is shown in the assets of the parent company, resulting from the absorption and refers to
acquisition goodwill of the company ELMEC SPORT SA.. · A n amount of  1.054 thousands concerns the goodwill arising from the market in 2016 using the company Sales Manager
Hellas EPE (CLOUDBIZ LTD) · A n amount of  52.366 thousands concerns goodwill arising from the purchase of the company LINKS (LONDON) LIMITED by
a subsidiary of the Group. · A n amount of  2.635 thousands concerns goodwill arising from the purchase of the companies JUICY COUTURE EUROPE LTD
and JUICY COUTURE IRELAND LTD by a subsidiary of the Group

Annual Report
2016

Concerning recognized goodwill, note that the goodwill acquired in a business merge is initially recognized at cost, which is the excess of the cost of the merging over the proportion of the group, in the fair value of net assets acquired. 73 After the initial recognition, goodwill is measured at cost, less any accumulated impairment losses. The Group examines goodwill for impairment at least annually. An impairment loss recognized for goodwill is not reversed in subsequent periods.

Cost Balance at 1.1.2015 Additions Disposals New Subsidiaries Transfers Exchange Differences Balance at 31.12.2015 Balance at 1.1.2016 Additions Disposals New Subsidiaries Transfers Exchange Differences Balance at 31.12.16 Accumulated amortisation Balance at 1.1.2015 Amortisation charge Decrease of amortisation New Subsidiaries Transfers Exchange Differences Balance at 31.12.2015 Balance at 1.1.2016 Amortisation charge Decrease of amortisation New Subsidiaries Transfers Exchange Differences Balance at 31.12.16

The Company

Software Progr.

Rental rights

Concessions, Licenses
& Similar Rights

Total

Goodwil

2.125.780,81 16.786,90 -590,19 0,00 0,00 0,00
2.141.977,52 2.141.977,52
228.569,96 -114,01 0,00 0,00 0,00
2.370.433,47

7.469.968,24 175.000,00 -432.000,00 0,00 0,00 0,00
7.212.968,24 7.212.968,24
51.669,00 0,00 0,00 0,00 0,00
7.264.637,24

112.301,58 57.000,00 0,00 0,00 0,00 0,00
169.301,58 169.301,58 175.000,00
0,00 0,00 0,00 0,00 344.301,58

9.708.050,63 248.786,90 -432.590,19 0,00 0,00 0,00
9.524.247,34 9.524.247,34
455.238,96 -114,01 0,00 0,00 0,00
9.979.372,29

39.373.861,68 0,00 0,00 0,00 0,00 0,00
39.373.861,68 39.373.861,68
0,00 0,00 0,00 0,00 0,00 39.373.861,68

1.968.422,84 4.642.695,81

54.836,45 6.665.955,10

0,00

108.717,12

486.492,00

12.795,80

608.004,92

0,00

-590,19

-270.657,10

0,00

-271.247,29

0,00

0,00

0,00

0,00

0,00

0,00

0,00

0,00

0,00

0,00

0,00

0,00

0,00

0,00

0,00

0,00

2.076.549,77 4.858.530,71

67.632,25 7.002.712,73

0,00

2.076.549,77 4.858.530,71

67.632,25 7.002.712,73

0,00

89.292,59

632.703,87

20.271,24

742.267,70

0,00

-114,01

0,00

0,00

-114,01

0,00

0,00

0,00

0,00

0,00

0,00

0,00

0,00

0,00

0,00

0,00

0,00

0,00

0,00

0,00

0,00

2.165.728,35 5.491.234,58

87.903,49 7.744.866,42

0,00

Net Book amount 31.12.2015 Net Book Amount 31.12.2016

65.427,75 204.705,12

2.354.437,53 1.773.402,66

101.669,33 256.398,09

2.521.534,61 2.234.505,87

39.373.861,68 39.373.861,68

6. Investments in related entities

In the financial statements of the parent company, the following companies are valued at acquisition cost less impairment losses, as given in the table below. The subsidiaries are incorporated in the consolidated financial statements based on the full consolidation method.

Investments in subsidiaries
FOLLI-FOLLIE HONG KONG LTD FOLLI-FOLLIE UK LTD FOLLI-FOLLIE FRANCE SA FOLLI-FOLLIE SPAIN SA FF CYPRUS LTD PLANACO SA FOLLI FOLLIE HOLDING S.A FF GROUP FINANCE LUXEMBOURG SA FF GROUP FINANCE LUXEMBOURG II SA SALES MANAGER HELLAS (CLOUDBIZ) STRENABY FINANCE LTD FF ROMANIA SRL FF BULGARIA EOOD MOUSTAKIS S.A FF COSMETICS SA - (SHISEIDO) COLLECTIVE PATRAS SA LINKS OF LONDON LTD ATTICA DEPARTMENT STORES SA AMORTIZATION PROVISION Total

The Company
31.12.2016
22.627.986,94 3.110.450,19 7.155.791,41
12.293.581,68 7.135.983,56 7.776.221,01
109.417.124,51 2.600.000,00 100.000,00 1.125.000,00
13.030.922,10 8.545.971,25 1.544.023,14 943.650,44 1.000.000,00 1.200.000,00
20.261.000,00 5.024.451,12 -15.000.000,00 209.892.157,35

31.12.2015
22.627.986,94 3.110.450,19 7.155.791,41
12.293.581,68 6.835.983,56 7.776.221,01
109.417.114,01 2.600.000,00 0,00 0,00
13.030.922,10 5.545.971,25 1.544.023,14 943.650,44 1.000.000,00 960.000,00
20.261.000,00 5.668.300,56 -6.000.000,00 214.770.996,29

Investments in affiliated companies in the financial statements of the parent, are subject to an impairment of their value once a year (namely on 31.12 of each year), based on the value in use. In the event that the value in use of cash-generating units is less than the carrying value, an impairment loss equal to the difference is directly recognized.
With regard to the subsidiaries in Asia there are no impairment indications, because their equity is much greater than the participation value and therefore no impairment investigations are in place.
Due to the special market conditions (especially in the last two years), the other subsidiaries (Europe - Greece), are subject to an inspection for potential impairment once a year (namely on 31.12). In 2016, there were indications for impairment of the subsidiaries. Consequently, provisions which amounted to  6 74 million were formed. These impairments amounted to  9 million, resulting in a reduction on the financial - investment results.

Annual Report
2016

75 7. Investments available for sale
Analysis of balances of investments available for sale and other long-term requirements of the group and the company presented in the following tables:

Balance 01.01.2015 Additions Valued at 01.01.15-31.12.15 Balance 31.12.2015 Movements Valued at 01.01.16-31.12.16 Balance 31.12.2016

The Group

Dufry

Eurobank

205.881.006,27 0,00
-12.323.195,43 193.557.810,84
0,00 9.244.532,85 202.802.343,69

625.690,03 700.000,00 -657.532,67 668.157,36
0,00 -253.771,31 414.386,05

Other
652.691,24 434.152,78 -159.613,03 927.230,99
27.808,39 439.460,97 1.394.500,35

Total
207.159.387,54 1.134.152,78
-13.140.341,13 195.153.199,19
27.808,39 9.430.222,51 204.611.230,09

Balance 01.01.2015 Additions Valued at 01.01.15-31.12.15 Balance 31.12.2015 Valued at 01.01.16-31.12.16 Balance 31.12.2016

The Company

Dufry

A.B.G.

152.572.951,60 0,00

625.690,03 700.000,00

-16.211.198,02

-657.532,67

136.361.753,58 9.244.532,85
145.606.286,43

668.157,36 -253.771,31 414.386,05

Other
545.621,40 0,00
-146.487,68 399.133,72 -25.756,61 373.377,11

Total
153.744.263,03 700.000,00
-17.015.218,37 137.429.044,66
8.965.004,93 146.394.049,59

Group's investments available for sale concern the shares (listed on the Athens Stock Exchange) which were valued at current closing prices on December 31 2016 (Level 1), as well as shares not listed on the Athens Stock Exchange, valued at acquisition cost and tested on each balance sheet date for possible impairments through other total comprehensive income.

8. Other long term Assets
Other long term assets Bills and checks receivable Rental deposits Other non current assets Total

The Group

31.12.2016

31.12.2015

175.798,99

18.130,66

16.343.876,46 14.599.914,20

78.018.272,74 30.518.078,67

94.537.948,19 45.136.123,53

The Company

31.12.2016

31.12.2015

175.798,99

0,00

1.137.842,87 1.407.257,33

0,00

0,00

1.313.641,86 1.407.257,33

Account "other non-current assets" includes an amount of 69.253 thousands, which concerns receivables from interest-bearing loan issued by a subsidiary of the Group, amounting to $73.000 thousands and will be paid off in 2018.

9. Inventories

Inventories Merchandise Products - Raw Materials & Consumables Packing materials Less: Provisions for obsolesence Total

The Group

31.12.2016

31.12.2015

591.463.991,75 495.699.765,73

117.356,25

147.038,55

149.298,55

148.575,38

-5.734.058,58 -5.667.411,05

585.996.587,97 490.327.968,61

The Company

31.12.2016

31.12.2015

43.288.807,16 40.501.347,43

0,00

0,00

0,00

0,00

-3.269.503,65 -2.830.188,59

40.019.303,51 37.671.158,84

Inventories are measured at the lowest value between the acquisition value and the clear liquidating value, as provided for by IAS 2. A significant part of the increase in inventories derives from the impact of foreign exchange differences arising from the translation of financial statements of the Group's subsidiaries.

10. Trade Receivables and other Current Assets

The Group

The Company

Trade receivables Trade receivables (customers via open balances) Cheques/promissory notes receivables Total

31.12.2016

31.12.2015

31.12.2016

31.12.2015

626.849.384,54 561.036.851,00 57.060.908,68 48.934.294,41

27.891.348,48 24.828.638,69 25.609.502,87 23.212.700,36 654.740.733,02 585.865.489,69 82.670.411,55 72.146.994,77

Parent company as well as the Group, have formed accumulated provisions for bad debts summing up to 5.716.763,44 and 70.123.000,61respectively for the fiscal year of 2016. With respect to the period of 2015, the corresponding provisions amounted to 5.586.993,31 and 66.829.464,43 respectively. The provision made for bad debts, resulted from the individual assessment of each customer ­ debtor regarding their ability of repaying, taking into account its corresponding aging. With respect to receivables entitled for legal settlement, the legal advisor's conclusions are taken into account.

The following tables depict the amounts of provisions and the aging of the balances of trade receivables.

Aging Receivables that are not past due Receivables not impaired to 90 days 91-180 days 181-270 days
76 271-360 days
above 360 days Total
Total Receivables

The Group

31.12.2016

31.12.2015

179.992.790,33 145.659.558,19

The Company

31.12.2016

31.12.2015

45.185.870,08 37.944.098,76

392.480.106,02 15.938.650,42 22.877.472,20 21.328.593,81
22.123.120,24 474.747.942,69

378.807.270,34 9.800.968,27
14.904.981,43 18.342.923,18 18.349.788,28 440.205.931,50

654.740.733,02 585.865.489,69

10.061.770,81 3.096.360,98 7.811.225,01
10.551.162,40 5.964.022,27 37.484.541,47

6.329.327,85 6.024.633,57 6.922.790,11 9.769.465,35
5.156.679,13 34.202.896,01

82.670.411,55 72.146.994,77

Annual Report
2016

77

The Group

Other current assets

31.12.2016

31.12.2015

Trade receivables (customers via credit cards) 18.164.308,64 17.475.753,31

Short-term Loan Claims

3.601.993,22

150.495,90

Receivables from public sector

8.034.735,31 7.617.058,46

Advances to suppliers

130.725.574,15 89.692.829,89

Personel advances

92.507,31

103.091,29

Purchases under settlement

2.309.718,22 2.149.479,51

Other receivables

40.317.191,19 87.048.653,58

Prepaid expenses

9.623.675,64 10.492.980,05

Accrued income

206.375,31

64.338,00

Total

213.076.078,99 214.794.679,99

The Company

31.12.2016

31.12.2015

1.973.472,19 1.909.908,16

70.793.756,02 48.009.350,00

2.882.172,48 2.873.704,01

8.557.306,82

792.501,79

83.768,98

96.233,56

209.681,36

244.774,11

7.268.873,26 10.441.619,10

1.414.276,13 1.782.469,08

102.768,34

0,00

93.286.075,58 66.150.559,81

The account "Advances to suppliers" primarily refers to advances given to production units towards the "reliable performance" commitment, the competitive prices of large annual orders and the assurance of privilege discounts when it comes to inventories purchases and the acquisition of the equipment to be established in subsidiaries' points of sales within the region of South Eastern Asia.

The fair value of these receivables is not substantially different from their carrying value.

11. Cash and cash equivalent

Cash & cash equivalent Cash on hand Cash at bank Total

The Group

31.12.2016

31.12.2015

11.268.490,60 10.617.857,14

316.478.925,02 234.832.843,58 328.184.700,98 245.450.700,72

The Company

31.12.2016

31.12.2015

386.714,61

424.097,80

29.107.901,99 29.494.616,60

60.859.254,91 61.283.352,71

12. Equity Shareholders and parent company

Equity of shareholders of the parent company
Share capital Share Premium Own shares Other reserves Currency translated differences Differences due Consolidation Retained earnings Total

The Group

31.12.2016

31.12.2015

20.084.463,00 81.855.417,03 -13.409.548,73 286.399.611,60 199.531.909,60 -85.563.675,68 1.362.538.329,58 1.851.436.506,40

20.084.463,00 81.730.417,03 -12.152.481,84 276.981.106,83 154.682.093,23 -85.564.935,68 1.140.207.546,99 1.575.968.209,56

The Company

31.12.2016

31.12.2015

20.084.463,00 81.730.417,03 -13.409.548,73 304.415.215,91
0,00 -85.554.366,48 115.284.875,06 422.551.055,79

20.084.463,00 81.730.417,03 -12.152.481,84 295.450.210,98
0,00 -85.554.366,48 140.249.492,33 439.807.735,02

13. Borrowings
Borrowings Borrowed funds Bond Loans Bank Loans Leases Total Long-term borrowings Short-term borrowings Total Bond Loans More than 5 years From 1 to 5 years Up to 1 year Total Bank Loans More than 5 years From 1 to 5 years Up to 1 year Total Leases More than 5 years From 1 to 5 years Up to 1 year Total

The Group

31.12.2016

31.12.2015

The Company

31.12.2016

31.12.2015

283.996.229,93 123.126.820,36
27.138.893,66 434.261.943,95 361.742.555,40
72.519.388,55 434.261.943,95

305.389.533,87 42.440.231,53 29.848.440,19
377.678.205,59 332.643.035,38
45.035.170,21 377.678.205,59

231.669.369,21 20.241.578,22 21.655.724,18
273.566.671,61 251.297.897,98
22.268.773,63 273.566.671,61

224.923.228,15 0,00
23.504.587,09 248.427.815,24 242.066.785,17
6.361.030,07 248.427.815,24

0,00 279.329.892,79
4.666.337,14 283.996.229,93

5.883.067,00 294.219.092,96
5.287.373,91 305.389.533,87

0,00 231.669.369,21
0,00 231.669.369,21

0,00 220.423.228,15
4.500.000,00 224.923.228,15

0,00

171.527,27

0,00

0,00

59.013.132,25 8.014.742,26

0,00

0,00

64.113.688,11 34.253.962,00 20.241.578,22

0,00

123.126.820,36 42.440.231,53 20.241.578,22

0,00

11.711.542,46 11.687.987,90
3.739.363,30 27.138.893,66

15.315.692,81 9.038.913,08 5.493.834,30
29.848.440,19

11.711.542,46 7.916.986,31 2.027.195,41
21.655.724,18

13.814.651,51 7.828.905,51 1.861.030,07
23.504.587,09

Annual Report
2016

79 14. Retirement Benefit Liabilities ­ Retirement benefit due to service exit

Amounts recognized in income statement Current service cost Interest on obligation Normal output in the income statement Cost cuts / settlement / termination of service Total expense in the income statement
Change in present value of obligation Present value of obligation at beginning of period Current service cost Interest on obligation Benefits paid by the employer Cost cuts / settlement / termination of service Adjustments/New Subsidiaries Cost of service during the period Actuarial loss / (gain) recognized in Equity Present value of obligation at end of period Actuarial assumptions Discount rate Future salary increases Inflation rate Duration of Liabilities

The Group

01.01. 31.12.2016

01.01. 31.12.2015

The Company

01.01. -

01.01. -

31.12.2016 31.12.2015

322.816 78.724
401.540 643.872 1.045.412

592.942 133.809 726.751 767.069 1.493.820

171.415 54.003
225.418 493.394 718.812

195.919 45.237
241.156 530.344 771.500

5.040.581 322.816 78.724
(970.834) 643.872
(955.783) -
283.623 4.442.999

3.667.334 592.942 133.809
(961.805) 767.069
1.136.143 -
(294.911) 5.040.581

2.179.175 171.415 54.003
(703.823) 493.394 0 95.919
2.290.083
1,77% 0,00% 1,75% 17,80

2.209.439 195.919 45.237
(709.884) 530.344 0 (91.880)
2.179.175
2,58% 0,00% 1,75% 16,80

15. Long term liabilities
Total long-term provisions Provisions for additional taxes Provisions for exposure & expenses Total

The Group

31.12.2016

31.12.2015

289.015,64

237.052,17

1.558.858,49 1.847.874,13

4.551.540,84 4.788.593,01

The Company

31.12.2016

31.12.2015

211.000,00

211.000,00

1.412.241,09 1.623.241,09

1.413.382,84 1.624.382,84

78

Unaudited fiscal years:
Company Name
FOLLI FOLLIE SA FOLLI FOLLIE UK LTD FOLLI FOLLIE FRANCE SA FOLLI FOLLIE SPAIN SA FF CYPRUS PLANACO  FOLLI FOLLIE JAPAN LTD FOLLI FOLLIE GROUP SOURCING LTD FOLLI FOLLIE ASIA LTD FOLLI FOLLIE TAIWAN LTD FOLLI FOLLIE KOREA LTD FOLLI FOLLIE SINGAPORE LTD FOLLI FOLLIE CAU LTD FOLLI FOLLIE GUAM LTD FOLLI FOLLIE HAWAII LTD FOLLI FOLLIE HONG KONG INTERNATIONALTD FOLLI FOLLIE MALAYSIA LTD FOLLI FOLLIE THAILAND LTD FOLLI FOLLIE SHANGAI (PILION LTD) FOLLI FOLLIE SHENZHEN LTD FF HOLDINGS SA LINKS (LONDON) LIMITED LINKS OF LONDON (INTERNATIONAL) LTD LINKS OF LONDON COM LTD (UK) LINKS OF LONDON INC (USA) LINKS OF LONDON (ASIA) LTD LINKS OF LONDON JAPAN CO LTD FF GROUP ROMANIA SRL FF GROUP BULGARIA EOOD MOUSTAKIS SA ATTICA DEPT. STORES SA JUICY COUTURE EUROPE LTD JUICY COUTURE IRELAND LTD COLLECTIVE   FF GROUP FINANCE LUXEMBOURG SA FF GROUP FINANCE LUXEMBOURG II SA STRENABY FINANCE LTD APPAREL ROMANIA SRL WARLABY TRADING LTD
SALES MANAGER HELLAS (CLOUDBIZ)
NARIACO INVESTMENTS LTD
FF COSMETICS AE

Unaudited Tax Years
2009-2010 2010-2016 2010-2016 2010-2016 2010-2016
2010 2010-2016 2010-2016 2010-2016 2010-2016 2010-2016 2010-2016 2010-2016 2010-2016 2010-2016 2010-2016
2010-2016 2010-2016 2010-2016 2010-2016
2010 2010-2016 2010-2016 2010-2016 2010-2016 2010-2016 2010-2016 2010-2016 2010-2016
2010 -
2015-2016 2015-2016
2015-2016
2015-2016 2015-2016
2016
2010-2016
2016
2010-2011

80

Annual Report
2016

Throughout the periods 2011-2013, the Parent company and its subsidiaries subject to tax audit by statutory audi-

tors, in accordance with the provisions of Article 82 § 5 of Law 2238/1994, were given a clear Tax Compliance

Report without reservations.

81

For the tax audit of 2014 & 2015, the Company and its subsidiaries meeting the relevant criteria for inclusion in the

tax audit of Certified Auditors provided for by Article 65A § 1 of Law 4174/2013 and No. POL. 1124/2015

received a Tax Compliance Report without reservation.

In order for the year 2011 to be considered as tax finalized, the provisions of § 1 of Article 6 of POL. 1159/2011

should be met.

For the years 2012 and beyond, the companies audited by statutory auditors and audit firms to implement tax provi-

sions are selected for audit matters in accordance with Article 26 of N. 4174/2013, as amended. This audit can be

performed within the period covered by the right of the Tax Administration to issue tax assessment acts. The tax audit

for the year 2016 is ongoing and no additional tax liabilities that have been recorded in the financial statements are

about to incur.

Provision for litigious cases This provision is equal to  1.105 thousands and is based on the fact that the parent company is exposed to pending law cases; the Greek State is the plaintiff in these cases and the above amount is a reliable evaluation of the amounts required to be paid if the final decision is against the Company.

Provision for the forfeiture of penalty clauses This provision is equal to  83,4 thousands and stems from the fact that the Group's subsidiaries may be required to pay certain amounts as penalty clauses to its suppliers with whom the company has contracted a shop-in-shop commercial cooperation contract, if such cooperation is prematurely terminated, under specific conditions and terms.

16. Other Long Term Liabilities

Other long-term liabilities Other liabilities Total

The Group

31.12.2016

31.12.2015

16.651.444,03 11.670.289,44

16.651.444,03 11.670.289,44

The Company

31.12.2016

31.12.2015

3.011.000,01 3.942.283,35

3.011.000,01 3.942.283,35

17. Trade and other Liabilities
Trade and other payables Suppliers Cheques / promissory notes payables Advances from customers Personnel payroll payable Other creditors payable Social security contribution Other liabilities Accrued expenses Deferred revenue Total

The Group

31.12.2016

31.12.2015

50.987.721,57 76.228.640,79

5.230.019,64 3.705.367,21

15.136.268,56 17.080.518,65

331.858,87

248.852,87

7.146.008,68 1.311.588,82

3.276.829,60 3.040.734,59

45.331.549,63 16.932.398,24

13.251.959,03 14.758.908,93

256.862,58

245.616,35

140.949.078,16 133.552.626,45

The Company

31.12.2016

31.12.2015

18.450.766,27 12.984.875,93

4.785.858,11 2.939.437,58

14.542.692,13 15.391.129,09

55.207,49

73.528,94

1.121.380,61 1.092.138,12

1.438.545,89 1.452.080,48

66.576,58

0,00

1.457.189,05 1.956.123,03

256.862,58

243.741,35

42.175.078,71 36.133.054,52

18. Current income tax and current tax liabilities

Current Income tax Income tax Total

The Group

31.12.2016

31.12.2015

66.009.515,46 39.757.406,66

66.009.515,46 39.757.406,66

The Company

31.12.2016

31.12.2015

0,00

0,00

0,00

0,00

Current tax liabilities V.A.T. Other taxes Total

The Group

31.12.2016

31.12.2015

8.113.815,09

6.243.540,71

2.306.096,57

1.768.199,69

10.419.911,66

8.011.740,40

The Company

31.12.2016

31.12.2015

1.746.677,97

1.404.101,59

1.002.952,30

929.748,79

2.749.630,27

2.333.850,38

19. Deferred Income Tax
Deferred tax Claims-liabilities Current assets Tangible fixed assets Intangible assets Long Term Liabil.- Provisions Def.Tax recognised in Equity Losses Short.Term Liabil. - Accruals Total Matching Total
82

The Group

31.12.2016

31.12.2015

Deferred Tax Claim

Deferred Tax Obligation

Deferred Tax Claim

Deferred Tax Obligation

0,00 0,00 0,00 0,00 456.961,57 0,00 456.961,57 -456.961,57 0,00

16.792.812,85 189.361,11
4.357.149,95 0,00 0,00
203.660,00 21.542.983,91
-456.961,57 21.086.022,34

455.421,53 865.406,50
1.320.828,03 -1.320.828,03
0,00

15.763.347,73 139.062,40
6.231.158,99
607.873,46 22.741.442,58 -1.320.828,03 21.420.614,55

Annual Report
2016
83

The Company

Deferred tax Claims-liabilities
Current assets Tangible fixed assets Intangible assets Long Term Liabil.- Provisions Def.Tax recognised in Equity Losses Short.Term Liabil. - Accruals Total Matching Total

31.12.2016

Deferred Tax Claim

Deferred Tax Obligation

31.12.2015

Deferred Tax Claim

Deferred Tax Obligation

105.996,89 0,00

16.359.873,39 4.906.091,85

113.947,94 440.448,53

15.173.726,79 6.708.031,99

105.996,89 -105.996,89
0,00

215.235,00 21.481.200,24
-105.996,89 21.375.203,35

554.396,47 -554.396,47
0,00

422.873,46 22.304.632,24
-554.396,47 21.750.235,77

Deferred taxes are calculated based on the tax rate to be charged to the profit of each company during the year are expected to settle the deferred tax asset or liability, taking into account the tax provisions in effect at the balance sheet date. Therefore, the tax rate used to calculate the deferred tax is detailed as follows: based on recent amendments in the Greek tax legislation, 29% rate was used.

20. Revenues

Breakdown of turnover per segment is shown in par. 3 of the notes to the financial statements.

Turnover
Sales of Merchandise Sales of Products Sales of other goods Sales of services Total

The Group

The Company

01.01. - 31.12.2016 01.01. - 31.12.2015 01.01. - 31.12.2016 01.01. - 31.12.2015

1.321.038.489,37 6.082.677,22 244.353,70 9.909.699,19
1.337.275.219,48

1.178.876.612,83 4.931.849,57 409.379,50 8.825.431,10
1.193.043.273,00

131.405.573,51 6.082.677,22 324.391,53 8.275.866,62
146.088.508,88

140.632.277,49 4.152.205,57 380.533,47 7.565.377,11
152.730.393,64

21. Other Income
Other operating income
Income from Marketing Income from Promoters & Merch. Other income Received grants Rental income Foreign exchange gains Other operating & extraordinary income Prior year income Total

The Group

01.01. 31.12.2016

01.01. 31.12.2015

494.221,20

342.565,56

0,00

45.755,90

5.668.684,21

6.565.693,33

42.071,98

84.592,10

1.075.110,87

325.046,55

6.629.111,78

1.461.090,79

The Company

01.01. 31.12.2016

01.01. 31.12.2015

795.041,60

698.087,09

0,00

45.755,90

2.821.338,14 2.637.388,93

39.666,98

81.321,85

1.001.336,60

176.176,60

608.088,77

954.289,89

2.115.332,47

496.727,74

3.351,44 4.546.871,79

334.958,62 16.359.491,13

2.863.346,70 157.680,59

193.536,20

12.184.818,67 5.426.504,12 9.333.428,25

22. Administrative and Selling Expenses

Administration expenses
Total Fees & staff Legal-professional-other fees Credit card commissions Postage & telecommunication Rent expenses Car rentals & car leases Insurance Repairs & Maintenance Utilities & cleaning Other taxes (not income tax) Transportation expenses - Logistics Advertising & promotional expenses Fairs & exhibition expenses Stationery & consumables
84 Other expenses
Depreciation & amortization Provision for retirement Other Provisions Total

The Group

01.01. 31.12.2016

01.01. 31.12.2015

30.551.000,22

31.616.366,69

6.627.728,35

7.370.706,18

0,00

13.628,43

763.949,72

651.505,12

557.099,12

4.764.055,69

227.815,45

170.277,86

597.795,21

615.352,97

1.088.893,80

1.284.759,47

772.337,74

803.328,63

2.026.931,15

1.881.429,67

2.841.450,96

3.350.819,16

6.334.816,06

7.685.683,15

363.782,20

127.849,99

1.093.602,29

509.009,13

2.880.797,24

3.020.615,51

9.520.932,50

7.331.854,48

878.807,55

862.622,49

12.106,77

0,00

67.139.846,33

72.059.864,62

The Company

01.01. 31.12.2016

01.01. 31.12.2015

7.050.544,67

6.157.046,22

3.224.227,23

3.058.225,68

87,82

0,00

124.218,62

69.383,40

355.742,32

331.569,19

163.932,88

142.495,45

131.031,04

157.361,95

297.827,41

327.377,60

466.561,89

581.177,95

913.135,21

826.558,34

407.540,42

495.214,30

236.293,58

212.490,35

70.322,57

0,00

21.736,00

16.961,67

331.019,29

395.845,95

867.784,20

1.103.612,31

539.939,49

530.337,00

0,00

0,00

15.201.944,64

14.405.657,36

Annual Report
2016
85

Selling expenses
Total Fees & staff Legal-professional-other fees Credit card commissions Postage & telecommunication Rent expenses Car rentals & car leases Insurance Repairs & Maintenance Utilities & cleaning Other taxes (not income tax) Transportation expenses - Logistics Advertising & promotional expenses Fairs & exhibition expenses Stationery & consumables Other expenses Depreciation & amortization Provision for retirement Other Provisions Total

The Group

01.01. 31.12.2016

01.01. 31.12.2015

91.378.255,47

90.467.682,30

20.434.777,08

22.143.846,64

5.466.710,21

3.694.026,60

1.606.497,40

1.440.807,10

78.132.551,92

71.332.523,21

269.698,99

241.266,94

1.629.852,40

1.577.122,81

3.190.383,24

3.619.304,90

6.217.144,11

7.375.424,35

1.111.026,61

1.109.929,74

8.105.132,95

7.671.779,94

31.606.190,01

21.218.254,71

518.186,31 2.833.798,34 8.194.979,42 19.971.272,13
608.510,33 806.598,73 282.081.565,65

989.261,47 2.664.223,52 13.547.289,96 19.001.895,23
571.197,70 0,00
268.665.837,12

The Company

01.01. 31.12.2016

01.01. 31.12.2015

22.111.621,36

23.361.503,35

3.343.685,30

5.429.508,63

2.033.101,54

1.728.935,37

665.002,10

498.931,87

7.805.145,84

8.753.595,09

197.048,16

185.729,86

1.002.613,61

975.103,72

747.244,52

741.331,56

1.949.287,55

2.261.113,14

445.082,83

502.603,12

3.784.719,84

3.046.803,04

6.448.083,62

5.000.803,25

517.088,04 47.093,01
1.707.140,50 5.307.346,85
158.264,36 0,00
58.269.569,03

856.133,71 46.950,78
1.964.258,90 4.899.803,14
241.164,00 0,00
60.494.272,53

23. Other Expenses

Other operating expenses
Penalties & fines Duties and taxes on deficits Impairment of assets Stock loss & damage Loss from claims not susceptible of collection Provisions for exposure & expenses Foreign exchange losses Prior years' expenses Other expenses Total

The Group

01.01. 31.12.2016

01.01. 31.12.2015

64.059,77

273.577,23

16.859,99

15.624,09

413.566,75

22.114,82

13.104.781,07

226.145,41

230.996,06

73.532,87

The Company

01.01. 31.12.2016

01.01. 31.12.2015

56.233,58

201.515,76

0,00

0,00

0,00

0,00

2.315.000,00

0,00

218.866,53

0,00

0,00 1.298.597,07
148.956,79 1.895.474,01 17.173.291,51

6.132.627,44 5.560.969,80
643.732,15 1.196.200,78 14.144.524,59

0,00 198.053,53 111.211,40
13.395,36 2.912.760,40

0,00 916.435,44 225.824,44
3.637,53 1.347.413,17

24. Financial Income - Expenses

Financial income Gain on sale of investments Gains from forex instruments Gains from invest. At fair value revaluation Gains from derivatives Dividends from subsidiaries Dividends from investments fair value Dividends from other investments Interest on reserves Other interests Profits from sale/valuation of assets Other financial income Total

The Group

01.01. - 31.12.2016 01.01. - 31.12.2015

0,00

18.291,60

311.613,13

599.538,15

112.594,80

189.590,53

1.179.218,40

4.359.723,68

0,00

0,00

8,08

0,00

0,00

0,00

229.378,39

2.062.085,75

455.575,54

103.866,79

9.288.827,98

202.582,51

1.010.915,34

1.921.930,52

12.588.131,66

9.457.609,53

The Company

01.01. - 31.12.2016 01.01. - 31.12.2015

0,00

18.291,60

288.870,94

591.825,82

0,00

0,00

750.000,00

3.376.708,70

0,00

0,00

0,00

0,00

79.856,70

1.000.000,00

141.702,32

400.106,34

38.631,74

23.637,64

7.443.059,69

7.087,36

483.137,29

1.709.780,58

9.225.258,68

7.127.438,04

Financial expenses Losses from sale of investments Losses from foreign exchange products Loss on valuation of investment at fair value Losses on valuation of other assets Losses on derivatives Losses from the disposal/valuation of assets Assets Valuation Other financial expenses Impairment of investments Interest expenses (Loans) Interest expenses (Leases) Other interests Bank commission & taxes Total

The Group

01.01. - 31.12.2016 01.01. - 31.12.2015

0,00

14.301,00

187.326,58

6.610,97

0,00

36.553,00

0,00

188.624,98

0,00

1.794.629,17

2.479.421,34

1.183.817,35

0,00

-12.984,24

1.514.872,32

625.895,59

0,00

496.695,33

13.739.311,24

12.981.984,71

887.562,94

867.057,67

316.323,04

595.675,03

2.023.867,72

3.668.636,91

21.148.685,18

22.447.497,47

The Company

01.01. - 31.12.2016 01.01. - 31.12.2015

0,00

0,00

187.326,58

0,00

0,00

0,00

0,00

176.798,98

0,00

1.794.629,17

755.087,05

429.526,56

0,00

-12.984,24

407.838,85

338.155,42

9.000.000,00

6.496.695,33

11.863.624,93

11.301.301,72

676.941,51

765.881,63

0,00

0,00

1.061.818,37

1.112.453,96

23.952.637,29

22.402.458,53

25. Income Tax
Profit/Loss (before the tax) Current tax rate Tax related Irreversible deviations from tax basis Tax effect of funds not subject to tax Deleted deferred taxes
86 Effect of different deferred tax rate
Effect of different subsidiaries' tax rate Other Taxes Additional to prior years' taxes Provisions for additional taxes Total

The Group

01.01. 31.12.2016

01.01. 31.12.2015

253.478.321,88 225.270.681,60

29,00%

29,00%

73.508.713,35 65.328.497,66

3.309.036,77 2.840.657,11

The Company

01.01. 31.12.2016

01.01. 31.12.2015

-25.291.967,46 -16.173.584,42

29,00%

29,00%

-7.334.670,56

-4.690.339,48

3.003.519,51

2.784.095,02

9.116.702,40 -59.366.182,81

2.435.780,70 -35.164.342,86

3.907.881,86

55.363,67 2.406.668,05

3.196.653,94

3.196.653,94

26.568.269,71 38.637.246,55

-423.269,19

3.752.441,20

Annual Report
2016

26. Earnings per share

87

Earnings per Share Net profit for the period Attributable to : Shareholders of the parent company Non controlling interests Weighted average number of shares Basic earnings per share

The Group

31.12.2016

31.12.2015

226.910.052,17 186.633.435,05

The Company

31.12.2016

31.12.2015

-24.868.698,27 -19.926.025,62

222.466.621,12 4.443.431,05
66.378.312,19 3,3515

182.639.194,65 3.994.240,40
66.549.607,79 2,7444

-24.868.698,27 0,00
66.378.312,19 -0,3747

-19.926.025,62 0,00
66.549.607,79 -0,2994

27. Related party transactions (according IAS 24) The following tables refer to transactions with related parties as defined by IAS 24.

Transactions between parent and subsidiary

01.01. - 31.12.2016

01.01. - 31.12.2015

Sales of goods

25.090.912,81

32.288.517,68

Sales Services-other income

1.108.450,55

5.518.996,51

Purchases

8.409.754,41

8.030.338,17

Reception - other expenses

1.714.652,90

320.295,19

Parent co transactions with other related parties

01.01. - 31.12.2016

01.01. - 31.12.2015

Sales of goods

43.897,82

18.929,36

Sales Services - Other Income

0,00

0,00

Purchases

0,00

0,00

Reception - other expenses

0,00

0,00

The Company The Group

Transactions and Fees with managers

01.01. - 31.12.2016

01.01. - 31.12.2015

3.292.826,81

3.312.982,32

3.651.812,14

3.596.654,57

Group's transactions with other related parties

01.01. - 31.12.2016

01.01. - 31.12.2015

Sales of goods

46.784,82

18.929,36

Sales Services - Other Income

36.996,00

32.455,00

Purchases

3.275.292,00

2.976.667,00

Reception - other expenses

73.161,00

22.584,00

Balance as at the end of the period

31.12.2016

The Company From subsidiaries Requirements Obligations From other related parties Requirements Obligations By executives Requirements Obligations

128.365.986,40 235.270.049,90
85.215,76 0,00
0,00 0,00

The Group From other related parties Requirements Obligations By executives Requirements Obligations

390.634,76 169.825,00
0,00 78.105,08

31.12.2015
85.259.871,07 225.299.288,01
47.374,22 0,00 0,00 0,00
353.057,22 642.562,00
0,00 12,94

28. Probable obligations and unavoidable commitments
The Group's companies have transferred to third parties, secure letters of contingent liabilities of the Group for those parties, which are not reflected in the consolidated balance sheet.
The Company has guaranteed loans to its subsidiaries, amounting to  270 millions, approximately. No other restrictions on ownership, transfers or other charges on assets owned by the Group are in place. The assets acquired through financial leases remain under the lessor ownership until the expiration of the contract and the repayment of the relative obligation.

29. Number of employed personnel

At 31.12.2016 the Group employed 4996 employees versus 5.162 employees on 31.12.2015. The according figures for the Company are 1.099 versus 1.104 employees

The Group

The Company

Total Fees & staff 01.01. - 31.12.2016 01.01. - 31.12.2015 01.01. - 31.12.2016 01.01. - 31.12.2015

Wages and salaries
88 Employer contributions

104.531.208,75 15.392.252,20

103.628.396,79 16.767.507,62

24.087.483,31 5.697.940,57

24.375.683,08 5.737.539,15

Released for reimbursement

407.312,02

519.193,93

9.775,39

0,00

Other benefits

2.687.978,80

2.303.026,76

456.462,84

539.403,45

Total

123.018.751,77

123.218.125,10

30.251.662,11

30.652.625,68

Annual Report
2016

30. Management of financial Risk

89

30.1 Exchange rates for the translation of the financial statements and sensitivity The exchange rates used in order to translate the financial statements of the subsidiaries and foreign branches in  are the following

DATE 31.12.2016 31.12.2015 AVERAGE 01.01.-31.12.16 . 01.01.-31.12.15

EUR / USD 1,0541 1,0887 1,1069 1,1095

EUR / GBP 0,8562 0,7434 0,8195 0,7258

EUR / RON 4,5390 4,4524 4,4907 4,4454

EUR / BGN EUR / CHF 1,9558 1,07390 1,9558 1,08350 1,9558 1,09010 1,9558 1,06790

EUR / BGN 1,95580 1,95580 1,95580 1,95580

On 31 December 2016 the net income and shareholders' equity would have been  22.399 thousands higher (for the company  666 thousand), if the EUR was weaker against USD by 10% and they would have been  37.234 thousand (for the Company  1.854 thousand) lower, if the EUR was stronger of the USD by 10%.

30.2 Liquidity Risk Prudent liquidity risk management requires (a) maintaining sufficient cash and (b) the availability of funding through adequate credit lines. Due to the dynamic nature of its activities, the Group maintains flexibility in funding by maintaining high unused credit limits in short-term bank loans. The Treasury Department prepares statements of expected future cash flows which are reviewed by management in order to better plan the management of liquidity.
Despite the financial crisis and the limitation of liquidity in a global basis, the Group has maintained increased liquidity, thanks to the retail nature of most of its sales, and takes steps towards the further support its liquidity, by creating discount outlets, in order to dispose old stock, as well as by limiting expenses.
Loans and other liabilities of the Group and Company are classified in accordance with their repayment horizon and are shown in the table below. The figures in the table refer to the nominal value of the liability plus interest and therefore may not agree with the amounts in the balance sheet.

31.12.2016 Liquidity Analysis Floating rate loans Liabilities & Financial leases Suppliers etc. free liabilities
31.12.2015 Floating rate loans Liabilities & Financial leases Suppliers etc. free liabilities

The Group

Average Interest Rate

Up to 1 year

From 1 to 5 years

More than 5 years

Total

2,01%

69.747.760,21 357.044.935,75

2,47%

3.785.544,44 12.409.721,15

56.217.741,21

0,00

129.751.045,85

369.454.656,90

Average Interest Rate

Up to 1 year

From 1 to 5 years

2,05%

40.108.754,08 319.272.267,68

3,96%

5.602.612,22 9.933.765,47

79.934.008,00

0,00

125.645.374,30 329.206.033,16

0,00 13.157.917,95
0,00 13.157.917,95 More than 5
years 6.613.130,59 18.348.199,99
0,00 24.961.330,58

426.792.695,95 29.353.183,54 56.217.741,21 512.363.620,71
Total
365.994.152,35 33.884.577,68 79.934.008,00 479.812.738,03

31.12.2016 Liquidity Analysis Floating rate loans Liabilities & Financial leases Suppliers etc. free liabilities
31.12.2015 Floating rate loans Liabilities & Financial leases Suppliers etc. free liabilities

The Company

Average Interest Rate

Up to 1 year

From 1 to 5 years

More than 5 years

Total

1,96% 2,89%
Average Interest Rate
1,80% 4,63%

20.519.292,67 2.056.488,38
23.236.624,38 45.812.405,44

244.156.348,21 8.488.988,57 0,00
252.645.336,78

Up to 1 year From 1 to 5 years

4.556.700,00 1.904.112,92 15.924.313,51 22.385.126,43

231.334.177,94 8.735.101,32 0,00
240.069.279,27

0,00 13.403.860,35
0,00 13.403.860,35
More than 5 years 0,00
17.012.743,33 0,00
17.012.743,33

264.675.640,88 23.949.337,30 23.236.624,38
311.861.602,56
Total
235.890.877,94 27.651.957,57 15.924.313,51
279.467.149,03

30.3 Asset Management Asset management aims to ensure that the Group will continue its activities to provide profits to shareholders and benefits for other shareholders, while maintaining a capital structure that minimizes the cost of capital.
A key indicator used by the asset manager is the leverage ratio, calculated as net debt divided by total capital. Net debt is calculated as total borrowings (including short and long term loans) minus cash. The leverage ratio is depicted below:

Levera Ratio Borrowed funds Less: Cash Net debt Equity

The Group

31.12.2016

31.12.2015

434.261.943,95

377.678.205,59

328.184.700,98

245.450.700,72

106.077.242,97

132.227.504,87

1.884.362.817,86 1.605.688.983,66

5,3%

7,6%

The Company

31.12.2016

31.12.2015

273.566.671,61

248.427.815,24

29.494.616,60

61.283.352,71

244.072.055,01

187.144.462,53

422.551.055,79

439.807.735,02

36,6%

29,8%

31. Post Balance Sheets Events

On 31.12.2016, there were no events significantly affecting the financial figures which occurred after 31.12.2016 which could have material impact on the financial position and results of the Group.

Agios Stefanos, April 7th 2017

THE CHAIRMAN OF THE BOARD

THE MANAGING DIRECTOR

DIMITRIOS KOUTSOLIOUTSOS

GEORGIOS KOUTSOLIOUTSOS

ID CARD NO. AK-031337
90

ID CARD NO. AB-593469

THE EXECUTIVE MEMBER EMMANOUIL ZACHARIOU
ID CARD NO. T005560

THE CHIEF ACCOUNTANT GEORGIOS ALAVANOS ID CARD NO. AI-518859

THE CHIEF FINANCIAL OFFICER FRAGISKOS GRATSONIS ID CARD NO. AB-017181

LIC. NO. OEE 0008211 A' CLASS

Annual Report
2016
91
f INFORMATION OF ARTICLE 10 OF LAW 3401/2005

Date 18/02/2016 01/03/2016 31/03/2016 06/04/2016 26/05/2016 03/06/2016 24/06/2016 30/11/2016

Subject New exclusive distribution agreement with Procter&Gamble Prestige for MAX FACTOR Announcement for change in voting rights 2015 Financial Results NOTIFICATION OF CHANGE OF BOARD COMPOSITION First Quarter 2016 Financial Results Invitation to the General Meeting 24-06-2016 AGM Decisions 24/6/2016 FF Group announces the financial results for the 9-months 2016

g CONDENSED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OF 2016

FOLLI FOLLIE GROUP SA General Commercial Registry Number: 3027701000 (previous Registration No:14216/06/B/86/06)
23rd Km Athens - Lamia 145 65 Ag.Stefanos Financial Data and Information for the Period January 1st, 2016 - December 31th, 2016 (Published according to Law. 2190, article 135, for companies preparing annual financial statements, consolidated or not, according to IFRS)

The following data and information that result from Financial statements aim to provide a general briefing for the financial position and the results of operations of FOLLI FOLLIE S.A, with trade mark "FF GROUP",and the Group. It is therefore recommended, to any reader, before proceeding to any kind of investment decision or other transaction with the Company, to visit Company's web site, where the Financial
Statements are posted, as well as the relevant Certified Auditors Review Report whenever that is required by the law.

Company Information Supervisory Authority: Website address: Financial Statements' approval date by the BoD Certified Auditor Accountant: Auditing Company : Type of Auditors' Review Report:

MINISTRY OF DEVELOPMENT/General Secretariat of Commerce, http://www.ffgroup.com April 7th 2017 George I. Varthalitis ECOVIS VNT Auditing SA Assent

Members of the Board Directors:
Chairman - Executive Member Vice President - Executive Member Managing Director - Executive member Executive Member Executive Member Executive Member Non-Executive Member Non-Executive Member Non-Executive Member Independent non-Executive Member Independent non-Executive Member

Dimitris koutsolioutsos Kaiti koutsolioutsos George koutsolioutsos Emmanouil Zachariou Eirini Nioti Jiannong Qian Elias Koukoutsas Elias Kouloukountis Zacharias antzavinos Evaggelos Koumanakos Perikles Stamatiadis

ASSETS
Property, Plant & Equipment Investment Property Intangible assets Participations Other non-current assets Inventories Trade Receivables Other current assets TOTAL ASSETS

DATA FROM STATEMENT OF FINANCIAL POSITION

(consolidated and non consolidated) amounts in 

The Group

31.12.2016

31.12.2015

274.258.534,70 75.202.118,34
132.022.346,22 676.004,16
299.149.178,28 585.996.587,97 654.740.733,02 558.134.064,49 2.580.179.567,18

197.018.259,62 75.285.901,43
137.454.797,28 631.023,17
240.289.322,72 490.327.968,61 585.865.489,69 480.736.278,30 2.207.609.040,82

EQUITY AND LIABILITIES
Share capital Other components of equity Total equity attributable to owners of the Parent (a) Non controlling interests (b) Total Equity (c) = (a)+(b) Long-term borrowings Provisions / Other long terms liabilities Short-term borrowings Other current liabilities Total liabilities (d)
TOTAL EQUITY AND LIABILITIES (c) + (d)

20.084.463,00 1.831.352.043,40 1.851.436.506,40
32.926.311,46 1.884.362.817,86
361.742.555,40 44.028.338,41 72.519.388,55
217.526.466,96 695.816.749,32
2.580.179.567,18

20.084.463,00 1.555.883.746,56 1.575.968.209,56
29.720.774,10 1.605.688.983,66
332.643.035,38 42.920.078,06 45.035.170,21
181.321.773,51 601.920.057,16
2.207.609.040,82

The Company

31.12.2016

31.12.2015

47.596.164,90 75.150.146,14 41.608.367,25 211.617.157,35 147.707.691,45 40.019.303,51 82.670.411,55 122.972.721,68 769.341.963,83

45.929.766,18 75.285.901,43 41.895.396,29 216.220.996,29 138.836.301,99 37.671.158,84 72.146.994,77 128.212.017,13 756.198.532,92

20.084.463,00 402.466.592,79 422.551.055,79
0,00 422.551.055,79 251.297.897,98
28.299.527,45 22.268.773,63 44.924.708,98 346.790.908,04
769.341.963,83

20.084.463,00 419.723.272,02 439.807.735,02
0,00 439.807.735,02 242.066.785,17
29.496.077,76 6.361.030,07
38.466.904,90 316.390.797,90
756.198.532,92

92

Additional notes and information:
1. In the Note 1.1 of the financial statements are mentioned a. The name and country of the registered office of each of the companies included in the consolidated financial statements for the Period 01.01.2016 ­ 31.12.2016 , and the percentage with which the company participated, directly or indirectly, in their equity and b. The consolidation method applied for each company included in the consolidated financial statements for the statements for the Period 01.01.2016 ­ 31.12.2016 2. The unaudited fiscal years of the parent company and its subsidiaries are listed in Note B.15 of the financial statements. 3. The number of employees by the Group as of 31.12.2016 amounted to 4.996 and the respective number for the Company was 1.099. On 31.12.2015 amounted to 5.162 employees for the Group and 1.104 for the Company. 4. In the financial statements are included the following provisions in total: a) For the Group provisions for unaudited tax years amounting to  289th. , provision for staff compensation  4.443th., litigations 1.105th. And other provisions amounting to  454th. b) The Company provisions for unaudited tax years amounting to  211th., provision for staff compensation  2.290th. , litigations  1.105th. and other provisions  307th. 5. On December 31, 2016 the Company held 584.083 own shares. 6. The amounts mentioned in "Other comprehensive income / expenses after taxes" are as following: For the Company an amount of  8.965th. refers to valuation profit on available for sale financial assets, and an amount of  96th. represents actuarial loss . For the Group, an amount of  9.208th. refers to valuation profit on available for sale financial assets , an amount of  231th. refers to financial instruments valuation loss, an amount of  45.540th. refers to foreign exchange differences (profit) on translating foreign holdings , an amount of  55th. refers to income from deferred income tax relating to components of other comprehensive income and finally amount of 284th. represents actuarial loss. 7. In the present financial statements a startup company "FF GROUP FINANCE LUXEMBOURG II SA" and the newly acquired company "SALES MANAGER HELLAS LTD" were consolidated for the first time, without significant effect on the amounts of the consolidated annual statements.8. All transactions (inflows and outflows) from the beginning of the year, as well as the balances of receivables and payables at the end of the period of the Group and the Company, which have resulted from transactions with related parties as defined to IAS 24 are as following:

Annual Report
2016
93

2nd Alternate: Indirect method Net Profit before taxes (Continuing operations) Adjustments Depreciation and Amortisation Provisions Exchange differences Results (income, expenses, gains and losses) from investing activities Interest and related expenses Adjustments related to working capital or other operating activities Decrease/(increase) of Inventories Decrease/(increase) of Receivables Increase/(decrease) of payable accounts (except Banks) Minus Interest paid and similar expenses Income Tax paid Net cash inflows/(outflows) from Operating Activities (a) Net cash inflows/(outflows) from Operating Activities (a)

CASH FLOW STATEMENT

(consolidated and non consolidated) amounts in 

The Group

01.01. - 31.12.2016

01.01. - 31.12.2015

253.478.321,88 0,00
29.588.757,39 14.592.098,95 53.826.824,02 -9.252.550,63 16.923.705,82
0,00 -107.116.582,02 -112.232.844,80
62.313.918,15 0,00
-9.621.749,00 -52.393.541,27 140.106.358,49

225.270.681,90 0,00
26.463.865,57 1.357.037,35
82.638.468,65 1.387.454,73
14.093.081,20 0,00
-117.619.726,53 -97.210.083,62 -30.687.906,32 0,00 -7.668.166,60 -40.163.843,09 57.860.863,24

Investing Activities
Purchases of subsidiaries, associates and other investments Acquisition of minorities Purchases of tangible and intangible assets Proceeds from sale of tangible and intangible assets Interest received Dividends received Proceeds from sale of financial assets Decrease/(increase) of other long-term receivables Net cash inflows/(outflows) from Investing Activities (b)
Financing Activities Capital increase Proceeds from Loans Proceeds from leases Payment of Loans Payments for leases Own Stock Expenses related to capital increase Dividends paid / Return capital Net cash inflows/(outflows) from Financing Activities (c) Net increase / (decrease) in cash and cash equivalents (a) + (b) + (c) Cash and cash equivalents at beginning of the Year Cash and cash equivalents at end of the Year

-4.771.975,10 -240.000,00
-98.355.823,78 1.547.218,26 336.550,92 0,00 4.413.144,27 -1.205.962,38
-98.276.847,81
0,00 50.132.836,41
588.600,32 -2.199.149,08 -5.192.273,30 -1.257.066,89
0,00 -1.168.457,88 40.904.489,58 82.734.000,26 245.450.700,72 328.184.700,98

-48.363.629,00 0,00
-66.032.272,07 1.537.180,69 1.865.952,54 0,00
27.695.440,83 -14.015.996,21 -97.313.323,22
0,00 40.840.592,76
3.623.278,05 -25.380.703,57
-4.157.693,90 -4.918.066,64
-174.490,50 -21.962.578,77 -12.129.662,57 -51.582.122,55 297.032.823,27 245.450.700,72

Equity Opening Balance ( 01.01.2016 and 01.01.2015 respectively) Total comprehensive income net of tax Minority interest resulted from Subsidiaries' rates change Dividends payable Other Movements Purchase / Sale of own shares Equity Closing Balance ( 31.12.2016 and 31.12.2015 respectively)

DATA STATEMENT OF CHANGES IN EQUITY

(consolidated and non consolidated) amounts in 

The Group

31.12.2016

31.12.2015

1.605.688.983,66

1.360.856.728,84

281.198.201,62

269.375.130,49

-240.000,00

0,00

-96.912,88

-6.729.843,06

-930.387,65

-12.894.965,97

-1.257.066,89

-4.918.066,64

1.884.362.817,86

1.605.688.983,65

The Company

01.01. - 31.12.2016

01.01. - 31.12.2015

-25.291.967,46 0,00
6.195.692,19 10.356.385,44
0,00 -7.111.897,57 12.540.566,44
0,00 -3.006.326,26 -37.471.832,38 3.980.348,90
0,00 -3.544.406,14
0,00 -43.353.436,84

-16.173.584,42 0,00
6.040.182,68 771.501,00 0,00
3.030.151,80 11.690.852,55
0,00 -1.871.235,00 -30.710.329,39 -9.468.319,07
0,00 -5.265.937,95 -3.762.116,94 -45.718.834,74

-4.100.010,50 -240.000,00
-2.205.149,76 1.449.568,98
180.334,06 723.706,14
0,00 -1.137.824,22 -5.329.375,30
0,00 20.000.000,00
0,00 0,00 -1.848.857,08 -1.257.066,89 0,00 0,00 16.894.076,03 -31.788.736,11 61.283.352,71 29.494.616,60

-9.070.150,89 0,00
-3.438.861,04 22.627,45
423.743,98 1.000.000,00 -1.794.629,17
-50.035,02 -12.907.304,69
0,00 0,00 0,00 0,00 -1.796.581,21 -4.918.066,64 -145.971,73 -19.981.978,77 -26.842.598,35 -85.468.737,78 146.752.090,49 61.283.352,71

The Company 31.12.2016
439.807.735,02 -15.999.612,34
0,00 0,00 0,00 -1.257.066,89 422.551.055,79

31.12.2015 500.376.553,10 -35.504.779,71 0,00 -6.729.843,06 -13.416.128,67 -4.918.066,64 439.807.735,02

amounts in thousands.000 A) Income B)Expenses C) Receivables D) Payables E) Directors' and members' of the Board of the Directors transactions and fees F) Receivables from the Directors' and the members' of the BoD G) Payables to the Directors' and the members' of the BoD

The Group 83,78
3.348,45 390,63 169,83
3.651,81 0,00
78,11

The Company 26.243,26 10.124,41
128.451,20 235.270,05
3.292,83 0,00 0,00

DATA FROM STATEMENT OF COMPREHENSIVE INCOME

(consolidated and non consolidated) amounts in 

The Group

01.01. - 31.12.2016

Turnover

1.337.275.219,48

Gross Profit

612.303.060,88

Profit before tax, financial and investing results (EBIT)

262.267.848,52

Profit/Loss (before the tax)

253.478.321,88

Profit / Loss after tax (A)

226.910.052,17

Attributable to :

Shareholders of the parent company

222.466.621,12

Non controlling interests

4.443.431,05

Total

226.910.052,17

Other comprehensive income / expenses net of tax ()

54.288.149,45

Total comprehensive income net of tax (A) + ()

281.198.201,62

Attributable to :

Shareholders of the parent company

276.823.085,00

Non controlling interests

4.375.116,62

Total

281.198.201,62

Basic Earnings/losses (after tax) per share(expressed in )

3,3515

Profit before taxes, financing and

investing results , depreciation and

291.856.605,91

amortisation (EBITDA)

01.01. - 31.12.2015 1.193.043.273,00 581.228.168,04 238.542.760,68 225.270.681,90 186.633.435,35
182.639.194,65 3.994.240,40
186.633.435,05 82.741.695,14
269.375.130,49
265.326.483,23 4.048.646,96
269.375.130,19 2,7444
265.006.626,25

DATA FROM STATEMENT OF COMPREHENSIVE INCOME

(consolidated and non consolidated) amounts in 

The Company

01.01. - 31.12.2016

Turnover

146.088.508,88

Gross Profit

60.393.181,10

Profit before tax, financial and investing results (EBIT)

-10.564.588,85

Profit/Loss (before the tax)

-25.291.967,46

Profit / Loss after tax (A)

-24.868.698,27

Attributable to :

Shareholders of the parent company

-24.868.698,27

Non controlling interests

0,00

Total

-24.868.698,27

Other comprehensive income / expenses net of tax ()

8.869.085,93

Total comprehensive income net of tax (A) + ()

-15.999.612,34

Attributable to :

Shareholders of the parent company

-15.999.612,34

Non controlling interests

0,00

Total

-15.999.612,34

Basic Earnings/losses (after tax) per share(expressed in )

-0,3747

Profit before taxes, financing and

investing results , depreciation and

-4.368.896,66

amortisation (EBITDA)

01.01. - 31.12.2015 152.730.393,64 66.015.350,88 -898.563,93 -16.173.584,42 -19.926.025,62
-19.926.025,62 0,00
-19.926.025,62 -15.578.754,09
-35.504.779,71
-35.504.779,71 0,00
-35.504.779,71 -0,2994
5.141.618,75

THE CHAIRMAN OF THE BOARD DIMITRIOS KOUTSOLIOUTSOS
ID CARD NO. AK-031337

Agios Stefanos, April 7th 2017

THE MANAGING DIRECTOR GEORGIOS KOUTSOLIOUTSOS
ID CARD NO. AB-593469

THE EXECUTIVE MEMBER

94

EMMANOUIL ZACHARIOU

ID CARD NO. T005560

THE CHIEF ACCOUNTANT GEORGIOS ALAVANOS ID CARD NO. AI-518859

THE CHIEF FINANCIAL OFFICER FRAGISKOS GRATSONIS ID CARD NO. AB-017181

LIC. NO. OEE 0008211 A' CLASS

23rd km Athens - Lamia Highway 145 65, Ag. Stefanos, Attica, Greece : +30 210 6241 000 F: +30 210 6241 100

