Annual report
2017

INDEX

4

The Big Picture

4

2017 in brief

9

Letter from the CEO

11

Össur at a glance

14 Financial Performance

14

Five year overview

15

Performance in 2017

19

Outlook for 2018

20 Our Business

20

Markets

23

Business model

26

Innovation

28

Acquisitions

29

Strategy

31

Our People

32

Risk management

38 Corporate Matters

39

Shareholder information

42

Corporate Governance

46

Corporate Social Responsibility

50

Executive Management

52

Board of Directors

54 Financial Statements

Össur hf. Grjothals 5 110 Reykjavik Iceland

4

ÖSSUR ­ 2017 IN BRIEF

2017 in brief
As a global market leader in non-invasive orthopaedics, Össur maintained its market position as the second largest player in both prosthetics and bracing & supports in the year 2017.

Organic growth
5%
Growth in the year was driven by the prosthetics segment, which grew above estimated market
growth, and high-end innovative products from both business segments. Local currency growth was 8% with the acquisitions made in the year 2016.

EBITDA margin
18%
EBITDA before special items grew by 10% in local currency and the margin was within the communicated financial guidance range. We accelerated our investments in R&D projects for high-end innovative products, such as bionic bracing, during the year. Even so, we grew our operating profit faster than sales with positive contribution from product mix, integration efforts
and economies of scale.

Net profit growth
13%
Net profit amounted to USD 58 million in the year or 10% of sales. Diluted earnings per share amounted to 13.3 US cents. Good growth in profit can primarily
be attributed to strong performance in sales.

NIBD/EBITDA
1.2x
Össur aims to maintain a healthy balance sheet with a level of net interest-bearing debt ratio of 1­2x to EBITDA. Össur has strong cash generation and as means to maintain the desired debt level, the Company acquired own shares for approximately USD 37 million during the year and paid out dividends in the amount of USD 7 million.

ANNUAL REPORT 2017 5

Sales by geography

Americas
44%
Organic growth: 1%
FTEs: ~1200

EMEA
49%
Organic growth: 7% FTEs: ~1200
HQ FTEs: ~450

APAC
7%
Organic growth: 15%
FTEs: ~150

Sales by segments
Bracing and supports Bracing and supports (B&S) sales amounted to USD 285 million and grew by 1% organically.
Growth in EMEA was good where the primary growth drivers were our high-end products, which include the Unloader One®. In the Americas, the Canadian market grew well and direct B&S sales in the US grew modestly. Growth in the Americas was however negatively impacted due to sales decline in own distribution companies. The nature of the operational challenges in our own distribution companies is mainly due to internal restructuring efforts. These distribution companies accounted for ~8% of our global B&S sales in 2017 and have had a negative impact on organic growth rates of about 1% on average in 2015-2017. This means that direct sales have been growing annually in line with the estimated 3-5% market growth during that period. The restructuring efforts are now mostly complete and we are expecting the distribution companies to have limited impact on growth in 2018. Growth in APAC was excellent with a good contribution from Australia, Japan, and China.
Over 10 new B&S products were introduced to the market in 2017. These include the Unloader One® Lite knee brace, which is a new addition to the growing OA solutions portfolio.
Prosthetics Prosthetics sales amounted to USD 282 million and grew by 17% and 9% organically, both measured in local currency.
We continued to see good performance in prosthetics with growth above estimated market growth. Growth in EMEA was strong across all major regions with the RHEO KNEE® driving growth along with other high-end products. In a similar fashion, the RHEO KNEE® was the key organic growth driver in the Americas for prosthetics. There was excellent sales growth for prosthetics in APAC and are pleased to see our high-end products performing well in all regions. Performance in China was especially strong after adjusting the sales approach during 2016 and selling direct.
Sales of bionic products accounted for 21% of prosthetics component sales, compared to 24% in 2016. The decrease between years is attributed to additional mechanical products coming from the Medi Prosthetics acquisition and good performance in our high-end mechanical prosthetics solutions during the year.
Over 30 new prosthetic products were introduced to the market in 2017. These included new versions of the highly regarded RHEO KNEE® and powered thumb rotation as well as four new grips to accompany the i-Limb® Ultra hand.

6

ÖSSUR ­ YEAR IN REVIEW

Year in review
Innovative products, ground-breaking technology and successful events paved the way for yet another
memorable year for Össur

January
· New corporate video released.
· i-limb® featured in UK Trade & Invest Campaign.
· Pro golfer Will McGirt becomes Unloader spokesperson.

March
· Össur Ambassador event held in EMEA.

May
· Global ISPO Congress held in South Africa.
· Össur Ambassador Bebe Vio featured on the cover of Rolling Stone Magazine.

February
· Touch Bionics receives two Scotland Life Sciences Awards.
· Össur voted most popular company in Iceland by business publication Frjáls Verslun.

April
· Össur technology featured on DR2 in Denmark.

June
· Össur featured in NIB newsletter.
· Over 400 entries received in #MyWinningMoment contest.

ANNUAL REPORT 2017 7

July
· Össur Ambassador Paola Antonini featured in GQ Magazine.
· Team Össur members' Cheetah legs on exhibit at the Kennedy Center.
· Team Össur sprints to success at the IPC Para Athletics World Championships.

September
· National media coverage for the Unloader One in the UK.
· Össur hosts a Capital Markets Day in Copenhagen for the investor community.
· The new RHEO KNEE and Unloader One Lite products were introduced.
· Össur's #MyWinningMoment campaign was nominated for two Digital Communication Awards.

October
· IUVO, Comau and Össur sign an agreement to cooperate on the development of bionic bracing.
· Paralympic gold medalist Jonnie Peacock particpates in popular UK tv series Strictly Come Dancing (11M viewers per week).

August
· Team Össur member Mohamed Lahna visits Össur Head Office ­ first amputee to complete the Norseman triathlon.
· Kim de Roy, EVP of R&D, interviewed in Bloomberg technology.

December
· Össur voted one of Orange County`s top workplaces in 2017.

8

ÖSSUR ­ LETTER FROM THE CEO

ANNUAL REPORT 2017 9
Letter from the CEO
Organic sales growth amounted to 5% in 2017 and our EBITDA grew 8% organically when measured in local currency. Growth during the year was primarily driven by excellent performance in our prosthetics s egment which grew above estimated market growth in addition to a stellar contribution from our high-end innovative products across our portfolio in both prosthetics and bracing & supports. We accelerated our investments in R&D projects for high-end innovative products, such as bionic bracing, during the year. Even so, we grew our operating profit faster than sales with positive contribution from product mix, integration efforts and economies of scale.
At the forefront of innovation
Össur continued to step into the spotlight during the past year as we pushed the boundaries on innovation even further. With every employee working towards the mission of improving people's mobility, we continued to develop new products for both the prosthetics and bracing & supports segments. For example, we introduced upgraded versions of our highly regarded RHEO KNEE® within prosthetics and launched a new osteoarthritis solution, Unloader One® Lite, within the bracing & supports segment. In total, we launched more than 30 prosthetic solutions and more than 10 bracing & supports solutions during the year.
We actively engaged in research projects throughout the year that encouraged creative development to drive the industry forward. For example, the recently established collaboration with Comau and IUVO to develop bionic bracing products to support people in various endeavors of their life. To be at the forefront of innovation, we strive to find new solutions to help our users live a life without limitations.
The economic value of prosthetics
We have an aging and more active population emerging. Forecasts estimate the age group of 65 and older to significantly increase in the coming years, and the population of elderly amputees is expected to follow similar trends. Still relatively few elderly amputees receive a prosthetic solution and even fewer a bionic solution. This is despite recent studies clearly demonstrating the economic benefit of bionic solutions and their proven capability to improve the quality of life for amputees. It is therefore not economical to withhold bionics from patients. This is an area where Össur aims to support industry developments in the future by providing effective, powered, intelligent and energy-efficient prosthetic solutions for low active amputees. In doing so, we pursue opportunities that add value for our customers; an effort that will continue to drive our success for many years to come.
We pursue opportunities that add value for our customers; an effort that will continue to drive our success for many years to come.
Delivering value
Össur's sales have grown at a 21% compounded annual growth rate since the initial stock exchange listing in 1999. This growth has been driven by a combination of organic and acquired growth, where the acquisitions of Touch Bionics and Medi Prosthetics represent the latest additions to the Össur business. Össur's profitability has grown at a similar rate with a continuous focus on operational improvements. Further opportunities to increase efficiency were identified during the year and Össur announced efficiency initiatives within the areas of Manufacturing, Distribution, and Sourcing. Work has already begun in these areas and we are progressing according to plan.
We had many accomplishments in the past year that helped Össur maintain its strong presence as an industry leader. With the intergration of our most recent acquisitions we are now able to provide a full product offering that includes the most technologically advanced prosthesis in the world. In addition, we have been able to return value to shareholders through dividends and share buybacks.

10

ÖSSUR ­ LETTER FROM THE CEO

Inspiration
We have so many examples of triumph and success in our business that there is no shortage of inspiration. In 2017, Team Össur succeeded at the IPC Para Athletics World Championships winning 15 medals, and there are countless stories of our users pushing the boundaries of limitation. We are also very happy to have been voted one of Orange County's Top Workplaces as well as being named the most popular company in Iceland. Mid-year, our #MyWinningMoment campaign, which celebrates overcoming individual challenges, was nominated for the Digital Communications Award. This fantastic program shows the courage and tenacity our users embody as they face any obstacle in their path. It is namely because of our users that we find such great pride in everything we do.
Looking forward
At Össur, our passion for what we do makes us stand out. Guided by our mission to improve people's mobility, and our vision to be the leading company in non-invasive orthopaedics, Össur rises to any challenge that may emerge. Our drive for innovation enables us to provide premier solutions for all who face mobility challenges. We would like to thank our amazing employees, customers, and users, as well as our shareholders for making this possible. We look forward to continuing to work with all of you as we invest in our bright future.

Jon Sigurdsson
President and CEO

ANNUAL REPORT 2017 11
Össur at a glance
We improve people's mobility
Össur is a global leader in non-invasive orthopaedics; innovating, producing, and providing advanced technological solutions within prosthetics and bracing & supports. Our mission is to improve the mobility of our users, so they can live their Life Without Limitations®.
Össur was founded in 1971 and has since grown through innovation and acquisitions in both prosthetics and bracing & supports. Today, Össur has a strong global position in the industry and key markets being the second largest player worldwide in both segments and in a good position to leverage future growth opportunities. Össur has been listed since 1999 and since 2009 on Nasdaq Copenhagen. Össur has operations in over 25 countries and more than 3,000 employees.
Our users are at the core of everything we do
Every year there are individuals who are born without a limb or lose a limb at different stages of their life due to vascular diseases, diabetes or trauma. There are also individuals who develop knee pain, are diagnosed with osteoarthritis in their joints, incur fractures to their ligaments or injure themselves resulting in movement impairment. Össur's mission is to help these individuals regain their mobility by developing, producing, and providing them with prosthetic and bracing solutions.
In 2017 alone, our solutions helped millions of users improve their mobility, so they can live their life without limitations.
World class innovation capabilities
Össur is a pioneer of advanced technology where our brand recognition is based on innovative and scientifically-proven solutions that deliver effective clinical outcomes. By listening and understanding people's needs and pushing the boundaries of technology, we continue to create some of the best products and services available in the fields of prosthetics and bracing & supports. Every year between 4-5% of Össur's sales is re-invested in research & development with roughly 150 full-time employees working on new innovative products for the benefit of our users. In 2017 we introduced more than 30 prosthetics products and more than 10 bracing & supports products to the market.

MEDICAL DEVICE MARKET

Cardiovascular Ophthalmology

General Surgery

Neurological Products

Orthopaedics

Diagnostics

Imaging and other

Urology

Commodity Supplies

Arthroscopy

Reconstructive

Spinal

Trauma

Bracing & Supports

Prosthetics

Pain Management

Ancillary Products

Bone Growth

12

ÖSSUR AT A GLANCE

Our segments
Össur operates within two market segments of the orthopaedic market: bracing & supports and prosthetics. Prosthetic products include artificial limbs and related products for amputees. Bracing & supports products are primarily used to support joints and other body parts, both for preventive and therapeutic purposes.

BRACING & SUPPORTS

50%
of total sales

Sub-segment User profile

Injury solutions

People recovering from fractures, ligament injuries or need a post operative treatment

OA solutions

People living with osteoarthritis

Improving mobility
Products stabilizing joints and improving healing
Non surgical treatment by unloading affected joint with braces

PROSTHETICS

50%
of total sales

Sub-segment
Mechanical solutions

User profile
People living with lower extremity amputation

Improving mobility
Broad product offering of lower extremity prosthetics

Bionic solutions

People living with lower and upper extremity amputation

Advanced microprocessor controlled feet, knees, hands and fingers

Our products
Prosthetic solutions For years Össur has helped people focus on new goals rather than limitations by offering comprehensive solutions that are designed with the needs of the user top of mind. Össur's prosthetics portfolio includes a full spectrum of premium lower and upper limb prosthetic components. The portfolio ranges from solutions to support less active individuals who may struggle to maintain the ideal balance of safety, comfort, and mobility all the way to solutions designed to enable especially active people to engage in high-impact endeavors.
Bracing & supports: OA solutions Össur's osteoarthritis (OA) solutions are designed to enhance quality of life, reduce pain, and improve mobility for people living with osteoarthritis. The Össur Unloader® brand name has become synonymous with OA bracing, representing OA Solutions' technology as the industry standard, with more than 15 clinical studies demonstrating its efficacy. Össur offers the Unloader One® and Unloader One® Lite knee braces that relieve pain from knee osteoarthritis, as well as the Unloader® Hip which is designed to reduce pain by optimizing load dispersion for patients suffering from mild and moderate osteoarthritis of the hip.
Bracing & supports: Injury Solutions Össur's injury solutions are designed for people recovering from fractures, ligament injuries or for those in need of post-operative treatment solutions. These solutions are designed to enhance the healing process of bone and soft tissue injuries. Össur Injury Solutions are globally recognized, primarily under the brand names CTi®, Rebound®, Miami® and Form Fit®. Many Rebound® solutions furthermore come with the Functional Healing seal which identifies Össur Rebound products designed for indication-based protocols. It signifies a healing solution that helps enhance the body's natural healing process while maximizing mobility.

ANNUAL REPORT 2017 13

Solutions that make a difference
Superior knowledge in reimbursement
10 and regulatory matters

9
High quality services, partnerships, and clinical excellence as part of daily business

8 Bracing solutions with
efficacy verified by clinical evidence

1
Indication based innovation approach to develop technologically advanced products with high potential

VALUE

7 Bionic prosthetic solutions
compatible with mindcontrolled technology

2
Product development in collaboration with global key opinion leaders

3
High quality manufacturing processes leading to products with high reliability

4
Broad portfolio of products and solutions that meet individual needs

6
Strong patent portfolio and market access in both our business segments
5
Top tier brand recognition based on surveys made by non-related parties

14

ÖSSUR ­ FIVE YEAR OVERVIIEW

Five year overview
USD m Net sales Gross profit Operating expenses (excl. other income) EBITDA EBITDA before special items EBIT Net profit Sales growth Sales growth USD % Organic growth in LCY % Currency effect % Acquired/divested business % Balance Sheet Total assets Equity Net interest-bearing debt (NIBD) Cash Flow Cash generated by operations Free cash flow Key ratios Gross profit margin % EBIT margin % EBITDA margin % EBITDA margin before special items % Equity ratio % Net debt to EBITDA Effective tax rate % Return on equity % CAPEX / Net sales % Full time employees on average Market Market value of equity Number of shares - Millions Diluted EPS - US cents Diluted cash EPS - US cents

2017 569 355 280 97 103 75 58
9 5 1 4
793 500 121
90 55
62 13 17 18 63 1.2 16 12 3.4 2,948
1,871 437 13.3 18.5

2016 521 328 256 94 98 72 51
8 4 (1) 5
746 467 119
88 42
63 14 18 19 63 1.2 25 11 4.7 2,710
1,582 443 11.6 16.5

2015 483 303 226 97 99 77 51
(5) 5
(10) 1
653 463
58
84 42
63 16 20 20 71 0.6 25 11 4.9 2,420
1,546 446 11.5 16.0

2014 509 323 237 104 104 86 59
17 5
(1) 13
678 442
93
98 68
63 17 20 20 65 0.9 24 13 3.3 2,214
1,311 454 13.1 17.2

2013 436 270 210 75 80 60 41
9 2 1 6
706 448 108
73 49
62 14 17 18 63 1.3 26 10 3.9 1,765
880 454 9.1 12.5

ANNUAL REPORT 2017 15

Performance in 2017
Highlights
· Sales amounted to USD 569 million, corresponding to 8% growth and 5% organic growth, both measured in local currency. · Prosthetics grew 9% organically and above estimated market growth with an excellent contribution from high-end innovative
solutions such as our bionic RHEO KNEE®. Growth in the B&S segment was 1% organic with continued growth in direct sales and a good contribution from high-end innovative products, but B&S growth was negatively impacted from the restructuring of own distribution companies in the US. · Gross profit amounted to USD 355 million or 62% of sales. Gross profit improvements from product mix and scalability in the year were offset by temporary cost increases in certain smaller manufacturing locations and adverse currency movements. · EBITDA before special items grew by 10% in local currency and amounted to USD 103 million or 18% of sales. Currency movements impacted the EBITDA margin negatively by about 70 basis points net of hedge. Positive trend in product mix, integration efforts, and good sales growth resulted in EBITDA growing faster than sales. · Net profit grew by 13% and amounted to USD 58 million or 10% of sales. · Cash generated by operations amounted to USD 90 million or 16% of sales. · Össur acquired 9,182,226 of own shares for approximately USD 37 million during the year. · Touch Bionics and Medi Prosthetics, which were acquired in 2016, were successfully integrated during the year. · Össur announced efficiency initiatives in the areas of Manufacturing, Distribution, and Sourcing with expected savings of USD 10 million by the end of 2020. · Össur hosted a Capital Markets Day in September. The presentation material from the event can be found on the Össur corporate website. · Trading of Össur shares was concentrated on Nasdaq Copenhagen in December 2017 following Nasdaq Iceland's decision to accept Össur's request to cancel the trading of Össur shares on Nasdaq Iceland.

Sales performance
Sales amounted to USD 569 million, compared to USD 521 million in 2016, corresponding to 8% growth and 5% organic growth, both measured in local currency. Due to the appreciation of few major operational currencies against the USD, mainly the EUR, currency movements in 2017 impacted sales growth positively compared to 2016 by USD 4 million, which corresponds to a positive 80 basis points effect on USD growth.
Commentary on sales by segments can be found in Chapter 2.1. "Sales by segments".

SALES BY REGIONS
USD m EMEA Americas APAC Total

FY 2017
281 246
41 569

% of sales
49% 44%
7% 100%

USD growth
11% 5%
21% 9%

LCY growth
11% 4%
17% 8%

Organic growth
7% 1% 15% 5%

16

ÖSSUR ­ PERFORMANCE IN 2017

SALES BY SEGMENTS
USD m Bracing and supports Prosthetics Other Total

FY 2017
285 282
1
569

% of sales
50% 50%
0%
100%

USD growth
2% 18%
-
9%

LCY growth
1% 17%
-
8%

Organic growth
1% 9%
-
5%

Gross profit
Gross profit amounted to USD 355 million or 62% of sales, compared to USD 328 million or 63% of sales in 2016. Within both prosthetics and bracing & supports there continues to be strong growth in high-end innovative products, which contribute positively to the gross profit margin. However, the product mix and scalability from a strong sales growth in the year were offset by temporary cost increases in certain smaller manufacturing locations and approximately 30 basis points negative impact from adverse currency movements.
Operational expenses
Operating expenses amounted to USD 280 million or 49% of sales compared to USD 256 million or 49% of sales in 2016. Operating expenses, excluding special items, grew by 7% and 4% organically, both measured in local currency. Scalability and synergies from integration efforts positively contributed to margin improvements during the year but were partly offset by additional investments in R&D projects for high-end products, e.g. bionic bracing and mind-controlled prosthetics.
On 25 September 2017 Össur announced efficiency initiatives in the areas of Manufacturing, Distribution, and Sourcing to further increase scalability and profitability. The program is on track as previously communicated. The latest update is regarding our West Coast distribution center in the US which will be moved to the manufacturing location in Mexico. This change will result in a simplification and internal efficiency in our global distribution process.
Össur expensed one-time costs of USD 5.6 million as special items in 2017. The USD 2.6 million one-time costs in Q2 were related to the Medi Prosthetics integration and the USD 3.0 million one-time costs in Q3 were related to the efficiency initiatives announced on 25 September 2017.
EBITDA
EBITDA before special items amounted to USD 103 million or 18% of sales, compared to USD 98 million or 19% of sales in 2016, which corresponds to 10% growth and 8% organic growth, both measured in local currency. Currency movements affected the EBITDA margin in 2017 negatively by approx. 70 basis points net of hedge.
Financial items, income, Tax and Net profit
Net financial expenses amounted to USD 6.2 million compared to USD 2.5 million in 2016. The change is mainly due to a USD 3 million negative net exchange rate difference due to currency movements that are impacting current assets and liabilities. Interest rate margins on long-term borrowings slightly improved in 2017 compared to last year.
Össur derives a significant part of its sales in the US. When the Tax Cuts & Jobs Act was signed in the US in December 2017, the federal tax rate was significantly reduced, effective as of 1 January 2018. France enacted a reduction of its corporate income tax rate in December 2017 as well. This resulted in a one-time accounting tax benefit in 2017 in the amount of USD 6 million which impacted the effective tax rate. It is stressed that the one-time benefit has no cash flow impact. Expectations for the effective tax rate for 2018 can be found in the outlook for 2018 section.

ANNUAL REPORT 2017 17

Net profit grew by 13% and amounted to USD 58 million or 10% of sales, compared to USD 51 million or 10% of sales in 2016. Diluted earnings per share in 2017 amounted to 13.3 US cents compared to 11.6 US cents in 2016.
Cash flow
Cash generated by operations amounted to USD 90 million or 16% of sales, compared to USD 88 million or 17% of sales in 2016.
Capital expenditures amounted to USD 19 million or 3.4% of sales, compared to USD 25 million or 4.7% of sales in 2016. The ratio is slightly below the guided parameter for the full year.
Capital structure, share buybacks and dividends
Net interest-bearing debt at year-end 2017 amounted to USD 121 million compared to USD 119 million at year-end 2016. The relative stable net debt is mostly due our share buyback program and changes in currency rates. Net interest-bearing debt to EBITDA corresponded to 1.2x at the end of 2017 compared to 1.2x at year-end 2016. The ratio is in line with the Company`s Capital Structure and Dividend policy to maintain a healthy balance sheet and a level of net interest bearing debt of 1-2x to EBITDA.
On 15 August 2017, Össur initiated a new share buyback program, which replaced the share buyback program that was completed on 11 August 2017. Since the beginning of 2017, Össur has purchased 9,182,226 of own shares for approximately USD 37 million. The purpose of the Program is to reduce the Company's share capital and adjust the capital structure by distributing capital to shareholders in line with the Company's Capital Structure and Dividend Policy. At year-end 2017, Össur held 9,079,662 treasury shares.

Sales
569 USD m

EBITDA
103 USD m

Net Profit
58 USD m

18

ÖSSUR ­ OUTLOOK FOR 2018

Outlook for 2018

ANNUAL REPORT 2017 19

FINANCIAL GUIDANCE FOR 2018
Sales growth, LCY Sales growth, organic EBITDA margin (before special items) CAPEX as % of sales Effective tax rate

Guidance FY 2018 4-5% 4-5% ~19% ~4% 23-24%

Actual FY 2017
8% 5% 18% 3% 16%

Guidance FY 2017 7-8% 4-5% 18-19% ~4% ~26%

The financial guidance assumes the prevailing economic outlook in key markets and no major fluctuations of major operating currencies.
Organic sales growth is expected to be in the range of 4-5%. In prosthetics, we expect to see a continued good performance in key markets and high-end products, with growth at or above estimated market growth. In B&S, growth in the EMEA and APAC regions is expected to be good and the same goes for the expected growth contribution from our high-end B&S products. Direct B&S sales in the Americas are expected to grow in line with the market as with previous years. With the restructuring of our own distribution companies in the US finalized in 2017, we expect the distribution companies to have a limited impact on growth in 2018. B&S sales are therefore expected to grow in line with the market in 2018.
EBITDA margin before special items is expected to be around 19% of sales. The EBITDA margin is expected to improve compared to 2017 due to favorable developments in product mix, scalability in the underlying business, savings from efficiency initiatives, and synergies from the integration of Touch Bionics and Medi Prosthetics. At current foreign exchange rates, keeping all other factors constant, the EBITDA margin will be slightly negatively impacted in 2018 compared to 2017. Furthermore, at current foreign exchange rates, Össur's hedging agreements will have an insignificant impact on the EBITDA margin.
It should be noted that quarter one is seasonally the weakest quarter of the year in terms of sales and profitability.
Capital expenditures (CAPEX) are expected to be around 4% of sales. Key CAPEX items include maintenance CAPEX in manufacturing in addition to expected investments related to the efficiency initiatives announced in September 2017. Other main CAPEX items include investments in computer equipment, software, and fixtures.
The Tax Cuts & Jobs Act will have a favorable impact on Össur's effective tax rate going forward. Based on the current mix of taxable income, the expectation is that our 2018 effective tax rate will be in the range of 23-24%. The ultimate impact of the changes in the tax environment is however subject to various provisions, with further guidance and clarifications expected to be issued by the US tax authorities during 2018.

20

ÖSSUR ­ MARKETS

Markets

Aging and more active population
The global population of 65 and older is increasing and will underpin market growth as an aging society brings an increase in the frequency of vascular diseases and diabetes, which are the two main causes of amputation. These individuals will also have an increased amount of fractures, joint instability and joint afflictions such as osteoarthritis,
which increases the demand for different forms of bracing and supports
products.

Stroke, diabetes and OA on the rise
With the growing number of people afflicted by diabetes and vascular
diseases, the demand for prosthetics is expected to increase. Osteoarthritis is also expected to increase in correlation
with, for example obesity, resulting in demand for bracing & supports
products.

Healthcare expenditure
Healthcare providers are constrained by budgets and, accordingly, they demand cost effective solutions without compromising quality. This has led to substantial investment in
demonstrating and providing functional, clinical, and economical outcomes to potential payers. The demand for lower healthcare expenses creates
opportunities for lower-cost bracing as alternatives to high-cost surgery.

Changing healthcare requirements
Two vital requirements for any market player in the orthopaedics industry are the ability to adapt to changing
healthcare requirements and tailoring product offerings to meet the prevailing
regulatory system.

Industry trends are creating opportunities

Technology development
New technologies and technological combinations, as well as new materials, continuously yield improved products.
Such technological advances lead to total market growth as demand is
created for more technically advanced and expensive solutions, such as mind-
controlled prosthetics and powered bionic bracing.

Consolidation in patient care
We are seeing an increase in the mergers of healthcare solutions and product providers with increasing cost pressures and the need for scale. This trend creates opportunities for forward integration in the healthcare industry.

From volume to value/ premium

Improved treatment options

The demand for higher quality products creates opportunities for technology trade-up in our business.

Surgery, wound care and early accessible pain medication provide alternatives to bracing and prevent amputations but also encourages higher value customer service which is one of
Össur's key competencies.

ANNUAL REPORT 2017 21

Our markets
Össur is the second largest player in both markets

Bracing & supports

MARKET SIZE
USD billion
2.7-3.0

Prosthetics

USD billion
1.2-1.3

MARKET SHARE
6-8% #2

MARKET GROWTH
3-5%
Volume growth Moderate pricing pressure Positive product mix*

PRIMARY SALES CHANNEL
Hospitals O&P**
Surgery centers

21-22% #2

3-5%
Volume growth Relatively stable pricing Positive product mix*

Orthotic & Prosthetic clinics
(O&P)

Source: Össur management estimates * Increased penetration of high-end innovative products ** Orthotic & Prosthetic clinics

22

ÖSSUR ­ BUSINESS MODEL

ANNUAL REPORT 2017 23

Business model
Össur's business model in brief
Össur manufactures a wide range of prosthetics and bracing solutions with high standards of quality and excellence. These high-end products are developed with an indication based innovation approach to solve the needs of our end-users. The products are delivered to the end-users through our customers (healthcare providers) who specialize in assisting individuals who suffer from movement impairment. The end-users are referred to these healthcare providers by prescribers and the products are in more than 95% of the cases reimbursed by public or private insurance (payers). With the profits made, Össur reinvests significantly to further advance products and technologies for the benefit of all stakeholders.

R&D
Indication based
innovation

Amputation OA

Injury

PATIENT

SUPPLIER
CSR
MANUFACTURING

SALES

High quality
Consolidated manufacturing
footprint

Direct sales Distribution

PROVIDERS
Clinics Hospitals Retail
PRESCRIBERS
Orthopaedic surgeons Physicians Doctors

PAYERS
Public & private insurance (>95%)
End-user (<5%)

INCOME
R&D Acquisitions Shareholders

The end-users
The end-users are at the core of everything we do as they drive us to continuously innovate through our entire business model. Our end-users include lower and upper extremity amputees who have lost a limb due to, for example, vascular diseases including diabetes, trauma, cancer, and congenital diseases. We also help individuals who require support as they may have, for example, developed osteoarthritis in knee or hip ligaments, incurred temporary immobilization, or require enhanced healing after surgery.
By collaborating closely with the end-users, we gain a better understanding of their needs and challenges. In turn, we help them to improve their mobility by providing new technologically advanced products to achieve their goals. Our involvement with the end-user is not limited to research and development because we also aim to provide them with quality services, directly through clinics operated by Össur or indirectly through our customer service programs.

24

ÖSSUR ­ BUSINESS MODEL

The End-User

>500,000
new lower limb amputees per year

~75%
of amputations are due to vascular related diseases

65
is the average age of the amputee population
Source: Össur Managament Estimates

30-40%
of new leg amputees are fitted with prosthetic solutions

Research & Development
Össur's research & development approach is indication based, meaning that only products that have medical indication and are clinically validated are brought to market. The aim is to deliver cost effective medical solutions that provide value for patients and the healthcare system. When a product is designed, Össur accumulates medical and biomechanical data during the development process to verify product safety and efficacy before launch. Also, to obtain independent clinical evidence for product outcomes as well as health economic data, Össur initiates and promotes clinical studies in cooperation with leading scientists, institutions, and healthcare professionals in the field.

INDICATION BASED INNOVATION APPROACH

1
Assess incidence treatable with prosthetics and bracing

2
Select high potential indication

3
Develop products and solutions for end-users

4
Provide medical evidence for the efficacy of the products

5
Enable cost savings and value creation for the patient and healthcare system

Össur furthermore supports open collaboration within the industry and academia. An example of such an initiative is the recent joint investment by Össur and Comau in IUVO, a spin-off company of The BioRobotics Institute (Scuola Superiore Sant'Anna) in the field of wearable technologies. The objective of IUVO is to create wearable, intelligent and active tools for a better quality of life. The first concrete examples are bionic bracing (robotic exoskeletons) capable of aiding and improving the quality of life for workers in industrial and service fields, and for patients in need of improved mobility.

ANNUAL REPORT 2017 25
Manufacturing & Quality
Össur is constantly striving for increased efficiency which includes maintaining a strong global manufacturing function. Manufacturing of advanced prosthetic solutions, including bionics, takes place in Iceland. Manufacturing of mainstream prosthetics solutions, components and premium bracing solutions mostly takes place in Mexico. We outsource the manufacturing of soft goods within our bracing segment to China. At Össur we continuously strive for profitability improvements, which includes further growth of the Mexico manufacturing facility and optimization of the manufacturing footprint. As a healthcare company, Össur complies with various quality requirements and the company has had a certified quality system in place since 1993. We place great emphasis on quality, and being a manufacturer of medical device products, it is highly important that quality is an intrinsic part of our processes. Össur is currently certified with ISO9001:2008, ISO13485:2003/2012 and ISO14001:2015, and is currently in the process of implementing updated versions of the 13485 and 9001 standards.
Sales & Marketing
Össur operates within a highly specialized industry. Össur's primary customers are specialized healthcare providers who provide and fit individuals with Össur products. Various public and private insurance schemes generally reimburse the products. Össur sells its products through its own direct sales network as well as distributors. Össur has developed a strategic partnership service with providers to assist them with activities such as patient documentation and reimbursement. As a result, the Company has better access to the key stakeholders: payers, providers, prescribers and finally the patient (end-user).
Payers, providers, and prescribers
Prescribers include healthcare professionals who prescribe products based on the clinical indication of the users. These include orthopaedic surgeons, non-surgical physicians, and emergency physicians as well as other professionals providing medical diagnosis. Providers are healthcare professionals who provide users with prosthetic and bracing products, and related services. These include certified prosthetists and orthotists (CPOs) working at orthopaedic and prosthetic (O&P) clinics, durable medical equipment (DME) clinics, orthopaedic clinics, and hospitals. Many providers not only recommend specific products but also fit and tailor-make certain products. For non-reimbursed products a provider can be a pharmacy or sports store. Payers include government reimbursement plans or insurance companies with over 95% of Össur's sales reimbursed by a third party. It should be noted that reimbursement systems vary substantially between countries. In other cases, the end-user would pay for the products out of pocket (e.g. at a pharmacy).

26

ÖSSUR ­ INNOVATION

Innovation
Össur is a pioneer of advanced technology and our brand recognition is based on innovative and scientifically-proven solutions that deliver effective clinical outcomes.
Össur's proprietary technologies and products are protected with various types of intellectual property (IP), such as patents, design registrations and trade secrets. The IP portfolio is well diversified and representative of the business areas in which Össur operates.
At year end 2017, Össur had more than 1,300 granted patents and about 400 pending patent applications
Prosthetics
Össur has established a reputation as a provider of ground breaking technological innovation in the field of prosthetics. In recent years, our innovation efforts have gone beyond pure technology advancements and now aim to provide value to all stakeholders when it comes to treatment of amputees. User interface and smart apps are offering the opportunity to assist with training and provide feedback to our users on the effectiveness of the prosthetic solution.
Modularity is a key element in prosthetic solutions offered by Össur. Modularity means that basic features and components are shared across a family of products, allowing users to customize their prosthesis if they would like to add specific modules. For example, the family of Pro-Flex® feet, one of our high-end product lines, shares the same carbon fiber base plate, and the combination of additional blades and other mechanical components result in a unique function in line with each user profile's needs.
Modularity enables efficiency in stock keeping and faster time to market for new solutions
Modular design allows modules to be reused and assembled in multiple ways. That increases production and stock keeping efficiency and, at the same time, increases the level of customization for users. Moreover, time to market for a new solution is faster when leveraging existing modules and proven technologies. This design approach results in clear benefits for the stakeholders involved; the provider, the end-users and Össur.

ANNUAL REPORT 2017 27

Bracing and supports

ACUTE INJURY INDICATIONS

1 Post surgical

2 Functional Healing

PROPHYLACTIC 3
Protection

CHRONIC INDICATIONS

4 Knee pain relief

5

6

Mild to moderate OA Moderate to severe OA

REBOUND®
POST-OP KNEE

REBOUND® ACL

Continuum of care. This is what Össur's indication based product design for B&S is focused on.
Mobility impairments can range from acute injuries, where users can be fitted with braces that supplement the rehabilitation process, to chronic indications such as osteoarthritis (OA) that can be treated with an unloading brace. The continuum of care for knee ligament injury is a good example of a comprehensive product line. The process is illustrated above and further detailed below.
1. The immediate post-operative treatment for knee ligament injury consists of immobilization of the knee joint followed by progressive and controlled increase of the range of motion. This part of the treatment protocol is addressed with the Rebound® Post-Op Knee brace.
2. As healing occurs, a rehabilitation process with the Rebound® ACL functional healing brace begins. This brace is designed to accelerate the recovery from surgery.
3. Individuals who suffer this type of knee injury are often eager to return to pre-injury activities, such as skiing, basketball, or football that would put strain on the knee joint. The CTi®, which stabilizes the knee joint and protects the knee during these type of low to high impact activities, would be suitable.
4. Patients with a history of ACL rupture are at high risk of developing knee OA later in life. For early symptoms of OA, a new brace based on 3D knitting technology will be launched in 2018, that provides pain relief in the knee. Grounded in Össur's R&D expertise as the leading provider of OA solutions and Gibaud's over 100 years of textile experience, this is the first functional state of the art 3D knitted OA brace.
5. If the condition progresses to mild or moderate OA, the Unloader One® Lite brace is a sleek, low profile brace that unloads the knee by means of the clinically proven Dynamic Force System.
6. If the OA condition gets more severe, the Unloader One®is a comfortable, lightweight brace that provides excellent suspension and unloading leverage, helping to reduce pain, improve function and decrease the use of pain medication, as supported by clinical research evidence.

For early symptoms of OA, a new brace based on 3D knitting technology will be launched in 2018, that provides pain relief in the knee
Össur's R&D will continue to strive towards providing clinically proven non-invasive OA solutions to all major indications, with associated health economic benefits to the users and the health care system, in addition to validated functional healing solutions to enhance the body's natural healing process while maintaining maximum mobility.

28

ÖSSUR ­ ACQUISITIONS

Acquisitions
Since 1999, Össur has acquired more than 20 companies. In 2000, Össur made acquisitions that allowed the Company to become a global player in the field of prosthetics and the second largest player in the segment in the world. In the period from 2003-2007, Össur acquired several players operating in bracing and supports, allowing Össur to become the second largest player in that segment today. In the following years Össur made various acquisitions within both business segments, most recently Touch Bionics and Medi Prosthetics in 2016. The acquisitions are in line with Össur's overall acquisition strategy and ambition of becoming a top player in noninvasive orthopaedics, specializing in prosthetics and bracing and supports.
In 2013, Össur acquired three O&P clinics with the objective of better understanding the end-users needs. Össur is furthermore able to provide insights and assist providers with operational aspects such as patient treatment, custom manufacturing, and process optimization. Even though Össur focuses on strategic partnerships with providers, we will continue to explore the possibilities of forward integration should attractive opportunities arise.

ANNUAL REPORT 2017 29
Strategy
Össur's vision is to be the leading company in the non-invasive orthopaedic market. Össur's business improves people's mobility through innovative technologies within the fields of bracing & supports and prosthetics. Össur will continue to generate value for individuals and healthcare systems by focusing the business strategy on successful product and concept innovation, operational efficiency, and sustainable growth.
Main focus areas:

Innovation
Execute Ideas that add Value

Growth
Sustainable Growth

We embrace innovation in all our actions by creating value for our
customers. We will be at the forefront of indication-related innovation to ensure our consistently strong position in the market.

We will achieve growth by successfully commercializing our innovation
through our local go-to-market strategy and commitment to our customers' needs. We will further develop our business and leverage untapped market opportunities.

Efficiency
Do Business Efficiently
We strive to increase efficiency and drive continuous improvement. We run efficient operations in the most optimal locations, hire
passionate employees and deliver strong profit and cash flow.

Good progress in our strategic focus areas in 2017

· Numerous high-end products developed in both prosthetics and bracing & supports
· Partnership with IUVO/COMAU to develop wearable bionic bracing
· Over 100 patents granted · Over 30 collaborative research
studies ongoing · 16 peer reviewed publications by
Össur research research partners

· 5% organic sales growth · Over 40 new product solutions
introduced to the market · High-end innovative products such
as RHEO KNEE® and Unloader One® showed excellent performance during the year · Touch Bionics and Medi Prosthetics now a full part of Össur's global prosthetic offering · Good progress with direct sales model in China

· Successful integration of Medi Prosthetics and Touch Bionics
· Efficiency initiatives launched in September 2017 progressing well
· Preparations begun to move part of the feet manufacturing and assembly from Iceland to Mexico manufacturing plant
· West Coast distribution center in the US to be moved to Mexico manufacturing plant in 2018
· Restructuring of own distribution companies finalized by year-end 2017

30

ÖSSUR ­ OUR PEOPLE

VALUES
Stay True Make Every Step Count
Aim Higher

ANNUAL REPORT 2017 31
Our People
At Össur we nurture a spirit of innovation; we offer an open and vibrant environment where each employee can achieve his or her full potential. We live by a set of values that are the foundation for our strategy and success. Our core values are Honesty, Frugality, and Courage; and these values guide our decisions. We live these values every day in everything that we do--in our interactions with colleagues and customers, and in our work efforts.
We have over 3,000 employees working in over 25 countries. While we are a diverse company, we work as one to improve people's mobility. Different ideas and points of view are beneficial to our business, and we believe in creating an environment where diversity, knowledge, skills, and strengths are fully utilized. As individuals, our employees can expect equal treatment and equal opportunities for growth within Össur. Our employees take responsibility, both for their current job and for their career advancement. We offer various learning opportunities, so employees can build lasting and rewarding careers with us.
We measure our employees' motivation once a year and we are proud that our employee satisfaction and motivation is high. While we work hard, we also have fun. Our employees' passion, drive, and capabilities to help our customers are our greatest assets.
Össur recruits competent and ambitious individuals that can work on demanding projects, and we are proud that we've been able to provide advancement opportunities for our talented employees. Our hiring decisions are based on a potential employee's skills and abilities. If you are interested in joining our team you can view and apply for an open position on our applicant portal.

GENDER RATIO IN ÖSSUR

Male

Female

52% 48%

Values
Össur's core values ensure successful cooperation and partnerships, and are the foundation for our strategy and success.

Honesty
Stay True

Frugality
Make Every Step Count

Courage
Aim Higher

We show respect by adhering to facts and reality, fulfilling promises and claims, and admitting failures. We nurture honest communication
throughout the Company by sharing information and respecting
each other's time and workload.

We use resources wisely. The Company aims to minimize costs across all areas of its business through effective communication,
preparedness, planning, and optimized processes.

We are open to change and constantly strive for improvement.
We challenge unwritten rules, show initiative and take calculated
risks, while at the same time taking responsibility for our ideas,
decisions, and actions.

32

ÖSSUR ­ RISK MANAGEMENT

Risk management
Four key risks
Investment in Össur's shares involves various risks where the business, financial conditions, and results of operations going forward rest upon certain assumptions and could be negatively affected if any of the factors described in this chapter occur. Össur has chosen to highlight four key risks which are currently considered most relevant. Össur cannot ensure that its given assumptions for the description of the risk is correct. Furthermore, additional risks and uncertainties which are listed in the next section, or not presently known to Össur, or that the Company currently deems immaterial, may adversely affect its business operations and financial results, to an even greater extent, than the four risks identified here.

1 CHANGES IN REIMBURSEMENT

Description
Most of Össur's products and services are reimbursed by third-party payers, including both government healthcare programs and private health insurance plans. All third-party payers continue to develop methods of controlling healthcare costs, including review of claims, selective contracting, and competitive bidding.

Potential impact
These cost-control methods may limit or even eliminate the coverage and the amount of payment for which thirdparty payers may be willing to pay on Össur`s products and services. As a result, sales may decline significantly, and customers may reduce or eliminate purchases. Reviews of claims may lead to repayment of prior sales.

Mitigative actions
Össur only brings products to the market that have medical indication and are clinically validated. Össur applies its reimbursement knowledge from the earliest stages of product development to the post-sale education of customers. Össur also pursues several strategies to manage the reimbursement of its products and services.

2 REGULATORY REQUIREMENTS

Description
Össur's products are medical devices that are subject to extensive global regulations by the respective authorities in countries where Össur conducts its business. Such regulations can restrict virtually all aspects of a medical device's design and testing, manufacturing, safety, labeling, storage, recordkeeping, reporting, clearance and approval, promotion, distribution, and services.

Potential impact
Failure to comply with the regulatory requirements of the applicable authority may subject Össur to sanctions ranging from warning letters to penalties and product withdrawal. Össur's failure to comply with regulatory requirements or receive regulatory clearance and approval for its products or operations would adversely affect Össur's sales and potential for future growth.

Mitigative actions
Össur maintains a robust global quality system that complies with international medical device standards and is an intrinsic part of the Company`s internal processes. Furthermore, employees actively monitor the medical device regulation landscape and stay on top of changes to international and local regulations in the countries where Össur markets and sells medical devices.

ANNUAL REPORT 2017 33

3 ÖSSUR MAY BE UNABLE TO DEVELOP OR SECURE THE USE OF NEW TECHNOLOGIES

Description
Össur operates in markets that are characterized by rapid technological change, driven by extensive research that is carried out by market participants. Technological innovation takes place at various stages in Össur's value chain and may include individual components, design, and functionalities of Össur products, and patient care.

Potential impact
The development by any suppliers or competitors of substitute products or components that better satisfy market demands could have a material adverse effect on Össur's business and results of operations. A failure to develop new products or enhance existing products could also have a material adverse effect on Össur's operations and potential for future growth.

Mitigative actions
Significant reinvestment into R&D and constant strive to find new technologies has resulted in a vast IP portfolio and enables a strong position to compete with potential new entries. External connections and appeal to universities, research institutes and investors provides the opportunity to stay informed and review emerging innovation as part of acquisitions or research cooperation initiatives.

4 INDUSTRY CONSOLIDATION AND FORWARD INTEGRATION

Description
Major shifts in Össur's market place include the consolidation of prosthetics manufacturers in recent years and the additional momentum that forward integration is gaining in the industries where the Company operates. Given the nature of acquisitions, it is uncertain to what degree Össur will be able to participate in further consolidation and to what degree forward integration will affect Össur`s operations.

Potential impact
The consolidation has been a material contributor to the growth of Össur in the past. If Össur were not to participate in further consolidation or forward integration, it might limit Össur`s potential for future growth. In addition, these shifts may impact the competitive landscape of the industries and the associated market shares. Changes in the industry may furthermore impact Össur's customers.

Mitigative actions
Össur continuously reviews value enhancing acquisition and investment opportunities in its business segments and keeps a good relationship with the relevant stakeholders in the industry. Össur furthermore operates its own clinics in certain regions and has partnership programs in place with patient care providers to offer end-users quality services.

34

ÖSSUR ­ RISK MANAGEMENT

Other relevant risk factors
Össur is exposed to a range of other risks that have not been discussed in the previous section. Below is a list of other risks that Össur considers relevant but they are not listed in order of priority and the list is not exhaustive.

Össur's assumptions regarding market trends may prove incorrect.
Assumptions regarding demographic trends are important factors in Össur's business decisions. The Company expects, for example, that the population of elderly will continue to grow, that an increasing proportion of this population will live an active lifestyle and that the number of people with diabetes will increase in the future. No assurance can be made that these assumptions will prove to be correct or that these demographic trends will result in a demand for the Company's products and services.
Össur is subject to risks related to its international operations.
Headquartered in Reykjavík, Iceland, Össur has significant operations in the U.S. and Europe, as well as operations in Asia, Australia, Africa and South-America. Össur's business and operations are therefore subject to various risks inherent to international operations. Such risks include, among others, recessionary trends, inflation, instability of financial markets, exposure to different legal standards and enforcement mechanisms, trade barriers, rules regarding the origins of products, labor unrest, foreign exchange controls, human rights, corruption and political and social instability.
Product liability claims could adversely impact Össur's financial conditions,operations and reputation.
Össur is responsible for the safety and effectiveness of its products. Össur engages in internal quality control and product testing procedures to mitigate the risk and also carries insurance. However, the Company cannot guarantee that it won't be found liable for a product liability claim in the future or that the insurance coverage is sufficient or will continue to be available on commercially reasonable terms.
Össur's business is subject to healthcare industry reforms and legislative and regulatory changes.
Most of Össur's products and services are reimbursed by third-party payers, including both government healthcare programs and private health insurance plans. All third-party payers have developed and continue to develop increasingly sophisticated or aggressive methods of controlling healthcare costs, including review of claims, selective contracting and competitive bidding. These cost-control methods also potentially limit, or even eliminate the coverage and the amount of payment for which third-party payers may be willing to pay for medical products and services. As such, the continuing efforts of both governmental and private payers of healthcare to contain or reduce costs could lead to patients being unable to obtain approval for payment from these third-party payers. If that were to occur, sales of Össur's products and services may decline significantly and its customers may reduce or eliminate purchases. Reviews of claims may lead to repayment of prior sales. Future legislative or regulatory initiatives directed at reducing costs could be introduced. In addition, changing healthcare trends such as increasing premiums or deductibles for patients may have an adverse effect on Össur's business. The Company cannot predict the impact of future legislative or regulatory initiatives on its business.
O&P clinics depend on publicly and/or privately funded patients.
Insurance coverage varies greatly between countries and considerable sales and profit in Össur's O&P clinics are directly dependent on government contracts and tender business. Government contracts are subject to policy changes and subsequent loss in sales and profit. Tender contracts for O&P clinical services are regularly renewed and can be lost to competitors with a direct negative impact on the business.

ANNUAL REPORT 2017 35
Össur is required to comply with regulatory requirements and receive regulatory clearance and approval for its products or operations.
Össur's products are medical devices that are subject to extensive global regulations by the respective authorities in countries where Össur conducts its business. Such regulation can restrict virtually all aspects of a medical device's design and testing, manufacture, safety, labeling, storage, recordkeeping, reporting, clearance and approval, promotion, distribution and services. Failure to comply with the regulatory requirements of the applicable authority may subject a company to administrative or judicially imposed sanctions ranging from warning letters to criminal penalties or product withdrawal. Össur's failure to comply with regulatory requirements or receive regulatory clearance and approval for its products or operations, including healthcare fraud and abuse laws and regulations, would adversely affect Össur's sales and potential for future growth.
Össur is exposed to litigation from international investors.
Össur has an international shareholder base and is therefore exposed to risk of litigation from international investors.
Össur needs to attract and retain qualified and competent human resources.
Össur continuously works to attract and retain qualified and competent employees to maintain Össur's innovative edge and financial success. Failing to attract and retain key employees, managers and experts, or not developing them adequately, puts the Company at risk.
Össur is exposed to employee litigation, regulatory sanctions and strikes.
Össur is exposed to risk of litigation and regulatory sanctions for employment practices. The Company mitigates these risks by adhering to relevant policies and procedures, educating managers on best practices, monitoring changes to employment legislation and carrying insurance. However, the Company cannot guarantee that it will not be found liable in the future or that insurance coverage is sufficient or will continue to be available on commercially reasonable terms. Össur is also exposed to risk related to strikes.
Risk relating to acquisitions.
A substantial proportion of Össur's growth in recent years has been driven by acquisitions. No assurance can be given that Össur will be successful in identifying appropriate acquisition targets in the key markets in which the Company operates or desires to operate. Acquisitions involve a number of risks, including diversion of management resources and management focus, integration risk, unexpected or high integration costs, failure to retain key employees of the acquired business and failure to realize expected synergies. To mitigate risk, Össur conducts due diligence on the operations of acquisition targets and seeks protection through representations and warranties from the sellers.
Össur is exposed to financing risks and instability within financial markets.
As a global business Össur is exposed to various risk factors originating in the international financial markets, among which are liquidity risk, interest rate risk, foreign exchange risk, credit risk and counterparty risk on cash held with financial institutions. These risk factors are managed according to internal rules that are outlined in the Company's treasury policy. Össur's functional and reporting currency is the U.S. dollar, hence fluctuations in local currencies can have an impact on the operations of the Company. Össur did not utilize derivatives or other financial instruments for hedging risk to currency fluctuations in 2016. However, the hedging policy was amended for 2017 to allow for active hedging of currency exposure that is not covered by the natural hedge in sales and costs by currency. In 2017 Össur entered into forward contract covering approximately half of the estimated ISK costs in 2017. Fluctuation in the exchange rates between the U.S. dollar, Euro, Icelandic krona and other currencies where Össur operates can therefore still have an impact on the financial condition and results of Össur's operations, even with the aforementioned hedge.

36

ÖSSUR ­ RISK MANAGEMENT

Össur's financing and tax structure are subject to laws and governmental approvals.
Össur is committed to complying with tax rules and paying all legally required taxes. At the same time, the Company has a responsibility to the shareholders to legally minimize costs and maximize earnings. Össur's tax strategy is to strive for optimizing taxes. The goal is to balance benefits against risks and costs while at the same time meeting reporting obligations, compliance obligations and corporate social responsibilities. Össur recognizes that some areas are not free from doubt and that differing legal interpretations may be possible, meaning that from time to time, tax authorities may not share or question Össur's interpretation. Also, relevant laws and regulations may change, resulting in higher taxes or requiring the company to change the tax and legal structure.
Össur is dependent on IT systems.
Össur's business is supported by several systems. The systems that are classified as mission critical are the ERP, warehouse, phone and email systems, as well as infrastructure like servers, networks, databases and storage systems. Failure in these systems can have a serious impact on the business, such as reduced or lost ability to receive orders, complete deliveries or manufacture products. To improve business continuity, Össur consolidated its IT systems into two reliable datacenters in EMEA and the U.S. that both serve as primary and disaster recovery sites where mission critical systems and data is replicated between centers.
Össur's activities are subject to privacy laws, which could have an impact on its operations.
Data privacy laws and regulations, including the Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act in the U.S. regulate the transmission, maintenance, use and disclosure of protected health information. There are costs and administrative burdens associated with ongoing compliance with these data privacy laws and any failure to comply with current and applicable future requirements could adversely affect Össur's profitability.
Össur may be adversely affected by developments in medicine.
Össur's main products are intended to improve the quality of life for individuals suffering the effects of injuries, amputations or illnesses. No assurance can be given that Össur's target market will not be materially diminished by advances in medical science or that Össur will be able to generate comparable sales from alternative market segments.
Össur may be unable to develop or secure the use of new technologies.
Össur operates in markets that are characterized by rapid technological change, driven by extensive research that is carried out by market participants. The development by any of Össur's competitors of substitute products that better satisfy market demands could have a material adverse effect on Össur's business and results of operations. A failure by Össur to develop new products or enhance existing products could also have a material adverse effect on the Company.
Össur is subject to risks relating to the protection of intellectual property rights.
Össur relies on a combination of patents, trademarks, trade secrets and non-disclosure and non-competition agreements to protect its intellectual property, and will continue to do so. While Össur intends to defend itself against any threats to its intellectual property, there can be no assurance that these patents, trademarks, trade secrets or other agreements will adequately protect Össur. Although Össur's product design process has mechanisms in place to create, to the best possible extent, IPR freedom for the commercial exploitation of new products, the Company may be exposed to accusations of intellectual property rights infringement.
Össur relies on agents and third-party distributors in connection with the sale and distribution of its products.
Third-party agents and distributors sell a portion of Össur's products. The Company's largest wholesale customer accounted for 5% of the Company's net sales at yearend 2016. Other distributors accounted for less than 2% of net sales for the same period. These agents and distributors are not employees of Össur and Össur may be unable to influence their actions and performance.

ANNUAL REPORT 2017 37
Össur relies on healthcare professionals and other agents in connection with the sale and distribution of its products.
Össur's sales depend primarily on the prescriptions and recommendations of its products by healthcare professionals. The Company has developed and maintained close relationships with a number of orthopaedics and prosthetic (O&P) clinics that support and recommend the Company's products. A failure to maintain the support of such orthopaedics professionals and O&P clinics, or a failure to develop relationships with new healthcare professionals and O&P clinics, could adversely affect Össur's business and results of operations.
Össur may not maintain and increase its position as a market leader in non-invasive orthopaedics.
Össur's aim is to play a leading role in the likely continuance of consolidation in its markets. Össur's success is subject to multiple factors both internal and external. As for external factors, the risk remains that competitors may accelerate the consolidation of the market, and strengthen their own position, at the expense of other participants like Össur. Additionally, competition from emerging markets or new competitors could undermine Össur's market position. Össur also positions most of its products and services in the high-end market. Failing to provide sufficient evidence for higher value products and services to payers, customers and patients might result in a price shift or loss of business affecting the overall business of Össur. Össur also maintains its market position by relying upon a strong brand image and reputation, which creates a risk that the brand's position could be adversely affected by the actions of Össur's employees or brand ambassadors.
Össur is vulnerable to disruptions to its production and distribution facilities.
Össur's production and distribution facilities may be adversely affected by man-made or natural disasters. Össur has worked on certain risk ranking programs in all its main manufacturing and distribution facilities, and successfully reduced the level of risk and increased awareness among employees. However, a disruption of Össur's production facilities could adversely affect the Company's production output, which, in turn, would impair the Company's ability to fulfill customer orders. This could lead to a decline in sales and increased costs due to necessary shift in production within the Company and the possible need to outsource some production. The Company maintains insurance to cover such losses. No assurance can be given, however, that insurance payments would be sufficient to cover the full loss resulting from a disruption in Össur's production or that Össur's insurance would cover the event that causes the disruption.
Össur is dependent on certain critical product suppliers
Össur is dependent on suppliers that manufacture products for the Company. Failure to deliver products could adversely affect the financial results of the Company. To mitigate this risk Össur audits its critical suppliers on a regular basis and carries safety stock of all products.
Össur is dependent on certain critical raw materials.
Össur's products require silicone, carbon fibers, metals and other raw materials. Failure of supply of critical raw materials could adversely affect the financial results of the Company. To mitigate this risk Össur carefully selects suppliers of critical raw materials and carries safety stock of the raw materials.

38

ÖSSUR ­ SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION

ANNUAL REPORT 2017 39
Shareholder information
Össur shares were listed on Nasdaq in Iceland in 1999 and on Nasdaq Copenhagen in 2009. In December 2017, the trading of Össur shares was concentrated on Nasdaq Copenhagen following Nasdaq Iceland's decision to accept Össur's request to cancel the trading of Össur shares on Nasdaq Iceland. By concentrating the trading of Össur shares on Nasdaq Copenhagen, trading liquidity of Össur shares will increase with the expectation that price formation will be more effective for the benefit of all shareholders.
KEY INFORMATION TABLE

Market
CPH (DKK)

ISIN
IS0000000040

Ticker
OSSR

Industry Nr. of shares

Health Care

437,162,725

Stock performance
Össur's share price increased by 6% in 2017, from DKK 25.2 per share at yearend 2016 to DKK 26.6 per share at yearend 2017. The rise in share price increased Össur's market capitalization from DKK 11.1 billion to DKK 11.6 billion corresponding to USD 1.9 billion at yearend 2017. Össur was the 38th largest company listed on Nasdaq Copenhagen when measured in terms of market value at year-end 2017.

SHARE PRICE DEVELOPMENT INDEXED

140

130

120

110

100

90

80 Jan-17 Feb-17 Mar-17 Apr-17 May-17 Jun-17 Jul-17 Aug-17 Sep-17 Oct-17 Nov-17 Dec-17

Össur

OMX C20 CAP

Over the past five years, Össur's stock has generated a compounded average annual return to shareholders of 29%.

40

ÖSSUR ­ SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION

Shareholders
The share capital of Össur is ISK 437,162,725 nominal value, divided into the same number of shares. There is only one class of shares and all shares carry one vote. Össur's largest shareholder is William Demant Invest A/S (WDI) which held 47.6% of the total shares and 48.6% of the voting rights at yearend 2017. It should however be noted that on 4 January 2018, WDI announced that its ownership had exceeded 50% and according to their announcement, WDI's intention is to hold between 50-60% of Össur's shares going forward. WDI is wholly owned by the Oticon Foundation, and apart from Össur, the fund's investment activities include a majority share in William Demant Holding A/S, a leading provider of hearing aids, and minority holdings in Jeudan A/S and Vitrolife AB.
At year-end, Össur had more than 4,000 shareholders of whom ~90% were Danish and Icelandic shareholders. The remaining ~10% of the shares are held by investors residing in other countries.

Shareholdings by country as of 31.12.2017
Denmark 56% Iceland 32% U.K 6% Others 6%

Share buyback program
During 2017, Össur purchased 9,182,226 of own shares (approx. 2% of outstanding shares). The total purchase price was DKK 250 million (USD 37 million). The purpose of the share buy-back programs was to adjust the capital structure in line with a desired capital level of 1-2x net interest-bearing debt to EBITDA set out in Össur's Capital Structure and Dividend Policy. At yearend 2017, treasury shares totaled 9,079,662.
The Board of Directors will propose to the Annual General Meeting in 2018 to reduce the share capital by ISK 6,354,662 by way of cancelling 6,354,662 of Össur's own shares of ISK 1 nominal value each. If the Annual General Meeting approves the motion, the number of outstanding shares will be 430,808,063.
Dividends
The Board of Directors will propose to the Annual General Meeting in 2018 that the Company pays a cash dividend of DKK 0.13 per share for 2017, equivalent to 16% of net profit in 2017, compared to DKK 0.12 per share for 2016.

Since 2013, Össur has paid out USD 142 million to
shareholders in the form of share buybacks and dividends

SHARE BUYBACKS AND DIVIDENDS

8 2013

29

29

8

8

8

8

2014

2015

2016

Dividends

Share buybacks

37
7 2017

ANNUAL REPORT 2017 41
Annual General Meeting
According to the Articles of Association, the Annual General Meeting (AGM) shall be held before the end of April. The meeting is convened with at least three weeks' notice. The AGM results are sent to the news system of Nasdaq immediately following the meeting, and are also made available on the corporate website.
Össur's AGM will be held at the Company's headquarters in Iceland on 8 March 2018.
Investor Relations
Össur's policy is to disclose financial and corporate information to provide investors, analysts, and other stakeholders with comprehensive and accurate information to help them understand Össur's current and expected developments. Five sell-side equity analysts currently cover Össur.
Visit our website for financial reports, presentations, financial calendar, information on Össur and other downloads: ossur.com/ corporate/investor-relations
Contact Investor Relations David Hreidarsson Investor Relations Manager Tel.: +354 515 1380 e-mail: dhreidarsson@ossur.com

42

ÖSSUR ­ CORPORATE GOVERNANCE

Corporate Governance

This statutory statement on corporate governance is made in accordance with Article 66 (c) of the Icelandic Financial Statements Act No. 3/2006 as amended. This statement has been approved by the Board of Directors and is published in the Annual Report and on the Company`s website. This statement covers the financial year that ended on 31 December 2017.
This statement includes information on the following items: · A reference to the corporate governance recommendations the Company follows and how the Company addresses
the recommendations, including any deviations and explanations thereto. · A description of the main aspects of the Company`s internal controls and risk management systems in connection
with preparation of financial statements. · A description of the Company`s organizational structure and the role of each function. · A description of the Company`s diversity policy relating to the Board of Directors and the CEO, the aim of the policy
and execution.
Corporate Governance
The Company has chosen to follow the Danish Recommendations on Corporate Governance because the Company`s shares are traded on Nasdaq Copenhagen and it is recommended in the explanations to clause 4.1 of Nasdaq Copenhagen`s rules for issuers of shares to apply the Danish Recommendations if foreign companies are not subject to other rules. Applying the Danish Recommendations will also make it easier for investors on the Danish market to assess the Company`s corporate governance practices.
This Corporate Governance Statement is prepared in accordance with the Danish Recommendations on Corporate Governance, issued by the Corporate Governance Committee in May 2013 and updated in November 2014, available on the Committee`s website: www.corporategovernance.dk.
The Company complies with the vast majority of the Danish Recommendations. The few deviations are explained below. A complete report on the Company`s compliance with each recommendation is available on the Company`s website. · The CEO is responsible for the execution of the Company's equal opportunities plan. The plan is not discussed
annually within the Board of Directors. · The Company's Articles of Association do not include a provision on a fixed retirement age for members of the Board
of Directors. In the Board's opinion, age is irrelevant as long as the contribution of the respective member of the Board is considered valuable. · The majority of the Board of Directors (3 of 5) is considered dependent. Two of the members of the Board represent the interest of the Company's controlling shareholder. One member has been on the Board for 19 years. The two other members of the Board are considered independent. In the Board's opinion it is normal and understandable that two out of five members of the Board represent the controlling shareholder. It is also the Board's opinion that its longest serving member is in fact acting independently of special interest and his skills and experience, including his medical expertise and knowledge of the US healthcare system, are valuable to the Board and ensures diversity within it.

ANNUAL REPORT 2017 43
· No nomination committee has been established and a remuneration committee was abolished in 2010 and the Company has not had such a committee since then. In the Board of Directors' opinion such committees are not necessary considering the size of the Board and the balanced and relevant expertise and experience of the current members of the Board. The Board has the role and responsibilities such committees would otherwise have.
· The Remuneration Policy does not include criteria that ensures that vesting period for variable components of remuneration agreements are longer than one calendar year. Bonuses for short-term performance may be paid quarterly, semi-annually, or annually. The Company believes it is important to have certain flexibility to pay out such bonuses. However, the Remuneration Policy states that if bonus payments have clearly been based on false, misleading, or insufficient data, such payments shall be repaid to the extent correct data shows that no or lower bonus would have been paid.
Main aspects of internal controls and risk management systems regarding preparation of financial statementsw
Internal controls
The Board of Directors has an ongoing dialogue with the CEO on the identification, description, and handling of the business risks to which the Company may be exposed. Material risks and risk management are discussed in the chapter relating to risks.
The Company's risk management and internal controls, in relation to financial processes, are designed to control the risk of material misstatements. The Company designs its processes to ensure there are no material weaknesses with internal controls that could lead to a material misstatement in its financial reporting. The external Auditors' evaluation of these processes is included in the Auditor's Report.
The Company goes through a detailed strategic and forecast process each year and a strategy and forecast report is prepared. The Board approves the Company's strategy, forecasts, and targets each year. Performances against targets are monitored on a monthly basis. This includes a year over year comparison where main reasons for changes are explained. A twelve-month forecast is available at all times and forecasts are updated quarterly and reasons for changes explained.
To ensure high quality in the Company's financial reporting systems, the following policies, procedures and guidelines for financial reporting and internal controls have been adopted, to which the subsidiaries and reporting units must adhere: · Continuous analysis of year over year comparison. · Continuous follow-up on results achieved compared to assumptions in forecasts. · Policies for IT use, insurance, cash management, procurement etc. · Reporting instructions as well as reporting and finance manuals.
The responsibility for maintaining sufficient and effective internal controls and risk management regarding financial reporting lies with the CEO.
The Company does not have an internal audit function, but uses internal control systems that are monitored by the Audit Committee and assessed by the external Auditors.

44

ÖSSUR ­ CORPORATE GOVERNANCE

External Auditors
An auditing firm is elected at the Annual General Meeting for a term of one year. The external Auditors are not allowed to own shares in the Company. The external Auditors shall audit the Company's annual consolidated financial statements in accordance with international standards on auditing, and shall, for this purpose, inspect accounting records and other material relating to the operation and financial position of the Company. The external Auditors shall have access to all the Company's books and documents at all times. The external Auditors report via the Audit Committee to the Board of Directors on any significant findings regarding accounting matters and any significant internal control deficiencies.
Organizational structure and the role of each function
According to the Company`s Articles of Association the Company is managed by: · Shareholders` Meetings · The Board of Directors · The Chief Executive Officer
Shareholders' Meetings
The supreme authority in all affairs of the Company, within the limits established by the Company's Articles of Association and statutory law, is in the hands of lawful Shareholders' Meetings.
The Company's controlling shareholder, William Demant Invest A/S, held 47.6% of the shares and 48.6% of the voting rights at year-end 2017.
The Board of Directors
According to the Company's Articles of Association the Board of DirectorAccording to the Company's Articles of Association the Board of Directors is responsible for the affairs of the Company between Shareholders' Meetings. is responsible for the affairs of the Company between Shareholders' Meetings.
The Board shall operate in accordance with the Company's Articles of Association and the Board's Rules of Procedure. The principal duties of the Board are as follows: · Appoint a CEO to manage the Company's daily operations, decide on the salary and terms of employment, establish
terms of reference and supervise the CEO's work. · Supervise the Company's activities and ensure that the Company's organization and operations are in good and
proper order. · Establish goals for the Company in accordance with the Company's objectives pursuant to the Articles of Association,
and formulate the policy and strategy required to achieve these goals. · Ensure adequate surveillance of the accounting and financial management of the Company. · Evaluate the Company's capital structure each year.
The Audit Committee
The Audit Committee shall operate in accordance with its Rules of Procedure. The principal duty of the Audit Committee is to ensure the quality of the Company's Consolidated Financial Statements and other financial information, and the independence of the Company's Auditors.

ANNUAL REPORT 2017 45
The Chief Executive Officer
According to the Company`s Articles of Association the Board of Directors appoints a CEO to manage the Company`s daily operations.
The principal duties of the CEO are as follows: · The CEO is responsible for daily operations and is obliged to follow the Board's policy and directions, within the limits
provided for by the Articles of Association and law. The daily operations do not include measures that are unusual or extraordinary. The CEO may only take such measures if specially authorized by the Board, unless it is impossible to wait for the Board's decision without substantial disadvantage to the Company's operations. In such an event the CEO shall inform the Board of his measures, without delay. If the Board has granted the CEO an authority to sign on behalf of the Company and/or granted him with powers of procuration, such authorizations are not limited by the foregoing. · The CEO shall decide on directorship in the Company's subsidiaries and associates on behalf of the Company. · The CEO is responsible for the work and results of the Executive Management. · The CEO shall ensure that the Company's consolidated financial statements are prepared in accordance with law and accepted practices and the Company's assets are handled in a secure manner.
References to the executive board in the corporate governance recommendations only apply to the CEO.
Further information on the Board of Directors, the Audit Committee and the CEO can be found in the chapter relating to the Executive Management and Board of Directors and on the Company's website.on the Company's website.
Diversity policy
As with the Board and the CEO, the Company follows the provisions on gender equality set out in the Icelandic Companies Act No. 2/1995 as amended. The Board is composed of 3 men and 2 women. When nominating candidates to the Board, the Board shall, in accordance with the Board's Rules of Procedure, take into consideration the legal requirements as well as the composition of the Board and what kind of experience, knowledge, expertise and other qualities the candidate should possess. The Board applies similar criteria for the CEO.
Össur also has Equal Opportunities Plan in place. The purpose of Össur's Equal Opportunities Plan is to ensure equal opportunities and equality of women and men within the Company. The goal is to utilize the skills, strengths and knowledge of employees in full, without gender-based discrimination. With this plan, the management and employees are at the same time reminded of the importance of everyone being able to reach their full potential regardless of sex, religion, opinion, nationality, race, sexual orientation, age or position, and to utilize equally the wealth inherent in the education, experience and attitudes of women and men.
The Equal Opportunities Plan is prepared in accordance with Icelandic Act No. 10/2008 on the Equal Position and Equal Rights of Women and Men. Reporting on the progress and objectives of the Equal Opportunities Plan is made in Össur's Corporate Social Responsibility report that is published on the Company's website.

46

ÖSSUR ­ CSR

Corporate Social Responsibility
Össur takes its responsibility to improve people's mobility seriously. Össur strives to change the perception of people with disabilities by providing products that help users to live lives without limitations.
Össur is a signatory of the UN Global Compact and of the UN Women's Empowerment Principle.

Environment
Key focus is on CO2 e mission, waste management and
sustainable product design

Labor Practices
Key focus is on equal o pportunities, safe
workplace and employee participation

Human Rights
Key focus is on social c ompliance auditing of
p roduct suppliers

Anti-Corruption
Key focus is on screening of distributors and education
of key employees

ESG Measurements
In March 2017 Nasdaq's Nordic and Baltic exchanges issued voluntary guidelines for ESG disclosure to support companies listed on these exchanges. The Nasdaq ESG (Environment, Social and Corporate Governance) Reporting Guide can be found on Nasdaq's website http://business.nasdaq.com/esg-guide/
Environment
Össur has an environmental management system in place and all its main locations are certified in accordance with ISO 14001:2015. Further details on Össur's environmental strategy and main initiatives can be found in the CSR report.

52% 48%
GENDER RATIO IN ÖSSUR

ENERGY USAGE 41%
59%
Not renewable Renewable

CO2 EMISSION REDUCTION*
1500
715
2017 2020
*Applies to the Head Office and manufacturing in Iceland.

ANNUAL REPORT 2017 47

ENVIRONMENTAL METRICS
Environmental Metrics E1 Direct & Indirect GHG Emissions (Össur Iceland only) Scope 1 (tons CO2e) Scope 2 (tons CO2e) Scope 3 (tons CO2e) E2 Carbon Intensity Kg CO2e/item manifactured E3 Direct & Indirect Energy Consumption Renewable Energy consumption (GJ) Non-Renewable Energy consumption (GJ) Renewable Energy generation (GJ) E4 Energy Intensity Energy consumed per FTE (GJ/Employee) E5 Primary Energy Source Coal (GJ) Natural Gas (GJ) Liquid Gas (GJ) Oil (GJ) Hydro and Geothermal (GJ) Solar (GJ) Wind (GJ) Nuclear (GJ) E6 Renewable Energy Intensity Renewable energy / Non-renewable energy E7 Water Management Cold water consumed (m3) E8 Waste Management Waste recycled (tons) Waste not recycled (tons) Hazardous waste (tons) Waste Intensity (kg/employee) E9 Environmental Policy Does your company publish and follow an EP: Yes, No? If yes, the location of relevant public information should be declared. E10 Environmental Impacts Did your company bear any legal/regulatory responsibility for an environmental impact: Yes/No? If yes, the location of relevant public information should be declared.

2017
43 49 730
1.0
30,090 20,650
600
44
620 920 920 18,120 28,910 780 410
70
1.5
80,000
360 360 130 740

2016
41 47 670
0.8
27,690 19,600
0
44
870 1,310 1,460 15,860 26,390
320 990 100
1.4
112,000
380 520 150 990

Yes, see Össur website

No

No

2015
38 51 1,390
1.5
27,710 14,650
0
43
680 850 1,000 12,050 26,740
0 400
70
1.9
300 440 150 900
No

The UN Global Compact asks companies to embrace, support and enact, within their sphere of influence, a set of core values in the areas of human rights, labor standards, the environment and anti-corruption.

48

ÖSSUR ­ CSR

Social
Here below Social Metrics in accordance with the Nadsaq ESG guidance. Further details on other initiative are discussed in Össur's CSR report.

SOCIAL METRICS Social Metrics S1 CEO Pay Ratio S2 Gender Pay Ratio
S3 Employee Turnover Ratio S4 Gender Diversity
S5 Temporary Worker Ratio S6 Non-Discrimination Policy S7 Injury rate S8 Global Health and Safety policy S9 Child & Forced Labor Policy S10 Human Rights Policy S11 Human Rights Violations
S12 Board Diversity

Measurement 25 Audits: equal pay for equal responsibility
13% Male 52%, Female 48%
2.7 In Place 1.3 In Place In Place In Place None
Men 60%, Women 40%

Comments
Össur Headquarters is audited in accordance with the ISO standard on Equal pay for Equal responsibility ISO 85:2012 and Össur Americas complies with the Equal Pay Act in the USA Excluding Mexico Historically Össur has had good balance beetwen male and female employees
Össur Policies
Össur Policies Össur Policies Össur Policies No Human rights violations were reported in 2017 No employees have a seat on the Board

Management
33%
Female in management
positions

Incident Rate
1.3
Incident rate pr. 100 employee
2017

Employee Satisfaction
4.4 of 5
Global Score in a
Workplace Audit

ANNUAL REPORT 2017 49

Corporate Governance
Össur has various initiatives in place regarding fair operating practices such as regarding human rights and anti-corruption and bribery. Further details and progress on these initiatives can be found in Össur's CSR Report.
In respect of Corporate Governance reporting Össur complies with the Danish Recommendations on Corporate Governance. Further details on the Company's Corporate Governance Reporting can be found in the Corporate Governance Statement on page 42 and on Össur's web site: ossur.com/corporate/investor-relations/corporate-governance.

GOVERNANCE METRICS Governance Metrics G1 Board Separation of Powers
G2 Board - transparent practices G3 Incentivized pay
G4 Fair Labor practices G5 Supplier Code of Conduct G6 Ethics - Code of Conduct G7 Anti-Corruption and Bribery G8 Tax transparency G10 Other Framework Disclosures
G11 External Validation & Assurance

Measurement/Status In Place
In Place No
In Place In Place In Place In Place In Place In Place
No

Comments
The CEO does not have a seat on the Board, act as Chairman or lead Committees
BOD Rules
Remuneration Policy does not include ESG Strategy
Össur Policies
Össur Policies
Össur Policies
Össur Policies
Össur Policies
UN Global Compact, UN Women, Carbon Disclosure Project, Festa Declaration of Climate Issues

50

ÖSSUR ­ INVESTORS

Executive Management

Jon Sigurdsson
President and CEO

Egill Jonsson
EVP of Manufacturing and Operations
Gudjon G. Karason
EVP of Clinics

Born in 1956 Education Master's degree in Business Administration (MBA) from the United States International University in San Diego. Bachelor degree in Industrial Engineering from Odense Technical College in Denmark. Board Positions Vitrolife AB The Icelandic American Chamber of Commerce Past experience Jón has been the CEO of Össur since 1996 and prior to that he was the Commercial Counselor for the Icelandic Trade Council in New York (19921996), Chief Financial Officer at Álafoss (1989-1991), Head of the International Division of Eimskip (1986-1989) and an Engineer for Bang and Olufsen Denmark (1982- 1984). Jón's experience as a member of the Board of Directors in other companies/ organizations includes: · Rio Tinto Alcan Iceland 2003-2015 · The Icelandic Chamber of Commerce 2002-2012 · Reykjavik University from 2002-2009 · Samherji hf. from 2002-2006 · The Icelandic Trade Council from 1997-2003 · Research Liaison Office of the University of Iceland from 1996-2001 Shares held in Össur 660,708 (incl. related parties)
Born in 1957 Education Master's degree in Mechanical Engineering from the Technical University in Copenhagen (DTU). Bachelor degree in Engineering from the Technical University in Copenhagen (DTU). Board positions Federation of Icelandic Industries Past experience Egill has led the M&O function since he joined in 1996. He was formerly a Project Manager at VGK hf, an Engineering firm in Reykjavik (1985-1996). Shares held in Össur 822,749 (incl. related parties)
Born in 1969 Education Master's degree in Engineering from the University of Iceland. CS degree in Mechanical Engineering from the University of Iceland. Past experience Gudjon has been with Össur since 1998, and has since then worked in R&D, Marketing, Sales, and Clinics in multiple positions. Prior to joining Össur, Gudjon worked as Development Manager for a couple of smaller industrial companies in Iceland. Shares held in Össur 42,743

Margret Lara Fridriksdottir
EVP of Human Resources and Corporate Strategy
Kim de Roy
EVP of Research and Development
Olafur Gylfason
EVP of Sales & Marketing
Sveinn Sölvason
Chief Financial Officer

ANNUAL REPORT 2016 51
Born in 1978 Education Master's degree in Management and Strategy from the University of Iceland. Bachelor degree in Business Administration from the University of Iceland. Past experience Margrét has been with Össur since 2000 in various roles in finance and human resources. Shares held in Össur 14,100
Born in 1977 Education Master's degree in Rehabilitation Sciences from the University of Leaven in Belgium. Master's degree in Physiotherapy and Education from the University of Leaven in Belgium. Bachelor degree in Orthotics and Prosthetics. Past experience Kim joined Össur in 2002 and spent 5 years in R&D working on various development projects in both prosthetics and bracing & supports. He subsequently held several leadership positions in Sales, Marketing and Education in EMEA. Kim led Global Marketing & Education for prosthetics, as well as the prosthetics sales in the Americas for five years. Prior to joining Össur, Kim worked for RSScan International in Belgium for 3 years. Shares held in Össur 67,500
Born in 1969 Education Master's degree in International Business Economics from Alborg University in Denmark. Bachelor degree in Business Administration from Bifrost School of Business in Iceland. Past experience Ólafur has been with Össur since 1997; from 2001-2013 as the Managing Director of EMEA and before that in emerging markets. Shares held in Össur 9,517
Born in 1978 Education Master's degree in Finance and Accounting (Cand.Merc.FIR) from Copenhagen Business School. Bachelor degree in International Business from Copenhagen Business School. Board positions Icelandic Chamber of Commerce Past experience Sveinn has been with Össur since 2009, previously as Director of Treasury and Corporate Development. Prior to joining Össur he worked at Marel, Kaupthing Bank, Goldman Sachs and HSH Nordbank. Shares held in Össur 25,000

52

ÖSSUR ­ INVESTORS

Board of Directors

Niels Jacobsen
Chairman of the Board of Directors

Dr. Kristjan Tomas Ragnarsson
Vice Chairman of the Board of Directors

Born in 1957
Education Master's degree in Business Administration from the University of Aarhus in Denmark
Board positions Nissens A/S (chairman)
KIRKBI A/S (deputy chairman)
A.P. Møller-Mærsk A/S (deputy chairman)
Central Board of the Confederation of Danish Industries
Directorships in several wholly and partly owned companies in the William Demant Group:
William Demant Holding A/S (deputy chairman)
Sennheiser Communications A/S (chairman) Jeudan A/S (chairman)
Jeudan A/S (chairman)
HIMPP A/S (chairman)
Past experience Mr. Jacobsen has broad management experience both as CEO and as chairman in major international companies, including listed companies. Previous positions include President of Orion A/S and Vice President overseeing corporate affairs for both Atlas Danmark A/S and Thrige-Titan A/S.
Shares held in Össur 192,105 (incl. related parties). Mr. Jacobsen holds no share options in the Company
Other Mr. Jacobsen has no interest links with the Company's main clients or competitors. Mr. Jacobsen is a dependent member of the Board.
Born in 1943
Education Certified by the American Board of Physical Medicine and Rehabilitation University of Iceland's School of Medicine
Past experience Between 1986 and 2016, Dr. Ragnarsson served as the Chairman and Lucy Moses Professor of the Department of Rehabilitation Medicine for the Mount Sinai Medical Center in New York City. He has also served in multiple other leadership positions at Mount Sinai and various professional organizations.
Shares held in Össur 619,539 (incl. related parties). Dr. Ragnarsson holds no share options in the Company
Other Dr. Ragnarsson has no interest links with the Company's main clients, competitors, or major shareholders. Dr. Ragnarsson is a dependent member of the Board.

Arne Boye Nielsen
Member of the Board of Directors
Dr. Svafa Grönfeldt
Member of the Board of Directors
Gudbjörg Edda Eggertsdottir
Memer of the Board of Directors

ANNUAL REPORT 2016 53
Born in 1968 Education Master's degree in Business Administration from the Copenhagen Business School in Denmark Board positions Sennheiser Communications A/S (member) Interacoustics A/S (president) Past experience Mr. Nielsen has spent his entire career with William Demant Holding A/S in various and expanding roles throughout the world. After working as a management assistant to Mr. Niels Jacobsen and as an interim General Manager of Oticon Australia Pty Ltd. Mr. Nielsen assumed, in 1996, his current position as President of Diagnostic Instruments, which has operations worldwide. Shares held in Össur Mr. Nielsen neither has shares nor share options in the Company Other Mr. Nielsen has no interest links with the Company's main clients or competitors. Mr. Nielsen is a dependent member of the Board.
Born in 1965 Education Doctorate in Industrial Relations from the London School of Economics Past experience Previous positions include President of Reykjavik University, deputy to the CEO of Actavis Group hf., Assistant Professor of Economics and Business Administration at the University of Iceland and Managing Director and Managing Partner of IMG Gallup/ Deloitte. Shares held in Össur Dr. Grönfeldt holds no shares nor share options in the Company Other Dr. Grönfeldt has no interest links with the Company's main clients, competitors, or major shareholders. Dr. Grönfeldt is an independent Board member.
Born in 1951 Education Master's degree (Pharm.) from Copenhagen University Board positions Brunnur Investment Fund (chairman) Florealis ehf. (chairman) Orf Genetics hf. (member) MentisCura ehf. (member) Mentis Cura A/S (member) Vistor hf. (member) Heilsulausnir ehf. (member) Saga Medica ehf. (member) Pretium ehf. (member) Past experience Previous positions include President & EVP Strategic Projects of Actavis Plc in Iceland, a global integrated specialty pharmaceutical company; Deputy CEO and EVP Third Party Sales at Actavis Group hf.; Deputy CEO, Head of R&D, Assistant Managing Director, Development Manager, Regulatory Manager and Marketing Manager at Delta hf.; and Medical Representative at Pharmaco hf. She was the President of the European Generic Medicines Association from 2011-2013. Shares held in Össur 26,318 (incl. related parties). Ms. Eggertsdóttir holds no share options Other Ms. Eggertsdóttir has no interest links with the Company's main clients or competitors. Ms. Eggertsdóttir is an independent member of the Board.

Össur hf. Consolidated Financial Statements 31 December 2017
Össur hf. Grjothals 5 110 Reykjavik Iceland

Össur hf. Consolidated Financial Statements 31 December 2017

Table of Contents

Statement by the Board of Directors and President and CEO

1

Independent Auditor's Report

3

Consolidated Income Statement

6

Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income

7

Consolidated Balance Sheet

8

Consolidated Statements of Cash Flow

10

Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity

11

Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statement

12

Statement by the Board of Directors and President and CEO
It is the opinion of the Board of Directors and the President and CEO of Össur hf. (the Company), that these Consolidated Financial Statements present the necessary information to evaluate the financial position of the Company at year end, the operating results for the year and financial developments during the year 2017. Össur Consolidated Financial Statements are prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS) as adopted by the European Union and additional Danish disclosure requirements for listed companies and additional requirements in the Icelandic Financial Statement Act no. 3/2006.
Össur hf. designs, manufactures and sells orthopedic products specializing in prosthetics and bracing and supports solutions. The Company is headquartered in Iceland and the Company owns and operates subsidiaries in multiple countries around the world. The Company sells its products worldwide, but the principal market areas are North America and Europe.
A requirement to conclude on non-financial information has been made part of Icelandic law from 2016 as part of the implementation of EU directive 2013/34/EU that became effective for Member States in 2017. It is the Board of Directors opinion that necessary information to analyze the environmental, social and employee aspects of the business can be obtained by reviewing information in the Annual report to help provide fundamental understanding of the Company's development, performance and position on non-financial matters. Össur joined the UN Global Compact in 2011 and signed the UN Women's Empowerment Principles in 2014. Annually Össur publishes a progress report, reporting on the progress of key projects in the four categories set forth by the Global Compact; environmental concerns, labor practices, human rights and anti-corruption. Further information about Össur's corporate social responsibilities (CSR) activities can be found in the Annual report and 2017 progress report, available on the Company's website: www.ossur.com/CSR.
The total sales of the Company amounted to USD 568.6 million (2016: USD 520.8 million) and increased by 9% from the preceding year. Organic local currency sales growth was 5%. Net profit amounted to USD 57.7 million (2016: USD 51.0 million). Diluted Earnings per Share amounted to US cents 13.3 (2016: US cents 11.6). Earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization (EBITDA) amounted to USD 97.4 million (2016: USD 93.9 million).
The total assets of the Company amounted to USD 793 million at year end, liabilities were USD 292.6 million and equity was USD 500.4 million. The equity ratio at year end was 63%, same as in the preceding year.
The Company employed on average 2,948 employees in 2017 (2016: 2,710) and 2,990 at year end (2016: 2,799).
Össur is listed on the NASDAQ Copenhagen Stock Exchange. The market value of the Company at year end was USD 1,871 million and the share price in DKK increased by 6% during the year. At year end, shareholders in Össur numbered 2,550 compared to 4,014 at the beginning of the year. The decrease is due to the concentration of trading in Nasdaq Copenhagen when about 1,600 shareholders that held shares listed in Iceland were consolidated in the nominee account Clear Stream Banking. The ten largest shareholders and their ownership percentage are: William Demant Invest A/S - 47.6%, Clear Stream Banking 23.8%, JP Morgan Chase Bank - 5.6%, Arbejdsmarkedets Tillægspension (ATP) - 5.0%, Arion Bank - 3.3%, Landsbankinn Bank 3.1%, SEB Stockholm - 2.4%, Össur hf. - 2.1%, BNP Paritabs Securities Services - 0.7% and Deutsche Bank - 0.5%. William Demant Invest A/S (WDI) ownership in Össur exceeded 50% in January 2018. According to WDI's announcement, their current intention is to hold 50-60% of Össur's shares going forward and WDI has no intention of taking over Össur or delisting Össur's shares from Nasdaq Copenhagen. Furthermore, WDI has no intention of making changes to Össur's strategy, management, or operations.
A "Safe Harbor" share buyback program initiated on Nasdaq Copenhagen on 1 December 2016 ended on 14 August 2017. Össur acquired in total 2,159,883 shares under the program at the average price of DKK 29.26. On 15 August 2017 Össur initiated a new share buy-back program. The program is managed by Nordea, which make its trading decisions independently and without influence by the Company regarding the timing of the purchases. Transactions do not require clearance from the compliance officer and can be made at any time. The Company's purchases under the program are announced every Monday for the previous week. At yearend Össur had acquired 963,054 shares under the program. The purpose of the program is to reduce the Company's share capital and adjust the capital structure by distributing capital to shareholders in line with the Company's Capital Structure and Dividend Policy in addition to being able to meet the Company's share option obligations. There were no share options contracts exercised during the year.

Össur Consolidated Financial Statements 2017

1

Statement by the Board of Directors and President and CEO
In its procedures, the Board of Directors complies with the Articles of Association of the Company, the Board of Directors' Rules of Procedure and follows the Danish Recommendations for Corporate Governance issued by the Danish Committee on Corporate Governance. The Rules of Procedure address issues such as allocation of responsibilities and power of decision within the Board, independency issues, confidentiality etc. An Audit Committee is present within the Board. The Board of Directors is composed of five members elected at each Annual General Meeting for a term of one year. The Board of Directors consists of two women and three men and therefore complies with Icelandic law on gender ratio which came in effect on the 1st of September 2013. No Össur employee sits on the Board of Directors.
The Board of Directors will propose to the Annual General Meeting in 2018 that the Company pays a cash dividend of DKK 0.13 per share for 2017, corresponding to approx. USD 9.1 million or 16% of net profit in 2017. Regarding changes in the equity of the Company, the Board refers to the Notes attached to the Consolidated Financial Statements. The Board of Directors will propose to the Annual General Meeting in 2018 to reduce the share capital by ISK 6,354,662 by way of cancelling 6,354,662 of Össur's own shares of ISK 1 nominal value each. If the Annual General Meeting approves the motion, the number of outstanding shares will be 430,808,063.
The Board of Directors and President and CEO of Össur hf. hereby confirm the Consolidated Financial Statements of Össur for the year 2017 with their signatures.
Reykjavík, 5 February 2018 Board of Directors

Niels Jacobsen Chairman of the Board
Arne Boye Nielsen

Kristján T. Ragnarsson

Guðbjörg Edda Eggertsdóttir President and CEO Jón Sigurðsson

Svafa Grönfeldt

Össur Consolidated Financial Statements 2017

2

Independent Auditor`s Report
To the Shareholders of Össur hf.
Opinion We have audited the Consolidated Financial Statements of Össur hf. and its subsidiaries (the Company), which comprise the Consolidated Balance Sheet as at December 31, 2017, the Consolidated Income Statement, the Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income, the Consolidated Statement of Cash Flow, the Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity for the year then ended, and the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements, including a summary of significant accounting policies.
In our opinion, the accompanying Consolidated Financial Statements give a true and fair view of the Company's financial position at December 31, 2017, and its consolidated financial performance and its consolidated cash flows for the year then ended in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRSs) as adopted by the European Union, additional Danish disclosure requirements for listed companies and additional requirements in the Icelandic Financial Statement act no. 3/2006.
Basis for Opinion We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards on Auditing (ISAs). Our responsibilities under those standards are further described in the Auditor's Responsibilities for the Audit of the Consolidated Financial Statements section of our report. We are independent of the Group in accordance with the International Ethics Standards Board for Accountants' Code of Ethics for Professional Accountants (IESBA Code) and Icelandic Institute of State Authorized Public Accountants, Code of Ethics (FLE) and we have fulfilled our other ethical responsibilities in accordance with the IESBA and the FLE Code. We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our opinion.
Key Audit Matters Key audit matters are those matters that, in our professional judgment, were of most significance in our audit of the Consolidated Financial Statements of the current period. These matters were addressed in the context of our audit of the Consolidated Financial Statements as a whole, and in forming our opinion thereon, and we do not provide a separate opinion on these matters.
Impairment of goodwill and other indefinite useful life intangible assets Book value of goodwill and other indefinite useful life intangible assets at year end amounted to USD 414.7 million. The current year increase in the goodwill balance is USD 20.5 million, primarily due to change in purchase price allocation that was provisionally finalized in 2016 and net exchange rate difference.
The management consider that each geographical segment constitutes its own cash generating unit (`CGU').
The key assumptions applied by the managements in the impairment reviews are: segment specific discount rates; -- future revenue growth; and -- expected future margins. Determining whether the carrying value of goodwill and intangible assets is recoverable requires management to make significant estimates regarding the future cash flows, discount rates and long-term growth rates based on management's view of future business prospects. Determining whether the carrying value of goodwill and intangible assets is recoverable requires management to make significant estimates regarding the future cash flows, discount rates and long-term growth rates based on management's view of future business prospects.
Due to the relative sensitivity of certain inputs to the impairment testing process, in particular the future cash flows of the CGUs noted above, the valuation of goodwill and other indefinite intangible assets is considered a key audit matter.
In order to address this key audit, matter we audited the assumptions used in the impairment model for goodwill and other indefinite useful life intangible assets. As part of our work, we engaged our internal specialists to assist with:
· Critically evaluating whether the model used by management to calculate the value in use of the individual Cash Generating Units (CGU's) complies with the requirements of IAS 36 Impairment of Assets; · Validating the assumptions used to calculate the discount rates and recalculating these rates; · Considering the projected future cash flows, understood variances between the forecast and actual results for the year ended 31 December 2017 and compared the forecast growth trends to historic trends; · Comparing the long-term growth rates for each CGU to external market data; · Access the appropriateness of the sensitivities applied by management to the impairment testing model including considering whether the scenarios represented reasonably possible changes in key assumptions. Performed further sensitivities based on recent trading activity and our understanding of the future prospects to identify whether these scenarios could give rise to further impairment; and · Analysing the future projected cash flows used in the models to determine whether they are reasonable and supportable given the current macroeconomic climate and expected future performance of the CGU's.
We also reviewed the disclosures presented in note 11 to the Consolidated Financial Statements to confirm compliance with the requirements within IAS 36.

Össur Consolidated Financial Statements 2017

3

Independent Auditor`s Report
Other information Management is responsible for other information. Other information comprises the Company announcement for Q4 and full year result 2017 as well as Statement by the Board of Directors and President and CEO. Our opinion on the Consolidated Financial Statements does not cover the other information and we do not express any form of assurance conclusion thereon except the confirmation regarding Statement of Board of Director and President and CEO as stated below.
In connection with our audit of the Consolidated Financial Statements, our responsibility is to read the other information and, in doing so, consider whether the other information is materially inconsistent with the Consolidated Financial Statements or our knowledge obtained in the audit or otherwise appears to be materially misstated. If, based on the work we have performed, we conclude that there is a material misstatement of this other information, we are required to report that fact. We have nothing to report in this regard.
In accordance with Paragraph 2 article 104 of the Icelandic Financial Statement act no. 3/2006, we confirm to the best of our knowledge that the accompanying report of the Board of Directors and President and CEO includes all information required by the Icelandic Financial Statement Act that is not disclosed elsewhere in the Consolidated Financial Statements.
Responsibilities of management and those charged with governance for the Consolidated Financial Statements Management is responsible for the preparation and fair presentation of the Consolidated Financial Statements in accordance with IFRS as adopted by the European Union, additional Danish disclosure requirements for listed companies and additional requirements in the Icelandic Financial Statement act no. 3/2006, and for such internal control as management determines is necessary to enable the preparation of Consolidated Financial Statements that are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error.
In preparing the Consolidated Financial Statements, management is responsible for assessing the Group's ability to continue as a going concern, disclosing, as applicable, matters related to going concern and using the going concern basis of accounting unless management either intends to liquidate the Group or to cease operations, or has no realistic alternative but to do so.
Those charged with governance are responsible for overseeing the Group's financial reporting process.
Auditor's responsibilities for the audit of the Consolidated Financial Statements Our objectives are to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the Consolidated Financial Statements as a whole are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error, and to issue an auditor's report that includes our opinion. Reasonable assurance is a high level of assurance, but is not a guarantee that an audit conducted in accordance with ISAs will always detect a material misstatement when it exists. Misstatements can arise from fraud or error and are considered material if, individually or in the aggregate, they could reasonably be expected to influence the economic decisions of users taken on the basis of these Consolidated Financial Statements.
As part of an audit in accordance with ISAs, we exercise professional judgment and maintain professional scepticism throughout the audit. We also:
· Identify and assess the risks of material misstatement of the Consolidated Financial Statements, whether due to fraud or error, design and perform audit procedures responsive to those risks, and obtain audit evidence that is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our opinion. The risk of not detecting a material misstatement resulting from fraud is higher than for one resulting from error, as fraud may involve collusion, forgery, intentional omissions, misrepresentations, or the override of internal control. · Obtain an understanding of internal control relevant to the audit in order to design audit procedures that are appropriate in the circumstances, but not for the purpose of expressing an opinion on the effectiveness of the Company's internal control. · Evaluate the appropriateness of accounting policies used and the reasonableness of accounting estimates and related disclosures made by management. · Conclude on the appropriateness of management's use of the going concern basis of accounting and, based on the audit evidence obtained, whether a material uncertainty exists related to events or conditions that may cast significant doubt on the Company's ability to continue as a going concern. If we conclude that a material uncertainty exists, we are required to draw attention in our auditor's report to the related disclosures in the Consolidated Financial Statements or, if such disclosures are inadequate, to modify our opinion. Our conclusions are based on the audit evidence obtained up to the date of our auditor's report. However, future events or conditions may cause the Company to cease to continue as a going concern. · Evaluate the overall presentation, structure and content of the Consolidated Financial Statements, including the disclosures, and whether the Consolidated Financial Statements represent the underlying transactions and events in a manner that achieves fair presentation. · Obtain sufficient appropriate audit evidence regarding the financial information of the entities or business activities within the Company to express an opinion on the Consolidated Financial Statements. We are responsible for the direction, supervision and performance of the Company audit. We remain solely responsible for our audit opinion.

Össur Consolidated Financial Statements 2017

4

Independent Auditor`s Report
We communicate with those charged with governance regarding, among other matters, the planned scope and timing of the audit and significant audit findings, including any significant deficiencies in internal control that we identify during our audit.
We also provide those charged with governance with a statement that we have complied with relevant ethical requirements regarding independence, and to communicate with them all relationships and other matters that may reasonably be thought to bear on our independence, and where applicable, related safeguards.
From the matters communicated with those charged with governance, we determine those matters that were of most significance in the audit of the Consolidated Financial Statements of the current period and are therefore the key audit matters. We describe these matters in our auditor's report unless law or regulation precludes public disclosure about the matter or when, in extremely rare circumstances, we determine that a matter should not be communicated in our report because the adverse consequences of doing so would reasonably be expected to outweigh the public interest benefits of such communication.

Kópavogur, 5 February 2018 Deloitte ehf.
Þorsteinn Pétur Guðjónsson State Authorized Public Accountant

Signý Magnúsdóttir State Authorized Public Accountant

Össur Consolidated Financial Statements 2017

5

Consolidated Income Statement 2017 and 2016
All amounts in USD '000 Net sales Cost of goods sold Gross profit
Other income / (expenses) Sales and marketing expenses Research and development expenses General and administrative expenses Earnings before interest and tax (EBIT)
Financial income Financial expenses Net exchange rate difference Net financial income / (expenses)
Share in net profit / (loss) of associated companies
Earnings before tax (EBT)
Income tax
Net profit
Attributable to: Owners of the Company Non-controlling interests
Earnings per share Basic earnings per share (US cent) Diluted earnings per share (US cent)

Notes 2

2017
568,621 (213,832) 354,789

(39) (187,348)
(28,910) (63,672)
74,820

850

(3,998)

(3,087)

7

(6,235)

14

157

68,742

8

(11,081)

2016 520,748 (192,310) 328,438
150 (175,156)
(23,166) (58,095) 72,171
1,001 (3,797)
315 (2,481)
(1,273)
68,417
(17,419)

57,661

50,998

57,645 16
57,661

51,029 (31)
50,998

9

13.4 13.3

11.6 11.6

Össur Consolidated Financial Statements 2017

6

Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income 2017 and 2016

All amounts in USD '000
Net profit Items that may be reclassified subsequently to profit or loss: Change in cash flow hedges Exchange differences on translating foreign operations Income tax relating to components of other comprehensive income Other comprehensive income, net of income tax
Total comprehensive income
Attributable to: Owners of the Company Non-controlling interests

Notes

2017 57,661

2016 50,998

(801) 18,470

44 (12,028)

847 18,516

314 (11,670)

76,177

39,328

76,161 16
76,177

39,359 (31)
39,328

Össur Consolidated Financial Statements 2017

7

Consolidated Balance Sheet 31 December 2017 and 31 December 2016

Assets
All amounts in USD '000
Property, plant and equipment Goodwill Other intangible assets Investment in associates Other financial assets Deferred tax assets Non-current assets
Inventories Accounts receivables Other assets Bank balances and cash Current assets

Notes

31.12.2017

10

55,981

11

414,663

12

45,013

14

14,740

15

7,119

23

23,322

560,838

16

82,291

17

93,058

18

19,577

19

37,272

232,198

31.12.2016
52,837 394,123
45,592 12,912
6,464 23,739 535,667
75,296 82,109 18,233 35,091 210,729

Total assets

793,036

746,396

Össur Consolidated Financial Statements 2017

8

Consolidated Balance Sheet 31 December 2017 and 31 December 2016

Equity and liabilities
All amounts in USD '000
Issued capital and share premium Reserves Retained earnings Equity attributable to owners of the Company Non-controlling interest Total equity
Borrowings Deferred tax liabilities Provisions Other financial liabilities Non-current liabilities
Borrowings Accounts payable Taxes payable Provisions Accrued salaries and related expenses Other liabilities Current liabilities

Notes 20
22 23 24 25
22
24 27

31.12.2017
113,524 (32,936) 419,334 499,922
539 500,461
133,487 22,308 6,716 3,222
165,733
25,198 23,448 10,116
4,314 35,185 28,581 126,842

Total equity and liabilities

793,036

31.12.2016
149,606 (52,867) 369,689 466,428
763 467,191
130,095 28,626 6,519 0
165,240
24,430 17,810
8,152 5,741 30,844 26,988 113,965
746,396

Össur Consolidated Financial Statements 2017

9

Consolidated Statement of Cash Flow 2017 and 2016
All amounts in USD '000
Earnings before interests and tax (EBIT) Depreciation and amortization Loss on disposal of assets Change in provisions Change in inventories Change in receivables Change in payables Cash generated by operations Interest received Interest paid Income tax paid Net cash provided by operating activities
Purchase of fixed and intangible assets Proceeds from sale of fixed assets Acquisition of subsidiaries Changes in financial assets Cash flows (to) / from investing activities
Proceeds from long-term borrowings Repayments of long-term borrowings Changes in revolving credit facility Payment of dividends Increase in subsidiaries that does not affect control Change in treasury shares Cash flows (to) / from financing activities
Net change in cash Effects of exchange rate changes on: Balance of cash held in foreign currencies Other items held in foreign currencies Cash at beginning of period Cash at end of period

Notes

2017

10, 12

74,820 22,555
72 (875) (2,894) (5,628) 1,691 89,741 1,742 (4,637) (12,962)
73,884

10, 12

(19,152) 34
(667) 343
(19,442)

774 (25,610)
13,292 (7,340) (1,419) (36,083) (56,386)
(1,944)

2,837 1,288 35,091
37,272

2016
72,171 21,697
57 1,481 (6,438) (2,724) 1,487 87,731
753 (3,216) (18,956) 66,312
(24,583) 71
(51,552) (10,880) (86,944)
53,357 (7,490) 21,898 (7,813)
(302) (27,750) 31,900
11,268
673 (2,557) 25,707 35,091

Össur Consolidated Financial Statements 2017

10

Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity 2017 and 2016

All amounts in USD '000

Share capital

Balance at 1 January 2016

4,986

Net profit

Change in cash flow hedges

Translation difference of shares in foreign operations

Total comprehensive income for the period

0

Share premium
169,538

Statutory Share option

reserve

reserve

1,267

856

0

0

0

Fair value reserve 51
32
32

Translation reserve

Attributable to

Accumulated

owners of

profits

the parent

(44,068)
(11,702) (11,702)

329,312 51,029
51,029

461,942
51,029 32
(11,702) 39,359

Noncontrolling
interests
1,085 (31)
(31)

Total equity
463,027
50,998 32
(11,702) 39,328

Payment of dividends Share option charge for the period Share option vested during the period Change in Non-controlling interests Non controlling interest arising on acquisition Purchase of treasury shares Balance at 31 December 2016

11
(64) 4,933

Net profit

Change in cash flow hedges

Translation difference of shares in foreign operations

Total comprehensive income for the period

0

4,361 (29,226) 144,673
0

1,267 0

1,096 (399)
1,553
0

83
(801) (801)

(55,770)
19,317 19,317

(7,813) (2,807)
(32)
369,689 57,645
57,645

(7,813) 1,096 1,166 (32) 0
(29,290) 466,428
57,645 (801)
19,317 76,161

(0)
(670) 380 763 16
16

(7,813) 1,096 1,166 (702) 380
(29,290) 467,191
57,661 (801)
19,317 76,177

Payment of dividends Share option charge for the period Change in non-controlling interests Sale of treasury shares Purchase of treasury shares
Balance at 31 December 2017

(84) 4,849

510 (36,508)
108,675

1,267

1,415 2,968

(718)

(36,453)

(7,340) (685) 25
419,334

(7,340) 1,415 (685) 535
(36,592)
499,922

0 (239)
539

(7,340) 1,415 (924) 535
(36,592)
500,461

In June 2016 the Icelandic Parliament passed a legal reform of the Icelandic Financial Statements Act no. 3/2006 which became effective on January 1, 2016. The requirement is that retained earnings are separated into two categories: restricted and unrestricted retained earnings. Unrestricted retained earnings consist of undistributed profits and losses accumulated by the Company, less transfers to the Company's statutory reserve and other restricted retained earnings categories. The Company has transferred its accumulated unrealised share in profit of its subsidiaries and associates from 1 January 2016 to a restricted retained earnings account. Unrealiased share is the amount of profit in subsidiaries and associates net of received or declared dividend payments. The amount of restricted retained earnings is USD 124 million at year end (2016: USD 89 million).

Össur Consolidated Financial Statements 2017

11

Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements

1. Quarterly statements
Net sales Cost of goods sold Gross profit Gross profit margin Other income / (expenses) Sales and marketing expenses Research and development expenses General and administrative expenses EBIT Net financial income / (expenses) Net exchange rate difference Share in profit / (loss) of associated companies EBT Income tax Net profit

Full year 2017
568,621 (213,832)
354,789 62% (39)
(187,348) (28,910) (63,672) 74,820 (3,148) (3,087) 157 68,742 (11,081) 57,661

Q4 2017 153,791 (56,909) 96,882
63% (10) (49,696) (7,006) (15,623) 24,547 (620) (1,603) (31) 22,293 843 23,136

Unaudited Q3
2017 138,899 (51,832)
87,067 63% (21)
(45,762) (7,667)
(17,298) 16,319 (964) (461) 88 14,982 (3,835) 11,147

Q2 2017 144,925 (55,774) 89,151
62% (41) (46,879) (7,383) (15,889) 18,959 (741) (640)
86 17,664 (4,455) 13,209

Q1 2017 131,006 (49,317) 81,689
62% 33 (45,011) (6,854) (14,862) 14,995 (823) (383) 14 13,803 (3,634) 10,169

EBITDA EBITDA margin EBITDA before special items EBITDA margin before special items

97,375 17%
102,955 18%

30,438 20%
30,438 20%

22,066 16%
25,066 18%

24,440 17%
27,020 19%

20,431 16%
20,431 16%

EBITDA is calculated as earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation, and amortization. Financial items and share in net profit or loss of associated companies are not included in the EBITDA measurement.
Management monitors the performance measure EBITDA before special items, at a consolidated level and considers the measure relevant to an understanding of the Group's financial performance as it facilitates a better comparison of the Consolidated Income Statement between periods. Special items comprise material amounts of a non-recurring nature, such as costs relating to divestment, closure or restructuring, lawsuits, etc. Management reviews items presented as special items and considers whether such items are part of ordinary operations or not.

2. Net sales

Specified according to geographical segments: EMEA Americas APAC
Specified according to product lines: Bracing and Supports Prosthetics Other products

2017
281,075 246,343
41,203 568,621

2016
252,362 234,287
34,099 520,748

285,423 282,380
818 568,621

279,692 240,003
1,053 520,748

Össur Consolidated Financial Statements 2017

12

Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements

3. Segment information
Information reported to the President and CEO for the purposes of resource allocation and assessment of segment performance focuses on geographical markets from the location of customers. The geographical segments are EMEA (Europe Middle-East and Africa), Americas and APAC (Asia-Pacific).

2017 Sales External sales Inter-segment sales Total sales

Americas
246,343 69,559
315,902

EMEA
281,075 347,601 628,676

APAC Eliminations Consolidated

41,203 6,059
47,262

0 (423,219) (423,219)

568,621 0
568,621

Results Segment results Net financial income / (expenses) Share in net profit of associated companies EBT Income tax Net profit

30,355

38,743

5,722

0

74,820

(6,235)

157

68,742

(11,081)

57,661

Balance sheet 31.12.2017
Assets Segment assets
Liabilities Segment liabilities
Other information 2017 Capital additions Depreciation and amortization

366,162

387,623

39,251

0

68,478

219,391

4,706

0

5,900

12,731

521

0

7,374

14,662

519

0

Sales of approximately USD 27 million (2016: USD 23 million) arose from sales to the Company's largest customer.

793,036
292,575
19,152 22,555

2016 Sales External sales Inter-segment sales Total sales
Results Segment results Net financial income/(expenses) Share in net profit of associated companies EBT Income tax Net profit
Balance sheet 31.12.2016
Assets Segment assets
Liabilities Segment liabilities
Other information 2016 Capital additions Depreciation and amortization

Americas 234,287 59,390 293,677
31,669

EMEA 252,362 244,551 496,913
35,274

APAC Eliminations Consolidated

34,099 854
34,953

0 (304,795) (304,795)

520,748 0
520,748

5,228

0

72,171

(2,481)

(1,273)

68,417

(17,419)

50,998

355,293
83,001
10,041 7,215

359,782
191,963
13,959 14,012

31,321
4,241
583 470

0

746,396

0

279,205

0

24,583

0

21,697

Össur Consolidated Financial Statements 2017

13

Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements
4. Sales and expenses split by main currencies
Sales USD EUR ISK Nordic curr. (SEK, NOK, DKK) Other (GBP, AUD, CAD & Other)
COGS and OPEX USD EUR ISK Nordic curr. (SEK, NOK, DKK) Other (GBP, MXN, CAD & Other)

LCY 230,821 141,606 216,389
194,442 97,428
5,990,569

2017 USD
230,821 159,830
2,027 81,539 94,404 568,621
194,442 110,008
56,096 74,769 58,486 493,801

%
41% 28%
0% 14% 17% 100%
39% 22% 11% 15% 12% 100%

Sales USD EUR ISK Nordic curr. (SEK, NOK, DKK) Other (GBP, AUD, CAD & Other)
COGS and OPEX USD EUR ISK Nordic curr. (SEK, NOK, DKK) Other (GBP, MXN, CAD & Other)

LCY 223,043 127,566 223,511
182,233 87,803
5,797,617

2016 USD
223,043 141,117
1,862 74,633 80,093 520,748
182,233 97,843 47,907 68,618 51,976
448,577

LCY amounts are translated at average exchange rates for relevant periods. Forward exchange contracts are not considered in this note. See further information on forward exchange contracts in note 30.4. Currency split of newly acquired companies is derived by using best available information at each time.

5. Salaries
Salaries Salary-related expenses

2017 186,920
37,933 224,853

Included in salary-related expense are pension related expenses amounting to USD 11.0 million (2016: USD 8.4 million).

Full time employees (FTE) on average Full time employees at period end

2,948 2,990

%
43% 27%
1% 14% 15% 100%
40% 22% 11% 15% 12% 100%
2016 160,874
32,645 193,519
2,710 2,799

Össur Consolidated Financial Statements 2017

14

Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements

Salaries and salary-related expenses, classified by functional category:
Cost of goods sold Sales and marketing expenses Research and development expenses General and administrative expenses

Management salaries and benefits
Board of Directors: Niels Jacobsen - Chairman of the Board(i) Kristján Tómas Ragnarsson - Vice Chairman Arne Boye Nielsen Guðbjörg Edda Eggertsdóttir Svafa Grönfeldt

Salaries

2017

2016

91

89

55

53

37

36

37

36

37

36

2017 67,453 103,643 19,328 34,429 224,853

2016 54,967 94,883 13,204 30,465 193,519

Shares owned (ii)

2017

2016

208,237,072

188,154,919

619,539

619,539

0

0

26,318

26,318

0

0

The Board of Directors did not hold any share option contracts at the end of the current period nor at the end of the prior year period.
(i) Shares owned by William Demant Invest A/S which Niels Jacobsen represents on the Board. Niels and financially related parties own personally 192,105 shares. (ii) Shares owned are displayed in total number of owned shares, not rounded to the nearest thousand.

2017
Executive Management: Jón Sigurðsson President and CEO(i) Executive management (8 people) (ii

Fixed base salary
992 2,131 3,122

Cash based incentive
594 424 1,019

Pension
0 189 189

Other benefits

Share based incentive

Total remuneration

153 219 372

349 691 1,041

2,088 3,654 5,742

2016 Executive Management:

Fixed base salary

Cash based incentive

Pension

Other benefits

Share based incentive

Total remuneration

Jón Sigurðsson President and CEO(i) Executive management (6 people) (ii

949 1,914 2,863

466 370 836

0 134 134

154 169 324

292 465 757

1,861 3,052 4,913

(i) Shares owned by Jón Sigurðsson 660,708 (2016: 608,708) (ii) Shares owned by members of executive management 981,609 (2016: 895,929). The executive management team consists of six persons at each time, two executive positions changed during the year.

6. Fees to auditors
Audit of Financial Statements Other services

2017 1,153
394 1,547

2016 967 351
1,318

Össur Consolidated Financial Statements 2017

15

Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements
7. Financial income / (expenses)
Interests on bank deposits Other financial income Financial income

2017
367 483 850

2016
635 366 1,001

Interests on loans Other financial expenses Financial expenses Net exchange rate differences Net financial income / (expenses)
8. Income tax
Current tax expenses Deferred tax expenses
Profit before taxes Income tax calculated at 20% Effect of different tax rates of other jurisdictions Effect of non-deductible expenses / nontaxable income Effect of change in tax rate Other effects

(3,196) (802)
(3,998)
(3,087)
(6,235)

(2,731) (1,066) (3,797)
315
(2,481)

2017 Amount 68,742
(13,748) (3,107) 380 5,616 (222)
(11,081)

%
20% 5%
(1%) (8%)
0% 16%

2017 (15,821)
4,740 (11,081)

2016 (16,603)
(816) (17,419)

2016

Amount

%

68,417

(13,683) (2,650) (119) (175) (792)
(17,419)

20% 4% 0% 0% 1%
25%

The 20% tax rate used for 2017 and 2016 in the above tax rate reconciliation is the statutory corporate income tax rate applicable to entities subject to tax in Iceland.

Deferred tax: Origination and reversal of temporary differences Losses (recognized) and utilized Effect of changes in tax rate

2017 (876)
0 5,616 4,740

2016 (663)
22 (175) (816)

Össur Consolidated Financial Statements 2017

16

Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements

Deferred tax recognised in the Consolidated Income Statement:

2017 Goodwill Intangible assets Property, plant and equipment Tax loss carry forward Inventories Provisions Current liabilities Receivables Other Total

1.1.2017 (6,727) (5,033) (3,342) 5,689 3,623 1,404 (914) 384 29 (4,887)

Recognized in Income
statement 1,689 568 385
(4,863) 449 191
4,381 657
1,283 4,740

Recognized directly in
equity (OCI)

Acquisitions / disposals

1,543
(1,010) 533

309 195
360 864

Exc. rate difference
(42) (598)
33 105
46 21 51 (2) 150 (236)

31.12.2017 (5,080) (5,063) (2,924) 2,783 4,313 1,616 3,518 1,399 452 1,014

2016 Goodwill Intangible assets Property, plant and equipment Tax loss carry forward Inventories Provisions Current liabilities Receivables Other Total

1.1.2016 (1,443) (4,495) (3,333) 1,789 2,034 880 901 (86) 128 (3,626)

Recognized in Income
statement (5,316) 2,126 (40) 2,607 1,125 526 (1,868) 296 (272) (816)

Recognized directly in
equity (OCI)

Acquisitions / disposals

(2,743)

1,294 464

190 190

173 (812)

Exc. rate difference
32 79 31
(2) 53
1 (17) 177

31.12.2016 (6,727) (5,033) (3,342) 5,689 3,623 1,404 (914) 384 29
(4,887)

The Company has unused tax losses available for which no deferred tax asset is recognized. Per 31.12.2017 these unused tax losses amount to USD 2.9 million (2016: USD 2.7 million). Of this amount, USD 0.9 million of unused tax losses will expire in 8-10 years (2016: USD 0.9 million). The remaining tax losses carry an indefinite term.

9. Earnings per share

Net profit
Total weighted average number of ordinary shares (in thousands) Total weighted average number of shares including potential shares (in thousands) Basic earnings per share (US cent) Diluted earnings per share (US cent) Cash earnings per share Diluted cash earnings per share

2017
57,661
430,638
432,449
13.4 13.3 18.6 18.5

2016
50,998
439,259
440,678
11.6 11.6 16.5 16.5

Earnings per share before dilution is calculated as net profit, attributable to the Parent Company's shareholders, divided by the Parent Company's average number of shares outstanding for the fiscal year. Cash earnings per share is calculated the same way as earnings per share with the exception that amortization / depreciation is added to the net profit. Diluted earnings per share is calculated as net profit, attributable to the Parent Company's shareholders divided by the average number of shares outstanding plus the average number of shares that would be issued as an effect of ongoing share-based incentive programs. Diluted cash earnings per share is calculated the same way as diluted cash earnings per share with the exception that amortization/depreciation is added to the net profit. If there were potential shares redeemed or expired during the period, these are also included in the average number of shares used to calculate the earnings per share after dilution.

Össur Consolidated Financial Statements 2017

17

Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements

10. Property, plant and equipment
2017 Cost At 1 January Additions Acquired on acquisition of subsidiary Exchange rate differences Eliminated on disposal Fully depreciated assets At 31 December 2017 Depreciation At 1 January Charge for the period Exchange rate differences Eliminated on disposal Fully depreciated assets At 31 December 2017
At 31 December 2017

Buildings & sites

Machinery & equipment

Fixtures & office equip.

11,527 81 0
1,535 0 0
13,143

77,828 8,655 186 3,060
(1,158) (3,617) 84,954

30,257 2,958 0 1,204 (49) (100)
34,271

7,929 374
1,078 0 0
9,381

46,705 7,868 2,100
(1,075) (3,617) 51,981

15,875 3,544 527 (32) (100)
19,814

3,762

32,973

14,457

Computer equipment
13,182 2,828 0 460 (750)
(2,191) 13,529
9,448 1,930
296 (744) (2,191) 8,739
4,789

Depreciation classified by functional category: Cost of goods sold Sales and marketing expenses Research and development expenses General and administrative expenses
2016 Cost At 1 January Additions Acquired on acquisition of subsidiary Exchange rate differences Eliminated on disposal Fully depreciated assets At 31 December 2016 Depreciation At 1 January Charge for the period Acquired on acquisition of subsidiary Exchange rate differences Eliminated on disposal Fully depreciated assets At 31 December 2016
At 31 December 2016

2017 8,384 2,025
833 2,474 13,716

Buildings & sites

Machinery & equipment

Fixtures & office equip.

Computer equipments

11,784 178 0
(350) 0
(85) 11,527

65,266 11,447
3,529 (1,189)
(894) (331) 77,828

26,614 5,868 2,036
(1,414) (97)
(2,751) 30,257

10,249 3,276 631 (216) (390) (369)
13,182

7,913 346 0
(245) 0
(85) 7,929

38,748 7,561 2,528
(1,005) (796) (331)
46,705

14,755 3,247 1,167 (464) (79)
(2,751) 15,875

7,961 1,870
502 (142) (375) (369) 9,448

3,598

31,123

14,382

3,734

None of the Company's property, plant and equipment are pledged. Major divestments are subject to bank approval.

Total
132,794 14,522 186 6,259 (1,957) (5,908)
145,896
79,957 13,716
4,001 (1,851) (5,908) 89,915
55,981
2016 8,369 1,632
541 2,482 13,024
Total
113,913 20,769 6,196 (3,168) (1,381) (3,536)
132,794
69,377 13,024
4,197 (1,856) (1,250) (3,536) 79,957
52,837

Össur Consolidated Financial Statements 2017

18

Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements

11. Goodwill

At 1 January Arising on acquisition of subsidiaries Purchase price allocation Exchange rate differences At end of period

2017 394,123
0 2,076 18,464 414,663

2016 369,238
35,065 0
(10,180) 394,123

During the year, the Company assessed the recoverable amount of goodwill and determined that none of the Company's cash-generating units have suffered an impairment loss. Further information on the purchase price allocation in the year 2017 can be found in note 28.

11.1 Allocation of goodwill to cash-generating units The carrying amount of goodwill was allocated to the following cash-generating units:

Americas EMEA APAC

WACC % 9.3 / 8.9 8.5 / 8.1
10/ 9.4

31.12.2017 235,673 161,329 17,661 414,663

31.12.2016 221,211 157,304 15,608 394,123

The recoverable amount of the cash-generating units is determined based on a value in use calculation which uses cash flow projections based on the financial forecast for 2018 approved by management and the Board of Directors. The discount rate of 8.5 - 10.0% (2016: 8.1 - 9.4%) per annum was used.

Cash flow projections in the forecast are based on the same expected gross margins and raw materials prices throughout the period. Cash flows beyond 2022 have been extrapolated using a steady 3% per annum growth rate for all segments. This growth rate does not exceed the longterm average growth rate for the market in each market area. Management believes that any reasonable further change in the key assumptions on which recoverable amount is based would not cause the carrying amount to exceed its recoverable amount.

12. Other intangible assets
2017 Cost At 1 January Additions Additions - internally generated Fully amortized assets Exchange rate differences At 31 December 2017 Amortization At 1 January Charge for the period Fully amortized assets Exchange rate differences At 31 December 2017

Cust./distrib relationships
34,519 68 0 0
3,060 37,647
25,471 2,523 0 2,293
30,287

Patents

Software and

Trademarks

other

13,254 181 0 0
1,076 14,511

12,625 0 0 0
1,828 14,453

35,287 1,872 2,509
(1,513) 695
38,850

1,853 806 0 128
2,787

201

22,568

158

5,352

0

(1,513)

237

371

596

26,778

Total
95,685 2,121 2,509
(1,513) 6,659
105,461
50,093 8,839
(1,513) 3,029
60,448

At 31 December 2017

7,360

11,724

13,857

12,072

45,013

Amortization classified by functional category: Cost of goods sold Sales and marketing expenses Research and development expenses General and administrative expenses
Össur Consolidated Financial Statements 2017

2017 1,262 4,503 1,113 1,961 8,839

2016 1,006 5,406
505 1,756 8,673

19

Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements

2016 Cost At 1 January Additions Additions - internally generated Acquired on acquisition of subsidiary Fully amortized assets Exchange rate differences At 31 December 2016 Amortization At 1 January Charge for the period Acquired on acquisition of subsidiary Fully amortized assets Exchange rate differences At 31 December 2016

Cust./distrib relationships
30,423 41 0
5,616 0
(1,561) 34,519
22,981 3,269 45 0 (824)
25,471

Patents

Trademarks

Software and other

4,127 155 0
10,699 (441)
(1,286) 13,254

13,091 0 0
347 0
(813) 12,625

31,070 2,164 1,454 2,877
(1,662) (616)
35,287

1,693 406 263
(441) (68)
1,853

467 113
0 0 (379) 201

18,451 4,885 1,168
(1,662) (274)
22,568

Total
78,711 2,360 1,454
19,539 (2,103) (4,276) 95,685
43,592 8,673 1,476
(2,103) (1,545) 50,093

At 31 December 2016

9,048

11,401

12,424

12,719

45,592

The Gibaud trademark amounting to USD 13.4 million (2016: USD 11.8 million) is estimated to have infinitive life. The trademark has been well established within the French market since the foundation of the company in 1890.

13. The Consolidation
Össur is a limited liability company incorporated and domiciled in Iceland. The address of its registered office is Grjothals 5, Reykjavik. Its ultimate controlling party is William Demant Invest A/S. The Consolidated Financial Statements of the Company as at and for the year ended 31 December 2017 comprise the Company and its subsidiaries (together referred to as "the Company" or "Össur").

The Company is a global orthopaedics company, specializing in the design, development, manufacturing and sales of prosthetics and bracing and supports products. The Company sells its products worldwide, but the principal market areas are North America and Europe.
The Consolidated Financial Statements are presented in US dollars and all values are rounded to the nearest thousand ('000), except when otherwise indicated.
These Consolidated Financial Statements have been approved for issue by the Board of Directors and CEO on 5 February 2018. These Consolidated Financial Statements as presented in this report are subject to approval by the Annual General Meeting of Shareholders, to be held on 8 March 2018.

The Company is listed on the Nasdaq Copenhagen Stock Exchange.

The main operation is carried out in the following subsidiaries:

Name of company Össur Americas Inc Össur Australia PTY Ltd Össur Canada Inc Össur Deutschland GmbH Össur Europe BV Össur Hong Kong Ltd Össur Iberia SA Össur Iceland ehf Össur Mexico S. de R.L. de C.V. Össur Nordic AB Össur Prosth. & Rehabilition Co Ltd Össur South Africa PTY Ltd Össur UK Ltd Gibaud SAS TeamOlmed AB Touch Bionics Ltd
Össur Consolidated Financial Statements 2017

Place of registration and operation USA Australia Canada Germany Netherlands Hong Kong Spain Iceland Mexico Sweden China South Africa UK France Sweden UK

Ownership % 100% 100% 100% 100% 100% 100% 100% 100% 100% 100% 100% 100% 100% 100% 100% 100%

Principal activity Sales, R&D, distribution and services Sales, distribution and services Sales, distribution and services Sales, distribution and services Sales, distribution and services Sales, distribution and services Sales, distribution and services R&D and manufacturer Manufacturer Sales, distribution and services Sales, distribution and services Sales, distribution and services Sales, distribution and services Manufacturer, sales, R&D, distribution and services Sales, distribution and services Manufacturer and R&D
20

Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements

14. Investments in associates
At 1 January Additions Share in net profit / (loss) Impairment of associates Divident received Exchange rate differences At end of period

2017 12,912
3,053 2,607 (2,450) (1,396)
14 14,740

The Company has guaranteed credit lines of approximately USD 0.1 million (2016: USD 2.9 million) for its associates.

2016 8,355 5,831 (1,273)
0 0 (1) 12,912

15. Other financial assets

Restricted cash Loans and receivables

31.12.2017 1,023 6,096
7,119

31.12.2016 906
5,558 6,464

16. Inventories
Raw material Work in progress Finished goods

31.12.2017 19,405 5,644 57,242 82,291

31.12.2016 16,338 5,022 53,936 75,296

Inventories of USD 5.8 million (2016: USD 5.9 million) are expected to be sold or used in production after more than twelve months.
In the preparation of the Consolidated Financial Statements, accumulated gains in inventories from intercompany transactions amounting to USD 19.7 million (2016: USD 16.2 million) were eliminated. This has an effect on the income tax expense of the consolidated companies, and an adjustment of USD 5.2 million (2016: USD 4.7 million) is made in the Consolidated Financial Statements to reduce income tax expense to account for this.

The cost of inventories recognized as an expense includes USD 1.6 million (2016: USD 2.0 million) in respect of write-downs of inventory to net realizable value. Reserve for obsolete inventories at year end is USD 5.2 million compared to USD 4.1 million in 2016.

17. Accounts receivables

Nominal value Allowances for doubtful accounts Allowances for sales return

31.12.2017 98,091 (3,958) (1,075) 93,058

31.12.2016 86,774 (3,561) (1,104) 82,109

The average credit period on sales of goods is 51 days (2016: 47 days). Allowance has been made for doubtful accounts and sales returns, this allowance has been determined by management in reference to past default experience. Management considers that the carrying amount of receivables approximates their fair value.

Aging of accounts receivables Less than three months Three to six months Six to nine months Older than nine months

31.12.2017 86,206 6,724 1,224 3,937 98,091

31.12.2016 73,084 6,486 1,753 5,451 86,774

Össur Consolidated Financial Statements 2017

21

Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements

Movement in the allowance for doubtful accounts At 1 January Impairment (losses)/gains recognized on receivables Amounts written off as uncollectable Exchange rate difference At end of period

2017 (3,561)
(467) 270
(200) (3,958)

2016 (2,183) (1,516)
96 42 (3,561)

In determining the recoverability of accounts receivable, the Company considers any change in the credit quality of the accounts receivable from the date credit was initially granted up to the reporting date. The concentration of credit risk is limited due to the customer base being large and unrelated. Accordingly, management believe that there is no further credit provision required in excess of the allowance for doubtful accounts. Within accounts receivables are USD 10.5 million (2016: USD 8.9 million) with more than 30 days past due of which USD 6.6 million (2016: USD 5.4 million) is considered recoverable.

18. Other assets

VAT refundable Prepaid expenses Taxes receivable Other

31.12.2017 2,741
12,594 40
4,202 19,577

31.12.2016 2,915
10,959 251
4,108 18,233

19. Bank balances and cash
Bank accounts Bankers draft received Cash and other cash equivalents

31.12.2017 33,584 3,536 152 37,272

31.12.2016 32,171 2,867 53 35,091

20. Issued capital and share premium
Common stock is as follows in thousands of shares:
Balance at 1 January 2016 Cancellation of own shares Sold treasury shares Purchased treasury shares Balance at 31 December 2016 Cancellation of own shares Sold treasury shares Purchased treasury shares Balance at 31 December 2017

Issued shares 446,293 (3,292)
443,001 (5,838)
437,163

Treasury shares (2,592) 3,292 1,300 (7,838) (5,838) 5,838 145 (9,225)
(9,080)

Total 443,701
0 1,300 (7,838) 437,163
0 145 (9,225) 428,083

In accordance with resolutions from the Annual General Meeting on 9 March 2017, the share capital was decreased in April by ISK 5,837,832 by cancelling the Company's own shares of ISK 1 nominal value each.
The Company currently holds 9,079,662 own shares. In August 2017 the Company initiated a new share buyback program where it may purchase up to 5,000,000 shares, corresponding to 1% of the current share capital. At year-end 963,057 shares have been purchased.

Össur Consolidated Financial Statements 2017

22

Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements
Movement in issued capital is as follows in USD thousands:
Balance at 1 January 2016 Sold treasury shares Purchased treasury shares Balance at 31 December 2016 Sold treasury shares Purchased treasury shares Balance at 31 December 2017

Share capital
4,986 11
(64) 4,933
0 (84) 4,849

Share premium
169,538 4,361
(29,226) 144,673
510 (36,508) 108,675

Total 174,524
4,372 (29,290) 149,606
510 (36,592) 113,524

21. Share option contracts

The Company has in place a share option plan, approved at the Company's Annual General Meetings, under which managers may be granted options to purchase ordinary shares at an exercise price, determined by the average closing price on shares traded in the OMX Copenhagen stock exchange over the 20 trading days prior to the issue date. The employee must remain continuously employed with the Company until expiring date, either as an employee or in any other way, deemed satisfactory by the Company. Each employee share option converts into one ordinary share on exercise. No amounts are paid or payable by the recipient on receipt of the option. The options carry neither rights to dividends nor voting rights and are valued using the Black-Scholes pricing model. The expected volatility assumptions used to value the options range from 26.9% to 28.0% and the annual discount rate range from -0.6% to -0.3%. The options expire one year after the exercise date. If a share option vests during a closed period for insider trading the vesting period is automatically extended until the next open window for insider trading.

The following share-based payment arrangements were in existence at balance sheet date:

Number of shares

Grant/Issue year

Exercise Exercise year price (in DKK)

Fair value at grant date (in DKK)

Issued to executive management:
Jón Sigurðsson President and CEO Members of executive management (6 persons) Members of executive management (6 persons) Members of executive management (3 persons)

1,250,000 875,000 975,000 675,000
3,775,000

2015 / 2016 2015 2016 2017

2018 / 2019 2018 2019 2020

21.9 / 25.9 19.4 / 21.9 22.4 / 26.8
25.0

24.1 / 25.8 19.0 / 24.1 23.0 / 26.9
26.1

Issued to management team: Seventeen managers Fourteen managers Seven managers

1,175,000 900,000 300,000
2,375,000

2015 2016 2017

2018 2019 2020

19.4 / 23.9 22.4 - 26.8 25,0 - 30,1

19.0 / 24.1 23.0 - 26.9 26,1 - 29,9

Total issued option contracts

6,150,000

Movements in share options during the period:
Outstanding at beginning of period Granted during period Forfeited during period Exercised during period Outstanding at end of period

2017

Weighted

average

Number of shares

contract rate (in DKK)

5,300,000 975,000
(125,000)

23.2 26.9 24.3

6,150,000

23.8

2016

Weighted

average

Number of shares

contract rate (in DKK)

4,050,000 2,550,000
0 (1,300,000) 5,300,000

17.0 25.3
0.0 7.8 23.2

There were no share options contracts exercised during the period.
Estimated remaining cost due to the share option contracts is USD 1.8 million. An expense of USD 1.4 million (2016: USD 1.1 million) is recognized in the Income Statement for the period. Exercise period of the share options contracts is 2018-2020.

Össur Consolidated Financial Statements 2017

23

Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements

22. Borrowings

31.12.2017

Current

Non-current

31.12.2016

Current

Non-current

Loans in USD Loans in EUR Revolver in USD Revolver in EUR

12,570 12,628
0 0 25,198

831 59,699 52,000 20,957 133,487

12,568 11,862
0 0 24,430

12,280 64,660 22,850 30,305 130,095

The current borrowings amounting to USD 25 million matures on 31.3.2018. The maturity of the revolving credit facility is Q2 2019. The Company has classified the revolving credit facility as non-current liability as the intention is to use it to finance further growth of the Company.
Aggregated maturities of borrowings are as follows:

In 2018 / 2017 In 2019 / 2018 In 2020 / 2019 In 2021 / 2020 Later

31.12.2017 25,198 85,701 11,914 11,866 24,006
158,685

31.12.2016 24,430 24,630 63,674 10,125 31,666
154,525

Össur has a facility with ING, Nordea and SEB for a total amount of USD 170m (2016: USD 183m) as well as a EUR 50m (2016: EUR 50m) term loan with the Nordic Investment Bank. Both the facility and the term loan contain covenants that place various financial and operational restrictions on the company and are in line with market standards for investment grade rated companies. Current weighted average interest terms are <100 bps +LIBOR/EURIBOR, changing in line with financial leverage.

The table below shows how cash and non-cash changes affect borrowings within the Company.

Borrowings

31.12.2016 154,525

Cash flows (11,544)

Non-cash changes Acquisition Exchange rate

Transaction cost

0

15,295

409

31.12.2017 158,685

23. Deferred tax asset / (liability)
At beginning of period Income tax payable for the period Calculated tax for the period Arising on acquisition of a subsidiary Recognized directly through equity Exchange rate differences At end of period
Deferred tax in the balance sheet: Deferred tax asset Deferred tax liabilities

2017 (4,887) 15,821 (11,081)
864 533 (236) 1,014
23,322 (22,308)
1,014

2016 (3,626) 16,603 (17,419)
(812) 190 177
(4,887)
23,739 (28,626) (4,887)

Össur Consolidated Financial Statements 2017

24

Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements
The following are the major deferred tax liabilities and assets recognized:
31.12.2017 Goodwill Intangible assets Property, plant and equipment Tax loss carry forward Inventories Provisions Current liabilities Receivables Other Total tax assets / (liabilities) Tax asset and liabilities offsetting
31.12.2016 Goodwill Intangible assets Property, plant and equipment Tax loss carry forward Inventories Provisions Current liabilities Receivables Other Total tax assets / (liabilities) Tax asset and liabilities offsetting
24. Provisions
2017 At 1 January Additional provision recognized Utilization of provision Exchange rate differences At 31 December 2017
Non-current Current At 31 December 2017
2016 At 1 January Additional provision recognized Utilization of provision Exchange rate differences At 31 December 2016
Non-current Current At 31 December 2016
Össur Consolidated Financial Statements 2017

Assets 9,117
767 147 2,783 4,313 1,621 4,686 1,486 1,259 26,179 (2,857) 23,322
Assets 7,773 1,201
21 5,689 3,623 1,419 3,051
418 852 24,047 (308) 23,739

Liabilities (14,197) (5,830) (3,071) 0 0 (5) (1,168) (87) (807) (25,165) 2,857
(22,308)
Liabilities (14,500) (6,234) (3,363) 0 0 (15) (3,965) (34) (823) (28,934) 308
(28,626)

Net (5,080) (5,063) (2,924)
2,783 4,313 1,616 3,518 1,399
452 1,014
0 1,014
Net (6,727) (5,033) (3,342)
5,689 3,623 1,404 (914)
384 29
(4,887) 0
(4,887)

Warranty provisions
5,356 4,940 (3,995)
11 6,312
3,062 3,250 6,312
Warranty provisions
5,029 1,811 (1,450)
(34) 5,356
1,895 3,461 5,356

Other provisions
6,904 3,970 (6,494)
338 4,718

Total 12,260
8,910 (10,489)
349 11,030

3,654 1,064 4,718

6,716 4,314 11,030

Other provisions
2,928 5,932 (1,885)
(71) 6,904

Total 7,957 7,743 (3,335) (105) 12,260

4,624 2,280 6,904

6,519 5,741 12,260

25

Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements
The warranty provision represents management's best estimate of the Company's liability under warranties granted on prosthetic products, based on past experience.
25. Other financial liabilities
Other financial liabilities consist of fair value of hedge contracts, fair value of a purchase option of minority shares and deferred income.

26. Related party transactions
Balances and transactions between the Company and its subsidiaries, which are related parties of the Company, have been eliminated in consolidation and are not disclosed in this note.

The Company engages in transactions with some of its associated companies and other related parties. The transactions consist of, among others, sale of Össur products where commercial terms and market prices apply.

Transactions and balances with related parties:
Sales of products Receivables at 31 December Other financial assets at 31 December

2017 5,256 1,510 4,798

2016 5,898 1,207 4,888

For disclosures relating to key management positions, refer to note 5.

27. Other liabilities

Accrued expenses Accrued royalties Sales tax and VAT Other

31.12.2017 20,117 793 4,789 2,882 28,581

31.12.2016 17,420 684 3,458 5,426 26,988

28. Business combinations
In 2016 Össur acquired 100% of the share capital in Touch Bionics Limited and 100% of the share capital in Medi Prosthetics. The initial accounting for the acquisitions was provisionally determined at year end 2016. The final fair value of assets and liabilities have been determined based on management best estimate. None of the goodwill arising on this acquisitions is expected to be deductible for tax purposes. Changes from the preliminary fair value assessment done at end of 2016 is that fair value of accounts receivables and inventory have been lowered by a total of USD 2.7 million. Comparative amounts in the Balance sheet have not been adjusted for this change.
Assets acquired and liabilities recognized at the date of acquisition:

Current assets Non-current assets Non-current liability Current liabilities

Book value at acquisition date
18,570 6,190
(7,442) (9,897) 7,041

Fair value changes
(Original 2016)
0 16,304 (1,342) (1,723) 13,239

Fair value changes
(Change 2017)
(2,650) 0
574 0
(2,076)

Total fair value
15,920 22,494 (8,210) (11,620) 18,584

Consideration paid in cash Book value of identifiable net assets acquired Fair value of identifiable net assets acquired
Goodwill arising on acquisition

55,345 (7,041) (11,164)
37,141

Össur Consolidated Financial Statements 2017

26

Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements

29. Events after the reporting period
William Demant Invest A/S (WDI) has been a shareholder in the Company since 2004. In 2012 WDI made a voluntary public offer for shares in the Company to ensure flexibility for WDI as a controlling shareholder and so WDI would not become subject to a mandatory public offer later. At the time WDI intended to hold an average of 40-50% of the Company's shares. WDI's ownership in the Company exceeded 50% in January 2018. According to their announcement, WDI's current intention is to hold 50-60% of the Company's shares going forward. WDI has no intention of taking over the Company or delisting the Company's shares from Nasdaq Copenhagen. Furthermore, WDI has no intention of making changes to the Company's strategy, management, or operations.

30. Financial instruments
30.1 Capital risk management
The Company manages capital to ensure that affiliates within the consolidation will be able to continue as a going concern while maximizing the return to stakeholders through the optimization of the debt and equity balance. The Company's overall strategy remains unchanged from 2016.
The capital structure of the Company consists of debt, which includes the borrowings disclosed in note 22, cash and cash equivalents and equity attributable to equity holders of the parent, comprising issued capital, reserves and retained earnings as disclosed in the equity overview.
Net debt to EBITDA before special items ratio The Company's management continuously reviews the capital structure. As a part of this review, the management considers, amongst other, the cost of capital and net debt to EBITDA before special items.

The net debt to EBITDA before special items at period end was as follows:
Net debt EBITDA before special items Net debt/EBITDA before special items

31.12.2017 121,413 102,955 1.2

31.12.2016 119,434 98,476 1.2

30.2 Significant accounting policies
Details of the significant accounting policies and methods adopted, including the criteria for recognition, the basis of measurement and the basis on which income and expenses are recognized, in respect of each class of financial asset, financial liability and equity instrument are disclosed in note 35 to the Consolidated Financial Statements.

30.3 Financial risk management objectives
The Company's Corporate Finance function provides services to the business, co-ordinates access to domestic and international financial markets, monitors and manages the financial risks relating to the operations of the Company through internal risk reports which analyze exposures by degree and magnitude of risks. These risks include liquidity risk, interest rate risk, foreign exchange risk and counterparty credit risk.
The general policy is to apply natural hedging to the extent possible but Össur has decided to amend its hedging policy and allow for active hedging of currency exposure that is not covered by the natural hedge in sales and costs by currency. The use of financial derivatives is governed by the Company's policies approved by the Board of Directors, which provide written principles on foreign exchange risk, interest rate risk, credit risk, the use of financial derivatives and non-derivative financial instruments and the investment of excess liquidity. The Company does not enter into or trade financial instruments, including derivative financial instruments, for speculative purposes.
30.4 Foreign currency risk management
The Company operates on a global market, hence exposure to exchange rate fluctuations arises. Exchange rate exposures are managed within approved policy parameters. The general policy is to apply natural exchange rate hedging to the extent possible.
In February 2017 Össur started actively hedging part of currency exposure that is not covered by the natural hedge in sales and costs by currency. The main exposure in this regard is the ISK, as Össur has very limited sales in ISK, while for 2017 11% of total costs were in ISK (see note 4). Össur has entered into forward contracts where it sells euros for ISK, covering approximately half of the estimated ISK costs in 2018. At balance sheet date Össur has twelwe forward contracts open, one for each month of 2018. The fair value of the contracts is negative of USD 0.8 million at year end 2017.

Össur Consolidated Financial Statements 2017

27

Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements

The carrying amounts of the Company's foreign currency denominated monetary assets and monetary liabilities at the reporting date are as follows:

EUR USD SEK GBP Other

Liabilities

31.12.2017

31.12.2016

125,853

131,468

87,919

71,683

15,245

12,060

3,449

3,515

23,549

19,593

256,015

238,319

Assets

31.12.2017

31.12.2016

53,556

44,117

51,767

6,472

17,522

15,610

6,378

5,456

27,803

24,897

157,026

96,552

Foreign currency sensitivity analysis The Company is mainly exposed to the fluctuation of the Iceland (ISK) and the Eurozone (EUR) currency.

The following table details the Company's sensitivity to a 10% decrease in USD against the relevant foreign currencies with all other variables fixed. The sensitivity analysis includes all foreign currency denominated items and adjusts their translation at the period end for a 10% change in foreign currency rates. The table below indicates the effect on profit or loss and other equity where USD weakens 10% against the relevant currency. For a 10% strengthening of USD against the relevant currency, there would be an equal and opposite impact on the profit or loss and other equity.

EUR (i)

ISK (ii)

2017

2016

2017

2016

Net profit Equity

3,948 10,172

3,063 5,807

(4,498) (1,061)

(3,384) (700)

(i) 22% (2016: 22%) of the Company's COGS and OPEX is in EUR against 28% (2016: 27%) of its sales causing an increase in profit if the USD decreases against the EUR.
(ii) 11% (2016: 11%) of the Company's COGS and OPEX is in ISK against 0.4% (2016: 0.5%) of its sales causing a decrease in profits if the USD decreases against the ISK.
In February 2017 the Company started hedging approximately 50% of its ISK exposure using forward currency contracts. This is not considered in the above calculations.

30.5 Interest rate risk management
The Company is exposed to interest rate risks as funds are borrowed at floating interest rates. Interest rate risk is managed by the Corporate Finance function and the use of interest rate swap contracts may be used to maintain an appropriate mix between fixed and floating rate borrowings. Hedging activities are evaluated regularly to align with interest rate views and defined risk appetite, ensuring optimal hedging strategies are applied. Currently, all of the Company´s borrowings bear floating interest rates.
The Company's exposures to interest rates on financial assets and financial liabilities are detailed in the liquidity risk management section of this note.
30.6 Liquidity risk management
The Company manages liquidity risk by maintaining adequate reserves, banking facilities and reserve borrowing facilities, by monitoring forecast and actual cash flows and matching the maturity profiles of financial assets and liabilities. At period end the Company had undrawn revolving credit facilities at its disposal amounting to USD 70.9 million (2016: USD 80.8 million) to further reduce liquidity risk.
The following tables detail the Company's remaining contractual maturity for its non-derivative financial liabilities. The tables have been drawn up based on the undiscounted cash flows of financial liabilities based on the earliest date on which the Company can be required to pay. The table includes both interest and principal cash flows.

Össur Consolidated Financial Statements 2017

28

Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements

31.12.2017 Borrowings Non-interest bearing liabilities

Weighted average effective interest
1.8% -

31.12.2016 Borrowings Non-interest bearing liabilities

1.9% -

Less than 1 year
28,324 87,213 115,537
27,896 75,637 103,533

1-5 years
137,309 4,003
141,312
136,691 5
136,696

5+ years
0 0 0
0 0 0

Total
165,633 91,216
256,849
164,587 75,642
240,229

30.7 Credit risk management The Company's counterparty credit risks arise mainly from short-term investment of liquid assets.
The Company does not undertake any trading activity in financial instruments.
Accounts receivables consist of a large number of customers spread across geographical areas. Ongoing credit evaluation is performed on the financial condition of accounts receivables.

30.8 Fair value of financial instruments

Except as detailed in the following table, management considers that the carrying amounts of financial assets and financial liabilities recognized in the Consolidated Financial Statements approximate their fair values.

Financial liabilities: Borrowings

31.12.2017

Carrying amount

Fair value

158,685

159,084

31.12.2016

Carrying amount

Fair value

154,525

155,285

31. Operating lease arrangements

Payments recognized as an expense

2017 18,036

2016 14,871

Non-cancellable operating lease commitments: Less than 1 year 1 - 5 years 5+ years

31.12.2017 14,489 29,215 9,013 52,717

31.12.2016 12,752 24,591 10,985 48,328

Operating lease payments represent rentals payable by the Company for certain of its office properties and cars. More than four hundred lease agreements are in place in multiple countries. The leases expire in the periods 2018-2026.

32. Litigation
The litigation with Vincent Systems in Germany, noted in 2016 Consolidated Financial Statements, is expected to be settled in Q1 2018.

33. Insurance
Fixed assets and inventories

31.12.2017

Insurance

Book

value

value

269,320

143,157

31.12.2016

Insurance

Book

value

value

248,340

133,018

Össur Consolidated Financial Statements 2017

29

Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements
The Company has purchased a business interruption insurance intended to compensate for temporary breakdown of operations. The insurance amount is USD 481 million (2016: USD 426 million). In addition the Company has a product and professional liability insurance with a USD 30 million limit and a product recall insurance with a USD 2 million limit. The deductible amount on the product and professional liability and product recall insurances is USD 25-50 thousand.
34. Adoption of new and revised Standards
34.1 Amendments to IFRSs that are mandatorily effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2017 The following amendments to IFRSs became mandatorily effective in the current year. The application of the below amendments has minor effect on the Consolidated Financial Statements. · Amendments to IAS 7 Disclosure Initiative;
· Amendments to IAS 12 Recognition of Deferred Tax Assets for Unrealised Losses; and
· Amendments to IFRS 12 included in Annual Improvements to IFRS Standards 2014-2016 Cycle.
34.2 New and revised IFRSs that are not mandatorily effective Below is a list of new and revised IFRSs that are not yet mandatorily effective (but allow early application) for the year ending 31 December 2017:
· IFRS 9 Financial Instruments;
· IFRS 15 Revenue from Contracts with Customers and the related Clarifications;
· IFRS 16 Leases;
· Amendments to IFRS 2 Classification and Measurement of Share-based Payment Transactions;
· Amendments to IFRS 10 and IAS 28 Sale or Contribution of Assets between an Investor and its Associate or Joint Venture;
· Amendments to IAS 40 Transfers of Investment Property;
· Annual Improvements to IFRS Standards 2014-2016 Cycle; and
· IFRIC 22 Foreign Corrency Transactions and Advance Consideration.
Management of the Company have made preliminary estimate of the effect of the above changes on the Consolidated Financial Statements. They have concluded that the amendmends of the standards will have immaterial effects, except for IFRS 16. The effects of new standards are further discussed below.
IFRS 9 Financial Intruments (as revised in 2014) - Effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2018
In July 2014, the IASB finalised the reform of financial instruments accounting and issued IFRS 9, which contains the requirements for a) the classification and measurement of financial assets and financial liabilities, b) impairment methodology, and c) general hedge accounting. IFRS 9 will supersede IAS 39 Financial Instruments: Recognition and Measurement upon its effective date.
Management believes that IFRS 9 does not have material effect on amounts reported in the Consolidated Financial Statements.
IFRS 15 Revenue from Contracts with Customers - Effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2018
IFRS 15 establishes a single comprehensive model for entities to use in accounting for revenue arising from contracts with customers. It will supersede the following revenue Standards Interpretations upon its effective date, IAS 18 Revenue; IAS 11 Contstruction Contracts; IFRIC 13 Customer Loyalty Programmes; IFRIC 15 Agreements for the Construction of Real Estate; IFRIC 18 Transfers of Assets from Customers; and SIC 31 Revenue-Barter Transactions Involving Advertising Services.
Based on Össur assessment of IFRS 15 the impact is non-material and limited to revenue recognition of additional warranties for bionic products that are occasionally sold separate from the product. In 2017 the amount sold in relation to additional warranties amounted to USD 0.2 million, that under the new standard would have been deferred.

Össur Consolidated Financial Statements 2017

30

Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements
IFRS 16 Leases - Effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2019
IFRS 16 provides a comprehensive model for the identification of lease arrangements and their treatment in the financial statements of both lessees and lessors. It will supersede the following lease Standard and Interpretations upon its effective date, IAS 17 Leases; IFRIC 4 Determining whether an Arrangement contains a Lease; SIC-15 Operating Leases - Incentives; and SIC-27 Evaluating the Substance of Transactions involving the Legal Form of a Lease.
IFRS 16 introduces significant changes to lessee accounting: it removes the distinction between operating and finance leases under IAS 17 and requires a lessee to recognise a right-of-use asset and a lease liability at lease commencement for all leases, except for short-term leases or low value assets.
Össur has started an assessment of the impacts on its Consolidated Financial Statements and is implementing a new leasing system. Össur will recognize right to use assets and related liabilities. The nature of expenses related to those leases will change as IFRS 16 replaces the operating lease expense with a depreciation charge for right-of-use assets and interest expense on lease liabilities reported under financing expenses. Össur will likely use the partial retrospective application which means comparatives do not need to be restated. The partial application method also provides optional relief from reassessing whether contracts in place are, or contain, a lease, as well as other reliefs. Deciding which of these practical expedients to adopt is important as they are one-off choices.
As can be seen in note 31, Össur paid USD 18 million for lease arrangements and of that USD 15 million for facilities. Note 31 also shows noncancellable operating lease commitments amounting to USD 53 million of which USD 48 million relates to facilities.

35. Summary of Significant Accounting Policies
35.1 Statement of compliance
The Consolidated Financial Statements have been prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards as adopted by the European Union, additional Danish disclosure requirements for listed companies and additional requirements in the Icelandic Financial Statement Act no. 3/2006.
35.2 Basis of preparation
The Consolidated Financial Statements have been prepared under the historical cost basis except for certain financial instruments that are measured at fair values. Historical cost is generally based on the fair value of the consideration given in exchange for assets. Fair value is the price that would be received to sell an asset or paid to transfer a liability in an orderly transaction between market participants at the measurement date, regardless of whether that price is directly observable or estimated using another valuation technique. In estimating the fair value of an asset or a liability, the Group takes into account the characteristics of the asset or liability if market participants would take those characteristics into account when pricing the asset or liability at the measurement date. Fair value for measurement and/or disclosure purposes in these Consolidated Financial Statements is determined on such a basis, except for share-based payment transactions that are within the scope of IFRS 2, leasing transactions that are within the scope of IAS 17, and measurements that have some similarities to fair value but are not fair value, such as net realizable value in IAS 2 or value in use in IAS 36.
35.3 Basis of consolidation
The Consolidated Financial Statements incorporate the financial statements of the Company and entities controlled by the Company and its subsidiaries. Control is achieved when the Company:
· has power over the investee; · is exposed, or has rights, to variable returns from its involvement with the investee; and · has the ability to use its power to affect its returns.
The Company reassesses whether or not it controls an investee if facts and circumstances indicate that there are changes to one or more of the three elements of control listed above.
When the Company has less than a majority of the voting rights of an investee, it has power over the investee when the voting rights are sufficient to give it the practical ability to direct the relevant activities of the investee unilaterally. The Company considers all relevant facts and circumstances in assessing whether or not the Company's voting rights in an investee are sufficient to give it power, including:
· the size of the Company's holding of voting rights relative to the size and dispersion of holdings of the other vote holders; · potential voting rights held by the Company, other vote holders or other parties; · rights arising from other contractual arrangements; and · any additional facts and circumstances that indicate that the Company has, or does not have, the current ability to direct the relevant activities at the time that decisions need to be made, including voting patterns at previous shareholders' meetings.
Consolidation of a subsidiary begins when the Company obtains control over the subsidiary and ceases when the Company loses control of the subsidiary. Specifically, income and expenses of a subsidiary acquired or disposed of during the year are included in the consolidated statement of profit or loss and other comprehensive income from the date the Company gains control until the date when the Company ceases to control the subsidiary.

Össur Consolidated Financial Statements 2017

31

Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements

Profit or loss and each component of other comprehensive income are attributed to the owners of the Company and to the non-controlling interests. Total comprehensive income of subsidiaries is attributed to the owners of the Company and to the non-controlling interests even if this results in the non-controlling interests having a deficit balance.
When necessary, adjustments are made to the financial statements of subsidiaries to bring their accounting policies in line with the Company's accounting policies.
All intragroup assets and liabilities, equity, income, expenses and cash flows relating to transactions between members of the Group are eliminated in full on consolidation.
Changes in the Company's ownership interests in subsidiaries that do not result in the Group losing control over the subsidiaries are accounted for as equity transactions. The carrying amounts of the Group's interests and the non-controlling interests are adjusted to reflect the changes in their relative interests in the subsidiaries. Any difference between the amount by which the non-controlling interests are adjusted and the fair value of the consideration paid or received is recognized directly in equity and attributed to owners of the Company.
35.4 Business combination
Acquisitions of businesses are accounted for using the acquisition method. The consideration transferred in a business combination is measured at fair value, which is calculated as the sum of the acquisition-date fair values of the assets transferred by the Company, liabilities incurred by the Company to the former owners of the acquiree and the equity interests issued by the Company in exchange for control of the acquiree. Acquisition-related costs are generally recognized in profit or loss as incurred.
The acquiree's identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities that meet the conditions for recognition under IFRS 3 are recognized at their fair value at the acquisition date, except that:
· deferred tax assets or liabilities and liabilities or assets related to employee benefit arrangements are recognized and measured in accordance with IAS 12 Income Taxes and IAS 19 Employee Benefits respectively; · liabilities or equity instruments related to share-based payment arrangements of the acquiree or share-based payment arrangements of the Company entered into to replace share-based payment arrangements of the acquiree are measured in accordance with IFRS 2 Share-based Payment at the acquisition date; · assets (or disposal groups) that are classified as held for sale in accordance with IFRS 5 Non-current Assets Held for Sale and Discontinued Operations are measured in accordance with that standard.
Goodwill arising on acquisition is recognized as an asset and initially measured at cost, being the excess of the purchase price of the business combination over the Company's interest in the net fair value of the identifiable assets, liabilities, contingent liabilities, the amount of any noncontrolling interests in the acquiree, and the fair value of the acquirer's previously held equity interest in the acquiree. If, after reassessment, the Company's interest in the net fair value of the acquiree's identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities exceeds the cost of the business combination, the excess is recognized immediately in profit or loss. Non-controlling interests that are present ownership interests and entitle their holders to a proportionate share of the entity's net assets in the event of liquidation may be initially measured either at fair value or at the non-controlling interests' proportionate share of the recognized amounts of the acquiree's identifiable net assets. The choice of measurement basis is made on a transaction-by-transaction basis. Other types of non-controlling interests are measured at fair value or, when applicable, on the basis specified in another IFRS.
When the consideration transferred by the Company in a business combination includes assets or liabilities resulting from a contingent consideration arrangement, the contingent consideration is measured at its acquisition-date fair value and included as part of the consideration transferred in a business combination. Changes in the fair value of the contingent consideration that qualify as measurement period adjustments are adjusted retrospectively, with corresponding adjustments against goodwill. Measurement period adjustments are adjustments that arise from additional information obtained during the `measurement period' about facts and circumstances that existed at the acquisition date.
The subsequent accounting for changes in the fair value of the contingent consideration that do not qualify as measurement period adjustments depends on how the contingent consideration is classified. Contingent consideration that is classified as equity is not remeasured at subsequent reporting dates and its subsequent settlement is accounted for within equity. Contingent consideration that is classified as an asset or a liability is remeasured at subsequent reporting dates in accordance with IAS 39, or IAS 37 Provisions, Contingent Liabilities and Contingent Assets, as appropriate, with the corresponding gain or loss being recognized in profit or loss.
If the initial accounting for a business combination is incomplete by the end of the reporting period in which the combination occurs, the Company reports provisional amounts for the items for which the accounting is incomplete. Those provisional amounts are adjusted during the measurement period (see below), or additional assets or liabilities are recognized, to reflect new information obtained about facts and circumstances that existed at the acquisition date that, if known, would have affected the amounts recognized at that date.
When a business combination is achieved in stages, the Company's previously held equity interest in the acquire is remeasured to fair value at the acquisition date (i.e. the date when the Company obtains control) and the resulting gain or loss, if any, is recognized in profit or loss. Amounts arising from interests in the acquire prior to the acquisition date that have previously been recognized in other comprehensive income are reclassified to profit or loss where such treatment would be appropriate if that interest were disposed of.
The measurement period is the period from the date of acquisition to the date the Company obtains complete information about facts and circumstances that existed as of the acquisition date ­ and is subject to a maximum of one year.

Össur Consolidated Financial Statements 2017

32

Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements
35.5 Investments in associates
An associate is an entity over which the Company has significant influence. Significant influence is the power to participate in the financial and operating policy decisions of the investee but is not control or joint control over those policies.
The results, assets and liabilities of associates are incorporated in the Consolidated Financial Statements using the equity method of accounting. Under the equity method, investments in associates are initially recognized in the balance sheet and adjusted for post-acquisition changes in the Company's share of the net assets of the associate, less any impairment in the value of individual investments. Losses of an associate in excess of the Company's interest in that associate are recognized only to the extent that the Company has incurred legal or constructive obligations or made payments on behalf of the associate.
Any excess of the cost of acquisition over the Company's share of the net fair value of the identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities of the associate recognized at the date of acquisition is recognized as goodwill. The goodwill is included within the carrying amount of the investment and is assessed for impairment as part of that investment. Any excess of the Company's share of the net fair value of the identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities over the cost of acquisition, after reassessment, is recognized immediately in profit or loss.
The requirements of IAS 39 are applied to determine whether it is necessary to recognize any impairment loss with respect to the Company's investment in an associate. When necessary, the entire carrying amount of the investment (including goodwill) is tested for impairment in accordance with IAS 36 Impairment of Assets as a single asset by comparing its recoverable amount (higher of value in use and fair value less costs of disposal) with its carrying amount, Any impairment loss recognized forms part of the carrying amount of the investment. Any reversal of that impairment loss is recognized in accordance with IAS 36 to the extent that the recoverable amount of the investment subsequently increases.
The Company discontinues the use of the equity method from the date when the investment ceases to be an associate, or when the investment is classified as held for sale. When the Company retains an interest in the former associate and the retained interest is a financial asset, the Group measures the retained interest at fair value at that date and the fair value is regarded as its fair value on initial recognition in accordance with IAS 39. The difference between the carrying amount of the associate or joint venture at the date the equity method was discontinued, and the fair value of any retained interest and any proceeds from disposing of a part interest in the associate or joint venture is included in the determination of the gain or loss on disposal of the associate or joint venture. In addition, the Company accounts for all amounts previously recognized in other comprehensive income in relation to that associate on the same basis as would be required if that associate had directly disposed of the related assets or liabilities. Therefore, if a gain or loss previously recognized in other comprehensive income by that associate would be reclassified to profit or loss on the disposal of the related assets or liabilities, the company reclassifies the gain or loss from equity to profit or loss (as a reclassification adjustment) when the equity method is discontinued.
Where a group entity transacts with an associate of the Company, profits and losses are eliminated to the extent of the Company's interest in the relevant associate.
35.6 Goodwill
Goodwill is initially recognized as an asset at cost and is subsequently measured at cost less any accumulated impairment losses.
Goodwill is not amortized but is reviewed for impairment at least annually. For the purpose of impairment testing, goodwill is allocated to each of the Company's cash-generating units expected to benefit from the synergies of the combination. Cash-generating units to which goodwill has been allocated are tested for impairment annually, or more frequently when there is an indication that the unit may be impaired. If the recoverable amount of the cash-generating unit is less than its carrying amount, the impairment loss is allocated first to reduce the carrying amount of any goodwill allocated to the unit and then to the other assets of the unit pro-rata on the basis of the carrying amount of each asset in the unit. Any impairment loss for goodwill is recognized directly in profit or loss in the Consolidated Income Statement. An impairment loss recognized for goodwill is not reversed in a subsequent period.
On disposal of the relevant cash-generating unit, the attributable amount of goodwill is included in the determination of the profit or loss on disposal.
The Company's policy for goodwill arising on the acquisition of an associate is described at 35.5 above.
35.7 Revenue recognition
Revenue is measured at the fair value of the consideration received or receivable. Revenue is reduced for estimated customer returns, rebates and other similar allowances.
Sale of goods
Revenue from the sale of goods is recognized when all the following conditions are satisfied; the Company has transferred to the buyer the significant risks and rewards of ownership of the goods, the Company retains neither continuing managerial involvement to the degree usually associated with ownership nor effective control over the goods sold, the amount of revenue can be measured reliably, it is probable that the economic benefits associated with the transaction will flow to the entity and the costs incurred or to be incurred in respect of the transaction can be measured reliably.

Össur Consolidated Financial Statements 2017

33

Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements
Royalties
Royalty revenue is recognized on an accrual basis in accordance with the substance of the relevant agreement. Royalties determined on a time basis are recognized on a straight-line basis over the period of the agreement. Royalty arrangements that are based on production, sales and other measures are recognized by reference to the underlying arrangement (provided that it is probable that the economic benefits will flow to the Company and the amount of revenue can be measured reliably).
Interest revenue and dividend
Interest income from a financial asset is recognized when it is probable that the economic benefits will flow to the Company and the amount of income can be measured reliably. Interest income is accrued on a time basis, by reference to the principal outstanding and at the effective interest rate applicable, which is the rate that exactly discounts estimated future cash receipts through the expected life of the financial asset to that asset's net carrying amount on initial recognition. Dividend income from investments is recognized when the shareholder's right to receive payment has been established.
35.8 Leasing
Operating lease payments are recognized as an expense on a straight-line basis over the lease term, except where another systematic basis is more representative of the time pattern in which economic benefits from the leased assets are consumed. Contingent rentals arising under operating leases are recognized as an expense in the period in which they are incurred.
In the event that lease incentives are received to enter into operating leases, such incentives are recognized as a liability. The aggregate benefit of incentives is recognized as a reduction of rental expense on a straight-line basis, except where another systematic basis is more representative of the time pattern in which economic benefits from the leased assets are consumed.
35.9 Foreign currencies
For the purpose of presenting the Consolidated Financial Statements, the assets and liabilities of the Company's foreign operations are expressed in USD using exchange rates prevailing at the balance sheet date. Income and expense items are translated at the average exchange rates for each month, unless exchange rates fluctuated significantly during that period, in which case the exchange rates at the dates of the transactions are used. Exchange differences arising, if any, are classified as equity and transferred to the Company's translation reserve (attributed to noncontrolling interests as appropriate).
Goodwill and fair value adjustments arising on the acquisition of a foreign operation are treated as assets and liabilities of the foreign operation and translated at the closing rate. Exchange differences arising, if any, are recognized in equity.
On the disposal of a foreign operation (i.e. a disposal of the Company's entire interest in a foreign operation, or a disposal involving loss of control over a subsidiary that includes a foreign operation or a disposal involving loss of significant influence over an associate that includes a foreign operation) all of the exchange differences accumulated in equity in respect of that operation attributable to the owners of the Company are reclassified to profit or loss.
In addition, in relation to a partial disposal of a subsidiary that does not result in the Company losing control over the subsidiary, the proportionate share of accumulated exchange differences are re-attributed to non-controlling interests and are not recognized in profit or loss. For all other partial disposals (i.e. partial disposals of associates that do not result in the Company losing significant influence), the proportionate share of the accumulated exchange differences is reclassified to profit or loss.
Exchange differences are recognized in the Income Statement in the period they occur, except for exchange differences on monetary items receivable from or payable to a foreign operation for which settlement is neither planned nor likely to occur (therefore forming part of the net investment in the foreign operation), which are recognized initially in other comprehensive income and reclassified from equity to profit or loss on repayment of the monetary items.
35.10 Share-based payments
Equity-settled share-based payments to employees and others providing similar services are measured at the fair value of the equity instruments at the grant date. Details regarding the determination of the fair value of equity-settled share-based transactions are set out in note 21.
The fair value determined at the grant date of the equity-settled share-based payments is expensed on a straight-line basis over the vesting period, based on the Company's estimate of equity instruments that will eventually vest, with a corresponding increase in equity. At the end of each reporting period, the Company revises its estimate of the number of equity instruments expected to vest. The impact of the revision of the original estimates, if any, is recognized in profit or loss such that the cumulative expense reflects the revised estimate, with a corresponding adjustment to the equity-settled employee benefits reserve.
35.11 Taxation
Income tax expense represents the sum of the tax currently payable and deferred tax.

Össur Consolidated Financial Statements 2017

34

Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements

Current tax
The tax currently payable is based on taxable profit for the period. Taxable profit differs from net profit as reported in the Consolidated Income Statement because it excludes items of income or expense that are taxable or deductible in other periods and it further excludes items that are never taxable or deductible. The Company's current tax is calculated using tax rates that have been enacted or substantively enacted by the end of the reporting period.
Deferred tax
Deferred tax is recognized on temporary differences between the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities in the Consolidated Financial Statements and the corresponding tax bases used in the computation of taxable profit. Deferred tax liabilities are generally recognized for all taxable temporary differences. Deferred tax assets are generally recognized for all deductible temporary differences to the extent that it is probable that taxable profits will be available against which those deductible temporary differences can be utilized. Such deferred tax assets and liabilities are not recognized if the temporary difference arises from goodwill or from the initial recognition (other than in a business combination) of other assets and liabilities in a transaction that affects neither the taxable profit nor the accounting profit.
Deferred tax liabilities are recognized for taxable temporary differences associated with investments in subsidiaries and associates, except where the Company is able to control the reversal of the temporary difference and it is probable that the temporary difference will not reverse in the foreseeable future. Deferred tax assets arising from deductible temporary differences associated with such investments and interests are only recognized to the extent that it is probable that there will be sufficient taxable profits against which to utilize the benefits of the temporary differences and they are expected to reverse in the foreseeable future.
The carrying amount of deferred tax assets is reviewed at each balance sheet date and reduced to the extent that it is no longer probable that sufficient taxable profits will be available to allow all or part of the asset to be recovered.
Deferred tax assets and liabilities are measured at the tax rates that are expected to apply in the period in which the liability is settled or the asset realized, based on tax rates (and tax laws) that have been enacted or substantively enacted at the balance sheet date. The measurement of deferred tax liabilities and assets reflects the tax consequences that would follow from the manner in which the Company expects, at the reporting date, to recover or settle the carrying amount of its assets and liabilities.
Deferred tax assets and liabilities are offset when there is a legally enforceable right to set off current tax assets against current tax liabilities and when they relate to income taxes levied by the same taxation authority and the Company intends to settle its current tax assets and liabilities on a net basis.
In the preparation of the Consolidated Financial Statements, accumulated gains in inventories from intercompany transactions are eliminated. This has an effect on the income tax expenses of the consolidated companies, and an adjustment is included in the deferred tax asset. Income tax expense is calculated in accordance with tax rates in the countries where the inventories are purchased.

Current and deferred tax for the year
Current and deferred tax are recognized in profit or loss, except when they relate to items that are recognized in Other Comprehensive Income or directly in equity, in which case, the current and deferred tax are also recognized in other comprehensive income or directly in equity respectively. Where current tax or deferred tax arises from the initial accounting for a business combination, the tax effect is included in the accounting for the business combination.

35.12 Property, plant and equipment
Property, plant and equipment are recognized as an asset when it is probable that future economic benefits associated with the asset will flow to the Company and the cost of the asset can be measured in a reliable manner.

Property, plant and equipment which qualify for recognition as an asset are initially measured at cost.

The cost of a property, plant and equipment comprises its purchase price and any directly attributable cost of bringing the asset to working condition for its intended use.

The depreciable amount of the asset is allocated on a straight-line basis over its useful life. The depreciation charge for each period is recognized as an expense. The estimated useful lives, residual values and depreciation method are reviewed at each balance sheet date, with the effect of any changes in estimate accounted for on a prospective basis.

In the disposal or retirement of an asset is determined as the difference between the sales proceeds and the carrying amount of the asset and is recognized in the Consolidated Income Statement.
The following useful lives are used in the calculation of depreciation:

Buildings & sites Machinery and equipment Fixtures and office equipment Computer equipment

25 - 50 years 5 - 8 years 5 years 2 - 5 years

Össur Consolidated Financial Statements 2017

35

Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements

35.13 Intangible assets
Intangible assets acquired separately
Intangible assets with finite useful life are reported at cost less accumulated amortization and accumulated impairment losses. Amortization is allocated on a straight-line basis over their estimated useful lives. The estimated useful life and amortization method are reviewed at the end of each balance sheet date, with the effect of any changes in estimate being accounted for on a prospective basis. Intangible assets with indefinite useful lives are carried at cost less accumulated impairment losses.
Part of the intangible assets included above have finite useful lives, over which the assets are amortized. These intangible assets will be amortized on a straight line basis over their useful lives.
The following useful lives are used in the calculation of amortization:

Customer and distribution relationships Patents Trademarks Software and other

4 - 10 years 5 - 50 years 3 - infinitive 2 - 10 years

Internally-generated intangible assets - research and development expenditure
Expenditure on research activities is recognized as an expense in the period in which it is incurred.
An internally-generated intangible asset arising from the Company's development is recognized only if all of the following conditions are met: the technical feasibility of completing the intangible asset so that it will be available for use or sale; the intention to complete the intangible asset and use or sell it; the ability to use or sell the intangible asset; the intangible asset will generate probable future economic benefits; the availability of adequate technical, financial and other resources to complete the development and to use or sell the intangible asset and the ability to measure reliably the expenditure attributable to the intangible asset during its development.
The amount initially recognized for internally-generated intangible assets is the sum of the expenditure incurred from the date when the intangible asset first meets the recognition criteria listed above. Where no internally-generated intangible asset can be recognized, development expenditure is charged to profit or loss in the period in which it is incurred.
Subsequent to initial recognition, internally-generated intangible assets are reported at cost less accumulated amortization and accumulated impairment losses, on the same basis as intangible assets acquired separately.

Intangible assets acquired in a business combination
Intangible assets acquired in a business combination are identified and recognized separately from goodwill where they satisfy the definition of an intangible asset and their fair values can be measured reliably. The cost of such intangible assets is their fair value at the acquisition date.
Subsequent to initial recognition, intangible assets acquired in a business combination are reported at cost less accumulated amortization and accumulated impairment losses, on the same basis as intangible assets acquired separately.
Derecognition of intangible assets
An intangible asset is derecognized on disposal, or when no future economic benefits are expected from use or disposal. Gains or losses arising from derecognition of an intangible asset, measured as the difference between the net disposal proceeds and the carrying amount of the asset, are recognized in profit or loss when the asset is derecognized.
35.14 Impairment of tangible and intangible assets excluding goodwill
At each balance sheet date, the Company reviews the carrying amounts of its tangible and intangible assets to determine whether there is any indication that those assets have suffered an impairment loss. If any such indication exists, the recoverable amount of the asset is estimated in order to determine the extent of the impairment loss (if any). Where it is not possible to estimate the recoverable amount of an individual asset, the Company estimates the recoverable amount of the cash-generating unit to which the asset belongs. Where a reasonable and consistent basis of allocation can be identified, corporate assets are also allocated to individual cash-generating units, or otherwise they are allocated to the smallest group of cash-generating units for which a reasonable and consistent allocation basis can be identified.
Intangible assets with indefinite useful lives and intangible assets not yet available for use are tested for impairment annually, and whenever there is an indication that the asset may be impaired.
Recoverable amount is the higher of fair value less costs to sell and value in use. In assessing value in use, the estimated future cash flows are discounted to their present value using a pre-tax discount rate that reflects current market assessments of the time value of money and the risks specific to the asset for which the estimates of future cash flows have not been adjusted.

Össur Consolidated Financial Statements 2017

36

Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements
If the recoverable amount of an asset (or cash-generating unit) is estimated to be less than its carrying amount, the carrying amount of the asset (cash-generating unit) is reduced to its recoverable amount. An impairment loss is recognized immediately in profit or loss.
35.15 Inventories
Inventories are stated at the lower of cost and net realizable value. Costs, including an appropriate portion of fixed and variable overhead expenses, are assigned to inventories held by the method most appropriate to the particular class of inventory, with the majority being valued on a standard cost basis. Net realizable value represents the estimated selling price for inventories less all estimated costs of completion and costs necessary to make the sale.
35.16 Provisions
Provisions are recognized when the Company has a present obligation as a result of a past event, it is probable that the Company will be required to settle the obligation, and a reliable estimate can be made of the amount of the obligation.
The amount recognized as a provision is the best estimate of the consideration required to settle the present obligation at the balance sheet date, taking into account the risks and uncertainties surrounding the obligation. Where a provision is measured using the cash flows estimated to settle the present obligation, its carrying amount is the present value of those cash flows.
When some or all of the economic benefits required to settle a provision are expected to be recovered from a third party, the receivable is recognized as an asset if it is virtually certain that reimbursement will be received and the amount of the receivable can be measured reliably.

Warranties
Provisions for expected warranty costs are recognized at the date of sale of the relevant products, at management´s best estimate of the expenditure required to settle the Company's obligation.

35.17 Risk management
Financial risk management is governed by the Company's Treasury Policy, approved by the Board of Directors. The policy sets limits to the extent of financial risks and guidelines for financial transactions in general. The general policy is to apply natural currency hedging to the extent possible and prohibit any speculative trading of financial instruments.
Long term financing is managed from the Company's Corporate Finance function and individual subsidiaries do not engage in substantial external financing contracts with banks and/or credit institutions.
The Company is exposed to normal business risk in collecting accounts receivable. Adequate allowance is made for bad debt expenses.

35.18 Financial assets
Financial assets are recognized when the Company becomes a party to the contractual provisions of the instrument.
Financial assets are initially measured at fair value. Transaction costs that are directly attributable to the acquisition or issue of financial assets (other than financial assets at fair value through profit or loss) are added to or deducted from the fair value of the financial assets, as appropriate, on initial recognition. Transaction costs directly attributable to the acquisition of financial assets at fair value through profit or loss are recognized immediately in profit or loss.
Financial assets are classified into the following specified categories: financial assets as `at fair value through profit or loss' (FVTPL) and `loans and receivables'. The classification depends on the nature and purpose of the financial assets and is determined at the time of initial recognition.

Effective interest method
The effective interest method is a method of calculating the amortized cost of a debt instrument and of allocating interest income over the relevant period. The effective interest rate is the rate that exactly discounts estimated future cash receipts (including all fees on points paid or received that form an integral part of the effective interest rate, transaction costs and other premiums or discounts) through the expected life of the debt instrument or, where appropriate, a shorter period to the net carrying amount on initial recognition.
Income is recognized on an effective interest basis for debt instruments other than those financial assets classified as at fair value through profit or loss.

Financial assets at fair value through profit or loss
Financial assets are classified as at fair value through profit or loss where the financial asset is either held for trading or it is designated as at fair value through profit or loss.

Financial assets at fair value through profit or loss are stated at fair value, with any resultant gain or loss recognized in profit or loss. The net gain or loss recognized in profit or loss incorporates any dividend or interest earned on the financial asset.

Össur Consolidated Financial Statements 2017

37

Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements
Loans and receivables
Account receivables, loans and other receivables that have fixed or determinable payments that are not quoted in an active market are classified as loans and receivables. Loans and receivables are measured at amortized cost using the effective interest method, less any impairment. Interest income is recognized by applying the effective interest rate, except for short-term receivables when the recognition of interest would be immaterial.
Impairment of financial assets
Financial assets, other than those at fair value through profit or loss, are assessed for indicators of impairment at each balance sheet date. Financial assets are impaired where there is objective evidence that, as a result of one or more events that occurred after the initial recognition of the financial asset, the estimated future cash flows of the investment have been impacted.
For certain categories of financial assets, such as account receivables, assets that are assessed not to be impaired individually are subsequently assessed for impairment on a collective basis. Objective evidence of impairment for a portfolio of receivables could include the Company's past experience of collecting payments, an increase in the number of delayed payments in the portfolio past the Company's average credit period, as well as observable changes in national or local economic conditions that correlate with default on receivables.
For financial assets carried at amortized cost, the amount of the impairment is the difference between the asset's carrying amount and the present value of estimated future cash flows, discounted at the financial asset's original effective interest rate.
The carrying amount of the financial asset is reduced by the impairment loss directly for all financial assets with the exception of accounts receivables, where the carrying amount is reduced through the use of an allowance account. When an accounts receivable is considered uncollectible, it is written off against the allowance account. Subsequent recoveries of amounts previously written off are credited against the allowance account. Changes in the carrying amount of the allowance account are recognized in profit or loss.
Derecognition of financial assets
The Company derecognizes a financial asset only when the contractual rights to the cash flows from the asset expire, or when it transfers the financial asset and substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership of the asset to another entity.
On derecognition of a financial asset, the difference between the asset's carrying amount and the sum of the consideration received and receivable is recognized in profit or loss.
35.19 Financial liabilities
Financial liabilities are recognized when the Company becomes a party to the contractual provisions of the instrument. Financial liabilities are classified as either financial liabilities at `fair value through profit and loss' or `other financial liabilities'.
Financial liabilities are initially measured at fair value. Transaction costs that are directly attributable to the acquisition or issue of financial liabilities (other than financial liabilities at fair value through profit or loss) are added to or deducted from the fair value of the financial liabilities, as appropriate, on initial recognition. Transaction costs directly attributable to the acquisition of financial liabilities at fair value through profit or loss are recognized immediately in profit or loss.
Financial liabilities at fair value through profit or loss
Financial liabilities are classified at fair value through profit or loss when the financial liability is either held for trading or it is designated as at fair value through profit or loss.
Financial liabilities at fair value through profit or loss are stated at fair value, with any gains or losses arising on remeasurement recognized in profit or loss. The net gain or loss recognized in profit or loss incorporates any interest paid on the financial liability and is included in the `other gains and losses' line item in the Income Statement.
Other financial liabilities
Other financial liabilities, including borrowings, are initially measured at fair value, net of transaction costs.
Other financial liabilities are subsequently measured at amortized cost using the effective interest method, with interest expense recognized on an effective yield basis.
Derecognition of financial liabilities
The Company derecognizes financial liabilities when, and only when, the Company's obligations are discharged, cancelled or they expire.

Össur Consolidated Financial Statements 2017

38

Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements
35.20 Employee benefits
Retirement benefit costs and termination benefits
Payments to defined contribution retirement benefit plans are recognized as an expense when employees have rendered service entitling them to the contributions.
A liability for a termination benefit is recognized at the earlier of when the entity can no longer withdraw the offer of the termination benefit and when the entity recognizes any related restructuring costs.
35.21 Derivative financial instruments
The Company enters into derivative financial instruments to manage its exposure to interest rate and currency risk. Further details of derivative financial instruments are disclosed in note 30.
Derivatives are initially recognized at fair value at the date a derivative contract is entered into and are subsequently remeasured to their fair value at each balance sheet date. The resulting gain or loss is recognized in profit or loss immediately unless the derivative is designated and effective as a hedging instrument, in which event the timing of the recognition in profit or loss depends on the nature of the hedge relationship. The Company designates certain derivatives as either hedges of cash flow of recognized liabilities or hedges of net investments in foreign operations.
A derivative is presented as a non-current asset or a non-current liability if the remaining maturity of the instrument is more than 12 months and it is not expected to be realized or settled within 12 months. Other derivatives are presented as current assets or current liabilities.
Hedge accounting
The Company designates certain hedging instruments, which include derivatives and non-derivatives in respect of foreign currency risk and interest rate risk, as either cash flow hedges or hedges of net investment in foreign operations.
At the inception of the hedge relationship the entity documents the relationship between the hedging instrument and hedged item, along with its risk management objectives and its strategy for undertaking various hedge transactions. Furthermore, at the inception of the hedge and on an ongoing basis, the Company documents whether the hedging instrument that is used in a hedging relationship is highly effective in offsetting changes in fair values or cash flows of the hedged item.
The hedging reserve within equity represents the cumulative portion of gains and losses on hedging instruments deemed effective in cash flow hedges. The cumulative deferred gain or loss on the hedging instrument is reclassified to profit or loss only when the hedged transaction affects the profit or loss, or is included as a basis adjustment to the non-financial hedged item, consistent with the relevant accounting policy.
Hedges of net investments in foreign operations
Any gain or loss on the hedging instrument relating to the effective portion of the hedge is recognized in equity in the foreign currency translation reserve.
Gains and losses deferred in the foreign currency translation reserve are recognized in profit or loss on disposal of the foreign operation.
Cash flow hedges
The effective portion of changes in the fair value of derivatives, that are designated and qualify as cash flow hedges, is recognized in other comprehensive income and accumulated under the heading of hedging reserve. The gain or loss relating to the ineffective portion is recognized immediately in profit or loss, and is included in the `other financial expense / income' line item.
Amounts previously recognized in Other Comprehensive Income and accumulated in equity are reclassified to profit or loss in the periods when the hedged item is recognized in profit or loss, in the same line of the Income Statement as the recognized hedged item. However, when the hedged forecast transaction results in the recognition of a non-financial asset or a non-financial liability, the gains and losses previously recognized in Other Comprehensive Income and accumulated in equity are transferred from equity and included in the initial measurement of the cost of the non-financial asset or non-financial liability.
Hedge accounting is discontinued when the Company revokes the hedging relationship, when the hedging instrument expires, is sold, terminated, exercised, or when it no longer qualifies for hedge accounting. Any gain or loss recognized in Other Comprehensive Income and accumulated in equity at that time remains in equity and is recognized when the forecast transaction is ultimately recognized in profit or loss. When a forecast transaction is no longer expected to occur, the gain or loss accumulated in equity is recognized immediately in the Income Statement.

Össur Consolidated Financial Statements 2017

39

Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements
35.22 Critical accounting judgments and key sources of estimation uncertainty
In the application of the Company's accounting policies, which are described in note 35, management is required to make judgments, estimates and assumptions about the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities that are not readily apparent from other sources. The estimates and associated assumptions are based on historical experience and other factors that are considered to be relevant. Actual results may differ from these estimates.
The estimates and underlying assumptions are reviewed on an ongoing basis. Revisions to accounting estimates are recognized in the period in which the estimate is revised if the revision affects only that period or in the period of the revision and future periods if the revision affects both current and future periods.
Determining whether goodwill is impaired requires an estimation of the value in use of the cash-generating units to which goodwill has been allocated. The value in use calculation requires the entity to estimate the future cash flows expected to arise from the cash-generating unit and a suitable discount rate in order to calculate present value. Details of impairment calculations are set out in note 11.
As described at 35.12, the Company reviews the estimated useful lives of property, plant and equipment at the end of each balance sheet date.

Össur Consolidated Financial Statements 2017

40

© ÖSSUR, 02. 2018

