UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2018/2019
Including the Annual Financial Report

Summary

PRESENTATION OF THE GROUP

5

1.1 Presentation of the Group

6

1.2 Company information

13

1.3 Information about the share capital

18

1.4 Shareholders

19

1.5 Stock market indicators

23

RISK MANAGEMENT

25

2.1 Internal control and risk management mechanisms

26

2.2 Risk factors

28

2.3 Risk insurance and cover

35

2.4 Preparation of financial and accounting information

36

CORPORATE GOVERNANCE

39

3.1 Administrative and management bodies

40

3.2 Rémunérations des dirigeants et des membres du Conseil d'Administration

50

3.3 Summary of valid powers granted to the Board of Directors regarding capital increases

64

3.4 Information likely to have an impact in the event of a public offering (Article L. 225-37-5 of the French

Commercial Code)

65

3.5 Agreements entered into between an executive officer or significant shareholder and subsidiaries

of the Company

66

3.6 Special procedures for the involvement of shareholders in the Shareholders' Ordinary Meeting

67

3.7 Regulated agreements and commitments

67

3.8 Statutory Auditors' special report on regulated agreements and commitments

68

EXTRA-FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE DECLARATION

69

4.1. Committing to responsible tourism

70

4.2 Using sustainable development to enhance the customer experience

76

4.3 Creating value for the regions

79

4.4 Being exemplary in the course of our business

85

4.5 Data collection methods

100

4.6 Independent Third-Party Body report

102

4.7 Concordance tables

105

4.8 Vigilance plan

105

4.9 Table of key indicators

109

FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

113

5.1 Information on the consolidated financial statements

114

5.2 Consolidated financial statements

126

5.3 Information on the parent company financial statements

186

5.4 Parent company financial statements

191

ADDITIONAL INFORMATION

217

6.1 Person responsible for the Universal Registration Document and auditingthe financial statements

218

6.2 Statutory Auditors

218

6.3 Fees paid to the Statutory Auditorsandmembers oftheirnetwork

219

6.4 Information incorporated by reference

219

6.5 Documents on display

219

6.6 Reference tables

220

UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT
Including the Annual Financial Report
2018/2019
The Universal Registration Document from the www.groupepvcp.com
website can be consulted and downloaded
This Universal Registration Document has been filed on 19 December 2019 with the AMF, as competent authority under Regulation (EU) 2017/1129, without prior approval pursuant to Article 9 of the said regulation. The Universal Registration Document may be used for the purposes of an offer to the public of securities or admission of securities to trading on a regulated market if completed by a securities note and, if applicable, a summary and any amendments to the Universal Registration Document. The whole is approved by the AMF in accordance with Regulation (EU) 2017/1129.
* French market regulator.
1 UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2018/2019 ­ PIERRE & VACANCES-CENTER PARCS GROUP

PROFILE AND KEY FIGURES at 30 September 2019
A leading European operator of holiday residences

12,850 8 employees serving almost million customers

2 COMPLEMENTARY
BUSINESS LINES

E Design and construction of holiday residences and villages
E Sale of built units to individual (57%) or institutional investors (43%)

PROPERTY DEVELOPMENT

TOURISM BUSINESS

E Operation of residences and villages under a lease or management agreement
E Sale of holidays (Group products or third party accommodation) to French (42%) or international (58%) clients

6 TOURISM BRANDS

Breakdown of Group revenue by business lines
82%
18%
Tourism Property development

1,673 million
of revenue in 2018 / 2019 Breakdown of Tourism business
revenue by activity
68% 32%
Rental Related businesses (events, services, shops, catering, marketing businesses...)

2 UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2018/2019 ­ PIERRE & VACANCES-CENTER PARCS GROUP

Breakdown of rental revenue by destination

18%

56%

9%

17%

Countryside (Center Parcs and Villages Nature Paris) Seaside (Pierre & Vacances) Mountain (Pierre & Vacances) City (Adagio)

50
YEARS OF HISTORY
1967
Gérard Brémond launches Avoriaz, a new resort concept, with no cars and an architecture which fits in with the surroundings. He offered apartments for sale off-plan on the condition that the buyers rent their property when not in use, taking over the management and upkeep work.
1970-1997
The Group grows by acquiring companies, taking over sites and completing major resort developments such as Cap Esterel, Port-Bourgenay, Port-Crouesty, Pont-Royal, etc.
1999
The Group is floated on the stock exchange, to obtain the funds required to expand in France and abroad.
2000s
Growth intensifies with the acquisition of Orion Vacances, GranDorado (2000), Maeva (2001), Center Parcs Europe (50% in 2001 then 100% in 2003), Résidences MGM (2002), Sunparks (2007), Les Senioriales (2007) and Citéa (2011).
2007
PVCP and Accor come together to develop a network of city residences under the brand name Adagio City Aparthotel.
2014
PVCP develops a new distribution of online holiday rentals and rental management business through its platform maeva.com
2015
PVCP signs strategic partnership agreements for the development of its activities internationally in Spain and in China.
2016
PVCP acquires "La France du Nord au Sud", a renowned online holiday rentals operator in France and Spain.
2017
A unique tourist destination at the heart of a unique green space opens: Villages Nature Paris, a joint-venture with the Eurodisney Group.
2018
Opening of the 6th German Center Parcs, Park Allgaü.
2019
Yann Caillère becomes CEO of the Group.

Profile and key figures
285 SITES* OPERATED IN EUROPE

46,200

42%

apartments, houses and cottages, by the sea, in the mountains, in the cities and in the countryside, in France (59%) and internationally (41%)

of Pierre & Vacances and Center Parcs sites under a lease agreement are eco-labelled or have an environmental certification

* excluding the marketing business, multiple ownership and franchise.

4 DIRECTORS
General Management Committee
CHAIRMAN Gérard Brémond CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER
Yann Caillère DEPUTY CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER
Patricia Damerval TOURISM CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER
Martine Balouka-Vallette

12** BOARD MEMBERS
4 NATIONALITIES 5 INDEPENDENT MEMBERS
5 WOMEN
** As of the date this Document was filed.

SHARE CAPITAL DISTRIBUTION

49.8%
S.I.T.I

2.8%
Treasury shares

0.1%
Directors
47.3%
General public

S.I.T.I : Holding company held by Gérard Brémond Public : 80% institutionals
20% individuals

3 UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2018/2019 ­ PIERRE & VACANCES-CENTER PARCS GROUP

This page has been left blank intentionally.
4 UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2018/2019 ­ PIERRE & VACANCES-CENTER PARCS GROUP

1 PRESENTATION OF THE GROUP

1.1 Presentation of the Group

6

1.1.1 Business model

6

1.1.2 The competitive environment

10

1.1.3 Outlook and strategy

11

1.1.4 Business model summary

12

1.2 Company information

13

1.2.1 General information

13

1.2.2 Description of the S.I.T.I. group

15

1.2.3 Legal form of Pierre et Vacances

16

1.3 Information about the share capital 18

1.3.1 Share capital

18

1.3.2 Potential capital

18

1.3.3 Changes in share capital over the last

five financial years

18

1.4 1.4.1 1.4.2 1.4.3 1.4.4 1.4.5 1.4.6 1.4.7
1.4.8

Shareholders

19

Ownership of share capital and voting

rights at 30 November 2019

19

Changes in share capital and voting rights

over the last three financial years

20

Group share ownership plan

20

Employee profit-sharing

20

Notice of the breaching of shareholding

threshold

21

Report on treasury shares

21

Description of the programme submitted

for approval to the Shareholders'

Combined Ordinary and Extraordinary

Meeting of 5 February 2020

22

Policy of dividend payments over the last

five financial years ­ time limit for

dividend claims

22

1.5 Stock market indicators

23

5 UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2018/2019 ­ PIERRE & VACANCES-CENTER PARCS GROUP

1

PRESENTATION OF THE GROUP
Presentation of the Group

1.1 Presentation of the Group

Established in 1967 by its Chairman, Gérard Brémond, the Pierre & Vacances-Center Parcs Group is the European market leader for holiday accommodation and holiday property investments.
The Group has a holiday residence portfolio with 285 destinations worldwide, owned by third party investors and operated under 6 brands: Pierre & Vacances, Center Parcs, Sunparks, Villages Nature® Paris, maeva.com and Adagio.

The Group provides accommodation to almost 8 million customers each year, attracted by a diverse holiday rental offering with "à la carte" services and activities, in residences or villages, in the mountains, at the seaside, in the countryside or in cities, both in France and internationally.

1.1.1 Business model

1.1.1.1 The complementary nature of the two business lines

The Group's holiday residence portfolio is made up of successive external acquisitions (acquisition of Maeva in 2001, takeover of Center Parcs Europe in 2003, acquisition of Sunparks and creation of Adagio in 2007, acquisition of Intrawest in 2009, etc.), lease contracts on existing residences (particularly in the case of Adagio), but also new residences and villages built by the Group's real estate services.
The main feature that sets the Pierre & Vacances-Center Parcs Group apart from other tourism operators is that it is both a property developer and a tourism operator:
E the Group's property subsidiaries design and build tourist developments in its capacity as project manager (Pierre & Vacances Développement), and markets them off plan to individual buyers (Pierre & Vacances Conseil Immobilier) or institutional buyers;
E the Group's tourism subsidiaries then take delivery of the new residences, becoming responsible for the day-to-day management and marketing of holidays for holidaymakers.

The owners of the properties and the Group's tourism operators are bound by a lease which is usually between 9 and 15 years long. Income generated from the leased apartments and houses is used to cover the rents payable to the owners. These rents may be fixed or variable (depending on operating performances) with or without a guaranteed minimum. Profits generated over and above the rental payment belong to the Group. Renovation work is paid for either by the owner/lessor (individual investors), or the Group (for leases concluded with institutional investors).
At 30 September 2019, over 95% of the holiday residence portfolio operated by the Pierre & Vacances-Center Parcs Group was under lease management.
The complementary nature of the Property Development and Tourism businesses provides a dual advantage: these two businesses have separate cycles, which protect the Group from cyclical or industry crises. For customers, the integration of the two provides strong fundamentals such as quality sites and architecture, as well as sustainable and comfortable houses and apartments.

PROPERTY DEVELOPMENT

TOURISM BUSINESS

PROSPECTION
Land prospection and site design, carried out jointly by the Group's tourism subsidiaries and property teams.

MARKETING
Off-plan sales to individual and/or institutional (block sales ­ "portage" followed or not by unit sales to individuals), in France and abroad.
The Group and the owners are bound by
leases.

BUILDINGS
Construction of residences or villages by a delegated project management company from within the Group.
Pre-sale targets (50% to 60%) prior to the start of the works.
The work is financed by calls for funds to owners.

OPERATION
Operation of the site (lease agreements
or management mandate).
Sale of holidays to tourist customers (the corresponding income is used to cover the rents of lessor-owners in the case of operation under lease agreements).

6 UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2018/2019 ­ PIERRE & VACANCES-CENTER PARCS GROUP

PRESENTATION OF THE GROUP
Presentation of the Group

The Group property subsidiaries also support the qualitative development of the tourism offer.
Regular renovation work at the residences and villages is one of the main pillars ensuring that the brands remain appealing and maintaining them permanently in line with current market trends.
While the Group ensures regular maintenance work on the buildings it operates, renovation works are financed by:
­ mostly individual owners for individual leases, at the end of the lease;
­ the Group and/or by institutional investors, under the framework of multi-year renovation programmes for institutional leases;
­ property renovation operations for the Center Parcs domains, consisting of the resale on behalf of institutional owners, of existing renovated domains to individual investors (off plan unit sales of renovated cottages) and/or other institutional investors (block sales of accommodation and leisure facilities).
Initially launched in France as of 2011 for the Center Parcs Bois Francs and Hauts de Bruyères domains (acquisition by the Group of some of the cottages then owned by Eurosic for renovation, financed by their resale to individuals), property renovation operations are now being developed in Germany, the Netherlands and Belgium.
This strategy offers a second wind to the Center Parcs domains by ensuring the investments necessary for financing renovations while offering institutional owners some liquidity to their investment. It also enables growth in average selling prices thanks to the new standards of services offered as well as an increase in customer satisfaction.
Finally, the size of these operations enables Pierre & Vacances-Center Parcs to highlight its expertise in countries where Center Parcs is often better known than the Group's other brands and where its tourism business stands out better than its property businesses. This reputation becomes a measure of confidence for institutional investors and strengthens the adherence of partners. It also ensures the maintenance of a high quality property network that is becoming increasingly difficult to acquire in attractive tourism regions.
1.1.1.2 An "asset-light" model
Financing of property assets by third party investors
The Group does not aim to be or remain the owner of the assets it operates:
E holiday accommodation units built or renovated by the Group are sold off plan (French VEFA ­ off-plan sales or French VEFR ­ renovations) to individual and/or institutional investors:

­ individual investors are the traditional owners of the Group.
The sale of the properties to these individuals is managed by the property marketing subsidiary, Pierre & Vacances Conseil Immobilier, via a network of dedicated sales professionals, partners and private advisors (banking networks, asset managers and specialist entities).
Although the Group historically targeted French investors, it has successfully applied its property sales model to individual investors in Europe, in markets with no tax incentives aimed at this type of personal investment. As such, the 500 cottages of Center Parcs in Bostalsee and more recently, the cottages of Center Parcs in Port Zeland, Vielsalm, Nordseekuste and Hochsauerland have been marketed to German, Dutch, French and Belgian owners,
­ owing to the slow-down in the market for individual investment in rental properties, for a number of years, in addition to the sale to private buyers, the Group has been targeting institutional investors (mainly for the Center Parcs programme), allowing the acceleration of sales. These investors, seeking a return on their investments, have large cash reserves and are seeking to diversify their assets.
Accommodation units are block-sold to banking institutions or insurance companies. For example, 80% of the 800 cottages at Center Parcs Bois aux Daims are owned by the MACSF, MAIF, Amundi, Allianz and DTZ Asset Management groups on behalf of CNP Insurance, Groupama and La Française. In Germany, the cottages at Center Parcs Allgäu are owned by Batipart and La Française.
In some cases these assets go on to be resold to new investors: thus, of the 916 accommodation units at Villages Nature® Paris, 783 were initially sold as a block to Batipart (50%), Pierre & Vacances-Center Parcs (37.5%) and Euro Disney (12.5%), and then resold to individual and/or institutional investors.
At 30 September 2019, 57% of the apartments operated under lease agreements were owned by individuals (73% for Pierre & Vacances Tourisme Europe, the vast majority of whose holiday residence portfolio is in France, and 31% for Center Parcs Europe), and 43% by institutional investors;
E within the Domains Center Parcs, the central facilities, made up of businesses, shops and water parks belong to institutional owners or semi-public companies (which financed their construction as far as new projects are concerned).
The central facilities at Center Parcs Bois aux Daims were financed by a public-private partnership with local government stakeholders, notably the Vienne General Council and the Poitou-Charentes Regional Council;
E as a general rule, in the Pierre & Vacances residences and villages, the Group still owns some of the commercial premises (restaurants, bars, seminar rooms, etc.), general services and leisure facilities (aquatic centres, sporting facilities, kids' clubs, etc.).

1

7 UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2018/2019 ­ PIERRE & VACANCES-CENTER PARCS GROUP

1

PRESENTATION OF THE GROUP
Presentation of the Group

Development of a tourism offer under marketing, management, and franchise mandates
maeva.com ­ Strong development aims in the campsite and individual rental markets
maeva.com was created in 2014 from the Pierre & Vacances-Center Parcs Group's aim to create the first French online holiday rental sales platform. On its website, the brand brings together a rich and comprehensive offer of 28,000 holiday rentals in France by creating strategic partnerships with:
E more than 3,000 individual owners that would like to rent out their second home;
E more than 1,700 tourism professionals: camp-sites, real-estate agents, tourism residences, holiday villages, etc.
Thanks to this comprehensive offering, every year, maeva.com generates traffic of more than 12m views to its website and assists almost 500,000 holidaymakers in finding their holiday rental. maeva.com distributes under its own brand name and that of its maeva.com distribution partners: Airbnb, Booking.com, Eurostar, Oui.SNCF, Promovacances, Cdiscount, Abritel and more than 10,000 works' councils.
To strengthen its links with partner campsites, owners and real-estate agents, maeva.com has built a unique services and distribution platform:
E for partners who own a second home, with an "all-in-one" offer:
­ optimisation of rental revenue through various services: price consulting, writing adverts and taking professional photos, multi-partner distribution, and especially Booking.com, Airbnb, Abritel, company works' councils and partner websites and management of customer opinions,
­ full management of the property: welcome and reception, professional laundry and cleaning services, assistance and repair services, renovation consulting and an offer to provide equipment and furniture at negotiated prices.
This offer is destined for former Group lease owners looking for an alternative professional and efficient management solution, as well as individual owners initially seduced by the services offered by real-estate agents or web players such as Abritel and Airbnb;
E for affiliated establishments ­ campsites, seasonal rental and real-estate agents: accompanying roll-out of the maeva.com experience concept (architectural design, signature animations...), pricing and revenue management, web acquisition, management of website, audit and consulting. So far, 12 affiliated establishments are rolling out the maeva.com brand experience at their holiday sites.
E for professional partners in tourism: purchasing centre, revenue management, web acquisition, reservation monitoring interface, real-time connection to the partner PMS, sales animation, etc.
Through the ongoing development of these new services, which testify to the significant appeal and evolution of the maeva.com business model, the brand is pursuing its aim to position itself as the leading European distribution and services platform for the campsite and individual property rental market.

International marketing of partner residences
In a bid to expand the Pierre & Vacances offer outside France, the Group has signed marketing agreements for some of the stock of independent partner sites that meet all the brand's quality and services standards.
In 2019, Pierre & Vacances marketed almost 191 residences or villas in France or outside France, representing an increase of 43 sites relative to 2018. This network of partners covers 20 high-quality destinations in 11 countries: France (Corsica and Reunion Island), Spain (including the Canaries and the Balearics), Italy (Sardinia, continental Italy), Croatia, Portugal (including Madeira), Greece (continental and the islands), Malta, Cyprus, Morocco, Austria, Mauritius. Almost a third of these residences offer a very high standard of services and surroundings thereby enabling a doubling in the Pierre & Vacances Premium offer (162 residences rated 4 out of 5 on Trip Advisor, and 82 with the TA 2019 Certificate of Excellence). Thanks to these sites, the Group also proposes new accommodation types such as villas with private swimming pools (in Mauritius, Crete, Corsica, Ibiza and Portugal).
Management mandates
In addition to lease management, the Group is expanding internationally through residence management mandates for the Pierre & Vacances, Center Parcs and Adagio brands.
E For Pierre & Vacances, several management mandate projects are in the late stages of negotiations, a first contract for which is currently being signed in France. In Spain, the Group manages seven residences under mandate.
E For Center Parcs, 2 Domains are managed under mandates: Parc Sandur in the Netherlands, et the new Terhills Resort in Belgium. Several other projects are under research or study in Scandinavia, Austria, Switzerland, Poland, Belgium, the Netherlands and East Europa.
E For Adagio, 13 aparthotels are managed under mandates by the joint-venture (in addition to the mandates Pierre & Vacances has entrusted to the joint-venture).
Tourism operation of Pierre & Vacances and Sunparks sites that are due to be developed in China is also set to be organised through management mandates.
Franchise
So far franchise contracts are favoured by Adagio for its international development: 18 residences are operated under franchise or master franchise abroad (United Arab Emirates, Brazil, Russia, Germany, the Netherlands). In France, 4 aparthotels are operated under franchise.
Franchises are also being developed under the Pierre & Vacances brand. The Group adapts its internal procedures to welcome new long-term partners and the first franchise contracts are being negotiated with the French destinations firstly (Corsica, Occitania, Savoie, etc.). At the same time, prospection is continuing outside France to develop the Pierre & Vacances model under franchise. The focus is placed as a priority on well-known or nearby markets such as Italy, Portugal, Switzerland and Austria.

8 UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2018/2019 ­ PIERRE & VACANCES-CENTER PARCS GROUP

PRESENTATION OF THE GROUP
Presentation of the Group

1.1.1.3 A unique tourism offering
Under its different brand names, the Group offers a wide range of destinations, accommodation and comfort levels. The Group provides "à la carte" services for holiday rentals, so that customers are free to manage their holiday budget and select their preferred activities.

1

A comprehensive tourism offering Stock operated at 30 September 2019

170 sites ­ 18,876 apartments and houses (393 sites ­ 24,824 units including the marketing/multiple ownership and franchise business) Holiday residences in France, southern Europe and worldwide, in the most attractive seaside resorts, countryside and mountain locations. Fully-equipped apartments or houses and included or "à la carte" services for holidays which combine comfort, freedom and nature.
25 sites ­ 16,581 cottages In large holiday sites close to major European cities, spacious and comfortable cottages arearranged around a dome containing shops, restaurants and services as well as the Aqua Mundowater park, providing multiple relaxation and leisure opportunities.
1 site ­ 821 apartments and cottages An original holiday destination where man meets nature, in a unique forest and lake-land setting, Villages Nature® Paris offers the chance to escape fully into five recreational universes and reconnect with nature, family and friends.

89 sites ­ 9,912 apartments
(110 sites ­ 12,665 apartments including franchise and master-franchise)
Fully-equipped, spacious apartments with kitchens and hotel services in the heart of European cities and all over the world, for medium to long stays, business or leisure.

28,000 marketed holiday rentals ­ 3,000 accommodation units under management
maeva.com is a web platform listing holiday rentals in France and Spain. It offers a wide range of person-to-person accommodation or accommodation within holiday residences and campsites.
maeva.com addresses both holiday customers and owners of second homes with an exclusive service for managing and marketing their property.

A European presence focused on local tourism
One of the Group's distinguishing features is the diverse range of its European destinations, enabling most customers to travel to their holiday destination by car. The aim is to have sites close to large cities to facilitate access to short stays, but also to propose long stays for more traditional holidays.

At 30 September 2019, 59% of the apartments operated by the Group were located in France, 12% in the Netherlands, 10% in Spain, 9% in Germany and 7% in Belgium. The Group also has a presence in other European countries (Switzerland, the UK and Italy), via its Adagio residences.

9 UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2018/2019 ­ PIERRE & VACANCES-CENTER PARCS GROUP

1

PRESENTATION OF THE GROUP
Presentation of the Group

A diversified customer base
Our customers are essentially families. However, the Group's wide range of offers (short-stays, flexible arrivals, development and enhancement of on-site activities, packaged-offers...) enables the Group to attract seniors as well as millennials, groups and couples without children. In Adagio Aparthotels®, the customer base is made of business men/women (55%) and holiday customers (45%).

A dominant weight of direct distribution
The holiday residence portfolio is marketed through direct distribution (76%), of which 40% via the Group websites, which has the advantage of reduced costs. In order to broaden the customer base and attract customers on shoulder seasons, the Group also uses indirect distribution (24%), through international agencies and tour operators active in all European countries.

1.1.2 The competitive environment

1.1.2.1 A key player

1.1.2.2 Strong competitive advantages

With 285 sites and 46,190 apartments, the Pierre & Vacances-Center Parcs Group is the European holiday residence market leader.
E In France, with accommodation capacity of 3,293 residences, the holiday residence and villages market is one of the main commercial accommodation modes. In 2018, 19 million people visited the holiday residences; 23% of them were international customers. The Pierre & Vacances-Center Parcs Group is leading this French market with 205 residences and 27,454 apartments.
It faces competition from multiple sources ­ traditional players (holiday residences ­ Odalys, Appart'City, Lagrange, Goelia Vacanceole, Belambra, Club Med...­ open-air accommodation, etc.) but also online players (specialist companies and C to C ­ Airbnb, HomeAway, etc.). InNorthern Europe, the main competitors of Center Parcs France are Landal Greenparks (90 villages, or almost 12,000 bungalows in the Netherlands, Germany, Austria, Belgium, etc.) and Roompot (200 parks, 23 campsites and 6 hotels in the Netherlands, Germany and Belgium).
In such a competitive environment, the Group has been focusing on what sets it apart, i.e. the guarantee of a level of quality that only large brands can provide, flexibility with long and short holidays, customisable themes and offers, various price range (combining transportation, services and activities) and a broad choice of destinations.
E Pierre & Vacances-Center Parcs also has a property development business with Les Senioriales, non-medicalised residences for active, independent senior citizens. They are usually sold under property ownership, even if this model is now evolving with the marketing of some residences to institutional investors.
The main rivals in this market are specialist retirement home property developers such as Aegide and Les Villages d'Or, and more general property developers such as Akerys Promotion, Bouwfonds Marignan, Bouygues Immobilier, Cogedim and Nexity.

Its range of complementary and distinguished brands enables the Group to provide a comprehensive and unique offering in furnished rentals with "à la carte" services. Against the current economic backdrop, the Group's ability to meet the needs of each customer is a decisive factor, particularly in terms of furnished rentals (fully-equipped apartments and houses), flexibility (length of stays, check-in and check-out days), services and entertainment for all, catering, price and security.
In this regard, the Pierre & Vacances-Center Parcs Group has many advantages over its competitors:
E a wide range of European destinations in four different settings: seaside resorts, mountain resorts, countryside and city residences;
E a unique position as the only provider active in the holiday residence, holiday village and city residence segments;
E a strong brand image with wide recognition, an extensive business network and a significant social media presence;
E a balanced portfolio of brand names ranging from a budget offering (e.g: Maeva) to premium tourism (e.g.: Pierre & Vacances premium ­ Center Parcs VIP ­ Adagio premium);
E local tourism offers low-cost holidays (over 90% of our customers travel to our sites by car) and is less exposed to geopolitical and climatic risks;
E a flexible offering ("à la carte" services, flexible break lengths and check-in and check-out dates);
E a secure offering in comparison with "C2C" options (Airbnb, Homeaway, etc.): reception, caretakers and a standardised offering ensures the quality of the apartments and surrounding;
E maeva.com differs from other companies in the owner-to-lessee rental market thanks to its all-in-one, innovative and lucrative offering (revenue management strategy to optimise rental income, multi-channel distribution on a European network of distribution partners (holidays, property, CE, etc.) and professional, secure management (insurance, key management, maintenance, renovation, etc.) sustained by the experience and professionalism of the on-site teams.

10 UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2018/2019 ­ PIERRE & VACANCES-CENTER PARCS GROUP

PRESENTATION OF THE GROUP
Presentation of the Group

1.1.3 Outlook and strategy

In view of the portfolio of reservations to date, the Group expects growth in the tourism businesses in Q1 2019/2020.
Over 2018/2019, performances by the tourism businesses were in line with Ambition 2022 targets (this strategy is detailed in powerpoint slides available on the Group website: www.groupepvcp.com, section Finance/publications/Presentations).

Programmes to renovate and upgrade the tourism networks of the various brands are going ahead according to the provisional schedule, and the first savings have been generated (5 million).
In order to step up the momentum seen in 2018/2019, strategic reflection is underway to intensify and accelerate the roll-out of the Group Transformation Plan targeting lasting profitability.
The strategic action plan is to be finalised in early 2020.

1

11 UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2018/2019 ­ PIERRE & VACANCES-CENTER PARCS GROUP

1

PRESENTATION OF THE GROUP
Presentation of the Group

1.1.4 Business model summary

CAPITAL

Share capital E A Group listed on the stock exchange since 1999 E Almost 50% of its shares are owned by its Founding Chairman,
Gérard Brémond
Industrial capital E A multiproduct "asset light" business model able to be rolled
out globally and combining property development and tourism operation E Recognised know-how: 50 years of expertise in creating, developing and operating tourism destinations E 6 tourism brand names with strong recognition
Human capital E Over 12,800 talented employees committed to customer
satisfaction every day E 66% of employees under the age of 45 E 53% of managers are women

Social capital E 8 million customers with a range of profiles E 18,000 individual owners and more than forty institutional owners E A trust-based relationship with our clients, all of our financial
partners and local authorities
Environmental capital E 285 destinations in the heart of natural environments
with vast, responsibly-managed natural spaces E 42%* of sites with an eco-label in the operational phase
or environmental certification in the construction phase aiming for high environmental performance and optimal resource management
* Pierre & Vacances and Center Parcs sites

Value creation process
Ambition To strengthen our European leadership with experiential, innovative and responsible tourism

Strategic priorities E Improve our tourism offer ­ Renovation and enhancement of customer experience E Undertake major property operations ­ Development of new and innovative offers in countries where we are located
and in new countries E Boost marketing ­ Innovation, personalisation and data exploitation E Optimise our organization ­ for more efficiency and agility
for a priority aim of restoring sustainable profitability

Business lines

PROPERTY DEVELOPMENT E Land prospection and site design E Marketing to individual and/or institutional investors E Development /renovation

TOURISM BUSINESS E Operation of sites (lease agreements or management
mandates) E Marketing of holidays

Brand names

IMPACTS

A robust Group E 1,673m* in annual revenue E 31m EBIT (x3 vs FY 2017/2018) E A reduction in net debt and a high level of liquidity maintained
* On 2019/09/30
"Happy@work" employees E 82% of employees satisfied by the company in general E Over 90,000 training hours E 50% loyalty rate of seasonal workers

Loyal customers and owners E Over 80 % of customers satisfied E 89% intend to return to our sites E Over 80% renewal rate by our owners at the end of the lease
Regional enhancement E High quality tourist sites in terms of architecture and landscapes E Up to 600 direct jobs created and an estimated of 30,000
contributed to local GDP for a Center Parcs Domaine E Relationships built with local stakeholders for an improved
customer experience

12 UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2018/2019 ­ PIERRE & VACANCES-CENTER PARCS GROUP

PRESENTATION OF THE GROUP
Company information

1.2 Company information

1

1.2.1 General information

Legal name
Pierre et Vacances.
Registered office
L'Artois ­ Espace Pont de Flandre ­ 11, rue de Cambrai ­ 75947 Paris Cedex 19. Telephone number: +33 (0)1 58 21 58 21.
Legal form

Trade and companies register, business activity code and LEI
316 580 869 RCS Paris. Business activity code: 7010Z. LEI: 9695009FXHWX468RM706.
Financial year
The Company's financial year runs from1 October to 30 September of the following year.

A French Public Limited Company (société anonyme) with a Board of Directors, incorporated under French law and governed by the French Commercial Code and by its articles of association.

Consultation of documents and information relating to the Company

Date of incorporation and term of the Company
The Company was incorporated for a term of 99 years with effect from its registration in the Paris Trade and Companies Register on 7 August 1979, except in the event of an early dissolution or extension.
Corporate purpose (Article 2 of the articles of association)
The purpose of the Company is to:
E acquire equity interests in other companies, by means of the formation of companies, contributions of companies, subscriptions for or purchases of shares or equity interests, mergers, alliances, partnerships or any other means, and particularly in companies that are active in the following areas:
­ sell and manage property,
­ acquire, develop and resell land, and construct property,
­ operate, in whatever form, residences, hotels, motels, unfurnished or furnished premises and restaurants of all kinds; all break, activity and holiday organisation and management activities; all direct or indirect equity investments in any French or foreign companies involved in the above businesses or likely to promote the development thereof;
E manage and provide technical, administrative, legal and financial assistance to these companies and their subsidiaries;
E and generally carry out all commercial and financial transactions, and all transactions involving property and equipment, relating directly or indirectly to the above business purpose or likely to help in the development thereof.

The corporate documents for the last three financial years (parent company financial statements, minutes of the Shareholders' Ordinary Meetings, attendance sheets for these meetings, list of directors, Statutory Auditors' reports, articles of association, etc.) can be viewed at the Pierre et Vacances registered office.
In addition, the Company's articles of association and, where applicable, the reports, correspondence, assessments and declarations made by an expert at the Company's request, and the Company's historic financial information for the previous two years may be consulted at the Pierre et Vacances registered office.
Appropriation of earnings (Article 20 of the articles of association)
Net income generated during the financial year, after deducting overheads and other expenses incurred by the Company, including all depreciation, amortisation and impairment losses, represents the profit (or loss) for the financial year.
Of this profit, less any losses carried forward, at least one twentieth shall be appropriated in order to build up the regulatory reserve required by law. Such transfers should continue for as long as the regulatory reserve represents less than one tenth of the total share capital.
The residual balance, plus any profit carried forward, constitutes the profit available for distribution to shareholders.
The Shareholders' Ordinary Meeting may appropriate whatever sums it deems fit, either to be carried forward as retained earnings to the following financial year, or to be transferred to one or more general or special reserves, the use or allocation of which is determined by the Meeting.
The Shareholders' Ordinary Meeting may also decide to make payouts from the reserves available for this purpose; where this is the case, the applicable resolution must expressly indicate from which reserves the payout shall be made.

13 UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2018/2019 ­ PIERRE & VACANCES-CENTER PARCS GROUP

1

PRESENTATION OF THE GROUP
Company information

The Meeting may offer each shareholder the option to receive all or part of the dividend payment in the form of shares (subject to legal conditions) or in cash.
Specific clauses in the Articles of Association
Preference shares (Articles 6, 7, 8 and 16 of the articles of association)
Category A and B preference shares are preference shares within the meaning of Article L. 228-11 of the French Commercial Code, whose issue was agreed by the Board of Directors on 9 February 2018, using the delegation granted by the Shareholders' Meeting of 4 February 2016.
Category C preference shares are preference shares within the meaning of Article L. 228-11 of the French Commercial Code, whose issue was agreed by the Board of Directors on 18 April 2019, using the delegation granted by the Shareholders' Meeting of 4 February 2016.
Category A, B and C preference shares must be held in nominee form and cannot be contractually divided.
Category A, B and C preference shares do not have voting rights at Shareholders' Ordinary and Extraordinary Meetings of holders of ordinary shares.
Category A, B and C preference shares will only be entitled to dividends after a period of two years from their date of issue.
Category A, B and C preference shares confer an entitlement to liquidation dividends and are not transferable. Category A and B preference shares are convertible into ordinary shares, after a period of two years from their date of issue, in view of the difference between the weighted share price and the ceiling share price set at 45 or the floor share price set at 30, with adjustments being possible in the event of a change of control or delisting. Category C preference shares are convertible into ordinary shares, after a period of two years from their date of issue, in view of the difference between the weighted share price and the ceiling share price set at 61.5 or the floor share price set at 41, with adjustments being possible in the event of a change of control or delisting.
As mentioned on page 62 of this Universal Registration Document, the Shareholders' Extraordinary Meeting of 5 February 2020 will be asked to decide on changes to the preference share A, B and C characteristics.
Double voting rights (Article 16 of the articles of association)
With effect from the Shareholders' Extraordinary Meeting of 28 December 1998, voting rights double those conferred on other ordinary shares, in view of the portion of share capital that they represent, shall be attributed to all fully paid-up ordinary shares for which proof of registration in the name of the same shareholder for a period of at least two years has been provided.
In the event of an increase in the share capital by incorporation of reserves, profits or issue premiums, double voting rights shall be attributed from the date of issue to registered ordinary shares allotted free of charge to a shareholder as a result of his ownership of existing ordinary shares that are already entitled to double voting rights.

All ordinary shares converted to bearer shares or whose ownership is transferred lose their double voting rights.
Notwithstanding the above, the transfer by inheritance, by liquidation of spouses' joint property, or by inter vivos donation to a spouse or relative in the line of succession shall not entail the loss of double voting rights, and shall not interrupt the time period stipulated in Article L. 225-123 of the French Commercial Code. The same applies in the event of a transfer as a result of a merger or demerger of a shareholding company.
Identifying shareholders (Article 7 of the articles of association)
The Company may at any time, subject to the conditions laid down by regulations, ask the body responsible for clearing its shares to reveal the names, addresses and nationalities of holders of shares conferring an immediate or future right to vote at its Shareholders' Meetings, to get her with the number of shares held by each such shareholder and any restrictions attached to these shares; at the Company's request, the above information may be limited to shareholders holding a minimum number of shares set by the Company.
Breaching of thresholds (Article 8 of the articles of association)
In addition to the disclosure concerning legal thresholds, the Company's articles of association provide that any individual or entity who, acting alone or in concert, comes to hold a percentage of the capital or voting rights equal to or exceeding 5% or a multiple thereof, directly or indirectly, within the meaning of Article L. 233-9 of the French Commercial Code, is required to notify the Company by registered letter with proof of receipt within five trading days of crossing each of these thresholds, indicating the number of voting rights and shares held and the voting rights attached thereto. This notice of the crossing of shareholding thresholds also indicates if the shares or attached voting rights are or are not held on behalf of or in concert with any other individual or entity.
If not disclosed as provided above, the shares that exceed the percentage and should have been disclosed are deprived of voting rights at future shareholders' meetings, if one or more shareholders holding collectively at least 5% of the Company's share capital or voting rights so request and the request is recorded in the minutes of the Shareholders' Ordinary Meeting. The deprivation of voting rights applies to all future Shareholders' Meetings until the expiry of a period of two years from the date the disclosure is made.
Shareholders' Ordinary Meetings (Articles 16, 17 and 18 of the articles of association)
Shareholders' Ordinary Meetings shall be held at the registered office of the Company or at any other place indicated in the meeting notice.
Any shareholder is entitled to attend Shareholders' Ordinary Meetings in person or by proxy, on proof of their identity and share ownership (it being stipulated that category A, B and C preference shares do not have voting rights).

14 UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2018/2019 ­ PIERRE & VACANCES-CENTER PARCS GROUP

PRESENTATION OF THE GROUP
Company information

The right to participate in Shareholders' Ordinary Meetings is subject:
E in the case of registered shareholders, to entry of the shares in the name of the shareholder in the Company registers at least two working days before the Shareholders' Ordinary Meeting;
E in the case of holders of bearer shares, to the filing, according to the conditions stipulated by law, of the certificate drawn up on the basis of the shareholder certificate (attestation of participation) issued by the authorised intermediary two working days before the date of the Shareholders' Ordinary Meeting.
Any shareholder shall be entitled to exercise a postal vote using a form that may be obtained under the terms specified in the meeting notice and under the conditions provided by law.
Any shareholder may also, if the Board of Directors so decides at the time the Meeting is convened, participate and vote at the Shareholders' Ordinary Meeting by means of electronic telecommunication enabling their identity to be established under the conditions provided by law.
Shareholders participating in the Meeting by videoconference, or by any other means of electronic telecommunication enabling their identity to be established under the conditions provided by law, shall be deemed to be present for the purposes of establishing quorum and majority.

Methods of convening Shareholders' Meetings
Shareholders' Ordinary Meetings are convened by the Board of Directors or, failing this, by the Statutory Auditors, in accordance with the requirements of Article R. 225-162 of the French Commercial Code, or else by a corporate officer designated by the Presiding Judge at the Commercial Court ruling in summary proceedings upon request or, in an emergency, by any interested party or by one or more shareholders together holding at least 5% of the issued capital.
Notice of meeting shall be given in the form of an announcement published in one of the journals authorised to publish legal notices in the administrative department in which the Company's registered office is located. Shareholders holding registered shares shall be convened by formal letter, which can be sent by registered post at the shareholders' request with the latter bearing the cost of the same.
If all the shares are held in registered form, the notices provided for in the previous paragraph may be replaced by a meeting notice sent by registered post to each shareholder, with the Company bearing the cost of the same.

1

1.2.2 Description of the S.I.T.I. group
Société d'Investissement Touristique et Immobilier SA ­ S.I.T.I., a Pierre & Vacances-Center Parcs Group management holding company, indirectly controlled by Gérard Brémond via S.I.T.I. SC "R", has a 49.81% stake in Pierre et Vacances SA. The Pierre & Vacances subgroup is the only asset of S.I.T.I. SA and is fully consolidated.

15 UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2018/2019 ­ PIERRE & VACANCES-CENTER PARCS GROUP

1

PRESENTATION OF THE GROUP
Company information

1.2.3 Legal form of Pierre et Vacances
Simplified organisational structure at 30 September 2019

GIE PV - CP SERVICES Corporate services
France
SNC PIERRE & VACANCES FI Central Treasury
France
SAS PIERRE & VACANCES MARQUES France
ADAGIO SAS Joint venture owned 50/50
with Accor
LES VILLAGES NATURE DE VAL D'EUROPE SAS Joint venture owned 50/50
with Disney
BEAU VILLAGE TOURISM DEVELOPMENT
COMPANY LIMITED Joint venture owned 44/56 with Chinese companies

PIERRE et VACANCES SA

PV-CP IMMOBILIER HOLDING SAS France
PIERRE & VACANCES CONSEIL IMMOBILIER
France
PIERRE & VACANCES DÉVELOPPEMENT SAS
France
SNC DE CONSTRUCTION-VENTE (1 SNC per programme)
SAS PIERRE & VACANCES INVESTISSEMENT XXIV France
SAS PIERRE & VACANCES SENIORIALES PROGRAMMES IMMOBILIERS France
SAS PV SENIORIALES PROMOTION ET COMMERCIALISATION
France

SAS PIERRE & VACANCES TOURISME EUROPE France

SOCIEDAD DE EXPLOTACIÓN TURÍSTICA PIERRE & VACANCES ESPAÑA SL Espagne
PV-CP HOLDING EXPLOITATION
CENTER PARCS RESORTS FRANCE
PV RESIDENCES & RESORTS FRANCE
PV-CP CITY
CENTER PARCS EUROPE N.V.
LA FRANCE DU NORD AU SUD

PV-CP DISTRIBUTION France
PV-CP GESTION EXPLOITATION

The companies above (apart from the three joint ventures) are fully owned and consolidated.
Pierre et Vacances SA, the Group holding company, listed on Eurolist of Euronext Paris, holds equity interests in all the subholdings. It pays the external fees and expenses relating to the registered office at Artois, in the19th district of Paris (particularly the rents), which it reinvoices to the various Group entities according to certain allocation criteria, particularly the square footage occupied. Pierre et Vacances SA is required to give sureties or guarantees to banks on behalf of its subsidiaries when setting up corporate finance or financial completion guarantees.
GIE PV-CP Services provides and invoices for management, administration, accounting, financial and legal services for the Group and handles the services shared by the Group's companies through service agreements.
Pierre & Vacances FI is the Group's central cash management company. It collects the surplus cash from the subsidiaries, redistributes it to those that need it and invests the balance.
Pierre & Vacances Marques SAS owns and manages the Pierre & Vacances, Maeva and Multivacances brands. As such, it reinvoices the Tourisme France operating entities for brand royalties.

Pierre & Vacances Tourisme Europe, the holding company for tourism activities, controls:
E PV-CP Gestion Exploitation SAS, the holding company for the business segment involved in portfolio management activities and relationships with owners;
E PV-CP Distribution SA, a travel agency, dedicated to promoting and selling residences and villages (not including selling and marketing of Center Parcs products for the BNG area, which are handled by Center Parcs Europe NV and its subsidiaries). In this capacity, PV-CP Distribution SA reinvoices its selling fees to PV Résidences & Resorts France and Center Parcs Resorts France;
E PV-CP Holding Exploitation SAS, the holding company for the business segment involved in tourism operations, which controls:
­ Center Parcs Resorts France SAS which groups together all Bois Francs, Hauts de Bruyères, Les Trois Forêts and Domaine du Bois aux Daims operating activities, and which itself controls Domaine du Lac d'Ailette SNC, a subsidiary responsible for operating the Domaine du Lac d'Ailette holiday village in France,
­ PV Résidences & Resorts France SAS, which includes all the operating activities of the Maeva and Pierre & Vacances, villages and residences,
­ PV-CP City SAS, which includes all the operating activities of the 31 city residences acquired from Lamy on 15 June 2011,

16 UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2018/2019 ­ PIERRE & VACANCES-CENTER PARCS GROUP

PRESENTATION OF THE GROUP
Company information

­ Center Parcs Europe NV, a tourism holding company, wholly-owns the Center Parcs Europe sub-group, which manages the domains in the Netherlands, Germany and Belgium. This company performs shared services for the Center Parcs Europe sub-group, which it re-invoices to its subsidiaries. It is also responsible for sales operations in the Netherlands. Center Parcs Europe NV indirectly controls:
­ Center Parcs Netherlands NV, a subsidiary which manages all the villages in the Netherlands (8 villages),
­ Center Parcs Germany Holding BV, which manages 6 villages in Germany through various subsidiaries,
­ CPSP België NV which, through various subsidiaries, markets and manages 6 villages in Belgium;
E La France du Nord au Sud, a recognised player in the online holiday rental market in France and Spain.
E Sociedad de Explotación Turística Pierre & Vacances España SL, which manages the Pierre & Vacances tourism operation in Spain.
PV-CP Immobilier Holding SAS controls:
E Pierre & Vacances Investissement XXIV, a holding company of Les Senioriales, which controls:
­ PV Senioriales Programmes Immobilier, which holds the construction-sales companies,
­ PV Senioriales Promotion et Commercialisation which promotes, constructs and markets the Senioriales residences;
E Pierre & Vacances Conseil Immobilier (PVCI), which sells to individual investors new or renovated apartments and homes developed and managed by the Pierre & Vacances-Center Parcs Group. It is also responsible, for the owners that require it, for selling these apartments and thus provides the investors with liquidity from their investment. PVCI bills the construction-sales companies for the marketing fees;
E Pierre & Vacances Développement SAS (PVD), which carries out real estate prospecting and delegated project management. PVD invoices project management fees to the construction-sales companies;
E construction-sales companies.

The property development operations are in fact housed in dedicated construction-sales SNCs in order to simplify management and set-up of financing. Some property development operations can be carried out jointly with other parties. In such cases, Pierre & Vacances allows other developers to invest in these construction-sale companies.
The aim of PV-CP Immobilier Holding SAS is to wind up these companies and provide the ten-year warranty.
Different types of internal reinvoicing transactions are carried out between the entities of the tourism business segment and those of the property development business segment. These transactions are carried out under normal market conditions.
The construction-sales companies receive rents from the tourism business segment for the apartments that are not yet sold to investors but are operated by tourism entities. Conversely, for renovation operations, the property development companies that carry out the work indemnify the tourism operating companies for the costs incurred during the period of closure for the renovation work. Finally, the construction-sales companies sometimes pay the rent on apartments sold to investors before the site is opened to the public.
Furthermore, when, as part of the sale of properties to outside investors, the rent commitments given by the tourism operating companies are higher than market rents at the time of the sale, the excess rent, called "support funds", is recognised in the financial statements as a reduction to the selling price of the property. Therefore, this excess property margin is reallocated over the period of the lease to income from tourism activities.
Finally, the tourism operating companies help to manage certain property development programmes by participating in the design of the product, setting up the lease, delivering and accepting the site and putting it into operation. They also contribute to the marketing of certain property development programmes by actively helping with the selling work performed by their teams on the sites. For doing this work, they invoice project management and marketing fees to the property development companies concerned.

1

17 UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2018/2019 ­ PIERRE & VACANCES-CENTER PARCS GROUP

1

PRESENTATION OF THE GROUP
Information about the share capital

1.3 Information about the share capital

1.3.1 Share capital

At 30 November 2019, the share capital stood at 98,052,320, split into 9,801,723 ordinary shares, 1,476 category A preference shares, 1,366 category B preference shares and 667 category C preference shares, all of which have a par value of 10 and are fully paid-up.
Ordinary shares are in nominee or bearer form at the shareholder's discretion. Preference shares must be held in nominee form.
The Company keeps itself informed of the ownership of its shares under the conditions provided by law.
Ordinary shares are freely transferable, unless otherwise stipulated by law or regulations. Preference shares are not transferable.

The transfer of the shares, whether free of charge or for a consideration and whatever their form, is done by transfer between accounts in accordance with the procedure laid down by law.
Double voting rights are attributed to ordinary shares held in nominee form for more than two years. At 30 November 2019, with double voting rights being granted on 4,009,227 ordinary shares and preference shares having no voting rights attached, the total number of voting rights stood at 13,810,950 for 9,801,723 ordinary shares.
As mentioned on page 62 of this Universal Registration Document, the Shareholders' Extraordinary Meeting of 5 February 2020 will be asked to decide on changes to the preference share A, B and C characteristics.

1.3.2 Potential capital

After taking into account (i) the impact of the issue on 30 November 2017 of new ORNANE bonds maturing on 1 April 2023, (ii) the issue on 9 February 2018 of category A and B preference shares and (iii) the issue on 18 April 2019 of category C preference shares (the terms for conversion of preference shares into ordinary shares are set out on page 60 of this Registration Document, being remind that the Shareholders' Extraordinary Meeting of 5 February 2020 will be asked to decide on changes to the preference share A, B and C conversion terms), the theoretical potential capital of Pierre et Vacances, if all of the ORNANE bonds were converted into new shares, and in the event of the conversion into new shares of all category A,B and C preference shares (each preference share can be converted into a maximum of 100 ordinary shares at the end of the lock-in period and on condition that performance conditions are met), would be 118,008,840 corresponding to 11,800,884 shares:

9,801,723 ordinary shares existing at 30/11/2019
+1,648,261 ORNANE (maturing on 01/04/2023)
+1,476 A preference shares issued on 09/02/2018 relating to the 04/02/2016 plan, i.e. potentially 147,600 ordinary shares
+1,366 B preference shares issued on 09/02/2018 relating to the 04/02/2016 plan, i.e. potentially 136,600 ordinary shares
+667 C preference shares issued on 18/04/2019 relating to the 18/04/2017 plan, i.e. potentially 66,700 actions ordinary shares
= 11,800,884 potential shares at 30/11/2019

1.3.3 Changes in share capital over the last five financial years

Date 30/03/2016 09/02/2018 18/04/2019

Operation
Capital increase reserved for HNA Tourism Group
Capital increase through issuing category A and B preference shares
Capital increase through issuing category C preference shares

Par value
(in )
10 10 10

Capital amount
(in )

Issue Accumulated

premium share capital

(in )

(in )

Number of shares accumulated

9,801,720 14,879,010.96 98,017,230

9,801,723

28,420

/ 98,045,650

9,804,565

6,670

/ 98,052,320

9,805,232

18 UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2018/2019 ­ PIERRE & VACANCES-CENTER PARCS GROUP

PRESENTATION OF THE GROUP
Shareholders

1.4 Shareholders

1

1.4.1 Ownership of share capital and voting rights at 30 November 2019

At 30 November 2019, the estimated shareholder structure of Pierre et Vacances is as follows:

Number of shares

% of issued capital

Share value
(in  thousands)

Number of voting rights

% of voting rights

S.I.T.I.(1)

4,883,720

49.81

80,581

8,787,268

63.62

Board members

13,145

0.13

217

13,770

0.10

Treasury shares(2)

263,638

2.69

4,350

263,638

1.91

of which shares acquired as part of the buy-back programme

262,442

4,330

of which shares acquired as part

of the liquidity agreement

1,196

20

General public(3)

4,644,729

47.37

76,638

4,746,274

34.37

TOTAL

9,805,232

100.00

161,786

13,810,950

100.00

(1) 63.71% of S.I.T.I. SA is directly held by S.I.T.I. SC "R", of which 40.18% of the capital and 92.86% of the voting rights are held by Gérard Brémond. (2) Treasury shares for which the voting rights cannot be exercised. (3) Including employees (3,509 category A, B and C preference shares without voting rights and 101,054 ordinary shares i.e.1.06% of issued capital) and Financière de l'Échiquier
(791,600 shares according to according to the identification of the holders of bearer shares at 30 September 2019, representing at 30/11/2019 8.07% of capital and 5.73% of voting rights).

The Company has taken a number of measures to prevent the control exerted by S.I.T.I. SA from being abusive (see the report on corporate governance and internal control procedures, which is included in the annual financial report).
To the Company's knowledge, no other shareholder owns more than 5% of the share capital or voting rights (other than those listed above).

In accordance with Article L. 223-13 of the French Commercial Code and given the disclosures and notifications received in accordance with Articles L. 233-7 and L. 233-12 of said Code, it is stated that:
E S.I.T.I. SA directly holds more than a third of the share capital and more than half of the voting rights at Shareholders' Ordinary Meetings;
E S.I.T.I. SC "R" indirectly holds over a third of the share capital and more than half of the voting rights at Shareholders' Ordinary Meetings.

19 UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2018/2019 ­ PIERRE & VACANCES-CENTER PARCS GROUP

1

PRESENTATION OF THE GROUP
Shareholders

1.4.2 Changes in share capital and voting rights over the last three financial years

Situation at 30 September 2017 Situation at 30 September 2018 Situation at 30 September 2019

Shareholders

Number

% voting Number

of shares % capital rights of shares

% % voting Number capital rights of shares

% % voting capital rights

S.I.T.I.

3,903,548

39.83

56.68 3,903,548

39.81

52.78 4,883,720

49.81

63.62

HNA Tourism Group

980,172

9.99

7.12 980,172

9.99 13.25(4)

-

-

-

CONCERTED TOTAL

4,883,720

49.83

63.80 4,883,720

49.80

66.03

-

-

-

Directors

19,725

0.20

0.15 17,939(1)

0.18

0.22 13,789(5)

0.14

0.18

Treasury shares(2)

264,788

2.70

1.92 267,726

2.73

1.81 270,428

2.76

1.96

General public

4,633,490

47.27

34.13 4,635,180

47.28

31.93 4,637,295

47.29

34.24

of which employees

112,370

1.15

1.03 92,458(3)

0.94

1.18 89,770(6)

0.91

1.26

TOTAL

9,801,723

100

100 9,804,565

100

100 9,805,232

100

100

(1) Including 1,476 category A preference shares without voting rights. (2) Treasury shares for which the voting rights cannot be exercised. (3) Including 1,366 category B preference shares without voting rights. (4) HNA Tourism Group did not declare that it had crossed the 10% of voting rights threshold. (5) Including 1,107 category A preference shares without voting rights. (6) Including 2,033 category B and C preference shares without voting rights.

Article 222­12 of the General Regulations of the AMF states that, to calculate shareholding thresholds, the total number of voting rights is determined on the basis of all of the shares to which voting rights are attached, including shares stripped of voting rights.

1.4.3 Group share ownership plan

The Group Share Ownership Plan, set up with the payment of the employees' profit-sharing entitlement for 1997/1998, received voluntary payments from employees and the Company's matching contributions to subscribe for Pierre et Vacances shares in connection with the initial public offering and capital increase of March 2002. Italso receives voluntary payments from employees.

Within this Group Share Ownership Plan, the mutual fund consisting exclusively of Pierre et Vacances shares represented 0.14% of the capital at 30 September 2019 (13,650 shares).

1.4.4 Employee profit-sharing

A special Group employee profit-sharing agreement, covering the majority-controlled French entities, distributes the Group's special profit-sharing reserve (equalling the total special profit-sharing reserves calculated in each company) between all Group employees having an employment contract for more than three months with a participating entity. For 2018/2019, the Group derogatory

agreement triggered no profit-sharing. In contrast, an amount of 101,413 is to be paid to the profit-sharing fund on behalf of the legal shareholdings of certain companies.
Amounts due for Group profit-sharing in previous financial years:

For the 2017/2018 financial year For the 2016/2017 financial year For the 2015/2016 financial year For the 2014/2015 financial year

61,557 /
363,515 124,092

20 UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2018/2019 ­ PIERRE & VACANCES-CENTER PARCS GROUP

PRESENTATION OF THE GROUP
Shareholders

1.4.5 Notice of the breaching of shareholding threshold

Concerted action made up of S.I.T.I. SA and the company governed by Chinese law, HNA Tourism Group, stated it had reduced its stake, on 21 December 2018, to below the thresholds of 50% of voting rights and one third, 30%, 25%, 15%, 10% and 5% of the capital and voting rights of Pierre et Vacances SA and that together it no longer owns any Pierre et Vacances shares.

The crossing of these thresholds stemmed from an agreement signed on 12 December 2018 to dispose of all the Pierre et Vacances shares owned by HNA Tourism Group in favour of S.I.T.I., thereby ending the shareholding pact concluded between the two companies and their concerted action relative to Pierre et Vacances.
On this occasion, S.I.T.I. crossed no ownership threshold.

1

1.4.6 Report on treasury shares

Within the framework of the treasury share buy-back programme authorised by the Shareholders' Ordinary Meeting of 7 February 2019, 28,980 shares were acquired under the AMAFI liquidity agreement at an average price of 16.33 between 7 February 2019 and 30 September 2019. During this same period, 21.055 shares were sold at an average price of 16.52 under the AMAFI agreement.
Using the authorisations granted by the Shareholders' Ordinary Meeting of 3 March 2011, on 3 March 2011, the Board of Directors instituted a Pierre et Vacances share purchase option plan involving 222,500 shares for the benefit of 41 senior Group managers. Under this plan, options were granted to 41 beneficiaries for the purchase of 222,500 treasury shares at 63.93 each. The option price at grant date reflects the average Pierre et Vacances SA share price during the 20 trading sessions preceding the launch of the plan. To date, 115,000 options are outstanding and 107,500 options have lapsed.
Using the authorisations conferred upon it by the Shareholders' Ordinary Meeting of 4 February 2016, the Board of Directors began, on 4 February 2016, a plan to allocate 1,476 free preferential shares to three executive corporate officers. 1,476 preference shares were definitively allocated to the beneficiaries and thus issued on 9 February 2018. They can only be converted into ordinary shares after a two-year lock-in period, at a maximum parity of 100 ordinary shares for one preferential share, this parity being reduced if 100% of the performance conditions set by the Board of Directors are not met.
Using the authorisations conferred upon it by the Shareholders' Ordinary Meeting of 4 February 2016, the Board of Directors began, on 4 February 2016, a plan to allocate 1,544 free preferential shares to 63 senior Group managers. At the conclusion of the vesting period, this plan covered 57 beneficiaries and 1,366 preference shares. 1,366 preference shares were definitively allocated to the beneficiaries and thus issued on 9 February 2018. They can only be converted into ordinary shares after a two-year lock-in period, at a maximum parity of 100 ordinary shares for one preferential share, this parity being reduced if 100% of the performance conditions set by the Board of Directors are not met. It is currently anticipated that the ordinary shares obtained by converting the preferential shares will be incorporated in the Company's treasury shares.

Using the authorisations conferred upon it by the Shareholders' Ordinary Meeting of 4 February 2016, the Board of Directors began, on 18 April 2017, a plan to allocate 797 free preferential shares to 42 senior Group managers. At the conclusion of the vesting period, this plan covered 37 beneficiaries and 667 preference shares. 667 preference shares were definitively allocated to the beneficiaries and thus issued on 18 February 2019. They can only be converted into ordinary shares after a two-year lock-in period, at a maximum parity of 100 ordinary shares for one preferential share, this parity being reduced if 100% of the performance conditions set by the Board of Directors are not met.
As mentioned on page 62 of this Universal Registration Document, the Shareholders' Extraordinary Meeting of 5 February 2020 will be asked to decide on changes to the preference share A, B and C characteristics, notably conversion terms,
At 30 September 2019, the Company held 270,428 treasury shares, of which 7,986 of these were held under the liquidity agreement and 262,442 shares were held pursuant to the buy-back programme.
The 262,442 shares held under the buy-back programme are reserved for the plans listed above.
On 2 July 2018, the Company asked ODDO BHF to implement a liquidity agreement pursuant to the Code of Ethics established by the Association Française des Marchés Financiers (the French Financial Markets Professional Association, or AMAFI) and approved by the Autorité des Marchés Financiers (the French Financial Markets Authority, or AMF). Previously, this contract had been concluded with Natixis.
As the authorisation given by the Shareholders' Ordinary Meeting of 7 February 2019 authorising a share buyback programme expires on 7 August 2020, a new authorisation will be submitted for approval to the Shareholders' Ordinary Meeting called to approve the financial statements for the financial year ended 30 September 2019.

21 UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2018/2019 ­ PIERRE & VACANCES-CENTER PARCS GROUP

1

PRESENTATION OF THE GROUP
Shareholders

1.4.7 Description of the programme submitted for approval to the Shareholders' Combined Ordinary and Extraordinary Meeting of 5 February 2020

As the authorisation given by the Shareholders' Ordinary Meeting of 7 February 2019 is valid until 7 August 2020, it was necessary to issue a new authorisation which will bring to an end, for the unused fraction, the authorisation given by the Shareholders' Combined Ordinary and Extraordinary Meeting on 7 February 2019 to the Company to perform transactions on its own shares.
The object of this authorisation will be to enable the Company to perform transactions on its own shares for the purposes of:
1) stimulating the market via a liquidity agreement in accordance with the AMAFI code of conduct;
2) allocating bonus shares and/or share purchase options to executive and non-executive corporate officers or employees, or selling shares to employees as part of a profit-sharing programme, employee shareholder plans or company savings plans;
3) using shares to exercise rights attached to marketable securities carrying the right to company shares by redemption, conversion, exchange, presentation of a warrant or any other way;

4) using shares as payment or exchange in the context of external growth operations, to minimise the acquisition cost or, more generally, to improve the conditions of a transaction;
5) cancelling shares, subject in this latter case, to a vote by the Shareholders' Extraordinary Meeting of a specific resolution.
Pierre et Vacances will have the option to acquire 10% of its capital, i.e. as at 30 November 2019, 980,523 shares with a par value of 10 each. In view of the 263,638 treasury shares already held at 30 November 2019, the maximum number of shares that can be acquired under this buy-back programme is therefore 716,885, which corresponds to a theoretical maximum investment of 35,844,250 based on the maximum purchase price of 50 provided for in the resolution which will be put to the vote at the Shareholders' Ordinary Meeting of 5 February 2020 for approval.
The authorisation will be granted for a period of eighteen months from the Shareholders' Combined Ordinary and Extraordinary Meeting of 5 February 2020, i.e. until 5 August 2021.

1.4.8 Policy of dividend payments over the last five financial years ­ time limit for dividend claims

Over the last five financial years, Pierre et Vacances SA has made no dividend payments.
The dividend policy is based on the Group's profit (loss) from ordinary activities, financial position and projected financial needs. Thus, no guarantee can be given as to the amount of dividend payments for a

given financial year. Unclaimed dividends are forfeited to the French government five years after they become payable.
Given the Group's 2019 results, the non-payment of a dividend will be proposed to the Shareholders' Ordinary Meeting of 5 February 2020.

Financial instrument pledges granted involving Pierre et Vacances SA shares

Name of shareholder recorded on the purely nominee account
S.I.T.I. SA

Beneficiary BNP PARIBAS NEUFLIZE OBC

Start date

Maturity date

31/08/2018

30/03/2024

Number of shares pledged
3,829,217 i.e. 39.05% of the issuer's share capital

22 UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2018/2019 ­ PIERRE & VACANCES-CENTER PARCS GROUP

PRESENTATION OF THE GROUP
Stock market indicators

1.5 Stock market indicators

1

Share
As at 30 November 2019, Pierre & Vacances shares are listed on the Eurolist of Euronext Paris (Compartment B) and are included in the CAC All-Tradable, CAC Mid & Small 190, CAC Travel & Leisure and CAC Small 90 indexes.

Share trading over the last 18 months

Period June 2018 July 2018 August 2018 September 2018 October 2018 November 2018 December 2018 January 2019 February 2019 March 2019 April 2019 May 2019 June 2019 July 2019 August 2019 September 2019 October 2019 November 2019
(Source: Euronext).

Number of shares exchanged
254,279 160,250 130,078
57,480 217,529 466,740 436,093 229,538 329,214 129,538 135,057
77,070 392,614 202,782
72,336 109,305 122,964 311,415

Adjusted highs and lows

Highest 35.95 30.90 32.20 31.00 28.45 21.35 16.76 19.38 18.82 18.1 18.2 17.82 17.2 17.36 17.62 16.48 16 16.5

Lowest 29.05 26.20 26.00 27.25 17.92 13.86
14.240 15.620
15.7 15.52 15.44 15.56 15.02 15.44 15.72
15.5 14.38 14.72

Convertible bonds
In November 2017, the Company issued bonds redeemable in cash and new and/or existing shares (ORNANE), maturing on 1 April 2023. These bonds were admitted for trading on Euronext Paris on 6 December 2017.

Share trading over the last 18 months

Period June 2018 July 2018 August 2018 September 2018 October 2018 November 2018 December 2018 January 2019 February 2019 March 2019 April 2019 May 2019 June 2019 July 2019 August 2019 September 2019 October 2019 November 2019
(Source: Bloomberg, BGN).

Price Highest
56.97 56.20 56.50 57.12 55.64 53.85 51.83 52.63 52.64 52.67 52.27 52.57 52.92 53.35 53.96 53.90 53.36 53.27

Lowest 55.92 55.40 55.17 55.73 55.53 51.00 50.98 52.63 52.64 52.67 52.27 52.57 52.92 53.35 53.96 53.90 53.36 52.24

23 UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2018/2019 ­ PIERRE & VACANCES-CENTER PARCS GROUP

1

PRESENTATION OF THE GROUP

This page has been left blank intentionally.
24 UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2018/2019 ­ PIERRE & VACANCES-CENTER PARCS GROUP

2 RISK MANAGEMENT

2.1 Internal control and risk

management mechanisms

26

2.1.1 Objectives and procedure

26

2.1.2 Internal control procedures

26

2.2 Risk factors

28

2.2.1 Risks related to the Group's activities 28

2.2.2 Health, safety and environmental risks 32

2.2.3 Legal risks

33

2.2.4 Financial risks

34

2.3 Risk insurance and cover

35

2.4 Preparation of financial and

accounting information

36

2.4.1 Organisation and role of the finance

departments

36

2.4.2 Reporting system

38

25 UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2018/2019 ­ PIERRE & VACANCES-CENTER PARCS GROUP

2

RISK MANAGEMENT
Internal control and risk management mechanisms

2.1 Internal control and risk management mechanisms

2.1.1 Objectives and procedure

The internal control procedures and organisation that follow are intended to identify, prevent and control the risks that the Group faces. Like any control system, it cannot however provide certainty that the risks are totally eliminated.
The internal control procedures are mainly aimed at:
E supporting the Group in achieving its strategic and operational objectives;
E protecting the reliability, quality and availability of the financial information;
E protecting the Group's assets, human capital and brands;
E complying with the applicable laws and regulations.

The delegation and internal control structure results from the overlaying of:
E a legal arrangement for each entity: a wholly-owned holding company, under a "flattened" organisation and legally independent subsidiaries with their own "business" Chief Executive Officers, and whose corporate governance bodies, where such exist (depending on the company's legal form), are made up of Group executives from outside the relevant business segment, in order to ensure optimum consultation, coordination and control by the parent company;
E an organisation which centralises activity support and control resources Group-wide.
This organisation ensures that policies and procedures are consistently applied across the Group, while allowing a high level of delegation of day-to-day responsibilities. Because the Company is organised by legal entity, a formal delegation scheme has been put in place by which each operational manager is given both the resources and personal responsibility for his or her actions.

2.1.2 Internal control procedures

Internal control is provided by the different governance bodies, at several levels:

Board of Directors
E as the corporate body of the Group's parent company, the Board takes decisions which go beyond the sole control of the Group's corporate officers (guarantees and pledges, allocation of share options, preparing the parent company financial statements and the half-yearly and full-year consolidated financial statements, etc.) and, pursuant to these decisions, confers upon them special and limited powers;
E as the Group's supervisory body, the Board is responsible for appointing and supervising the executive and non-executive corporate officers of the parent company and indirectly oversees the principal subsidiaries, which regularly report to it on the activities of the tourism and property development businesses in particular.
Executive Management Committees
The Group's major Managers are employees of S.I.T.I., the Pierre et Vacances SA holding, and are made available to the Group by S.I.T.I. as part of its management activities. As a result, they sit on the various decision-making bodies.
The rules of governance put in place ensure ­ amongst other things ­ that S.I.T.I. SA does not abuse its powers of control:

E the Group Executive Management Committee includes executives primarily taken from the Pierre & Vacances and Center Parcs structures;
E the other Committees include operational staff from Pierre & Vacances and Center Parcs to ensure that decisions are shared.
Corporate Departments
Several of the Group's cross-departmental divisions have internal control responsibilities (Internal Audit, the Finance Operations and Services Department, as well as the Legal, Insurance and Risk Management Departments and the Human Resources Department).
These corporate departments are centralised at the Group's Paris head office. Their responsibilities include:
E ensuring the correct application of the policies defined at the Group level and within the operational subsidiary and services departments;
E implementing shared actions on behalf of the subsidiaries and departments (e.g. risk hedging, contract preparation and approval, recording of accounting transactions, collective work agreement preparation, etc.);
E assisting operational employees, at their request.

26 UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2018/2019 ­ PIERRE & VACANCES-CENTER PARCS GROUP

RISK MANAGEMENT
Internal control and risk management mechanisms

Composition and roles of the Executive Management Committees
Group Executive Management Committee (CDG)
E Four members: the Chairman, the Chief Executive Officer, the Deputy Chief Executive Officer and the Chief Executive Officer Tourism.
E Weekly meetings.
E The Committee decides on the strategic guidelines that need to be implemented to enhance the Group's growth and operational performance (such as major financial balances, consolidated risk management, brand strategy, product segmentation, the geographical distribution of the development zones for the various brands, the human resources policy, etc.) and it drives internal synergies.
E The Management Committees below are chaired by a member of the Executive Management Committee. Those Committees allow this member to supervise the actions of the management bodies of the Group's subsidiaries and corporate departments before, during and after important decisions are implemented, and to monitor the Group's day-to-day business.
Group Executive Committee (COMEX)
E 17 members (members of the Group Executive Management Committee and the main operational and functional Directors) as at the date this Universal Registration Document was filed.
E Monthly meetings.
E The Group Executive Committee steers the implementation of strategic plans and discusses the major operational initiatives required to enhance the Group's growth and performance.
Board of Management and Supervisory Board of Center Parcs Europe
E One member (Chief Executive Officer of Center Parcs Europe) for the Board of Management; three members for the Supervisory Board (one of which is not an executive of the Group).
E The Supervisory Board generally meets four times a year.
E The Board of Management is required to comply with the instructions issued by the Supervisory Board in terms of the Company's financial, social and economic strategy.
E The specific role of the Supervisory Board is to oversee, consult with and advise the Board of Management. It also oversees the general conduct of business.

The Property Development Committee France
E Seven members: the Group Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, the Chief Executive Officer of Pierre & Vacances Développement and of Pierre & Vacances Conseil Immobilier, the Development Director, the Director of the Cash/Financing department and one Director representing the Tourism business.
E Meetings every three weeks. E The committee is responsible for launching and monitoring
property development programmes in France (studies, marketing, construction starts, issues related to construction progress, sales formulae, potential disputes, etc.).
France Development Committee
E Four members: the Group Chairman, the Chief Executive Officer and Deputy Chief Executive Officer and the Development Director.
E Weekly meetings. E Decides on development projects in France.
International Development Committee
E Seven members: the Executive Management Committee, the Development Director, the CEO of Real Estate Development and Construction, and the CEO of Center Parcs Europe.
E Bi-monthly meetings. E Reviews the property disposal and renovation operations on
Center Parcs in the Netherlands, Belgium and Germany.
Adagio Development Committee
E Includes representatives of the Pierre & Vacances-Center Parcs Group (the Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, the Chief Executive Officer for Tourism and the Development Director) and Accor (the Chief Executive Officer for Hotel Development and their Deputy Chief Executive Officer).
E Monthly meetings. E Reviews all Adagio development projects.
Les Senioriales Strategic Committee
E Two members: Group Pierre & Vacances-Center Parcs Chairman and the Chaiman and CEO of Les Senoriales.
E Provides updates on the business activity and on current projects, and authorises land purchases.

2
5 6

Tourism Committee
E Nine members: the Group Tourism Chief Executive Officer, the Chief Executive and Deputy Chief Executive Officers of Center Parcs Europe, the Chief Executive Officer of Pierre & Vacances Tourisme, the Commercial & Digital Director (Chief Executive Officer of Center Parcs Europe, the Director of Operational Innovation and IT Systems, the Group Finance Operations and Services Director, the Human Resources Director and the Owner and Property Management Director (the latter two may attend these meetings if invited).
E Monthly meetings.
E The committee decides on the initiatives necessary to enhance the growth and performance of the Tourism business.

27 UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2018/2019 ­ PIERRE & VACANCES-CENTER PARCS GROUP

2

RISK MANAGEMENT
Risk factors

2.2 Risk factors

The Pierre & Vacances-Center Parcs Group has carried out a review of the risk factors that may have a significant negative impact on its activities, the profitability of these activities or its income. The Pierre & Vacances-Center Parcs Group has not found any significant risks other than those presented below.

The Group risk matrix, shown below, is a management tool for controlling risks. It lists risks by importance and probability of occurrence.

HIGH

Failure to obtain administrative authorisations

IMPACTS OF RISKS

Cyber-attack Risk of bodily harm Liquidity risk Stock risk
Fraud Credit risk

Ongoing property crisis Significant rents increase

Climate risk Regulatory risk Reputational risk Competition risk

Business failure of a strategic partner Talent management

Tourism business seasonality

PROBABILITY INDEX

HIGH

2.2.1 Risks related to the Group's activities

2.2.1.1 Reputational risks

Description of the risk
These risks are considered to be significant in the tourism business, as well is in that of property marketing and new project development.
Reputational risk is becoming increasingly important given the evolution of the regulatory environment (e.g. duty of care, strengthening of environmental protection rules) and the expectations of society at large.
For the Group, the risk factors are primarily related to the safety of customers and employees, to customer satisfaction with product and service quality, to ethics and to the corporate, societal and environmental responsibility of the company.

Potential impact on the Group
E Impact on bookings related to the Group's reputation and image, notably on social networks.
E Loyalty effect on lessor-owners and investors. E Impact on the local acceptance of projects under development
which could prevent the granting of building and operating permits.
Risk management and mitigation
The quality of relationships with stakeholders (customers, owners, partners, local residents, suppliers, etc.) is key to managing these risks (see chapter 4 "Listening to our stakeholders").

28 UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2018/2019 ­ PIERRE & VACANCES-CENTER PARCS GROUP

RISK MANAGEMENT
Risk factors

The measures implemented by the Group are described in the chapters. They primarily cover:
E the analysis and management of customer satisfaction (tourism and lessor-owners) and the Group's reputation management policy for social networks (see chapter 4 "Customer satisfaction");
E the implementation of a special organisation to deal with any situation likely to endanger its personnel, its customers, its interests and/or its reputation (see chapter 4 "Health, safety");
E the local consultation policy within the framework of new development projects and involvement in local economic and social life (tourism partnerships, local employment) (see chapter 4 "Jointly building new projects with local partners and residents");
E the ethics policy with, notably, the implementation of a code of conduct (or code of ethics) and of an alert system (see chapter 4 "Ethical and responsible practices");
E the strengthening of service provider control measures (compliance with environmental regulations, human rights and labour rights) via the implementation of a vigilance plan (see Chapter 4, Vigilance plan).

The recent development of measures aimed at supervising the rental of furnished tourist properties, such as those stemming from the ALUR and Digital Republic laws, also help reduce processing inequalities between the platforms and tourism professionals, especially in terms of regulatory factors and tax aspects.
Finally, Pierre & Vacances-Center Parcs Group has numerous assets that set it apart from these players and help it resist their competition: the guarantee of a level of quality that only major brands can provide, flexibility in holiday durations, offers and themes that can be customised, varied price ranges (combining transport, services and activities) and a large choice of destinations.
The Group has also invested significantly in recent years in overhauling its websites (new technologies, improving the customer experience on distribution channels, development of additional services sales) and rounding out its offer (in quantitative and qualitative terms) to consolidate its positioning and attract new clients.
2.2.1.3 Ongoing property crisis in a key market

2.2.1.2 Increased competition of digital platforms
Risk identification and description
The C2C platforms used to put private individuals in contact with each other, such as Airbnb and Abritel, have significantly expanded their lodging offering over the past years in major cities as well as at the seaside and in the mountains.
The significant growth in additional entry-level to luxury lodging, providing houses and flats combined with a services offering (recreation, concierge, etc.) may increase the competitive environment in which the Group operates.
Potential impact on the Group
The increased competition from these platforms could impact the occupancy rate of the Group's tourist sites and/or create price tensions.
Risk management and mitigation
The Pierre & Vacances-Center Parcs Group derives more than 60% of its revenue from the internet, via its own platforms (pierreetvacances.com, centerparcs.fr, maeva.com, adagio-city.com website), and those of its trade partners (e.g. Booking.com, Vente privée, Voyage Privé, etc.). This notably provides a way to attract customers from regions where the Group's commercial presence is insufficient, to develop new emerging markets or to expand occupancy in the tourist sites operated by the Group at the beginning and end of seasons.
C2C platforms (Airbnb and Abritel) also contribute to developing the name recognition of holiday rentals, which can benefit the Group.

Risk identification and description
The Group's property development unit supports the development of its tourism offering. The Group's ability to grow and ensure the marketing of its property development offering can be impacted by:
E a lack of available properties (notably in France where the Group already has an extensive presence);
E appeals relating to building permits by associations or local residents;
E a loss of interest on the part of investors due to an unfavourable economic, tax and interest rate environment.
Potential impact on the Group
E Property development could slow due to the lack of available real estate in the target locations.
E The profitability of the property development activities could be impacted by the temporary interruption of projects being appealed.
E Some projects could be deferred due to property marketing difficulties (inventory risk).
Risk management and mitigation
To reduce its sensitivity to the cyclical nature of the property market, the Group has put in place several measures based mainly on:
E the diversification of investors with the development of property project financing by institutional investors in addition to sales to private individuals;
E the diversification of investors in different regions (British, German, Dutch, etc.);
E the diversification of the Group's locations (Northern and Eastern Europe and China);

2

29 UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2018/2019 ­ PIERRE & VACANCES-CENTER PARCS GROUP

2

RISK MANAGEMENT
Risk factors

E pre-sales constraints implemented by the Group prior to starting work to ensure limited inventory time for property and finished products. The same thinking applies to sales of existing property renovated by the Group where the stock risk is mitigated by the effective use of the property, generating rental income even when there is no resale;
E a change in the business model, with the development of property disposal/renovation operations of existing Domaines Center Parcs.
2.2.1.4 Cyber attacks
Risk identification and description
The Group has implemented an in-depth digital transformation over the past several years. It began with the online booking system for its various brands and is continuing, leading to greater exposure to the risk of cyber attack and to risks resulting from the malfunction of IT systems, networks and telecommunications.
These systems condition the execution, processing, transmission and storage of the Group's operations and accounting and financial data.
They also handle communications with the Group's customers, suppliers and employees.
In addition, the new personal data protection regulations (GDPR) require quick adjustments to avoid any risk of non-compliance.
Potential impact on the Group
The potential impact resulting from a cyber attack and its effects depend on the type of attack:
E loss and/or theft of personal and confidential data and the resulting chain reaction;
E the failure of the main operational systems;
E the inability to carry out daily transactions.
Confronted with the growing threat of cybercrime, the Group is dedicating significant amounts to the maintenance and protection of its information systems.
Any significant breakdown or interruption of the information system, or any loss of sensitive data, could have a negative impact on the Group's normal business activities, notably the Tourism business, and have financial, operational or reputational consequences.
Risk management and mitigation
A formalised critical incident handling process has been implemented by the Information Systems Department.
The Group has a Disaster Recovery Plan (DRP) which is regularly tested so that applications identified as critical are able to restart within an acceptable time-frame, in case a major problem occurs affecting the systems.

2.2.1.5 Tourism business seasonality
Risk identification and description
The European tourism sector has a seasonal nature with considerable changes in business depending on the period (school holidays) and the destination (stronger mountain business in winter and seaside business in summer).
The Group's tourism business is based around two seasons: a winter season (November to April) which accounts for about 40% of the Group's annual revenue and a summer season (May to October), with the main activity in the summer season (the 4th quarter of the financial year alone accounts for over 35% of annual revenue).
This seasonality results in a structural deficit for the first half of the financial year.
Potential impact on the Group
Fewer stay sales during the high and very high seasons could negatively impact the Group's results.
In addition, depending on the destinations, the Group could also encounter difficulties recruiting seasonal staff, which could impact the promise made to customers and the quality of services.
Risk management and mitigation
The Group strives to decrease the seasonality of its business by:
E increasing foreign sales (partnerships with foreign tour operators, development of sales contracts for partner residences);
E boosting sales of stays outside of school holiday periods (selection of short stays for private individuals and professional seminars);
E increasing flexibility in terms of the length of stays and arrival and departure dates;
E using pricing which varies according to the different periods, with large differences between high and low seasons;
E targeted advertising campaigns.
The seasonal nature of the Group's tourism business is also lessened thanks to the increased offering of city residences (Adagio & Adagio access) and the Domaines Center Parcs (all of which have covered facilities), which are open all year round.
The Human Resources Department works in close cooperation with the Operations Department to improve the recruiting process for seasonal seaside and mountain staff.

30 UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2018/2019 ­ PIERRE & VACANCES-CENTER PARCS GROUP

RISK MANAGEMENT
Risk factors

2.2.1.6 Business failure of a strategic partner/service provider
Description of the risk
The companies of the Pierre & Vacances-Center Parcs Group primarily interact with partners in the tourist distribution and e-commerce, bank financing and institutional investment and construction and public works sectors.
Potential impact on the Group
Non-compliance of a partner or co-contractor and, notably, of those who participate in a building project or a distribution contract could have a significant negative impact on the cost plans budgeted or on the expected revenue volumes.
Risk management and mitigation
The relationships agreed with the partner companies of the Group are selected according to the type and size of the contracts by the various operational departments of the Group in close cooperation with the Purchasing Department and the Legal Department.
The match between the type of commitments undertaken and the operational reliability and financial stability of the partner and their level of financial dependence are taken into account as part of the Group's responsible purchasing policy.
In addition, the companies of the Pierre & Vacances-Center Parcs Group strive to maintain commercial relationships with a range of partners in order to limit market concentration, as is notably the case for distribution, in addition to a dominant direct sales policy.
2.2.1.7 Talent management
Description of the risk
The Tourism sector has changed a great deal over the last few years, notably as a result of digitisation which has changed the way holidaymakers book, assess and recommend their holidays to their family and friends. In addition, their expectations in terms of lodging quality, cleanliness and service are increasing, which is why our teams and our organisation must evolve, improve and develop their business lines.
Potential impact on the Group
Given this context, if the Group were no longer able to attract and recruit new employees with the right skills, or if it were no longer able to hire and develop key staff, its reputation, business activities and results could be significantly impacted.

Risk management and mitigation
In order to manage these risks, the Group has implemented an HR policy intended to support the business throughout its transformation, changes and evolution. The policy is based on four pillars: appeal, recruitment, development and employee commitment.
The policy is based on a performance management process called the Talent Review, which is intended to identify, together with the managers, the key personnel in their teams, to prepare action plans to develop their skills, ensure their commitment or replace them.
With respect to appeal and recruitment, the Group has established a new employer brand platform, which emphasises the benefits for potential candidates of joining the group in terms of career development and professional challenges.
With respect to development, the Group has decided on an ambitious training policy intended to develop the customer service skills of its employees and enable them to develop new skills (agility, innovation, digital) to better meet the changes taking place in the Tourism sector.
In addition, the Group addresses the risk of skill, knowledge and expertise flight due to internal mobility or departure from the Group by implementing a succession plan for each key person, via their identification during their Talent Review. The succession plan can involve mentoring, training or transmission to a potential successor by identifying a scheduled departure date in advance.
Lastly, with respect to commitment, the Group has implemented a leadership training programme called BCORE, which enables managers to understand their new role as coaches and change agents. The Happy@Work programme is intended to assess and improve team commitment by working on their satisfaction and motivation at work.
2.2.1.8 Fraud
Risk identification and description
The Pierre & Vacances-Center Parcs Group is exposed to the risk of fraud due to the acceleration of its digitisation, its presence in several countries, and the rapid development of new forms of potential threats, including international hacker networks, viruses and others.
Potential impact on the Group
Any fraud or theft could result in a financial loss or the loss of confidential data.
Major fraud could harm the Group's reputation if it resulted in negative comments on social networks or in the media.
Risk management and mitigation
The Group has conducted awareness raising with the teams exposed to the risk of fraud and has strengthened its control system.
The Group has an experienced "communication and crisis" team.

2

31 UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2018/2019 ­ PIERRE & VACANCES-CENTER PARCS GROUP

2

RISK MANAGEMENT
Risk factors

2.2.2 Health, safety and environmental risks

2.2.2.1 Risk of bodily harm

2.2.2.2 Climate risks

Description of the risk
The Group hosts several million customers a year in its establishments where they enjoy recreational activities and food services as part of their stay. During these activities, customers and employees can be exposed to the risk of a domestic accident, an incident, infection, or poisoning.
Potential impact on the Group
The main effect will be suffered by the person in question and the Group can potentially be held liable in this respect. The Group's reputation and its image can also be negatively impacted by random incidents occurring within its establishments.

Description of the risk
There are two types of risks related to climate change:
E physical risks resulting from damage caused by weather and climate phenomena (operating risks, material damage risks);
E transition risks resulting from the effects of the implementation of a low-carbon economic model (regulatory, tax and legal risks, market risks related to changes in demand).
Property development and tourism are among the sectors known to be particularly exposed to climate change risks (see the 2018 Fédération Francaise de l'Assurance study). The Group's activities are, therefore, impacted by changing climate and weather conditions over the short, medium and long term.

Risk management and mitigation
The Group must guarantee the safety of its customers and employees. For this purpose, the Group has implemented a prevention and safety policy based on several pillars:
E an upstream risk analysis intended to identify any potential dangers for customers and employees;
E a prevention policy as the driver for safety;
E awareness raising for all departments and employees with the shared goal of "risk management";
E ongoing verification and measurement of the effectiveness of the prevention and safety policy to ensure that it is understood and applied by all.
In addition, the Group has implemented a specific crisis management organisation to ensure the handling of any situation with the potential to endanger its employees, its customers, its interests and/or its reputation. This specific crisis management system consists of a dedicated, multi-disciplinary team headed by the Operational Risks Department.

Potential impact on the Group
E Consequences for the conditions of stays, customer satisfaction and demand: summer comfort, snow conditions, presence of harmful species which could impact stay quality.
E Strengthening of environmental regulations and taxes: rules governing the energy performance of buildings, the carbon tax.
E Impact on the operating conditions and costs of the sites: increase in energy prices, rationing or increases in water prices in destinations experiencing water stress.
E Material consequences related to extreme events: the wide range of locations of operating sites enables a reduction in the potential impact of extreme climate events and natural catastrophes.
Risk management and mitigation
The risk of climate change and the Group's contribution to global warming is one of the major material challenges managed as part of the Group's CSR policy.
The measures taken to control and mitigate the risk are as follows:
E management of energy and water consumption via a road map with calculated objectives;
E bioclimatic design of new development projects, anticipation of new regulations;
E anticipation of the medium and long-term effects via: carbon assessment studies, mapping of the part of the activity subject to average or high water stress to design targeted action plans; study under way to assess the group's resilience with respect to the consequences of global warming.

32 UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2018/2019 ­ PIERRE & VACANCES-CENTER PARCS GROUP

RISK MANAGEMENT
Risk factors

2.2.3 Legal risks

2.2.3.1 Regulatory risks
Description of the risk
The Group's business activities in France and in Europe are governed by legal and regulatory business and real estate law systems, including those covering consumer and renter protection, which can change from time to time. This is the case of the European Directive of 25 November 2015, the so-called "package travel and linked travel arrangements" directive, which came into effect on 1 July 2018.
In addition, the Group is also impacted by the recent regulatory systems on compliance which include laws on the duty of vigilance, the General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR) and the law on transparency, the prevention of corruption and the modernisation of the economy, known as the Sapin II law.
Potential impact on the Group
Failure to anticipate new regulations could lead to an increase in financial expenses or limit the Group's activities.
In addition, non-compliance with these regulations could result in sanctions for the company or its employees. This could also harm the brand image and reputation of the Group.
Risk management and mitigation
In addition to its involvement in professional tourism and property development bodies, the Group, via its Legal Department, monitors legal changes which may affect its commitments and obligations so as to adapt its contractual practices and tools to the new rules and standards in force, which did not lead to any major effect on its performance being identified.
In addition, as part of its risk management policy, the Group has implemented an overall approach intended to strengthen measures to prevent corruption based on:
E the implementation of a code of conduct included in the Internal Regulations, with an inherent disciplinary sanctions policy;
E training for Company managers and the people who have the greatest exposure;
E the implementation of an internal warning system;
E the creation of a risk map specific to corruption risks;
E the establishment of a procedure to assess the situation of customers, leading suppliers and intermediaries;
E the setting up of an internal control and assessment system for the measures taken;
E the implementation of internal and external accounting controls.

Moreover, in view of the new regulatory requirements for the protection of personal data, the Group has implemented technical and organisational measures for all of the countries in which it operates. A Data Protection Officer has been nominated and a steering committee set up to ensure the smooth roll out of the practices to be implemented to respect European regulations and maintain trusting relations with prospects, customers and all of the Group's staff.
2.2.3.2 Failure to obtain administrative authorisations (stakeholders)
Description of the risk
As part of the process of launching new property development and significant renovation programmes, a number of prior authorisations are requested from the administrative authorities by construction/marketing companies which are subject to preparation, investigation, delivery and third-party appeal deadlines.
Potential impact on the Group
Potential appeals of the administrative authorisations can significantly hamper the progress of the property development programmes and expose the Group to significant commitment costs.
Risk management and mitigation
The legal risk associated with failure to obtain local government authorisations for new programmes is limited to preliminary study costs, pre-selling expenses and internal fees, since the Pierre & Vacances-Center Parcs Group only purchases land if the local government authorisations have been obtained. For programmes undergoing renovation, the Pierre & Vacances-Center Parcs Group may have to acquire former operations already being operated, which generate an income to offset the cost of financing the purchase of the asset.
Nevertheless, the time scales for obtaining the authorisations purged of any third-party recourse can slow down development, and when the project is affected by a lasting dispute (such as the Roybon project), additional expenditure may make the cost of the property development programme significantly more expensive.

2

33 UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2018/2019 ­ PIERRE & VACANCES-CENTER PARCS GROUP

2

RISK MANAGEMENT
Risk factors

2.2.4 Financial risks

2.2.4.1 Risk relating to rental commitments
Description of the risk
The Pierre & Vacances-Center Parcs Group strategy is not to commit its own equity to ownership of the bricks and mortar of the holiday apartments and villages that it operates, so it sells these assets to individual or institutional investors. The sales are accompanied by lease-back agreements signed between the new owners and the Group tourism operating companies usually for between 9 and 15 years.
Tourism Income generated by the leased apartments and houses offset these rents payable to the owners which constitute, along with personnel expenses, the main source of fixed expenses associated with the tourism business.
Lease agreements for the Pierre & Vacances Tourisme Europe residences and villages entered into with private or institutional investors are usually signed for between 9 and 12 years with the option of renewal on expiry. These rents are subject to indexation clauses corresponding in France to the rent reference index and in Spain to the consumer price index applicable in the respective country.
The Group is thus exposed to index variations.
Potential impact on the Group
A significant difference between growth on the rental reference indices and growth in revenue generated by the tourism operations would have a substantially negative impact on the Group's financial results.

Risk management and mitigation
At 30 September 2019, less than 10% of the individual Pierre & Vacances leases are still indexed to the French construction costs index ­ ICC (the former reference index), and half of these have a maximum indexation of 2% to 3%. Further, for any new contract signed or any renewal of an expired lease, the indexation to the French rental reference index (IRL) is limited to an annual maximum of 2%. At the end of the leases, the Group may have to adjust the proposal put to the owner to ensure consistency between changes in tourism industry performance and changes in property market performance (change of the reference index from the ICC to the IRL, stability or reduction of rents in cash, introduction of variable rents, and in some special cases, operation under management agreements and potentially timely withdrawal from the operation).
The agreements to lease the land and buildings of the villages operated under the Center Parcs and Sunparks brands are generally signed for periods of between 11.5 and 15 years, with the option of renewal. The rents are primarily comprised of a fixed element. They are subject to fixed or variable indexation in line with inflation or the rent reference index applicable in the country in which the assets are located.
2.2.4.2 Market risks
The market risks are described in Note 20 of the notes to the consolidated financial statements.
In particular, the Group has carried out a specific review of its liquidity risk and considers that it is able to meet its future maturities, as it respects its covenants.

34 UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2018/2019 ­ PIERRE & VACANCES-CENTER PARCS GROUP

RISK MANAGEMENT
Risk insurance and cover

2.3 Risk insurance and cover

Insurance policy is defined at Group level, including BNG, by the Risk Management section reporting to the Legal Department.
The overall budget allocated to this cover was 5 million (excluding construction) for the 2018/2019 financial year, a stable figure in terms of premium volumes and coverage levels compared with the previous financial year. Most of this budget goes on all-risks insurance covering operation of the tourism sites against damage and operating losses for all brands.
The Pierre & Vacances-Center Parcs Group is covered against property damage and operating losses with a contractual compensation limit of 200 million per claim.
Furthermore, a second excess line, to cover the Center Parcs Domaine du Lac d'Ailette village, has been taken out to take the contractual compensation limit to 250 million per claim, corresponding to the valuation of the Maximum Possible Claim for this new site.
The level of cover set for operating losses reflects the time required for the total reconstruction of a major site.
Property insurance covers the maximum realistic claim possible on sites with the highest concentration of value.
There are still a number of types of risk that may affect the Group's income which are not covered by the policies taken out, specifically:

E uninsurable risks: the Group is obviously not covered for risks to which common, regulatory or structural exclusions apply in insurance contracts, such as: risks without hazards, loss of operating profit as a result of strikes, dam failure in the Netherlands, pandemics, as well as the consequences of intentional misconduct or liability as a result of failure to honour contractual obligations, etc.;
E special risks which are not included under any specific cover, such as risks of operating losses as a result of economic or political instability, etc.
As far as risks associated with terrorism are concerned, these are covered, for a significant proportion of the Group's tourism business, firstly, through the GAREAT regulations (a French national arrangement covering acts of terrorism) for sites located in France (including the five French Center Parcs sites) and, secondly, by a specific insurance cover relating to all the Center Parcs Europe villages.
As regards the risks of property damage and operating losses, the insurance companies Royal Sun Alliance and Allianz are the leading insurers with which the Group has taken out policies.
Royal Sun Alliance is the main insurer in the blanket cover programme for public liability.
The Group does not have a captive insurance or reinsurance company.

2

35 UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2018/2019 ­ PIERRE & VACANCES-CENTER PARCS GROUP

2

RISK MANAGEMENT
Preparation of financial and accounting information

2.4 Preparation of financial and accounting information

2.4.1 Organisation and role of the finance departments

Deputy Executive Management (DGA) handles essential internal audit missions for the development of financial and accounting information. A body of procedures and practices has been defined to ensure that action is taken to control risks, which could have a material effect on the Group portfolio or adversely affect its ability to achieve its corporate objectives. The DGA is responsible for central and operational management functions within a framework of delegated responsibilities for each business.
2.4.1.1 Financial Strategy/Financing Department
This Department is organised into two segments:
Group Investor Relations, Strategic Operations, and M&A Department
E Management of all equity transactions with an impact on capital (capital increase, bond issues with an equity component, etc.).
E Management of merger/acquisition/disposal operations. E Supervision of external financial communication to financial
analysts, investors and shareholders. E Control and approval of all financial information intended for the
media, thereby ensuring the overall consistency of the financial information disseminated outside of the company.
Cash/Financing Department
E Structures Group financing and hedges it using rate derivatives. E Plays an active role in securing finance from institutional
partners, which invest in these assets operated by the Group. E Manages the cash flow of the subsidiaries, centralised in a cash
pool. E Manages the distribution of business between banks, organises the
Group's invitations to tender and ensures the consistency of information published in its scope of activity.

2.4.1.2 Finances, Operations and Services Department
This Department has four main segments:
Tourism Operational Finance Department
E Leads and measures the economic performance of the Group's tourism business.
­ It applies the financial objectives of the Group for each brand, checks and measures their achievement via the reporting system, and proposes any corrective action necessary.
­ Management of the budgeting process, business forecasts and medium-term operating profit (loss).
E Assistance to operational staff for all financial subjects (simulations, calculations-pricing policy, special shares, etc.).
E Assistance for development issues (business plans, financial profitability simulations for new and renovated property programmes), for the renewal or creation of leasing formulae and for the reorganisation and optimisation of the operational activities.
E Active participation in designing and implementing new frontand back-office tools.
Property Development Finance Department
E Preparation of accounting information; leads and measures the economic performance of the Group's Property Development business.
E Financial monitoring of projects (expense commitments, works progress, etc.).
E Implementation of the financial goals of the Group and of each of the property development and marketing activities, controls and measures their implementation via the proposal and reporting of actions.
Tourism/Holdings Accounting and Financial Systems Department
Tourism/Holdings Accounting Department:
E Preparation of financial statements, coordination and control of accounting applications and procedures in close cooperation with management control, internal audit, operations control and the consolidation department for each "organisational sub-group". Accounting closes are carried out every month for all brands.

36 UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2018/2019 ­ PIERRE & VACANCES-CENTER PARCS GROUP

RISK MANAGEMENT
Preparation of financial and accounting information

E Support for operational staff for the supply of financial information and participation in the implementation of administrative and commercial tools.
E Financial management of owners and joint owners.
E Sales administration (invoicing, collections, customer account, litigation and reimbursements management).
Transformation and Financial Systems Department
E Project management assistance for the information tools/systems required by the operations and financial departments.
Corporate Finance Department
Tax Department
E Supervises and coordinates the Group's specific tax policies in each of the countries where it operates.
E Participates in tax structuring, with the support of tax advisers, in terms of development for both property projects and tourism operations.
E Advice and assistance to the Operational Departments for all transactions involving tax law.
E Tax monitoring for changes in tax law and, in this context, supervision of the implementation of new regulations in Group entities (example: "BEPS" regulations).
Consolidation Department
E Preparation, analysis and reporting on the Group's consolidated financial statements, established using the IFRS in force. ­ BEFORE each consolidation phase, preparation and transmission by the Consolidation department of precise instructions for the subsidiaries, including a detailed schedule.
­ Preparation and analysis of the consolidated financial statements based on accounting and management information that is passed on to it for the entire scope of consolidation.
­ use of a unique software package tool deployed in the Group's subsidiaries. Maintenance of this tool and training for users is undertaken by the Consolidation department with temporary assistance from external consultants if necessary.
E Standards monitoring and determination of the impact of the first application of new standards with the support of its advisers when required.
E Implementation of Group impairment tests.
2.4.1.3 Group Internal Audit Department
This Department works with the Group's various business segments, as part of an annual audit plan and via one-off missions at the request of the Group Executive Management. The tasks and themes dealt with may affect all of the Group's businesses and subsidiaries.

The Operational Finance Department actively participates on a case-by-case basis with Group Internal Auditing and Operating Control in financial audit tasks, and also in social and regulatory audits of tourism operations related to holiday residences. These audits are mainly carried out on the operating sites (residences or villages from all the brands). In addition, the Operational Finance Department issues and distributes procedures aimed at limiting the risks of financial losses on-site. The main aim of the on-site audit missions is to ensure that procedures are correctly applied, but also, working closely with the Human Resources Department, to ensure that social obligations and labour laws concerning advertising, keeping of registers, etc. are correctly applied.
The main areas of risk covered by the internal audit are:
E ensuring that revenue generated on-site is reported correctly and is optimised. It verifies that services provided have been invoiced correctly. Checks are also made on the correct application of pricing terms and justification of any discounts given. Finally, revenue deletions and reimbursements are traced and analysed;
E the security of property and financial assets. As such, the audit verifies in particular that proper security procedures are deployed on each site to protect cash receipts and deposits. Checks are also made on bank deposits to ensure their accuracy and consistency;
E collection and level of payments outstanding from customers. Toensure optimum recovery, many points are examined: drafting and strict enforcement of standardised contracts for the groups and seminars, reminders to debtors according to the deadlines given, collection of guarantee deposits, proper recording of client addresses.
The selection of the sites to be audited is decided by Group Internal Audit based on the typology of the site (a village involves more risks than a small residence), the specific requests of General Management, as well as randomly. Center Parcs Villages are subject to a more intense programme due to their unit volume of activity: acomplete audit is conducted every three years at most, followed by a second audit within six months and a "mystery visit" by Group Internal Audit or, if required, by a specialised company. The visits can be preventive in nature or be initiated by suspected fraud. In addition, since early April 2018, an Internal Auditor has been dedicated to Pierre & Vacances Tourisme sites, enabling a significant number of additional site audits.
Group Internal Audit also carries out audits on specific subjects (application of ISO 14001 environmental management standard, compliance with procedures, etc.).
At the end of each audit assignment, audit reports are drawn up and submitted to the audited sites, to Executive Management and to the external auditors for the larger sites. An action plan is drawn up in collaboration with the managers of the sites audited and follow-up assessments of the implementation of recommendations are performed within a maximum of six months of the initial audit.
Theft and fraud prevention procedures have been put in place. These procedures include, for the Center Parcs villages, a quarterly self-assessment questionnaire for each village covering the key control indicators. Visits by the Internal Audit Department to villages also allow them to check whether these questionnaires are accurate.

2

37 UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2018/2019 ­ PIERRE & VACANCES-CENTER PARCS GROUP

2

RISK MANAGEMENT
Preparation of financial and accounting information

2.4.1.4 Portfolio Management Department
The Portfolio Management Department acts as the liaison between the owners and all of the Group Operational Departments for all issues relating to leases and property management of the owners' portfolio.
It brings together all the teams and functions dedicated to management of relationships, contracts and properties with regard to owners and multiple owners.
This department works in three areas:
E owner relations (communication, management of stay fees, etc.);
E property management (management activity and co-ownership syndicates);
E lease renewals.

2.4.1.5 Development Department
This Department is responsible for:
E the search for development opportunities (notably via property asset acquisitions consisting of tourism residences or the goodwill of businesses);
E structuring finance (equity/debt ­ in partnership with the Cash/Financing Department) for projects (search for institutional investors ­ Center Parcs, Villages Nature® Paris, etc.);
E asset disposals.

2.4.2 Reporting system

The operations monitoring and control process is built upon a medium-term business plan, budget planning, re-forecasting and the reporting cycle for all of the Group's activities.
The five-year business plan setting out the Group's strategy is usually produced in July and updated during the year in order to ensure consistency between short and medium-term objectives. This plan is drawn up based on the Group's strategic choices and developments, taking into account property developments, changes in site inventory, recovery and renovation of assets, pricing trends and forecasts for occupancy rates. The first year of this business plan is used to define, at the end of July, a budgetary framework for the next financial year.
The budgeting process is organised and supervised by the Finances, Operations and Services Department in coordination with the business lines and Operational Departments. It has three phases:
E the pre-budget makes it possible for Property Development to identify the programmes and corresponding margins and for the tourism business to estimate the revenue by season and by brand from the development of the offering, the sales strategy and the operational expenses (advertising, personnel, rent, etc.) according to the assumptions of distribution policies, investment plans, salary policy, indices;
E the framework refines the pre-budget assumptions, in particular for all of the personnel structures and on the tourism businesses through operator validation of the sales targets, variable expenses, and additional revenue streams on each site;
E the budget, finalised in September, consolidates all the assumptions validated for each property development programme and for sites that are already operational. Approved by the Executive Management Committee, it is broken down on a monthly basis to use as a reference for Group reporting and is sent to each of the operating entities.

Regular reforecasts for all businesses mean that the budget for the year can be revised in light of achievements to date.
In addition to regular monitoring, the Finances, Operations and Services Department provides reporting tools suited to each business line which are analysed during the monthly operational reviews and forwarded to the Executive Management Committee.
E Weekly monitoring of tourism bookings enables the General Tourism Department, the General Sales Department and the Business Lines to optimise the sales policy and yield management, and allows operators to adapt the organisation of operating sites in line with occupancy forecasts.
E The monthly report on site results is compared with monthly budgets and the actual results recorded the previous year and given to the Business Line Managers and to the various operating managers in the regions concerned. These reports are also reviewed with the Business Lines. Marketing budgets and general expenses are also monitored on a monthly basis.
E Budgets for property development programmes are reviewed regularly and systematically revised each quarter with the relevant property Programme Manager.
E For the marketing of properties, the number of signed sales is reviewed twice a month and monthly reports are examined with General Management, notably marketing expenses (network and private advisers), marketing expenses and general overheads.

38 UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2018/2019 ­ PIERRE & VACANCES-CENTER PARCS GROUP

3 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE

3.1
3.1.1 3.1.2 3.1.3
3.1.4
3.1.5 3.1.6

Administrative and management

bodies

40

Composition of the Board of Directors 40

Directors in office on 30 September 2019 42

Information about directors whose

co-optation requires ratification

45

Diversity policy applicable to the Board

of Directors

46

General Management

46

Conditions for preparing and organising

the work of the Board of Directors

47

3.2 Rémunérations des dirigeants

et des membres du Conseil

d'Administration

50

3.2.1 Remuneration of executive and

non-executive corporate officers

50

3.2.2 Share options and bonus shares

57

3.2.3 Other information and commitments 63

3.3 Summary of valid powers granted

to the Board of Directors regarding

capital increases

64

3.4 Information likely to have an impact

in the event of a public offering

(Article L. 225-37-5 of the French

Commercial Code)

65

3.5 Agreements entered into between

an executive officer or significant

shareholder and subsidiaries

of the Company

66

3.6 Special procedures for the

involvement of shareholders

in the Shareholders' Ordinary

Meeting

67

3.7 3.7.1 3.7.2
3.7.3

Regulated agreements

and commitments

67

Agreements and commitments submitted

for approval by the Shareholders' Ordinary

Meeting of 5 February 2020

67

Agreements and commitments already

approved by the Shareholders' Ordinary

Meeting remaining in effect during the

financial year 2018/2019

67

Assessment procedure for current and

regulated conventions

67

3.8 Statutory Auditors' special report

on regulated agreements

and commitments

68

39 UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2018/2019 ­ PIERRE & VACANCES-CENTER PARCS GROUP

3

CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
Administrative and management bodies

This corporate governance report was prepared in accordance with the final paragraph of Article L. 225-37 of the French Commercial Code. It was approved by the Board of Directors at its meeting of 13 December 2019. This report will be presented to the shareholders at the next annual Shareholders' Ordinary Meeting, to be held on 5 February 2020.
3.1 Administrative and management bodies

3.1.1 Composition of the Board of Directors

3.1.1.1 Composition on 30 September 2019

At 30 September 2019, the Pierre et Vacances SA Board of Directors was made up of twelve members, four of whom qualified as independent directors according to the criteria of the AFEP-MEDEF Code. The Board had a balanced representation of men and women.
At its meeting of 18 July 2019, the Board of Directors made official the resignation of Mr Olivier Brémond as Chief Executive Officer, and decided to appoint Mr Yann Caillère as the new Chief Executive Officer (non-director role), with effect from 2 September 2019.

Director

Date of

Nationality

birth Gender

Term start date

Date of most
recent renewal

Independent
direcTerm end date tor(1)

Number

Member

of

of Board Company

Commit- shares

tees held

Gérard Brémond,

Shareholders' Ordinary

Chairman of the

Meeting to approve the

Board of Directors

French 22/09/1937 M 03/10/1988 07/02/2019 2021 financial statements

-

-

10

Shareholders' Ordinary

Olivier Brémond

Meeting to approve the

Director

French 03/10/1962 M 10/07/1995 07/02/2019 2021 financial statements

-

-

10

S.I.T.I. SA

Shareholders' Ordinary

Represented by

Meeting to approve the

Patricia Damerval

French 28/04/1964

F 10/10/2005 07/02/2019 2021 financial statements

-

4,883,720 - 7,312(2)

Andries Arij Olijslager

Shareholders' Ordinary

Meeting to approve the

Audit

Dutch 01/01/1944 M 06/10/2008 07/02/2019 2021 financial statements

Yes Committee

500

Shareholders' Ordinary

Meeting to approve the

Delphine Brémond French 14/07/1966

F 02/12/2008 07/02/2019 2021 financial statements

-

-

10

Shareholders' Ordinary

Martine

Meeting to approve the

Balouka-Valette

French 19/11/1951

F 02/12/2014 07/02/2019 2021 financial statements

-

- 5,832(3)

Annie Famose

French 16/06/1944

Shareholders' Ordinary Meeting to approve the F 04/02/2016 07/02/2019 2021 financial statements

Audit

- Committee

20

Shareholders' Ordinary

Meeting to approve the

Bertrand Meheut

French 22/09/1951 M 04/02/2016 07/02/2019 2021 financial statements

Yes

CRN(4)

40

Alma Brémond

French 22/06/1996

F 21/02/2017

Shareholders' Ordinary

Meeting to approve the

- 2019 financial statements

-

-

10

Amélie Blanckaert French 16/03/1975

F 21/02/2017

Shareholders' Ordinary

Meeting to approve the

- 2019 financial statements

Yes

CRN(4)

25

Jean-Pierre Raffarin French 03/08/1948 M 09/02/2018

Shareholders' Ordinary

Meeting to approve the

- 2020 financial statements

Yes

-

10

Léo Brémond

Shareholders' Ordinary

Meeting to approve the

French 30/06/1999 M 31/12/2018 07/02/2019 2021 financial statements

-

-

10

(1) The criteria set out in the AFEP-MEDEF Code are used to determine whether or not a director is independent. The position of each director with regard to the independence criteria has been examined by the Board of Directors during its self-assessment of the way in which it operates.
(2) Including 369 category A preference shares. (3) Including 738 category A preference shares. (4) Remuneration and Appointments Committee.

40 UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2018/2019 ­ PIERRE & VACANCES-CENTER PARCS GROUP

CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
Administrative and management bodies

Family ties between the directors: Ms Delphine Brémond and Mr Olivier Brémond are the children of Mr Gérard Brémond. Ms Alma Brémond and Mr Léo Brémond are the grandchildren of Mr Gérard Brémond.
To the Company's knowledge, there is no potential conflict of interest between the Company's executives' and directors' duties and their private interests and/or duties.
The Board's Internal Regulations specify that directors must inform the Board of any conflict of interest or potential conflict, and must abstain from any Board meeting debates and vote in relation to any such conflict of interest situation.
In addition, to the Company's knowledge, no executive or non-executive corporate officer has:
E been convicted of fraud during at least the last five years;
E been made bankrupt, or placed in compulsory administration or liquidation during at least the last five years;
E been charged with an offence and/or had an official public penalty pronounced against him or her by the statutory or regulatory authorities during at least the last five years.
Finally, to the Company's knowledge, no executive or non-executive corporate officer has been barred by a court from serving as a member of an administrative, management or supervisory body of an issuer or from being involved in the management or conduct of the affairs of an issuer during at least the last five years.
At the time of writing this Universal Registration Document, no executive or non-executive corporate officer was bound to the Company, or to any of its subsidiaries, by a service agreement.
3.1.1.2 Changes to the composition of the Board of Directors in 2018/2019
The Board of Directors meeting of 20 November 2018 made official:
E the appointment, with effect from the end of the Board meeting of 20 November 2018, of Ms Patricia Damerval as permanent representative of S.I.T.I. SA on the Pierre et Vacances Board of Directors, to replace Mr Thierry Hellin;
E the resignation with effect from the end of the Board meeting of 20 November 2018, of Mr Ralf Corsten and the company G.B. Développement SAS.
On 31 December 2018, the Chairman of the Board of Directors, under a delegation of authority granted by the Board of Directors at its meeting of 19 December 2018, noted (i) the effective resignation on 31 December 2018 of Mr Ning Li and Mr Gérard Houa as directors and (ii) the effective co-optation on the same date of Mr Léo Brémond as director, to replace Mr Ning Li.
The Shareholders' Ordinary Meeting of 7 February 2019 renewed the terms of office of Mr Gérard Brémond, Mr Olivier Brémond, Mr Andries Arij Olijslager, Mr Bertrand Meheut, Mr Léo Brémond, Ms Delphine Brémond, Ms Martine Balouka-Vallette, Ms Annie Famose and the company S.I.T.I.

3.1.1.3 Changes to the composition of the Board of Directors since 1 October 2019
On 14 October 2019, the Board of Directors:
E made official the resignation of Mr Olivier Brémond (which took place on 1 October 2019) as director and decided to co-opt Mr Yann Caillère to replace Mr Olivier Brémond, with effect from 14 October 2019 and for the remainder of his term of office, i.e. until the end of the Shareholders' Ordinary Meeting held to approve the financial statements for the financial year ended 30 September 2021;
E made official the appointment of Mr Olivier Brémond (which took place on 1 October 2019) as permanent representative of S.I.T.I. SA on the Pierre et Vacances Board of Directors, to replace Ms Patricia Damerval, who resigned on 30 September 2019;
E made official the resignation of Ms Martine Balouka-Vallette (which took place on 30 September 2019) as director and decided to co-opt Ms Marie-Christine Huau to replace Ms Martine Balouka-Vallette, with effect from 14 October 2019 and for the remainder of her term of office, i.e. until the end of the Shareholders' Ordinary Meeting held to approve the financial statements for the financial year ended 30 September 2021.
At the time of writing this Universal Registration Document, the Board of Directors still had twelve members, including five independent directors and five women.
3.1.1.4 Proposed changes to the composition of the Board of Directors to go before the Shareholders' Ordinary Meeting of 5 February 2020
At its meeting of 5 February 2020, the Shareholders' Ordinary Meeting will have to decide on:
E the renewal of the term of office of Ms Alma Brémond and Ms Amélie Blanckaert;
E ratification of the appointment by co-optation of Mr Yann Caillère and Ms Marie-Christine Huau.

3

41 UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2018/2019 ­ PIERRE & VACANCES-CENTER PARCS GROUP

3

CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
Administrative and management bodies

3.1.2 Directors in office on 30 September 2019

Gérard BRÉMOND, Chairman of the Board of Directors
Business address: L'Artois ­ Espace Pont de Flandre ­ 11, rue de Cambrai ­ 75947 Paris Cedex 19
Expertise: Gérard Brémond is the founder of the Pierre & Vacances-Center Parcs Group. He was also Chairman of the Association "Alliance 46.2" ­ Entreprendre en France pour le Tourisme ­ from February 2014 to beginning of February 2016, Foreign Trade Consultant for France and National Tourism Consultant. He was Chairman of Maison de la France from 1999 to 2005. Gérard Brémond is Chairman of Fondation Ensemble and the Pierre & Vacances-Center Parcs Group Foundation. He has a degree in Economic Sciences, and is a graduate of the Institut d'Administration des Entreprises (University Schools of Management).
Terms of office in other companies (outside the Pierre & Vacances-Center Parcs Group) on 30 September 2019:
E Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of Société d'Investissement Touristique et Immobilier ­ S.I.T.I. SA
E Chairman of GB Développement SAS E Chairman of S.I.T.I. Holding SAS E Manager of S.I.T.I.R. SC E Director of Voyageurs du Monde (listed company)
Terms of office, which have expired over the last five financial years:
E Director of Lepeudry et Grimard, until 31 August 2018
Olivier BRÉMOND
Business address: L'Artois ­ Espace Pont de Flandre ­ 11, rue de Cambrai ­ 75947 Paris Cedex 19
Expertise: Olivier Brémond was Chief Executive Officer of the Pierre & Vacances-Center Parcs Group from 3 September 2018 to 2 September 2019. For almost 30 years, Olivier Brémond has been a successful entrepreneur outside the Group. After taking over at Gamma TV in 1988, he set up Marathon Productions and Marathon International in 1990. He then brought in and implemented concept stores in Iceland and New York. Since 2 September 2019, Olivier Brémond has been Deputy CEO of S.I.T.I. responsible for strategy and investment at S.I.T.I. Group.
Terms of office in other companies (outside the Pierre & Vacances-Center Parcs Group) on 30 September 2019:
E Deputy Chief Executive Officer (director) of Société d'Investissement Touristique et Immobilier ­ S.I.T.I. SA
Terms of office, which have expired over the last five financial years:
E Director of Kisan Inc. (United States) until April 2019

Patricia DAMERVAL, Deputy Chief Executive Officer
Business address: L'Artois ­ Espace Pont de Flandre ­ 11, rue de Cambrai ­ 75947 Paris Cedex 19
Expertise: Patricia Damerval has been Group Deputy CEO since 2005. She has also been Financial Director at the Pierre & Vacances-Center Parcs Group. From 1990 to 2000, she was head of the consolidation department then head of central accounting and finally, Deputy to the Financial Management Director at Société Générale Group. Patricia Damerval is a graduate from ESSEC.
Terms of office in other companies (outside the Pierre & Vacances-Center Parcs Group) on 30 September 2019:
E Director of SNEF SA E Member of the Supervisory Board of COVIVIO HOTELS (listed company)
Terms of office, which have expired over the last five financial years:
E Permanent representative of S.I.T.I. SA on the Board of Directors of Lepeudry et Grimard SA, until 31 August 2018
Andries Arij OLIJSLAGER
Expertise: Andries Arij Olijslager is Chairman of the Supervisory Board of Arriva Nederland N.V. He was also Chairman of the Supervisory Board of Detailresult Groep N.V., Chairman of the Board of Directors at Royal Friesland Foods and Frieslands Dairy Foods Holding N.V., CEO of MIP Equity Fund N.V. and CEO and joint-shareholder of Leopack. Andries Arij Olijslager is a graduate from the University of Nyenrode (Business University).
Terms of office in other companies at 30 September 2019:
E Chairman of the Supervisory Board of Arriva Nederland NV E Member of the Supervisory Board of Investment and Innovation
fund Gelderland E Member of the Supervisory Board of Renewi Holding NV
Terms of office, which have expired over the last five financial years:
E Until 15 April 2016, Chairman of the Supervisory Board of Heijmans NV E Until 1 April 2017, Chairman of the Supervisory Board of Detailresult
Groep NV E Until 1 May 2017, Director of Foundation Stichting
Administratiekantoor Unilever E Until 1 May 2017, Chairman of the Supervisory Board of OOK
(Ondernemend Oranje Kapitaal), a listed company

42 UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2018/2019 ­ PIERRE & VACANCES-CENTER PARCS GROUP

CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
Administrative and management bodies

Delphine BRÉMOND
Business address: 5, rue Saint-Germain ­ 94120 Fontenay-sous-Bois Expertise: Delphine Brémond has a degree in animal behaviour and a passion for sustainable development. She began her career as a writer and director. She now supports families and young people.
Terms of office in other companies at 30 September 2019: E Director of Société d'Investissement Touristique et Immobilier
­ S.I.T.I. SA
Martine BALOUKA-VALLETTE, Chief Executive Officer for Tourism business
Business address: L'Artois ­ Espace Pont de Flandre ­ 11, rue de Cambrai ­ 75947 Paris Cedex 19 Expertise: Martine Balouka-Vallette has been Group Tourism CEO since 2014. She has also been CEO of Adagio, Pierre & Vacances Maroc and Pierre & Vacances Maeva Tourisme Europe, within the Pierre & Vacances-Center Parcs Group. She was associate Director at KPMG Consulting, Tourism, Hotels and Leisure from 1997 to 2002, Chairman-CEO of Horwath Axe Consultant from 1988 to 1997 and Vice-Chairman Marketing and Sales Europe of Méridien from 1984 to 1988. Martine Balouka-Vallette is a graduate from École Supérieure de Commerce in Paris and the Institut National du Marketing. Martine Balouka-Vallette does not hold a term of office in any other company outside the Pierre & Vacances-Center Parcs Group.

Annie FAMOSE
Business address: Place centrale ­ 74110 Avoriaz
Expertise: Annie Famose is Chair of the Annie Famose Group (sportswear shops, restaurants, ski school in ski resorts). She also founded the Skiset network (the world's leading ski rental network). Annie Famose has a degree from ESSEC (DESS in General Management).
Terms of office in other companies at 30 September 2019:
E Chair of Société des Commerces Touristiques SCT E Chair of the Board of Directors of Skiset Group SA-Compagnie des
Loueurs de Skis E Representative of CLS SA, director of Compagnie Internationale des
Loueurs de Ski, CILS E Permanent representative of SCT SAS on the Board of Directors of
Compagnie Française des Loueurs de Skis SA, and of Dunette Holding SAS and La Ferme SAS E Manager of Le Yak SARL and Le Village des Enfants SARL E General Manager of LDV SCI, Brémond Lafont-SFD SCI, LR SCI, Kiwi SCI, David SCI, ST Invest SCI, Fina SCI and Sarah SCI E Director of the Olympique Lyonnais Group
Terms of office, which have expired over the last five financial years:
E General Manager of SCT Web SARL E General Manager of Skiset Finances-SKF SARL E General Manager of Sport Boutique 2000 SARL E General Manager of La Panèterie EURL E Chair of Skishop SAS

3

43 UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2018/2019 ­ PIERRE & VACANCES-CENTER PARCS GROUP

3

CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
Administrative and management bodies

Bertrand MEHEUT
Business address: 4, rue de Franqueville ­ 75116 Paris
Expertise: Bertrand Meheut has a background in civil engineering (mines), and was Chairman of the Canal+ Group Management Board from 2002 to 2016. He previously worked in industry. He spent most of his career at Rhône-Poulenc, then Aventis. He joined in 1984 as deputy to the CEO for Europe. He was responsible for the central functions of the "Agro" branch. He then became CEO of the German subsidiary, Deputy CEO of Rhône-Poulenc Agro, then Deputy Executive Chairman and CEO Europe. When Rhône-Poulenc and the German chemicals company Hoechst merged within Aventis at the end of 1999, Bertrand Meheut became Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of Aventis CropScience.
Terms of office in other companies at 30 September 2019:
E Chairman of the PMU Board of Directors E Director of Edenred (a listed company) E Director of Aquarelle.com E Director of Ly&Lo
Terms of office, which have expired over the last five financial years:
E Director of Accor (listed company) E Director and Deputy Chairman of the Board of SFR Group (listed
company) E Chairman of the Management Board of the Canal+ Group and
Canal+ France E Member of the Vivendi Management Board E Chairman of the Board of Directors of the Société d'Édition de
Canal+ E Chairman of the Supervisory Board of StudioCanal E Chairman of Canal+ Régie E Permanent representative of the Canal+ Group on the Board of
Directors of Sport+ E Permanent representative of the Canal+ Group, co-manager of
Canal+ Éditions E Representative of Canal+ France, active partner of Kiosque E Member of the Management Committee of Canal+ Overseas E Member of the Supervisory Board of TVN (Poland)

Amélie BLANCKAERT
Business address: 5-7, rue d'Aumale ­ 75009 Paris Expertise: After beginning her career at Trinity College (Cambridge), Amélie Blanckaert founded Coup de Plume SARL, a communications consultancy for directors. For 10 years, she has been a regular guest speaker at CAC40 companies and French grandes écoles. Amélie Blanckaert is a graduate of École Normale Supérieure, having specialised in Modern Letters. She is also a graduate of IHEDN.
Terms of office in other companies at 30 September 2019: E General Manager of Coup de Plume SARL
Jean-Pierre RAFFARIN
Business address: 63, avenue de Suffren ­ 75007 Paris Expertise: Jean-Pierre Raffarin was Prime Minister of France from May 2002 to May 2005. He was also President of the regional council of Poitou-Charentes, Member of the European Parliament, Minister for SMEs, commerce and craft, Senator for the Vienne département, Vice-President of the Senate and Head of the Senate's Foreign Affairs, Defence and Armed Forces Committee. Jean-Pierre Raffarin is now special representative for China and Chairman of the Leaders Pour la Paix foundation. He is a graduate of the Ecole Supérieure de Commerce business school in Paris.
Terms of office in other companies at 30 September 2019: E Director of Plastic Omnium Holding (Shanghai)
Léo BRÉMOND
Expertise: After obtaining a degree in sports management in May 2018 and an economics degree in September of the same year, Léo Brémond is continuing his studies at New York University. Léo Brémond does not hold a term of office in any other company.

Alma BRÉMOND
Expertise: Alma Brémond is a graduate of Barnard College, Columbia University, New York (BA Political Science, majoring in political science and minoring in economics), and of the HEC business school in Paris (Master in Entrepreneurship). Alma Brémond founded the company GoBox.
Terms of office in other companies at 30 September 2019:
E Chair of GoBox SAS

44 UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2018/2019 ­ PIERRE & VACANCES-CENTER PARCS GROUP

CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
Administrative and management bodies

3.1.3 Information about directors whose co-optation requires ratification

Yann CAILLÈRE, Chief Executive Officer
Term start date: 2 September 2019 as Chief Executive Officer and 14 October 2019 as director
Business address: L'Artois ­ Espace Pont de Flandre ­ 11, rue de Cambrai ­ 75947 Paris Cedex 19
Date of birth: 5 August 1953 ­ French nationality
Number of Company shares held: 12,500
Expertise: Yann Caillère began his career at Pullman. From 1995 onwards, he held a series of positions in succession at Disneyland Resort Paris: CEO for luxury accommodation and conventions, Deputy Chair of Hotel Management, CEO in charge of operations, then Deputy CEO. In 2004, he was appointed Chairman of the Louvre Hotels Group. In 2006, he joined the Accor Group as CEO for Europe, the Middle East and Africa Hotels and of Sofitel Monde. In August 2010, he was appointed Deputy CEO in charge of global operations and, in 2013, he was briefly CEO of the Accor Group. From 2014 to 2016, Yann Caillère was CEO of the Spanish group, Parques Reunidos. In early 2016, he set up his hotel and leisure consultancy company. Yann Caillère is a graduate of the Ecole Hôtelière in Thonon-les-Bains.
Terms of office in other companies (outside the Pierre & Vacances-Center Parcs Group):
E Deputy Chief Executive Officer (non-director) of Société d'Investissement Touristique et Immobilier ­ S.I.T.I. SA
E Chairman of Yann Caillère Consulting SAS E Chairman of Qbic Hotels E Director of Le Duff Group E Member of the Supervisory Board of Basilique Hospitality SAS E Director of Trois G SAS
Terms of office, which have expired over the last five financial years:
E CEO of Parques Reunidos, up to March 2016 E Director of Compagnie du Ponant, up to August 2018 E Director of Hôtels Kempinski, up to June 2018

Marie-Christine HUAU
Term start date: 14 October 2019
Business address: 30, rue madeleine Vionnet ­ 93300 Aubervilliers
Date of birth: 20 January 1965 ­ French nationality
Number of Company shares held: 20
Expertise: With experience in French and international large state bodies and large private groups, Marie-Christine Huau has been championing the environment, water management, water environments, the sea and the coast for over 30 years. She began her career at the Australian Institute of Marine Science. In 1988, she joined SAUR (Bouygues subsidiary), where she held consecutive roles in engineering, export chargée d'affaires and R&D management. From 2003 to 2007, she worked at Ifremer as Head of development and industrial partnerships. In 2007, she joined the Veolia Group, where she is Head of the large water cycle market, environment and coast. Marie-Christine Huau graduated from the French national Institute of Agronomy, Paris-Grignonin in agronomic engineering, and is also a graduate of the French Institute of Management. She was elected chair of the AgroParisTech Alumni association.
Ms Marie-Christine Huau does not hold a term of office in any other company.

3

45 UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2018/2019 ­ PIERRE & VACANCES-CENTER PARCS GROUP

3

CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
Administrative and management bodies

3.1.4 Diversity policy applicable to the Board of Directors

The Board of Directors works hard to apply the principles set out in the AFEP-MEDEF Code as regards its composition. The Board continues to work to improve diversity and ensure that it has a broad range of skills and experiences to draw upon. At the same time, it strives to maintain a balanced representation of men and women and a proportion of independent directors that complies with the AFEP-MEDEF Code.
At the time of writing this Universal Registration Document, there were five women on the Board of Directors, more than the 40% minimum required by the provisions of the French Commercial

Code. Furthermore, five out of twelve directors qualified as independent, exceeding the rate of a third recommended by the AFEP-MEDEF Code.
The Board of Directors believes its composition to be balanced, as its members include:
E members of the founder's family;
E directors who are familiar with the company and its operating environment;
E directors appointed more recently from different backgrounds.

3.1.5 General Management

On 3 September 2018, the roles of Chairman of the Board of Directors and Chief Executive Officer were separated. Since this date, Gérard Brémond has been Chairman of the Board of Directors. Yann Caillère has been Chief Executive Officer since 2 September 2019.
Powers of the Chairman of the Board of Directors
As Chairman of the Board of Directors, Gérard Brémond organises and oversees the work of the Board of Directors and reports to the Shareholders' Ordinary Meeting. He ensures that the Company's corporate decision-making bodies operate effectively and in particular that the directors are in a position to fulfil their duties.

Powers of the Chief Executive Officer
As Chief Executive Officer, Yann Caillère is vested with full powers to act on behalf of the Company in all circumstances. He represents the Company in its relations with third parties. No limitation has been placed on the powers of the Chief Executive Officer. However, these powers are subject to the limits of the company purpose and the powers explicitly allocated by the law to shareholder meetings and the Board of Directors.
Composition of the Executive Management Committee
At 30 September 2019, the Group Executive Management Committee had four members: the Chairman of the Board of Directors, the Chief Executive Officer, the Group Deputy Chief Executive Officer and the Chief Executive Officer for the Tourism business.
The powers and workings of this Committee are outlined in the Group's management report (page 27 of this Universal Registration Document).

46 UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2018/2019 ­ PIERRE & VACANCES-CENTER PARCS GROUP

CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
Administrative and management bodies

3.1.6 Conditions for preparing and organising the work of the Board of Directors

3.1.6.1 Reference code

The Company refers to the Code of corporate governance for listed companies produced by the AFEP and the MEDEF, which were most recently reviewed in June 2018. The Code can be consulted on the website of the MEDEF (www.medef.com).
The Code's recommendations are part of the approach to corporate governance taken by the Pierre & Vacances-Center Parcs Group,

itbeing specified that their application must be appropriate for the size and history of the Company.
In accordance with the "comply or explain" rule referred to in Article 27.1 of the AFEP-MEDEF Code, the Company believes that its practices are in line with the AFEP-MEDEF Code recommendations, apart from the following points:

Staggering of terms of office
Article 13.2 of the Code: Terms of office should be staggered so as to avoid block renewals and to encourage the smooth re-election of directors.

The interplay between various cooptations and appointments over recent years has prevented the organisation of a staggered renewal of terms of office.

Proportion of independent directors within the Audit Committee The Company considers Annie Famose to be a person from outside

Article 15.1 of the Code: At least two thirds of the directors on the Audit Committee must be independent.

the Group whose freedom of judgement is not compromised, although she cannot be considered as an independent director under the AFEP-MEDEF Code.

Time limit for inspection of the financial statements by the Audit Committee
Article 15.3 of the Code: The time-scales for inspection of the financial statements by the Audit Committee must be sufficient.

As the Chairman of the Audit Committee is a non-resident, the Audit Committee meeting is, generally speaking, held on the evening prior to the Board of Directors' meeting. Members of the Audit Committee do, however, have access to all of the documents and disclosures required for them to perform their duties within deadlines allowing them to satisfactorily familiarise themselves with, and examine, such documents and disclosures.

Remuneration of executive corporate officers
Article 22 of the Code: Executive corporate officers shall retain a minimum number of registered shares, to be set by the Board of Directors, until the end of their term of office. For as long as this share ownership target is not met, executive corporate officers shall make up the shortfall with a portion of the options or performance share allocations as determined by the Board.

Mr Gérard Brémond owns 49.81% of issued capital via his asset holdings.
Mr Yann Caillère holds 12,500 Pierre & Vacances shares.
Furthermore, neither Mr Gérard Brémond nor Mr Yann Caillère are allocated options or performance shares.

3

3.1.6.2 Organisation of the Board of Directors

Internal Regulations
The Board of Directors has adopted a Directors' Charter and Internal Regulations governing how it functions and a Code of Conduct for directors with regard to their office. These rules incorporate a number of legal requirements along with provisions designed to reinforce directors' independence of action and judgement in relation to the Company and to enhance control of the Company.
The Board of Directors amended its Internal Regulations on (i) 6 March 2012 to define "blackout periods" for transactions by directors on Company securities, in accordance with AMF recommendations aimed at preventing insider misconduct and (ii) 10 October 2018 to set out a procedure for managing conflicts of

interest in line with AMF corporate governance recommendations. An insider trading clause was incorporated taking into account European regulation n° 596/2014 on market abuse.
The Board's Internal Regulations specify that the Board should carry out an annual appraisal of its operations.
In accordance with the AFEP-MEDEF Code, the Board's Internal Regulations are available on the Company's website.
The Internal Regulations state that each director must hold at least ten shares in the Company.

47 UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2018/2019 ­ PIERRE & VACANCES-CENTER PARCS GROUP

3

CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
Administrative and management bodies

Meetings of the Board of Directors
The meetings of the Board of Directors are scheduled on an annual basis. This schedule is adjusted and supplemented, if applicable, by additional meetings as and when the directors need to be consulted.

In the past financial year, the Board of Directors met seven times. Theindividual attendance records for Board directors are provided in the table below.

Director

Board of Directors

Audit Committee

The Remuneration and Appointments Committee

Gérard Brémond, Chairman of the Board of Directors

100%

Olivier Brémond

100%

Patricia Damerval, Representative of S.I.T.I.

100%

Andries Arij Olijslager

85.71%

100%

Delphine Brémond

71.43%

Martine Balouka-Valette

85.71%

Annie Famose

100%

100%(1)

100%(1)

Bertrand Meheut

100%

-(2)

Alma Brémond

100%

Amélie Blanckaert

100%

-(3)

Jean-Pierre Raffarin Léo Brémond

100% 100%(4)

(1) Ms Annie Famose was a member of the Remuneration and Appointments Committee until 19 December 2018, and has been on the Audit Committee since 19 December 2018. (2) Mr Bertrand Meheut was appointed Chairman of the Remuneration and Appointments Committee on 19 December 2018. (3) Ms Amélie Blanckaert was appointed Chairman of the Remuneration and Appointments Committee on 19 December 2018. (4) Mr Léo Brémond's term of office as director took effect on 31 December 2018.

The average duration of each meeting was two hours and allowed examination and detailed discussion of the items on the agenda. Meetings of the Board of Directors are called by the Chairman. Documentation relating to agenda items is included with the meeting notice sent to each member of the Board of Directors in advance of Board meetings to allow them to prepare for discussions. The Chairman ensures that the directors receive all the information they require to perform their duties, in particular by the attendance of operational managers to present their activities and main results during meetings of the Board of Directors. Minutes of meetings of the Board of Directors are drawn up after each meeting and approved at the next meeting.
In accordance with Article L. 823-17 of the French Commercial Code, the Statutory Auditors were invited and attended Board Meetings held to examine and close the annual and half-yearly financial statements.
Meetings of the Board of Directors are usually held at the registered office or at any other venue as permitted by the articles of association. According to the provisions of Article L. 225-37, paragraph 3 of the French Commercial Code, directors also have the option to take part in the deliberations of the Board via videoconference or other methods of telecommunication. This option was used three times during the 2018/2019 financial year. In general, after the Board has reviewed and approved the minutes of the previous meeting's deliberations and decisions, the members discuss the items on the agenda. The discussions are organised and directed by the Chairman. He ensures that the Board examines all items on the agenda.
The Chairman organises and directs the debates. He makes sure that all of the points on the agenda are examined by the Board.

3.1.6.3 Role and functioning of the Board of Directors and its specialist Committees
Role of the Board of Directors
The Board of Directors determines the Company's key strategies and ensures their proper implementation and execution. Subject to the powers explicitly allocated to the Shareholders' Meetings and within the limits of the corporate purpose, it is responsible for all matters relating to the smooth running of the company and settles such matters through its deliberations. Moreover, it carries out any checks it deems necessary. Furthermore, any significant operation outside the Company's stated strategy must be approved in advance by the Board of Directors.
The Board of Directors is notified of the Company's financial position, cash situation and commitments at Board meetings held twice a year.
The Board of Directors is briefed at least once a quarter on the activities of the Group's tourism and property development businesses, and examines the strategic aims of each business. It is regularly informed of the Group's revenue, the progress of significant operations and trends in the Group's markets. The Board approves significant changes to the Group's legal structure and major external and internal growth operations (acquisitions, launch of major property development programmes, property deliveries, etc.). Prior approval is required for transactions involving external financing, except in the case of normal property financing transactions that are not backed by guarantees issued by the parent company. At its meeting held on 27 May 2019, the Board of Directors renewed for a period of one year the authorisation for the Chief Executive Officer to

48 UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2018/2019 ­ PIERRE & VACANCES-CENTER PARCS GROUP

CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
Administrative and management bodies

grant pledges, guarantees and similar undertakings up to an overall maximum amount of 200 million; there was no limit on the amount relating to tax and customs procedures.
In addition to reviewing the yearly and half-yearly financial statements and regularly reviewing the business activity and results of the tourism and property development businesses, the main focus areas of the Board of Directors included property transactions, property developments, the issue of preference shares and corporate governance (allocation of directors' attendance fees, self-assessment of the Board of Directors, resignation of directors, co-optation of a director, modification of the Board's Internal Regulations and the appointment of Mr Yann Caillère as Chief Executive Officer).
Functioning of the Board of Directors
The functioning of the Board is determined by the Company's articles of association, the Board's Internal Regulations and Articles L. 225-17 et seq. of the French Commercial Code. The term of office of directors is three years. The Company's articles of association stipulate that a person aged over 75 May not be appointed as a director if their appointment would result in over a third of the Board members being over this age. The Company's articles of association also provide for the possibility of holding Board meetings via video-conferencing or other means of telecommunication.
In accordance with its Internal Regulations, the Board of Directors' agenda includes, once a year, an assessment of the Board's work and the operation of the Board is discussed. Note that in view of the company's size, the Board of Directors has not retained the AFEP-MEDEF measures concerning the assessment mechanism by an external consultant. In 2019, the annual assessment, which was carried out using a questionnaire, was discussed at the Board of Directors meeting of 25 November 2019. During this meeting, the directors confirmed they were happy with the operation of the Board and its Committees.
Role of the specialist Committees
The Board of Directors has two permanent specialist Committees to help it prepare its decisions effectively: the Audit Committee and the Remuneration and Appointments Committee.
The specialist Committees are composed of members of the Board of Directors. The Board appoints the members and the Chairman of each of the Committees.

The Audit Committee
The Audit Committee has two members (Board members without operational functions), one of whom is independent according to the AFEP-MEDEF criteria. These members have the required skills in accounting, finance, internal control and risk management.
The Committee assists the Board in examining and approving the annual and half-yearly financial statements and, occasionally, with all operations or events that could have a significant impact on the situation of the Group, or its subsidiaries, in terms of commitments and/or risk.
In accordance with Article L. 823-19 of the French Commercial Code, and without prejudice to the powers of the Board of Directors (which are not replaced), the Audit Committee is responsible for:
E monitoring the process used to prepare the financial information, and making recommendations (if needed) to ensure the integrity of this information;
E monitoring the effectiveness of internal control, risk management and (if necessary) internal audit systems, by examining the procedures used to prepare and process the accounting and financial information, without its independence being compromised;
E making a recommendation to the Board of Directors on the Statutory Auditors whose appointment or renewal will be put to the Shareholders' Ordinary Meeting;
E ensuring that the Statutory Auditors fulfil their mission and taking account of the observations and conclusions of the Haut Commissariat aux Comptes following its statutory inspection;
E ensuring that the Statutory Auditors meet the independence conditions and taking any necessary measures;
E approving the provision of services other than the certification of the financial statements and, more generally, any role or right enshrined by the applicable legislation;
E reporting back regularly to the Board of Directors on the completion of its work, the results of the work to certify the financial statements, the way this work has contributed to the integrity of the financial information and the role it has played in this process. It must report any difficulties it encounters without delay;
E and, more generally, performing any work and/or asserting any right provided for by the applicable legislation.
In order to carry out its duties, the Audit Committee has access to all accounting and financial documents. It interviews those in charge of preparing the financial statements and the Statutory Auditors in order to obtain assurance that the latter have had access to all the information required to perform due diligence.
During the 2018/2019 financial year, the Audit Committee met twice (in November 2018 and May 2019), to examine the 2017/2018 financial statements and the half-yearly financial statements at 31 March 2019.

3

49 UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2018/2019 ­ PIERRE & VACANCES-CENTER PARCS GROUP

3

CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
Remuneration of executives and members of the Board of Directors

The Remuneration and Appointments Committee
The Remuneration and Appointments Committee has two members (Board members without operational functions).
The Remuneration and Appointments Committee is responsible for presenting proposals or recommendations to the Board of Directors relating in particular to:
E the overall remuneration policy of the Company's executive corporate officers;
E the type and method of calculating the remunerations of these executives after comparison with the practices observed in other companies;

E share options or bonus share grants;
E the appointment of directors and the appropriateness of renewing terms of office;
E and, generally, any matter submitted to it by the Chairman or the Board of Directors regarding the remuneration of executives and the composition of the Board of Directors.
The Remuneration and Appointments Committee met once in the 2018/2019 financial year. During this meeting, the Committee worked on the variable remuneration of eligible employees and on the remuneration of the Chairman and Chief Executive Officer.

3.2 Remuneration of executives and members of the Board of Directors

3.2.1 Remuneration of executive and non-executive corporate officers

The Company refers to the latest version of the AFEP-MEDEF Code as revised in June 2018 and, in the context of the "comply or explain" rule established in Article 27.1 of this Code, the Company believes that its practices comply with the recommendations of said Code, with the exception of the points stated on page 47 of this Universal Registration Document.
For the years ended 30 September 2019 and 30 September 2018, no salary (including benefits of any kind) was paid to a corporate officer directly by Pierre et Vacances SA or by any of the Pierre & Vacances-Center Parcs Group companies controlled as defined in Article L. 233-16 of the French Commercial Code. However, Société d'Investissement Touristique et Immobilier (a company controlled by the Chairman, founder and majority shareholder of Pierre et Vacances SA), as an asset management company, invoiced fees for services rendered by Gérard Brémond, Olivier Brémond (up to 2 September 2019), Yann Caillère (from 2 September to 30 September 2019), Patricia Damerval, Thierry Hellin (up to 31 December 2018), and Martine Balouka-Vallette. The fees invoiced by S.I.T.I. were calculated on the basis of direct costs (remuneration paid + related employer's expenses + other direct costs: travel expenses, cost of premises, secretarial expenses) plus a 5% margin and calculated prorata for the time spent by each individual on managing the business of Pierre & Vacances-CenterParcs Group companies.

For Olivier Brémond, the variable bonus for 2018/2019 amounts to 40,000 gross. For the other members (with the exception of Gérard Brémond, who does not benefit from a variable remuneration for 2018/2019), the variable bonus for 2018/2019 relates to the achievement of a positive consolidated Group net result for 10% of the bonus, financial criteria for 40% (as the achievement of a Tourism EBIT or Group financings) and personal non-financial objectives for 50%. The criteria applied are predetermined and clearly defined but are not made public for confidentiality reasons.
The Group has not introduced a system of sign-on bonuses or termination benefits for its executive or non-executive corporate officers.
There are no additional pension schemes specific to executive and non-executive corporate officers. They receive, in accordance with their contract of employment with S.I.T.I., an end-of-service lump sum payment calculated on the basis of the rules applicable to all salaried employees.
All of these rules apply to all members of the Executive Management Committee/COMEX.

50 UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2018/2019 ­ PIERRE & VACANCES-CENTER PARCS GROUP

CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
Remuneration of executives and members of the Board of Directors

3.2.1.1 Summary of the remuneration, options and shares granted to executive corporate officers

(in )
Gérard Brémond, Chairman of the Board of Directors Remuneration payable for the financial year Value of options granted during the financial year Value of performance-related shares granted during the financial year TOTAL Yann Caillère, Chief Executive Officer since 2 September 2019 Remuneration payable for the financial year Value of options granted during the financial year Value of performance-related shares granted during the financial year TOTAL

Financial year 2018/2019 Financial year 2017/2018

501,948 -
501,948

552,340 -
552,340

40,278

NA

-

NA

-

NA

40,278

NA

3

3.2.1.2 Summary of commitments given to the executive corporate officers

Executive corporate officer

Employment contract

Gérard Brémond, Chairman

of the Board of Directors

No

Yann Caillère, Chief Executive Officer

No

Compensation benefits due Compensation relating

Supplementary or liable to be due if positions

to a non-compete

retirement plan are discontinued or changed

clause

No

No

No

No

No

No

51 UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2018/2019 ­ PIERRE & VACANCES-CENTER PARCS GROUP

3

CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
Remuneration of executives and members of the Board of Directors

3.2.1.3 Summary table of remuneration due or paid to each corporate officer sitting on the Executive Management Committee

Remuneration in 2018/2019

Remuneration in 2017/2018

payable for the paid during the payable for the paid during the

(in )

financial year financial year financial year financial year

Gérard Brémond, Chairman of the Board of Directors

Fixed remuneration

500,000

500,000

500,000

500,000

Variable remuneration

50,400

72,000

Special remuneration

-

-

-

-

Attendance fees

-

-

-

-

Benefits in kind

1,948

1,948

1,940

1,940

TOTAL

501,948

501,948

552,340

573,940

Yann Caillère, Chief Executive Officer

Fixed remuneration

40,278

40,278

NA

NA

Variable remuneration

-

-

NA

NA

Special remuneration

-

-

NA

NA

Attendance fees

-

-

NA

NA

Benefits in kind TOTAL

NA

NA

40,278

40,278

NA

NA

Patricia Damerval, Deputy CEO

Fixed remuneration

437,500

437,500

400,000

400,000

Variable remuneration

180,000

144,000

144,000

160,000

Special remuneration

-

-

-

-

Attendance fees

-

-

-

-

Benefits in kind TOTAL

31 617,531

31 581,531

35 544,035

35 560,035

Martine Balouka-Vallette, Chief Executive Officer for Tourism business

Fixed remuneration

470,000

470,000

470,000

470,000

Variable remuneration

162,000

162,000

162,000

180,000

Special remuneration

-

-

-

-

Attendance fees

-

-

-

-

Benefits in kind TOTAL

4,566 636,566

4,566 636,566

4,570 636,570

4,570 654,570

Olivier Brémond, Chief Executive Officer until 2 September 2019

Fixed remuneration

467,777

467,777

38,889

38,889

Variable remuneration

40,000

-

-

-

Special remuneration Attendance fees

-

-

-

-

-

27,500

27,500(1)

-

Benefits in kind TOTAL

31 507,808

31 495,308

3 66,392

3 38,892

Thierry Hellin, Deputy Chief Executive Officer until 31 December 2018

Fixed remuneration

148,409

148,409

400,000

400,000

Variable remuneration Special remuneration(2)

80,000

80,000

160,033

-

-

-

-

Attendance fees

-

-

-

-

Benefits in kind TOTAL

2,041 150,450

2,041 230,450

8,170 488,170

8,170 568,203

(1) Gross amount before tax in compliance with the applicable legislation, in respect of the work of Mr Olivier Brémond on the Board of Directors of Pierre et Vacances until 31 August 2018. The payment of attendance fees by Pierre et Vacances took place during 2018/2019.
(2) Following his resignation as Deputy CEO, a termination benefit in the amount of 318,308 was granted to Thierry Hellin.

52 UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2018/2019 ­ PIERRE & VACANCES-CENTER PARCS GROUP

CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
Remuneration of executives and members of the Board of Directors

3.2.1.4 Remuneration policy for executive corporate officers drawn up according to Article L. 225-37-2 of the French Commercial Code (ex-ante vote on remuneration)

Pursuant to the provisions of Article L. 225-37-2 of the French Commercial Code, the Shareholders' Ordinary Meeting to approve the financial statements at 30 September 2019 will be asked to approve, on the basis of this report, the principles and criteria used to define, break down and allocate the fixed, variable and exceptional components of the total remuneration and all benefits payable to the Chairman of the Board of Directors and the Chief Executive Officer.
The Shareholders' Ordinary Meeting will therefore be asked, on the basis of this report, to approve the remuneration policy for the Chairman of the Board of Directors and the Chief Executive Officer in respect of the 2019/2020 financial year.
The payment of the variable and exceptional components referred to in this report is dependent on the approval by the Shareholders' Ordinary Meeting of the remuneration components of the person concerned under the conditions set forth in Article L. 225-100 of the French Commercial Code.
Remuneration policy for the Chairman of the Board of Directors
The remuneration paid to the Chairman of the Board of Directors consists of the following components:
E annual gross fixed remuneration of 500,000.
As regards benefits in kind, the Chairman of the Board of Directors is provided with a company car and is eligible for the same health insurance benefits as the Group's other directors and employees.
Mr Gérard Brémond does not benefit from the following remuneration components in respect of his term of office as Chairman of the Board of Directors of the Company: deferred variable remuneration, multi-year variable remuneration, special remuneration, share options, performance shares, attendance fees, termination of office compensation commitment, non-competition compensation, supplementary retirement plan.
The Chairman of the Board of Directors is paid by Société d'Investissement Touristique et Immobilier ­ S.I.T.I. SA. The latter, in its capacity as an asset management company, invoices Pierre et Vacances for fees in respect of the services rendered by Gérard Brémond.
The Shareholders' Ordinary Meeting of 5 February 2020 is therefore asked to vote on the following resolution:
"The Shareholders' Ordinary Meeting, acting under the quorum and majority conditions required for Ordinary General Meetings, having regard to the corporate governance report and in accordance with the provisions of Article L. 225-37-2 of the French Commercial Code, approves the principles and criteria used to define, break down and allocate the fixed, variable and exceptional components of the total remuneration and all benefits presented in this report and payable to Mr Gérard Brémond, in his capacity of Chairman of the Board of Directors."

Remuneration policy for the Chief Executive Officer
The remuneration paid to the Chief Executive Officer consists of the following components:
E annual gross fixed remuneration of 500,000;
E a variable gross remuneration 400,000 euros (representing a maximum of 80% of the fixed remuneration) if the objectives are 100% reached, and linked for 80% of the variable premium to the Group's performance indicators and the quantified objectives of the Group strategic plan, and for 20% of the variable premium to (i) the strategic vision and the identification of fresh sources of growth, (ii) customer experience, (iii) the human resources policy, and (iv) sustainable development, with the reminder that the payment of this remuneration is subordinated to its approval by the Annual General Meeting due to decide on the accounts for the 2019/2020 financial year.
The elements specific to each of the above-mentioned criteria and defined by the Board of Directors are not made public for confidentiality reasons necessary to preserve the interests of the Group.
Long-term remuneration:
The Board of Directors meeting of 13 December 2019, as recommended by the Remuneration and Nominations Committee, approved the principle of an extension to the Chief Executive Officer of a bonus share attribution plan set to be implemented during 2019/2010 (subject to approval of the attribution authorisation by the AGM of 5 February 2020), considering that this incentive mechanism is suited to the CEO's position as an executive director under the framework of the implementation of the strategic plan.
The main characteristics of the bonus share attribution from which the Chief Executive Officer could benefit are the following:
E cap on attributable bonus shares: (i) in value terms, 80% of the fixed component of the CEO's remuneration, and (ii) in quantity terms, 5% of the total number of bonus shares attributed to the Group's employees during a same year;
E share of bonus shares attributed and definitively acquired that the CEO is obliged to retain in registered form until the end of his mandate: 30%;
E pledge to not use risk hedging operations for the bonus shares attributed until the end of the conservation period;
E ambitious performance conditions in line with the Group's performance indicators and the Group's strategic plan;
E condition of presence, with the Board of Directors nevertheless having the ability (barring revocation for a fair reason), at the time of the CEO's departure, to decide to maintain all or some of the performance shares not definitively acquired in view especially of the departure terms and the CEO's effective contribution to the Group's performance.
The CEO benefits from no other long-term remuneration elements.

3

53 UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2018/2019 ­ PIERRE & VACANCES-CENTER PARCS GROUP

3

CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
Remuneration of executives and members of the Board of Directors

As regards benefits in kind, the Chief Executive Officer is provided with a company car and is eligible for the same health insurance benefits as the Group's other directors and employees.
Mr Yann Caillère does not receive the following remuneration components in respect of his term of office as Chief Executive Officer of the Company: deferred variable remuneration, multi-year variable remuneration, special remuneration, share options, performance shares, attendance fees, termination of office compensation commitment, non-competition compensation, supplementary retirement plan.
The Chief Executive Officer's remuneration is paid by Société d'Investissement Touristique et Immobilier ­ S.I.T.I. SA. The latter, in its

capacity as an asset management company, invoices Pierre et Vacances for fees in respect of the services rendered by Yann Caillère.
The Shareholders' Ordinary Meeting of 5 February 2020 is therefore asked to vote on the following resolution:
"The Shareholders' Ordinary Meeting, acting under the quorum and majority conditions required for Ordinary General Meetings, having regard to the corporate governance report and in accordance with the provisions of Article L. 225-37-2 of the French Commercial Code, approves the principles and criteria used to define, break down and allocate the fixed, variable and special components of the total remuneration and all benefits presented in this report and payable to Mr Yann Caillère, in his capacity of Chief Executive Officer."

3.2.1.5 Presentation of the fixed, variable and special remuneration comprising the total remuneration and all benefits in kind payable for the 2018/2019 financial year to Gérard Brémond, in respect of his term of office (ex-post vote on remuneration)

The remuneration payable to Gérard Brémond in respect of the 2018/2019 financial year complies with the remuneration policy approved by the Shareholders' Ordinary Meeting held on 7 February 2019 pursuant to Article L. 225-37-2 of the French Commercial Code and presented on page 40 of the 2017/2018 Registration Document.

Pursuant to the provisions of Article L. 225-100 of the French Commercial Code, the Shareholders' Ordinary Meeting to be held on 5 February 2020 will be asked to vote on a draft resolution on the remuneration components payable in respect of the 2018/2019 financial year to Gérard Brémond, Chairman of the Board of Directors.

The components of this remuneration payable for the 2018/2019 financial year are as follows:

Remuneration components paid or allocated in respect of the previous financial year
Fixed remuneration Benefits in kind

Amounts
(in )
500,000 1,948

Comments No change compared with the previous financial year

The Shareholders' Ordinary Meeting of 5 February 2020 is therefore asked to vote on the following resolution:
"Pursuant to Articles L. 225-37-2 and L. 225-100 of the French Commercial Code, the Shareholders' Ordinary Meeting, acting under the quorum and majority conditions required for Shareholders' Ordinary

Meetings, approves the fixed, variable and special components of the total remuneration and all benefits paid or allocated for the 2018/2019 financial year to Gérard Brémond, in respect of his term of office, as presented in the Company's corporate governance report and referred to in Article L. 225-37 of the same Code."

54 UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2018/2019 ­ PIERRE & VACANCES-CENTER PARCS GROUP

CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
Remuneration of executives and members of the Board of Directors

3.2.1.6 Presentation of the fixed, variable and special remuneration comprising the total remuneration and all benefits in kind payable for the 2018/2019 financial year to Olivier Brémond, in respect of his term of office until 2 September 2019 (ex-post vote on remuneration)

The remuneration payable to Gérard Brémond in respect of the 2018/2019 financial year complies with the remuneration policy approved by the Shareholders' Ordinary Meeting held on 7 February 2019 pursuant to Article L. 225-37-2 of the French Commercial Code and presented on page 40 of the 2017/2018 Registration Document.

Pursuant to the provisions of Article L. 225-100 of the French Commercial Code, the Shareholders' Ordinary Meeting to be held on 5 February 2020 will be asked to vote on a draft resolution on the remuneration components payable in respect of the 2018/2019 financial year to Olivier Brémond, Chief Executive Officer up to 2 September 2019.

The components of this remuneration payable for the 2018/2019 financial year are as follows:

Remuneration components paid or allocated in respect of the previous financial year Fixed remuneration
Variable remuneration Benefits in kind

Amounts
(in )

Comments

467,777

Annual remuneration (vs prorate in FY 2017/2018)

Pursuant to the objectives set for 2018/2019 and actual

achievements recorded on 30 September 2019, variable

remuneration represents 20% of the variable portion approved by

40,000

the Shareholders' Ordinary Meeting held on 7 February 2019

31

The Shareholders' Ordinary Meeting of 5 February 2020 is therefore asked to vote on the following resolution:
"Pursuant to Articles L. 225-37-2 and L. 225-100 of the French Commercial Code, the Shareholders' Ordinary Meeting, acting under the quorum and majority conditions required for Shareholders' Ordinary Meetings, approves the fixed, variable and special components of the

total remuneration and all benefits paid or allocated for the 2018/2019 financial year and up to 2 September 2019 to Olivier Brémond, in respect of his term of office, as presented in the Company's corporate governance report and referred to in Article L. 225-37 of the same Code."

3

55 UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2018/2019 ­ PIERRE & VACANCES-CENTER PARCS GROUP

3

CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
Remuneration of executives and members of the Board of Directors

3.2.1.7 Remuneration of other corporate officers

The Board of Directors establishes the rules for the allocation of attendance fees. These fees are paid based on the actual participation of the Director in the meetings of the Board and of the special committees, as applicable.
For the 2018/2019 financial year, the rules for the allocation of attendance fees adopted by the Board of Directors at its meeting of 14 October 2019 are as follows:
E only directors not employed on permanent contracts by Pierre et Vacances SA, any of the companies controlled by Pierre et Vacances SA (as defined in Article L. 233-16 of the French Commercial Code) or by S.I.T.I. will receive attendance fees;
E each director who meets the above criteria shall receive a total of 30,000 (before tax and withholdings at source in line with applicable legislation) in recognition of their activity on the Board of Directors during the 2018/2019 financial year;

E this total amount of 30,000 will be reduced prorata for the number of Board meetings the director did not attend relative to the total number of meetings during the financial year;
E from the second meeting the director did not attend, a 5,000 reduction shall be applied per missed meeting;
E the members of the Audit Committee will be allocated a fee of 1,000 per meeting, with the Chairman of the Audit Committee also receiving a flat fee of 1,000 per year;
E the members of the Remuneration and Appointments Committee will be allocated a fee of 1,000 per meeting, with the Chairman of the Remuneration and Appointments Committee also receiving a flat fee of 1,000 per year.

Remuneration allocated

(in )

for 2018/2019(1)

Ralf Corsten(2)

Attendance fees

NA

Other remuneration

NA

Delphine Brémond

Attendance fees

25,000

Other remuneration

-

Andries Arij Olijslager

Attendance fees

33,000

Other remuneration

-

Annie Famose

Attendance fees

33,000

Other remuneration

-

Bertrand Meheut

Attendance fees

30,000

Other remuneration

-

Ning Li(3)

Attendance fees

NA

Other remuneration

NA

Gérard Houa(4)

Attendance fees

NA

Other remuneration

NA

Alma Brémond

Attendance fees

30,000

Other remuneration

-

Amélie Blanckaert

Attendance fees

30,000

Other remuneration

-

Jean-Pierre Raffarin

Attendance fees

30,000

Other remuneration

-

Léo Brémond(6)

Attendance fees

22,500

Other remuneration

-

TOTAL

233,500

(1) Amounts are before tax and withholdings at source in accordance with applicable legislation. (2) The term of office as director of Ralf Corsten ended at the close of the meeting of the Board of Directors held on 20 November 2018. (3) Ning Li's term of office as director ended on 31 December 2018. (4) Gérard Houa's term of office as director ended on 31 December 2018. (5) Total maximum amount of 20,000 in view of taking up the term of office as director on 9 February 2018. (6) Total maximum amount of 22,500 in view of taking up the term of office as director on 31 December 2018.

Remuneration allocated for 2017/2018(1)
34,000 -
30,000 -
33,000 -
33,000 -
30,000 -
30,000 -
30,000 -
30,000 -
30,000 -
20,000(5) -
NA NA 300,000

56 UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2018/2019 ­ PIERRE & VACANCES-CENTER PARCS GROUP

CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
Remuneration of executives and members of the Board of Directors

3.2.2 Share options and bonus shares

3.2.2.1 Grant policy
The grant policy followed hitherto by the Group identifies:
E occasional grants to a large number of Group managers;
E more regular grants, in principle on an annual basis, to key Group employees;
E special grants to Group employees (managers and non-managers).
This policy is likely to change during future financial years due to the legislative and regulatory changes in the accounting treatment for share options.
The Company states that, having signed up to the AFEP-MEDEF Corporate Governance Code:
E all bonus share plans are generally subject to performance-related conditions (with the exception of two plans, see table on pages 60 and 61);
E bonus shares are only granted to corporate officers if all performance-related conditions have been met;

E the Company has set up a system for linking employees' performance to that of the Company (introduction of a special profit-sharing agreement);
E share options were granted over the same calendar periods;
E share option plans are subject to attendance and/or performance requirements;
E corporate officers have agreed not to use hedging facilities until their term of office has expired;
E in accordance with Internal Regulations, corporate officers are required to respect closed periods covering (i) the 30 calendar days prior to the date the half-yearly and annual consolidated financial statements are published as well as their actual publication dates and (ii) the 15 calendar days prior to publication of the quarterly revenue, as well as the actual publication dates. The timetable for such closed periods is prepared on an annual basis. Since early 2018, the obligation to abide by blackout periods has been extended to all beneficiaries of bonus shares.

3.2.2.2 Share option plans

History of share subscription option plans
At 30 November 2019, there were no share subscription options outstanding.

2003 option plan 2004 option plan

Date of Shareholders' Ordinary Meeting

10/03/2003

11/03/2004

Date of Board of Directors' Meeting

03/11/2003

07/09/2004

Total number of shares that may be subscribed for at grant date

7,150

162,300

Number of shares that may be subscribed for by the ten Company employees granted the largest number of share options

7,150

51,000

Number of shares that may be subscribed for by members of the Board of Directors (who are still members at 30/09/2019)

/

8,000

of which:

Patricia Damerval

4,000

Martine Balouka-Valette

4,000

Vesting date

04/11/2007

08/09/2008

Subscription price(1)

63.83

66.09

Expiry date

04/11/2013

08/09/2014

Number of shares subscribed for

/

/

Total number of share options lapsed or forfeited

7,150

162,300

Total number of options outstanding at the end of the financial year

/

/

(1) The subscription price is the average share price quoted during the 20 trading sessions preceding the grant decision, less a 5% discount.

2005 option plan 11/03/2004 26/09/2005 1,000
1,000
/
27/09/2009 59.89
27/09/2015 /
1,000 /

3

57 UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2018/2019 ­ PIERRE & VACANCES-CENTER PARCS GROUP

3

CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
Remuneration of executives and members of the Board of Directors

History of share purchase option plans

2005 share purchase
option plan

2006 share purchase
option plan

2007 share purchase
option plan

2008 share purchase
option plan

2009 share purchase
option plan

Date of Shareholders' Ordinary Meeting

11/03/2004 and
10/03/2005

02/03/2006

02/03/2006

02/03/2006

14/02/2008

Date of Board of Directors' Meeting

26/09/2005 21/07/2006 09/01/2007 07/01/2008 12/01/2009

Total number of shares that may be subscribed for at grant date

28,000

16,500

46,875

38,375

5,000

Number of shares that may be subscribed for by the ten employees granted the largest number of share options

28,000

16,500

45,375

38,375

5,000

Number of shares that may be

subscribed for by members of

the Board of Directors (who are still

members at 30/09/2019)

8,000

/

8,000

8,000

/

Of which:

Patricia Damerval

4,000

4,000

4,000

Martine Balouka-Valette

4,000

4,000

4,000

Vesting date

27/09/2009 22/07/2010 10/01/2011 08/01/2012 13/01/2013

Purchase price

59.89(1)

80.12(1)

87.40(1)

86.10(1)

39.35(2)

Expiry date

27/09/2015 22/07/2016 10/01/2017 08/01/2018 13/01/2019

Number of shares purchased

/

/

/

/

/

Total number of share purchase options lapsed or forfeited

28,000

16,500

46,875

38,375

5,000

Total number of options outstanding at the end of the financial year

/

/

/

/

/

(1) The purchase price corresponds to the average share price quoted during the 20 trading sessions preceding the grant decision, less a 5% discount. (2) The purchase price corresponds to the average share price quoted during the 20 trading sessions preceding the grant decision without a discount.

2011 share purchase
option plan
03/03/2011 03/03/2011
222,500
80,000
35,000
35,000
04/03/2015 63.93(2)
04/03/2021 /
107,500 115,000

58 UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2018/2019 ­ PIERRE & VACANCES-CENTER PARCS GROUP

CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
Remuneration of executives and members of the Board of Directors

Share options granted during the financial year to each corporate officer by the Company itself and by any Group company
None.

Share subscription or purchase options exercised during the financial year by each corporate officer
None.

Share options granted to the top ten employee beneficiaries who are not corporate officers,

and options exercised by the latter
None.

3

59 UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2018/2019 ­ PIERRE & VACANCES-CENTER PARCS GROUP

3

CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
Remuneration of executives and members of the Board of Directors

3.2.2.3 Bonus shares
History of bonus share plans
Kind of shares Date of Shareholders' Ordinary Meeting Date of Board of Directors' Meeting Total number of beneficiaries Total number of shares granted initially Total number of shares granted to current members of the Board of Directors (who are still members at 30/09/2019) Of which:
Patricia Damerval Martine Balouka-Valette Starting date of the vesting period Starting date of the lock-in period Duration of the lock-in period
Grant conditions and criteria

2007 plan Ordinary shares
10/03/2005 09/01/2007
2,207 11,035

2007 plan Ordinary shares
10/03/2005 09/01/2007
9 16,010

2008 plan Ordinary shares
10/03/2005 07/01/2008
8 13,010

2009 plan Ordinary shares
14/02/2008 12/01/2009
57 84,135

10

3,000

3,000

25,000

5 5 09/01/2007 10/01/2009 2 years
Attendance conditions

1,500
1,500 09/01/2007 10/01/2009
2 years Attendance and performance related conditions

1,500
1,500 07/01/2008 08/01/2010
2 years Attendance and performance related conditions

5,000
20,000
12/01/2009
13/01/2011
2 years
Attendance and performance related conditions(4)

Number of shares to be granted

Shares to be issued

Treasury shares

Treasury shares

Treasury shares

Number of shares cancelled

2,370

/

/

40,727(5)

Number of shares vested

8,665

16,010

13,010

43,408

(1) Each preference share may be converted into a maximum of 100 ordinary shares at the end of the lock-in period, provided that stock market conditions are met. (2) The number of shares to be vested under this plan is subject to a performance-related condition based on share price performance. The performance-related requirement at
maturity will be calculated on the volume-weighted average Pierre et Vacances share price for all trading days in October, November and December 2015. The volumes appearing in this table are the maximum for 100% achievement of the performance-related condition.
(3) The number of shares to be vested under this plan is subject to a performance-related condition based on share price performance. The performance-related requirement at maturity will be calculated on the volume-weighted average Pierre et Vacances share price for all trading days in October, November and December 2016. The volumes appearing in this table are the maximum for 100% achievement of the performance-related condition.
(4) Performance conditions applicable to the first half of the allocated shares: the indicators are EBIT, cash flows from operations (excluding acquisitions), as well as external indexes (SBF 250, property values and tourism values).
Performance conditions applicable to the second half of the allocated shares: the indicators are net income, Group share, operating cash flow generated (excluding acquisitions) and the external indexes referred to above.

60 UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2018/2019 ­ PIERRE & VACANCES-CENTER PARCS GROUP

CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
Remuneration of executives and members of the Board of Directors

2009 plan 2009 plan 2013 plan 2013 plan 2013 plan 2014 plan 2014 plan 2016 plan 2016 plan 2017 plan

Ordinary shares

Ordinary shares

Ordinary shares

Ordinary shares

Ordinary shares

Ordinary shares

Ordinary Preference Preference Preference

shares

shares(1)

shares(1)

shares(1)

12/02/2009 12/02/2009 06/03/2012 06/03/2012 06/03/2012 13/03/2014 13/03/2014 04/02/2016 04/02/2016 04/02/2016

12/02/2009 12/02/2009 28/05/2013 03/09/2013 02/12/2013 26/05/2014 02/12/2014 04/02/2016 04/02/2016 18/04/2017

2

1

50

2

4

3

1

3

63

42

3,325

6,575 229,768(2) 13,333(2) 15,555(2) 20,889(3)

2,222(3)

1,476

1,544

797

/

/

26,000

/

/

/

/

1,107

/

/

15,000

369

11,000

738

12/02/2009 12/02/2009 28/05/2013 03/09/2013 02/12/2013 26/05/2014 02/12/2014 04/02/2016 04/02/2016 18/04/2017

13/02/2011 13/02/2011 01/01/2016 01/01/2016 01/01/2016 01/01/2017 01/01/2017 09/02/2018 09/02/2018 18/04/2019

2 years

2 years

2 years

2 years

2 years

2 years

2 years

2 years

2 years

2 years

Attendance and
performance related
conditions(4)

Attendance Attendance Attendance Attendance Attendance Attendance Attendance Attendance

and

and

and

and

and

and

and

and

performance performance performance performance performance performance performance performance

Attendance

related

related

related

related

related

related

related

related

conditions conditions conditions conditions conditions conditions conditions conditions conditions

Shares to be issued for preference shares

Shares to be issued for preference shares

Shares to be issued for preference shares

Treasury shares

Treasury shares

Treasury shares

Treasury shares

Treasury shares

Treasury shares

Treasury Treasury Treasury

shares or shares or shares or

shares to be shares to be shares to be

issued for issued for issued for

ordinary ordinary ordinary

shares

shares

shares

issued as a issued as a issued as a

result of the result of the result of the

conversion conversion conversion

Treasury of preference of preference of preference

shares

shares

shares

shares

2,685(5)

/ 145,184

7,172

8,366

15,215

322

/

178

130

640

6,575 84,584(6)

6,162(6)

7,189(6)

5,674(7)

1,900(7)

1,476(8)

1,366(8)

667(9)

(5) At its meeting of 1 December 2009, the Board of Directors found that only some of the performance-related conditions had been met for the first half of the shares granted on 12 January 2009 and 12 February 2009. At its meeting of 18 January 2011, the Board of Directors found that the performance-related conditions had not been met for the second half of the shares granted on 12 January 2009. At its meeting of 14 February 2011, the Board of Directors found that none of the performance-related conditions had been met for the second half of the shares granted on 12 February 2009.
(6) At its meeting of 5 January 2016, the Board of Directors noted the number of shares vested as a result of the performance conditions stated in (2) being attained. (7) At its meeting of 5 January 2017, the Board of Directors noted the number of shares vested as a result of the performance conditions stated in (3) being attained. (8) At its meeting of 9 February 2018, the Board of Directors carried out the final allocation of the preference shares in view of the attendance conditions. (9) At its meeting of 18 April 2019, the Board of Directors carried out the final allocation of the preference shares in view of the attendance conditions. (10) Given that the characteristics of the preference shares attributed as part of the 2016 and 2017 Plans have proven to be unsuitable to the market and its development, the AGM of
5 February 2020 will be asked to decide on their modification in accordance with the incentive and loyalty objectives on which the Group's incentive policy is based (see below).

3

61 UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2018/2019 ­ PIERRE & VACANCES-CENTER PARCS GROUP

3

CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
Remuneration of executives and members of the Board of Directors

At its meeting on 13 December 2019, the Board of Directors decided on the bonus share attribution policy for 2019/2020 based on recommendations by the Remunerations and Nominations Committee. In the context of the Group's development strategy, it concluded there was an opportunity to continue the capital incentive policy for the Group's key executive-level staff. The success of the Group's transformation plan indeed presumes the implication and lasting support of the Group's talents and their association in value creation.
The Board decided to favour this objective by:
E Firstly, restoring the useful effect of the 2016 and 2017 Plans, structured in the form of the attribution of preference shares, unlike previous plans based on the attribution of ordinary shares.
The Remunerations and Nominations Committee and the Board of Directors indeed noted the deceptive nature of the 2016 and 2017 Plans, since the preference shares attributed - the conversion of which was due to take place in February 2020 according to a variable parity depending on changes in the share price - are not convertible. This deception was primarily due to the unsuitable nature of the conversion terms set when the 2016 and 2017 Plans were created; and the later (volatile and unexpected) market performance, in opposition to the long-term loyalty and incentive objective for key executives that was prevailing when the plans were set up.
With the aim of restoring the economic coherency of the 2016 and 2017 Plans, while encouraging the loyalty and motivation of the Group's main executives in the implementation and success of the transformation plan, the AGM of 5 February 2020 has been asked to change the characteristics of each category of preference share. The new conversion terms for preference shares, based especially on changes in the Pierre et Vacances share price over the next two years, should help realign the interests of the Group's employees with those of the Company and its shareholders, which is essential under the framework of the Group transformation plan.

E Secondly, the creation of a new ordinary share bonus attribution plan, the beneficiaries of which will be (i) key executives that do not own preference shares, and will therefore not benefit from the incentive scheme planned for in the 2016 and 2017 Plans that are due to be adjusted by changes in the preference share conversion terms proposed for vote at the AGM (supra), and (ii) certain key executives that hold preference shares but who are set to play a major role in the implementation and success of the Group's transformation plan.
The Board of Directors considered it timely to undertake this new attribution in two stages, in order to adapt the terms of the attribution to progress in the strategic overhaul and to ensure the best alignment between the interests of the Group's employees and its shareholders:
E a first attribution was therefore decided by the Board of Directors on 13 December 2019 in favour of key executives whose contribution to the strategic redefinition work currently being completed has been significant, and whose motivation it is essential to ensure throughout the definition phase of the transformation plan, and then during its implementation; this attribution is combined with conditions of presence and performance, although it is nevertheless stated that these conditions are restricted to beneficiaries that do not have a minimum seniority of 15 years within the Group;
E a second attribution (subject to adoption by the AGM on 5 February 2020 of a new authorisation with a view to attributing bonus shares) could take place during the first half of 2020, once the Group transformation plan has been decided by the Board of Directors, thereby basing the conditions set to be combined with this attribution on the objectives of the transformation plan and to ensure the motivation and incentive of key employees under the framework of its roll-out.

Bonus shares granted during the 2018/2019 financial year to each corporate officer
None.

Bonus shares that became available during the 2018/2019 financial year for each corporate officer
None.

Bonus shares granted in the 2018/2019 financial year to the top ten employee beneficiaries who are not corporate officers (general information)
None.

62 UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2018/2019 ­ PIERRE & VACANCES-CENTER PARCS GROUP

CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
Remuneration of executives and members of the Board of Directors

3.2.3 Other information and commitments

3.2.3.1 Loans and guarantees issued by Pierre et Vacances SA
No loan or guarantee has been granted by Pierre et Vacances SA to the members of the Group Executive Management Committee or the Board of Directors.
3.2.3.2 Director investments in the capital of Pierre et Vacances SA
There is no convention, agreement or partnership between the Company and the members of the Group Executive Management Committee or the Board of Directors concerning a restriction on the sale of their investments within a period of time.

In order that Pierre et Vacances SA can itself abide by these AMF recommendations, directors must declare to the AMF and Pierre et Vacances SA any transactions concerning their shares within three days of the transaction. This obligation does not apply when the total value of transactions performed over the calendar year is less than 20,000.
Further, the Internal Regulations of the Board of Directors stipulate that, in addition to the period preceding the publication of privileged information to which they are privy, directors must also refrain from any share transactions during the 30 days prior to the publication of the annual and half-yearly results and during the 15 days prior to the publication of the quarterly revenue. They must also abstain from such transactions on the day on which this information is published.
3.2.3.4 Other shares convertible

3

3.2.3.3 Privileged information ­ share transactions

to equity
None.

Because of the particular knowledge they have of the Company, its plans and its results, the directors are required to exercise strict vigilance in their transactions involving the Company's shares.
The directors undertake to keep, in registered form, throughout their term of office, the shares they acquired when they took up office; they also undertake to register in their name all shares subsequently acquired.
The directors more generally undertake to strictly observe the recommendations of the AMF (French Market Authority) concerning executive and non-executive corporate officers declaring transactions involving shares in their Company.

Summary of transactions on the Company's securities
Summary of transactions on the Company's securities referred to in Article L. 621-18-2 of the French Monetary and Financial Code(1) over the course of the last financial year:
None.

(1) Transactions on the Company's shares performed by the executives, related persons and their close relatives.
63 UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2018/2019 ­ PIERRE & VACANCES-CENTER PARCS GROUP

3

CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
Summary of valid powers granted to the Board of Directors regarding capital increases

3.3 Summary of valid powers granted to the Board of Directors regarding capital increases

The Shareholders' Extraordinary Meetings of 9 February 2018 and 7 February 2019 conferred certain powers upon the Board of Directors, authorising it to increase the share capital, with the option to sub-delegate said powers under the conditions provided for by law.

A list of the resolutions adopted during the Shareholders' Extraordinary Meeting and authorising the Board of Directors to increase the share capital is given below.

Shareholders' Extraordinary Meeting of 9 February 2018

Resolution

No.

Purpose

Use in Term 2018/2019

Authorisation to issue shares and/or securities convertible to equity either immediately or in future

and/or securities giving right to the allotment of debt securities with maintenance of the preferential

11

subscription rights and up to the par value of 50,000,000.

26 months Not used

Authorisation to issue shares and/or securities convertible to equity either immediately or in future

and/or securities giving right to the allotment of debt securities with cancellation of preferential

subscription rights and up to the par value of 50,000,000, this amount being applied to the general

12

ceiling set by the 11th resolution.

26 months Not used

Authorisation to issue shares and/or securities convertible to equity either immediately or in future

and/or securities giving right to the allotment of debt securities with cancellation of preferential

subscription rights through private placement and up to the par value of 50,000,000, this amount

13

being applied to the general ceiling set by the 11th and 12th resolutions.

26 months Not used

Authorisation to increase the amount of issues made with or without cancellation of preferential

subscription rights, up to 15% of the initial issue, subject to the ceilings set out in the 11th, 12th

14

and 13th resolutions.

26 months Not used

Authorisation to set the issue price of shares to be issued within the framework of the 12thand 13th

15

resolutions, with cancellation of preferential subscription rights, up to 10% of the capital per year. 26 months Not used

Authorisation to increase the share capital through the incorporation of reserves, profits, premiums

or other amounts that may be capitalised, up to the par value of 50,000,000, this amount being

16

applied to the general ceiling set by the 11th resolution.

26 months Not used

Authorisation to increase the share capital up to the limit of 10% of issued capital to cover

17

contributions in kind to the Company outside a public exchange offer.

26 months Not used

Authorisation to carry out capital increases reserved for members of the Group Share Ownership Plan

18

and up to the par value of 850,000.

26 months Not used

Shareholders' Extraordinary Meeting of 7 February 2019

Resolution

No.

Purpose

Use in Term 2018/2019

Authorisation to issue Company shares with cancellation of preferential subscription rights in order

to grant share subscription options to the corporate officers and/or some salaried members of staff

21

of the Company or of related companies or groupings.(1)

38 months Not used

Authorisation to issue ordinary Company shares to be allocated free to the corporate officers and/or some

salaried members of staff of the Company or of related companies or groupings, up to the value of 5% of

22

the share capital.(2)

38 months Not used

(1) The total number of options granted under this authorisation may not carry entitlement to subscribe for or purchase a total number of shares in excess of 5% of the share capital. This 5% limit is overall and is shared by the 21st and 22nd resolutions of the Shareholders' Ordinary Meeting of 7 February 2019.
(2) The total number of existing or new shares allocated under this authorisation may not represent more than 5% of the share capital. The total number of shares allocated under this authorisation and the total number of shares that can be obtained by exercising the share subscription or purchase options allocated pursuant to the 21st resolution are deducted from the overall limit of 5% of the share capital.

As the authorisations conferred by the Shareholders' Extraordinary Meeting of 9 February 2018 are due to expire during the 2019/2020 financial year, the shareholders will be asked to renew them at the Shareholders' Ordinary Meeting held to approve the financial statements for the financial year ended 30 September 2019.

64 UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2018/2019 ­ PIERRE & VACANCES-CENTER PARCS GROUP

CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
Information likely to have an impact in the event of a public offering

3.4 Information likely to have an impact in the event of a public offering (Article L. 225-37-5 of the French Commercial Code)

Structure of the Company's share capital
Information about the structure of the Pierre et Vacances share capital is presented on page 19 of the Universal Registration Document.
Statutory restrictions on the use of voting rights and share transfers
The Company's articles of association include a reporting obligation applicable to any person holding a percentage of the share capital or voting rights, of 5% or more, or a multiple of this percentage. If this reporting obligation is not adhered to and on the request of one or more shareholders holding at least 5% of the share capital, the shares in excess of the fraction which should have been declared shall be deprived of voting rights under the conditions provided for by law. This mechanism is outlined on page 14 of the Universal Registration Document.
Category A, B and C preference shares are non-transferable.
Direct or indirect investments in the Company's share capital of which it is aware
The Pierre et Vacances shareholder base is outlined on pages 19 and 20 of the Universal Registration Document.
Securities with special controlling rights and description of said securities
In accordance with the "Double voting rights" paragraph of Article 16 of the articles of association, an additional voting right to the one conferred to other ordinary shares in respect of the portion of the share capital they represent is allocated to all ordinary fully paid-up shares when they are proven to have been held in nominee form for at least two years in the same shareholder's name.
Category A, B and C preference shares must be held in nominee form and cannot be contractually divided.
Category A, B and C preference shares do not carry voting rights at Shareholders' Ordinary and Extraordinary Meetings of holders of ordinary shares.

Category A, B and C preference shares will only carry entitlement to dividends after a period of two years from their date of issue.
Category A, B and C preference shares confer entitlement to liquidation dividends and are not transferable.
Category A and B preference shares are convertible into ordinary shares, after a period of two years from their date of issue, based on the difference between the weighted share price and the ceiling share price of 45 or the floor share price of 30, with adjustments being possible in the event of a change of control or delisting.
Category C preference shares are convertible into ordinary shares, after a period of two years from their date of issue, based on the difference between the weighted share price and the ceiling share price of 61.50 or the floor share price of 41, with adjustments being possible in the event of a change of control or delisting.
As indicated in paragraph 3.2.2 above, the Extraordinary General Meeting of 5 February 2020 will be asked to vote on an adjustment to the characteristics of category A, B and C preference shares.
Control mechanisms in the event of an employee shareholding system, when controlling rights are not exercised by the employees
None.
Agreements between shareholders of which the Company is aware and which could entail restrictions on the transfer of shares and the exercise of voting rights
None.

3

65 UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2018/2019 ­ PIERRE & VACANCES-CENTER PARCS GROUP

3

CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
Agreements entered into between an executive officer or significant shareholder and subsidiaries of the Company

Rules on the appointment and replacement of members of the Board of Directors and on amendments to the Company's articles of association
The Company's articles of association in these areas do not deviate from the usual customs regarding French Public Limited Companies (Sociétés Anonymes).
Powers of the Board of Directors, particularly as regards the issue or purchase of shares
A summary of the valid powers granted by the Shareholders' Ordinary Meeting held on 9 February 2018 and by the Shareholders' Ordinary Meeting held on 7 February 2019 regarding capital increases can be found at point 2.3 above. The Company's current authorisation to buy back its treasury shares prohibits any buybacks during a public offering on the Company's securities.

Agreements entered into by the Company which are amended or come to an end in the event of a change in the Company's control, unless such disclosure, excluding cases where there is a legal obligation for disclosure, would severely harm its interests
Financing contracts in which Pierre et Vacances is the borrower generally contain change of control clauses enabling lenders to demand repayment of all debt in the event of a change in control. No commercial contracts which, if terminated, would have a major impact on the Group's business, contain a change in control clause.
Agreements providing for compensation for members of the Board of Directors or employees, if they resign or are unfairly dismissed, or if they are made redundant as a result of a public offering
None.

3.5 Agreements entered into between an executive officer or significant shareholder and subsidiaries of the Company

No agreement had been made, either directly or via an intermediary, between, on the one hand, a Company corporate officer or a shareholder owning a fraction of the voting rights in excess of 10% and, on the other, another company controlled by the Company

within the meaning of Article L. 233-3 of the French Commercial Code, with the exception of agreements relating to ongoing transactions completed under normal conditions.

66 UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2018/2019 ­ PIERRE & VACANCES-CENTER PARCS GROUP

CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
Regulated agreements and commitments

3.6 Special procedures for the involvement of shareholders in the Shareholders' Ordinary Meeting

Detailed information on special procedures for the involvement of shareholders in the Shareholders' Ordinary Meeting can be found in the Company's articles of association (Title V ­ Shareholders' Ordinary Meetings), available on the Company's website; a reminder is also provided on pages 14 and 15 of this Universal Registration Document.
According to Article 16 of the articles of association, any shareholder, irrespective of the number of shares they hold, is

entitled, on proving their identity and shareholder status, to participate in Shareholders' Ordinary Meetings subject to book-entry of their shares at midnight (Paris time) at least two working days before the Shareholders' Ordinary Meeting. The recording or entry in the books of bearer shares held by an authorised intermediary is proven by a certificate of participation issued by the latter in accordance with legal and regulatory provisions.
Category A, B and C preference shares do not carry any voting rights.

3

3.7 Regulated agreements and commitments
3.7.1 Agreements and commitments submitted for approval by the Shareholders' Ordinary Meeting of 5 February 2020
None.
3.7.2 Agreements and commitments already approved by the Shareholders' Ordinary Meeting remaining in effect during the financial year 2018/2019
None.
3.7.3 Assessment procedure for current and regulated conventions
During its meeting on 25 November 2019, the Board of Directors implemented a regular assessment procedure by the Audit Committee, and in the presence of the Auditors, of the conditions for agreeing current conventions, with the persons directly or indirectly concerned by these conventions not taking part in its assessment.

67 UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2018/2019 ­ PIERRE & VACANCES-CENTER PARCS GROUP

3

CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
Statutory Auditors' special report on regulated agreements and commitments

3.8 Statutory Auditors' special report on regulated agreements and commitments

Financial year ended 30 September 2019 To the Shareholders, In our capacity as your Company's statutory auditors, we hereby present our report on regulated agreements and commitments. We are required to inform you, on the basis of the information provided to us, of the terms and conditions as well as the reasons justifying the interest for the Company of those agreements and commitments indicated to us, or that we may have identified in the performance of our engagement. We are not required to comment as to whether they are beneficial or appropriate or to ascertain the existence of any such agreements and commitments. It is your responsibility, in accordance with Article R. 225-31 of the French Commercial Code (Code de commerce), to evaluate the benefits resulting from these agreements and commitments prior to their approval. In addition, it is our responsibility, where applicable, to report to you the information required by Article R. 225-31 of the French Commercial Code relating to the execution, during the financial year under review, of agreements and commitments previously approved by the Shareholders' Ordinary Meeting. We performed the procedures we deemed necessary pursuant to the professional guidelines of the French Institute of Statutory Auditors (Compagnie nationale des commissaires aux comptes) regarding this type of assignment.
Agreements and commitments submitted for approval by the Shareholders' Ordinary Meeting
We hereby inform you that we have not been advised of any agreement or commitment authorised during the past financial year to be submitted to the Shareholders' Ordinary Meeting for approval in accordance with Article L. 225-38 of the French Commercial Code.
Agreements and commitments already approved by the Shareholders' Ordinary Meeting
We hereby inform you that we have not been advised of any agreement or commitment already approved by the Shareholders' Ordinary Meeting remaining in effect during the financial year.

Neuilly-sur-Seine and Paris-La Défense, France, 19 December 2019

The Statutory Auditors

GRANT THORNTON French member of Grant Thornton International

ERNST & YOUNG et Autres

Virginie PALETHORPE

Anne HERBEIN

68 UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2018/2019 ­ PIERRE & VACANCES-CENTER PARCS GROUP

4 EXTRA-FINANCIAL
PERFORMANCE DECLARATION

4.1. Committing to responsible tourism 70

4.1.1 Creating shared value through CSR

70

4.1.2 Listening to our stakeholders

72

4.1.3 Our main non-financial risks

72

4.1.4 Ethical and responsible governance

and practices

73

4.2 Using sustainable development to enhance the customer experience 76

4.2.1 Innovation focused on customer

satisfaction

76

4.2.2 Offering a customer experience focused

on nature and the regions

78

4.3 Creating value for the regions

79

4.3.1 Encouraging a property development

strategy that has less impact and uses

biodiversity in a respectful way

79

4.3.2 Developing new projects jointly with

local partners and residents

81

4.3.3 Committing to the local economy

82

4.3.4 Supporting general interest projects

thatbenefit local populations

83

4.4 Being exemplary in the course

of our business

85

4.4.1 Acting as a responsible employer

85

4.4.2 Implementing a responsible

purchasing policy

94

4.4.3 Improve the environmental

performance of sites

95

4.5 Data collection methods

100

4.5.1 Reporting scope

100

4.5.2 Reported data

100

4.5.3 Data collection methods

101

4.6 Independent Third-Party

Body report

102

Report from the Independent

Third-Party Body on the Consolidated

Non Financial Performance Statement

in the Management Report

102

4.7 Concordance tables

105

4.8 Vigilance plan

105

4.8.1 Regulatory framework

105

4.8.2 Risk mapping

106

4.8.3 Procedures to assess the situation of brands, subcontractors and suppliers 106

4.8.4 Risk mitigation and serious harm

prevention actions

108

4.8.5 Alert and whistleblowing mechanism 108

4.9 Table of key indicators

109

69 UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2018/2019 ­ PIERRE & VACANCES-CENTER PARCS GROUP

4

EXTRA-FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE DECLARATION
Committing to responsible tourism

4.1. Committing to responsible tourism

4.1.1 Creating shared value through CSR

The Group's sustainable development strategy is in line with the Group's ambition to "strengthen our European leadership with experiential, innovative and responsible tourism". This ambition draws on our history. In the 1960s, we opened the first car-free ski resort in Europe. Fifty years on, Avoriaz remains a laboratory of innovation. Striving for a harmonious relationship between humans and their environment (in economic, social, environmental and cultural terms) and creating a unique customer experience are part of our DNA.
This commitment to sustainability is rooted in our business model, which successfully combines property development with tourism. This unique aspect involves reconciling short-term performance with a long-term environmental, corporate, societal and architectural vision.
As in the past, our longevity and success today depend on our ability to innovate sustainably and reinvent ourselves through our approach to financing property development projects and creating new tourism concepts. These challenges are addressed in our Ambition 2022 strategic plan, which focuses on four key areas:
E improving our offer;
E undertaking major property development projects;
E boosting sales;
E optimising our organisation.
The CSR approach is a cross-cutting element of this strategy. It contributes to the Group's performance through the actions and initiatives described in this chapter.
Non-financial performance
For the eleventh year running, the Group was listed in the 2019 Gaïa ­ Index, and kept its ranking in the index's top 20, coming 16th out of 230 companies. This ranking demonstrates the Group's non-financial performance in relation to other SMEs and intermediate-sized businesses listed on the French stock market.
Since 2014, the Group has also been eligible for listing on the Ethibel Excellence investment register and its CSR performance was judged better than average in its sector. Moreover, the Group regularly responds to ratings agency questionnaires, giving investors access to detailed external analysis of the progress of its CSR policy and initiatives undertaken.
The pillars of our CSR strategy
The Group's CSR strategy seeks not only to ensure that the CSR risks linked to its business are properly managed, but to identify and exploit new opportunities for growth and differentiation. To be ready for these opportunities and pave the way for this development, the Group has made three commitments:

Make sustainable development a lever to enrich customer experience
One of the priorities of the Ambition 2022 strategic plan is to become a "Customer Company" by developing a new customer experience. CSR underpins this goal by pioneering a new and original kind of holiday based on nature and the regions, and by offering services and activities attuned to the changing expectations of families.
Creating value in the regions where we operate
The beautiful environment surrounding the Group's locations is a key asset to attract customers. Our expertise lies in protecting this natural capital while promoting local resources among our customers. Forging close links with the local community is a major pillar of our sustainable development policy. We achieve this through our contribution to the local economy, our corporate sponsorship and our ongoing dialogue with local authorities and residents.
Set the highest standards operating our business
Corporate social responsibility is a subject that encompasses all business lines, operational departments and support services. The Group's commitment is based on its ability to incorporate CSR throughout its value chain and to set the highest standards of excellence, from site design to operation. In this context, each business line has its own CSR management and coordination tools. In addition, the Group actively encourages external certification and labelling for construction and operation.
The Group's responsibility extends across all business lines and operations. Our brands embrace this via a sustainable development programme combining operational action plans and targets.
"Faisons plus ensemble" ("Doing more together"), the Pierre & Vacances sustainable development approach, means working with partners and customers to create value for the regions and mitigate environmental impacts.
Targets:
E water: 15% reduction in consumption per overnight stay between 2014 and 2022;
E energy: 20% reduction in consumption per overnight stay between 2014 and 2022;
E waste: separate recycling bins in all apartments, residences and villages under direct management;
E biodiversity: banning the use of plant protection products in garden and landscaping maintenance.

70 UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2018/2019 ­ PIERRE & VACANCES-CENTER PARCS GROUP

EXTRA-FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE DECLARATION
Committing to responsible tourism

"Naturall" the Center Parcs approach means protecting nature while ensuring respect for guests, employees and partners.
Targets:
E water: 25% reduction in consumption per person per night between 2010 and 2022;

E energy: 25% reduction in consumption per person per night between 2010 and 2022; increase the use of renewable energies (target to be defined);
E waste: 60% of waste to be recycled by 2022;
E biodiversity: 100% of sites to have an environmental management plan by 2022.

4.1.1.1 Our contribution to the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs)
The Group's programmes and action plans contribute to the achievement of the UN's Sustainable Development Goals. We have identified 11 major and priority goals linked to our business lines.
Using sustainable development to enhance the customer experience
Our contribution: E Developing offers and activities that reflect local heritage and nature E Sorting and managing waste via specific channels E Selecting and promoting eco-labelled products in the Group's purchasing policy Our contribution: E Educating and raising awareness of customers about nature conservation and environmental protection E Reducing waste E Banning the use of agrochemical products Creating value for the regions
Our contribution: E Social and professional reintegration via the company Foundation E Skills development Our contribution: E Boosting local employment and supporting the local economy E Responsible and inclusive purchasing E Group commitment to human rights Our contribution: E Consulting local stakeholders to ensure that developments are in harmony with the regions E Showcasing natural and cultural heritage through the company Foundation Being exemplary in the course of our business
Our contribution: E Combating all forms of discrimination and advocating a gender balance within teams E Ensuring the health and well-being of employees and respecting all forms of diversity Our contribution: E Wastewater treatment; reduction in the use of chemicals and hazardous substances in wastewater E Measures to optimise water consumption (hydro-efficient equipment, optimised pool water management) E Ecological management of rainwater in new projects Our contribution: E Renewable energy production at 5 of the 26 Center Parcs sites (geothermal energy, solar panels, wood-fired heating) E Purchase of green energy Our contribution: E Gender equality E Fight against discrimination Our contribution: E Reducing CO2 emissions; purchasing green energy E Taking climate change into account when choosing new sites Our contribution: E Conducting impact assessments and protecting biodiversity during site construction and operation E Environmental management plan for green spaces and woodland areas and monitoring of protected species on sites E Buying timber sourced from sustainably managed forests (FSC/PEFC)

4

71 UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2018/2019 ­ PIERRE & VACANCES-CENTER PARCS GROUP

4

EXTRA-FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE DECLARATION
Committing to responsible tourism

4.1.2 Listening to our stakeholders

The Group's sustainable development policy is designed to meet the expectations of our stakeholders, with whom we have specific channels of communication and dialogue:

Our stakeholders
Customers (Nearly 8 million customers)
Employees (Nearly 12,200 employees)
Shareholders
Owners and institutional investors Suppliers
Public and local authorities
Civil society (residents, associations, etc.)

Forms of communication

Highlights of the year

Satisfaction survey, on-site team presence, social media and review sites, litigation monitoring service, etc.

Digitalisation and personalisation of the customer relationship: nearly half of customers responding to customer satisfaction surveys leave a detailed review of their stay

Intranet, employee satisfaction survey, company-level agreements, one-on-one interviews, etc.

74% participation rate in the Happy@work survey, up 2% from 2017

General meeting, roadshow, one-on-one

meetings, socially-responsible investment (SRI) Bronze medal in the 2018 Best Mid-Cap

questionnaire, etc.

Investor Relations awards

Website and online customer relationship,

Increasing number of leases renewed by

co-ownership meetings, litigation monitoring electronic means (+76%)

Individual meetings, questionnaires, call for tender, audits, etc.

Renewal of the Responsible Supplier Relations label

Dialogue, consultation, public meetings, steering committees, etc.

Creation of the public/private entity as part of the Center Parcs Lot & Garonne construction project

Working groups/workshops, public meetings, Public inquiry into the expansion project of advisory committees, website, partnerships, etc. Center Parcs Bois France (July-August 2019)

4.1.3 Our main non-financial risks

In 2018, the Group conducted an internal study to assess its main non-financial risks. Each risk was assessed according to its impact, likelihood of occurrence and level of management by teams. Themain non-financial risks are listed below in order of priority:
E priority issues: land search, access to water resources in areas under water stress, anticipation of the consequences of climate change on the business;
E major issues: management of the risk of water pollution and deterioration of natural environments, quality of relations with owners, recruitment and development of the skills of teams, waste management;

E important issues: quality of relations with our local stakeholders and our customers, health and safety of our employees, management of energy consumption and energy fares.
The CSR strategy is based on the three pillars described earlier (section 1.1). It is designed to address these risks through the policies put in place in the various business lines. The impact of these policies is monitored using Key Performance Indicators (KPIs). It also draws on the Group's strengths, such as forging links with the local community and choosing remarkable locations in mountainous, coastal or rural areas.

72 UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2018/2019 ­ PIERRE & VACANCES-CENTER PARCS GROUP

EXTRA-FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE DECLARATION
Committing to responsible tourism

4.1.4 Ethical and responsible governance and practices

4.1.4.1 Existing governance system
The CSR policy is managed at the highest level of the company: E the CSR Department reports directly to the Group Executive
Management; E the Tourism and Property Development Committees hold
six-monthly briefings; E the Executive Committee performs a six-monthly or quarterly
review of the operational departments.
4.1.4.2 Our organisation
The CSR and Foundation Department, which reports to the Executive Management, is responsible for defining the Group's CSR strategy and actions, supporting the operational departments in preparing and implementing roadmaps, and overseeing non-financial reporting. In 2019, liaison officers were appointed within the various departments and business lines (Pierre & Vacances, Center Parcs, Pierre & Vacances Développement, Purchasing, PVCP China) to lead, monitor and coordinate the operational implementation of roadmaps with teams and on the ground.
4.1.4.3 Ethical and responsible practices
Business ethics
Context
Business ethics is a key commitment for the Group, particularly in view of its image as a market leader in the tourism industry and its ethical positioning vis-à-vis its customers, employees, partners and suppliers. The enforcement of the French Sapin II Law marked a new phase in the legislator's commitment to increasing transparency in various economic activities and to extending its right of scrutiny over international operations.
Policy and action plan
During the year, the Legal Department put in place an action plan to bolster measures to prevent and protect against the risk of corruption. The action plan is led by a Chief Compliance Officer. It is coordinated jointly with the departments concerned and presented to the Audit Committee once a year. It is based on six requirements: E dissemination of a code of conduct (or code of ethics); E introduction of a whistleblowing mechanism that allows
employees to report a breach of ethical rules and any behaviour posing a serious danger or threat to the public interest;

E training for employees exposed to significant risks: people in contact with local authorities (PVCI/PVD), buyers, Finance department employees;
E risk mapping;
E accounting control;
E management and evaluation of the approach.
Issued in March 2019, the code of conduct is designed to safeguard the Group's reputation and integrity for its clients, stakeholders and employees. The code of conduct only covers France at present. The formalisation of our commitments to business ethics has made it possible to underline the fact we foster an open corporate culture: employees must be free to exchange ideas and information, seek advice and report problems. This approach allows us to serve the interests of our customers, create opportunities for our employees and generate sustainable profits for our shareholders. The code of ethics is attached to the internal regulations that each new employee joining the Group in France must read.
The Legal Department has chosen to implement these actions in France within the central departments (at head office) and at the Pierre & Vacances and Center Parcs operating sites. The procedure will then be extended to the other European countries in which the Group operates (Belgium, The Netherlands, Germany, Spain), followed by China.
The Group also has a Vigilance Plan (see Chapter 8 of the EFPD).
The whistleblowing mechanism was introduced in March 2019. It includes a whistleblowers' charter distributed to employees, and the Whispli online tool which guarantees the anonymity for whistleblowers. No reports were submitted during the year.
Results
E A total of 50 employees participated in an awareness-raising session on the code of ethics through face-to-face training.
Tax evasion
Context
The Group is not based in any low-tax jurisdictions. In accordance with the requirements of the Sapin II Law, the Group has based its tax policy on four pillars:
E tax compliance;
E tax transparency;
E tax risk management;
E assistance for operational staff.

4

73 UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2018/2019 ­ PIERRE & VACANCES-CENTER PARCS GROUP

4

EXTRA-FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE DECLARATION
Committing to responsible tourism

Policy and action plan
Tax compliance
The Group's operations in Europe and China generate significant taxes of all kinds (corporate income tax, local taxes, customs duties, registration fees, payroll taxes, etc.).
The Group's Tax Department ensures that the various business lines comply with all applicable laws, regulations and international treaties in force. This involves filing the necessary tax returns, as well as timely payment of taxes due. In addition, the Group monitors changes in tax regulations.
Tax transparency
The Group complies with the international tax standards published by the OECD, as well as the country-by-country reporting (CBCR) requirement for transfer pricing under the French finance law.
Tax risk management
The Tax Department is supervised by the Group Chief Financial Officer under the responsibility of the Group Deputy Chief Executive Officer. Tax risk is handled with a view to safeguarding the Group's reputation. This means:
E complying with all applicable regulations and paying the correct amount of tax;
E mitigating tax risk by monitoring tax developments and seeking external advice where appropriate;
E closely monitoring tax audits and disputes.
In addition, the Audit Committee examines and discusses the implications of the tax policy.
Assistance for operational staff
The Group's tax policy is fully integrated with the Group's business and development. The Tax Department has a central team that works closely with the operational teams to ensure that its policy is implemented properly and in accordance with the various regulations.

Respect for human rights
Context
The outsourcing of services in the tourism (particularly cleaning) and construction sectors could involve human rights risks linked, for example, to working conditions and health and safety.
Policy and action plan
The Group is committed to protecting human rights within its direct sphere of operations. The code of ethics is based on upholding the United Nations Universal Declaration of Human Rights and the founding texts of the International Labour Organization. The basic principles that inform the Group's actions are:
E respecting laws and regulations;
E respecting people;
E respecting the environment;
E respecting the best interests of the PVCP Group.
The code of ethics states that all employees must act with integrity, transparency, fairness and accountability in the interests of the Group.
The issue of human rights is also included in the CSR questionnaires sent to our suppliers and covered in the vigilance plan.
General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR)
Context
The new data protection regulation has affected the types of queries we receive from our existing and prospective customers. More informed about their rights, they are now able to submit more detailed and substantiated requests. The GDPR legal framework enforced in May 2018 with a view to protecting individuals by ensuring respectful use of their data. This was an opportunity for the Group to review its internal processes to ensure that the use of its customers' and employees' personal data remains supervised and sustainable. It meant that some of the Group's business lines had to rethink their approach to data, security and human rights.
Policy and action plan
A GDPR policy has been developed to incorporate the "data protection" aspect throughout the data life cycle, in a bid to ensure compliance with the GDPR and local laws in each country where we operate.

74 UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2018/2019 ­ PIERRE & VACANCES-CENTER PARCS GROUP

EXTRA-FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE DECLARATION
Committing to responsible tourism

Governance and organisation
Based on the principle of subsidiarity, a dedicated unit has been set up to oversee GDPR issues. A team of two Data Privacy Officers (DPOs) is assisted by ten Deputy DPOs, who act as points of contact for the various activities:

DATA PRIVACY OFFICERS (DPOs)

Members: 2 DPOs

Scope:

Lead the implementation of the GDPR actions within the Group Ensure coverage of property development and support services at head office Coordinate the work of the deputy DPOs Draw on local legal expertise Act as deputy DPO for China-based operations

DEPUTY DATA PRIVACY OFFICERS (Deputy DPO)
Members: The 10 deputy DPOs are in charge of implementing the approach within the BLs Scope: They help to collect information on data processing and ensure compliance with the Group's GDPR guidelines in their respective business lines

Center Parcs Europe

Pierre & Vacances

Tourism

Spain

Maeva

Adagio

Les Senioriales

France Belgium The Netherlands Germany

4

During the year, the DPOs implemented the "privacy by design" process, widely adopted by project managers. This enables GDPR constraints to be embedded right from the start of a new service or project for customers or employees. In this context, Privacy Impact Assessments (PIAs) have also been launched to assess the risks of harm to individuals resulting from the use of their data. The first PIAS carried out covered existing operations as well as two key projects for the Group: the consent management platform and the future data storage space.
The DPOs conduct on-site audits based on a cyclical audit plan to ensure that practices are compliant with the regulations.

This organisational structure with DPOs and Deputy DPOs is supported by two governance bodies:
E the Data Privacy Committee, which establishes the Group's GDPR guidelines and meets four to six times a year;
E the Data Privacy Executive Committee, which allows COMEX members to decide on the policy when necessary and gives them oversight of the process. It meets two to three times a year.
Since the Group's head office is in France, the Group has designated the National Commission for Data Protection and Liberties (CNIL) as the lead supervisory authority in Europe.
Results
During the year, a variety of tools were used to implement this policy. These are available on the Group's employee intranet or on the intranet reserved for Deputy DPOs and members of the Data Privacy committees. These document libraries are regularly updated by the DPOs.

75 UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2018/2019 ­ PIERRE & VACANCES-CENTER PARCS GROUP

4

EXTRA-FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE DECLARATION
Using sustainable development to enhance the customer experience

Fields Employee communications Business processes Best practice
Training

Deliverables/documents distributed throughout the Group
E Video presentation "Pour tous savoir du RGPD, ses objectifs et ses principes" ("Everything you need to know about the GDPR and its aims and principles") distributed to all Group employees
E Overview of the GDPR E Newsletter illustrating the projects undertaken and completed
E Model subcontractor agreements E How to react in the event of an audit by the French data protection authority (CNIL) E Whistleblowing procedure ­ Weak points and management
E Specific user guides detailing the key GDPR principles applied to the CRM and Marketing, HR and Indirect Sales departments
E Response guidelines for the Customer Relations department E Best practice guide "Garantir la sécurité physique des pièces et des documents" ("How to ensure
that documents are secure") E Privacy by Design
E Two training sessions for managers: ­ training on the "privacy by design" process, which enables GDPR constraints to be factored in right from the start of a new service or project for customers or employees. Training is given to the entire Pierre & Vacances-Center Parcs France Marketing team (eight participants); ­ training on consumer rights given to Call Centers, Customer Relations and CRM teams in France, The Netherlands, Belgium and Germany (45 participants).

4.2 Using sustainable development to enhance the customer experience

In 1967, Gérard Brémond helped to found the Avoriaz ski resort, a singular, completely pedestrianised destination fully embedded in the landscape thanks to its mimetic architecture. This innovation was in step with the new leisure residence concept.

4.2.1 Innovation focused on customer satisfaction

Context
The innovative approach begun 50 years ago continues today: innovation is one of the four pillars of the Group's Tourism strategy. A dedicated Innovation department was set up this year at Group level. Its mission is the same as that of all the Group's other departments: to improve customer satisfaction and enhance the offering.
Policy and action plan
The Group places the customer at the heart of everything it does, improving the customer experience and making it smoother, to make the relationship personal.

The aim is to identify the stages of the customer experience that need to be improved, then look at possible solutions to resolve the problems identified.
An innovative ecosystem to boost customer satisfaction
To support this policy, the Group's Innovation Department has identified two key missions:
E cooperate with start-ups to build a personalised and smooth customer experience;
E spread innovation, set up a community of innovators within the Group and in all departments.

76 UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2018/2019 ­ PIERRE & VACANCES-CENTER PARCS GROUP

EXTRA-FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE DECLARATION
Using sustainable development to enhance the customer experience

The selected start-ups provide new services which generate customer satisfaction (innovation in products or services). After 9 months, 11 proofs of concept have been launched. Some of these help to improve the impact of our CSR policy:
E the ADDOCK start-up is developing a solution to enable customers to book local activities in real time (currently being tested with maeva.com) thereby enhancing the customer offering via activities related to the regions;
E mapsindoors is a geo-location system that enables customers to find their way around Center Parcs sites more easily using a digital card integrated into the Center Parcs app. This innovation is being trialled at Center Parcs Le Bois aux Daims. Customers who use it are able to find their way around more easily, and can discover more of the site's biodiversity and everything else it has to offer.
This start-up partnership strategy was facilitated by the creation, in January 2019, of the community of innovators, which is tasked with devising innovative products and services for customers and spreading innovation across all of the Group's business lines.
The dissemination of innovation within the Group began with "Innovation breakfasts", in which external speakers presented new ways of innovating to employees at the head office.
Managing customer satisfaction
Each Business Line has a process in place to assess and manage customer satisfaction. By processing the customer satisfaction questionnaires that are completed each week, the Net Promoter Score(1) (NPS), intention to return and overall satisfaction can be monitored. The "social room" (responsible for social media interactions with customers) analyses scores left online. Sites receive a monthly report to notify employees of the things they are doing well and areas where the service could be improved.
Results
There has been a clear increase in customer satisfaction:
E Net Promoter Score (NPS) for Pierre & Vacances (all PV, Premium, Villages and Maeva brands): 21.3% (an increase on the previous year: 15.1%);
E NPS for Center Parcs: 3.2% (an increase on 2017/2018: 1.8%).
In 2019, 123 Pierre & Vacances-Center Parcs Group sites received a TripAdvisor Certificate of Excellence (1 Center Parcs, 40 Pierre & Vacances residences, 80 partner residences and 2 multiple ownership residences), which is awarded to establishments all over the world that offer a quality service over the long term.

Personalising relationships with our owner customers
The relationship of trust that we have built with our owners is essential to the longevity of our business model. In addition to the profitability of their investment, they expect better fluidity in their relations with the Group. The Owners' Department is organised on two levels: a team at the registered office manages owner enquiries about their properties (lease renewals, renovation, owner relationship) while property managers , locally based, manage some of the co-owned properties operated by the Group.
Major efforts have been made to improve owner satisfaction in the following areas:
E the Group's responsiveness to queries throughout the term of the lease;
E the way stays are organised;
E the way disputes are dealt with;
E the simplification of the renewal of leases on the digital platform.
Currently, 93% of owners have set up an online account, and 30% of leases were renewed online over the year (compared to 17% in 2017/2018).
Results and KPIs
Owner satisfaction:
E processing of owner litigations took 1.9 days in average (1.8 days in 2017/2018);
E number of owner litigations (as a proportion of the total number of owners): 1.40% (a 0.15% drop compared to 2017/2018; 46 fewer litigations);
E lease renewal rate: 83% ­ note: result based on an estimate for one site whose operations are still ongoing. (76% in 2017/2018).
In addition to customer satisfaction during their stay, the Group is working to ensure customer safety, given the risks identified as high by the European authorities.
Ensuring the safety of our customers
In the context of enhanced security in France, Center Parcs continued the certification process for its French sites. During the financial year the Villages Nature® Paris site received the "Sécuri-Site" label which certifies the introduction of a complete security plan, both inside the site and in the surrounding areas, as well as a close partnership with local authorities. Issued by the French State and based primarily on prevention, the exchange of information and crisis management preparation, this partnership is further enhanced by shared safety drills.
ISO 14001 standards have been introduced at Center Parcs sites and a safety plan is in place at Pierre & Vacances to monitor customer safety. The accident rate is 0.006% for Pierre & Vacances and 0.001% for Center Parcs. This accident rate refers to damages as a result of personal injury involving civil liability (above the insurance franchise) in relation to the number of customers (Center Parcs) and the number of units occupied (Pierre & Vacances).

4

(1) The Net Promoter Score is the difference between the number of "promoters" and the number of "detractors" in response to the question: "would you recommend this site to your friends and family?".
77 UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2018/2019 ­ PIERRE & VACANCES-CENTER PARCS GROUP

4

EXTRA-FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE DECLARATION
Using sustainable development to enhance the customer experience

4.2.2 Offering a customer experience focused on nature and the regions

Context
For over 50 years, the Pierre & Vacances-Center Parcs Group has been working to place the customer experience at the heart of its service offer to ensure that "holidays are the best experience". Our customer base, 80% of which is made up of families(1), wants holidays that enable them to reconnect with loved ones, but also to discover the region while protecting the environment.
Pierre & Vacances residences and villages are located in a wide range of destinations, often at the very heart of the natural environment (mountains, coast, countryside), and Center Parcs sites are located in forests. 70% of Center Parcs sites are covered by green spaces or forests, such as the Center Parcs Allgaü at the foot of the Bavarian Alps, which opened in October 2017. The Group wants to showcase this natural capital and encourage its customers to discover local attractions.
Policy and action plan
One aim of the Pierre & Vacances and Center Parcs brands is to increase the number of fun and educational activities focused on nature and the regions. The teams offer nature-based activities, either alone or in partnership with associations. The Group also offers regional discovery activities via tourist information offices on Center Parcs sites and the RendezvousCheznous platform for the Pierre & Vacances brand.
Showcasing natural heritage and encouraging customers to preserve the environment
In 2019, Pierre & Vacances added the "Gardener" activity to its Nature activity programme. The activity is aimed at children aged 3-5 at the Pierre & Vacances villages kids' club. The Group has set up educational hives to highlight the importance of protecting bees, an endangered species which is crucial to preserving biodiversity.
Center Parcs also continues to enhance its "Wanna be" activity programme, which focuses on jobs relating to nature, such as forest ranger, photographer or animal keeper, etc. Other nature activities are also offered in partnership with local associations; the aim is for each site to provide at least one Nature activity by 2022. Finally, small farms on each site encourage children and their families to respect animals and their environment.

A focus on animal welfare
During the year, two veterinary schools analysed practices and provided recommendations on animal welfare. This work led to Kid's Farm teams at all Center Parcs France sites being trained to harmonise and improve animal care practices, as part of the process to continually improve the way we manage operational risk.
Showcasing local tourist attractions and developing partnerships to enhance the activities offered
In January 2019, the Group acquired the RendezvousCheznous marketplace which has a selection of 1,400 authentic activities in France, with which Pierre & Vacances cooperates. This transaction has given the brand the in-house skills to offer its customers the chance to discover France "differently", thanks to locals who are true ambassadors of their region and their know-how, who share experiences ­ food, wine, crafts, art, sport, etc.
Encouraging environmentally-responsible behaviour during stays
Pierre & Vacances has disseminated "eco-tip" stickers in all Pierre & Vacances units in France and Spain to remind customers to sort waste, close windows when the heating or air conditioning is on, save water, etc. The brand's improved CSR standards also enable these criteria to be incorporated into its service system (use of environmentally-friendly cleaning products, reusable tableware or failing this, tableware made of cardboard or other biodegradable materials for meetings, option to compost organic waste on some sites, etc.).

(1) Families make up 78% of the customer base at PV sites in France and the French West Indies (data from the IQSurvey) and 81% at Center Parcs Europe.
78 UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2018/2019 ­ PIERRE & VACANCES-CENTER PARCS GROUP

EXTRA-FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE DECLARATION
Creating value for the regions

Promote sustainable nutrition, prevent food waste and single-use plastics
On Center Parcs sites and in Pierre & Vacances villages, catering is supplied by external providers (catering is only under direct management at two Center Parcs and one Pierre & Vacances sites). The Group encourages partners to include and enhance the offering of local or organic products in restaurants and grocery stores using the Green Key certification. It is also tackling food waste and reducing the reliance on single use plastics. At the Villages Nature® Paris site, the PUR, etc. restaurant features environmentally-friendly dishes (using little meat), and works in direct partnership with local producers to provide a wide range of organic, gluten-free and lactose-free options.
In line with the site's environmental strategy and the EGALIM law for balanced business relations in the agriculture and food sectors and healthy, sustainable nutrition accessible to all, the grocery store at Villages Nature® in Paris has replaced all single use plastic products (plates, cutlery, stirrers) with wooden or bamboo products. This will be rolled out across all Group sites during the financial year.

At Pierre & Vacances, we have worked with our catering supplier, Restoleil, to replace small individual portions with larger containers on the breakfast buffet at the Branville residence. Since April 2019, jams, spreads and butter have been provided on the buffet in larger containers.
This responsible purchasing policy aims to establish a close relationship with its suppliers whose CSR performance is closely linked to the Group performance. For example, on catering sector, the Group and its partners are committed to abandoning eggs and egg products from caged hens by 2025, for all its sites, in all the countries where the Group operates, and thus exclusively use eggs and egg products from outdoor or ground-based farming or alternatives to eggs.
Results
E Nature activities are available at 24 Center Parcs sites (92% of our sites).
E 4,586 children signed up for Nature activities at the seven Pierre & Vacances villages that have introduced these events.
E Ban on plastic drinking straws in the six Center Parcs in Germany.

4

4.3 Creating value for the regions

4.3.1 Encouraging a property development strategy that has less impact and uses biodiversity in a respectful way

Context
One of the major non-financial risks identified by the Group is the reduction in available land area. This is due to land pressure and the Group's requirements regarding the location of its sites. The Group's property development strategy has been adjusted in response to these limitations; it continues to develop in countries with existing operations (France, the Netherlands, Belgium, Germany and Spain) and in new areas (China and Europe).
In the design phase
Policy and action plan
The Group has implemented a growth strategy with three focus areas:
E enhancing the Pierre & Vacances tourism offering through external growth (asset light) via franchises and management contracts and the marketing of partner sites. The target set by Pierre & Vacances Tourism International development is to reach 300 partner residences by 2022;

E capitalising on the existing property portfolio by renovating our holiday residence portfolio (three renovation projects delivered during the financial year: Hoch Sauerland, De Haan and Zandvoort) and extending some sites (Center Parcs Les Bois Francs, VillagesNature®);
E selecting sites that have already been built on in the past and sites with limited biodiversity reduces the environmental impact of property development projects; major renovations to existing buildings... Specifically, when the property development teams in France or BNGC (Belgium, the Netherlands, Germany and China) look for new land, sites that have previously been built on such as the many abandoned military zones in Germany or partially-developed spaces (e.g. car parks in mountain resorts) are of particular interest when considering future developments. Furthermore, an environmental pre-assessment or mapping is conducted on projects under development (with capacity of over 100 units and located in natural areas) when selecting sites. Finally, renovating existing buildings is an important way to unlock future development potential.

79 UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2018/2019 ­ PIERRE & VACANCES-CENTER PARCS GROUP

4

EXTRA-FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE DECLARATION
Creating value for the regions

The second two focus areas are managed by two property development teams, PVD for France and the Belgium, Netherlands, Germany and China construction team.
Several construction projects are in the development phase:
This year, 6 of the 9 projects under development in natural areas or previously unbuilt areas with over 100 units (Center Parcs Lot & Garonne, the extension of Villages Nature®, the extension of Center Parcs de Bois Francs, Center Parcs Jura, Center Parcs Saône et Loire, Center Parcs de Roybon) have undergone a previous environmental assessment, over and above the legal obligations. The two other sites concerned: The new Belle Dune premium residence: the work on the mixed development zone where the residence will be sited has been entrusted to the public/private entity "Baie de Somme ­ Grand Littoral Picard", which has taken on all of the administrative demands relating to new developments planned in this zone. As such, the Group has not ordered any environmental studies for this project. As regards the Telephérik project in Avoriaz: the land within the resort has been identified by the city of Morzine-Avoriaz for a tourism development. An environmental study has also been conducted by the city of Morzine-Avoriaz concerning the modification to the Local Urban Development Plan. In the same way, for the ongoing Aime-la-Plagne project, an impact study was conducted as part of the touristic development of the area. Furthermore, both of these mountain projects are located in areas which have been partially developed in the past: car parks and existing buildings. This vastly reduces the portion of the land being artificialized: +36% of additional soil artificialized for the Téléphérik project, and +6% for the Aime-la-Plagne project. As for the latest residence at Deauville, the "Bâtiment des Douanes", and the Capella project in Avoriaz, the existing buildings are undergoing major renovations, which does not involve the development of any new land.
The Group's new Center Parcs village in Belgium is another example of its asset light policy. Operated under a management contract, this site, called Terhills Resort, will have 250 villas in a natural setting. It will open in the spring of 2021.
Results
E 191 residences marketed by our platforms (a 29% increase on last year).
E 6 environmental pre-assessments or mapping of issues were carried out for 9 potential projects.

Operational
Policy and action plan
During the operational phase, the Group implements an environmental safety and standards policy at Center Parcs Pierre & Vacances sites, with a view to achieving zero accidental pollution of the natural environment. To better preserve biodiversity at these sites, Center Parcs aims to have a biodiversity plan for green spaces, to include a biodiversity assessment for all sites by 2022 and specific measures for each site (late mowing, selection of species, maintenance method selected according to the purpose of each space, ban on phytosanitary products).
Making biodiversity an asset of our sites
During the financial year, two Center Parcs sites in the Netherlands (De Kempervennen and De Eemhof) conducted an initial biodiversity assessment in partnership with the university of applied sciences of `s-Hertogenbosch (Netherlands). This assessment yielded a methodology for calculating a biodiversity score covering the following criteria: the number of species present at the site and the biodiversity index (calculated based on the richness and diversity of species, the presence of benchmark species in the region, rare or endangered species, protected species and management of biodiversity intensity). This standardised methodology will be replicated at eight Center Parcs sites in Europe in 2019/2020 to gain a clear picture of the biodiversity status of our sites, and implement the appropriate protection measures. The aim is to roll out this approach in all Center Parcs by 2022.
Results
E 58% of Center Parcs sites have a full biodiversity plan.
E Biodiversity score of 6.2/10 for the two Center Parcs analysed.

80 UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2018/2019 ­ PIERRE & VACANCES-CENTER PARCS GROUP

EXTRA-FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE DECLARATION
Creating value for the regions

4.3.2 Developing new projects jointly with local partners and residents

Context
The local acceptability of our development projects is of major importance to the Group, which also wants to create value in the regions. During our development projects, this focus on local involvement involves close cooperation with public and private partners from the very beginning. For each development project, a specific organisation and a consultation plan are drawn up in line with the national regulatory framework, the project's characteristics and the local context.
Policy and action plan
The consultation is intended to notify the local population of the project, support its successful integration in the local economic fabric and to make changes to the project if necessary.
For major property development projects (over 100 accommodation units) where there are significant environmental challenges, a local consultation process, over and above regulatory requirements, automatically takes place at least six months before any application for planning permission is filed.

Center Parcs Lot & Garonne ­ working in partnership with local players
2018/2019 was devoted to fine-tuning and completing the economic set-up of the central facilities in the form of a local public-private partnership as part of the "public/private" partnership bringing together regional authorities (Region of Nouvelle Aquitaine, Department of Lot-et-Garonne, joint local authority of Landes de Gascogne, the bank financing territories ("banque des territoires") and the PVCP Group. This local public-private partnership will own these central facilities and make them available to the Group under a long-term commercial lease, in exchange for a fixed rent subject to review. A final agreement to this effect was signed between the various partners in July 2019. As a result of this agreement, the PVCP Group was able to sign the off-plan sale commitment in favour of the public-private partnership.
Ensuring ongoing dialogue with our stakeholders is a fundamental stage in our development process, for property development projects in France and BNGC (Belgium, Netherlands, Germany, China). This dialogue is tailored to each country, and project type.

Project name Yixing, Jiangsu province (China)
Telephérik, Avoriaz (France) Aime-la-Plagne project (France)
Project to extend VillagesNature®, Ile-de-France(France) Project to extend the Center Parcs site at Les Bois Francs, Normandy (France)

Project description

Type of consultation

144 accommodation units, 50% of which Work with local authorities are apartments.

Development via the management contract

7,500 m2 for 163 accommodation units

Consultation with the city council, representatives of owner associations and ski lift owners

Construction of a hotel (new "lifestyle" holiday accommodation concept including services and restaurant)

Economic feasibility study of the overall Aime 2000 mixed development zone project involving the local authority and various potential partners, consultation with local stakeholders (owners' association, etc.)

242 new cottages

A consultation during phase 1 of the development (prior to the site's opening in 2016) and public inquiry in the summer of 2019

322 new cottages

E 1 voluntary consultation in the spring of 2019

E including 5 public meetings and a file outlining the project available at the town hall and online

E 1 public inquiry in the summer of 2019.

4

Results
7 out of the 9 projects being developed in France of more than 100 units (Center Parcs Lot & Garonne, Pierre & Vacances Aime-La-Plagne, Pierre & Vacances Belle Dune, Telepherik Avoriaz, extension of Center Parcs des Bois Francs, extension of VillagesNature®, Center Parcs Jura, Center Parcs Saône & Loire, Center Parcs Isère) underwent a consultation suited to the local context.

Saône & Loire, Jura and Roybon projects
Regarding the Jura Center Parcs project, the litigation relating to the Local Urban Development Plan has not been resolved: the joint local authority, which is responsible for urban planning, has decided to refer the matter to the administrative court. Pending a hearing which will take place in 2020 at the very earliest, the project is currently suspended.

81 UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2018/2019 ­ PIERRE & VACANCES-CENTER PARCS GROUP

4

EXTRA-FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE DECLARATION
Creating value for the regions

For the Saône-et-Loire project, the Local Urban Development Plan became final in September 2019, after the administrative court dismissed the appeal proceedings begun by opponents. The Group is now able to continue concertation with all stakeholders and approach local authorities to re-examine the technical and financial conditions under which the project could go ahead.

Regarding the development of a Center Parcs in Isère, Roybon, in April 2019, the Administrative Court of Lyon ordered an expert environmental assessment, which at year-end had yet to begin.

4.3.3 Committing to the local economy

Context
The Group wants to be more than just a tour operator, and intends to contribute to the local economy. Our largest sites, of the Center Parcs brand, employ up to 600 people in order to provide a full range of leisure activities, catering and maintenance services. Around 200 people are employed by Center Parcs across a range of sites such as Bispingen (Germany) with an average headcount of 286 people. Villages Nature® has 209 employees on average. Most Center Parcs sites are located in the countryside or rural areas, far from major centres of employment. The Group is therefore heavily dependent on the quality and availability of the local workforce while providing work and jobs across its entire supplier chain.
Policy and action plan
Local economic growth is an integral part of the Group's CSR policy. During the construction phase, the Group favours local businesses. Prior to opening, employees work with local economic players (Department, Region, job centre) to release job vacancies on the new site and we train employees in the skills required to work in the tourism sector.
In the construction phase
For the Lot & Garonne Center Parcs which is currently under construction, initiatives are in place to boost the local economy, prior to project delivery. After the information phase and involvement of the stakeholders, the Group began working closely with construction companies and their consular chambers to plan the construction phase. The first contracts awarded were for roads and miscellaneous networks prior to the construction of the accommodation units and central facilities, with a view to beginning work on the cottages at the end of 2019. At 30/09, over 80% of the contracts had been awarded to regional companies.
Two years prior to the site opening, the employment committee met for the first time. Its role is to ensure optimum conditions for finding employees, with a view to their subsequent training and recruitment.
At the same time PVCP, the joint local authority and the Dpartement of Lot & Garonne set up a short channel committee to seek out and build future partnerships for food/catering supplies, maintenance and cleaning services, and operation of the farm.

In the operation phase
Our sites contribute to regional vitality, providing the local population with jobs and favouring purchases from local companies.
E The sites develop links with local producers, notably by holding local produce markets on several of our sites and through the local produce shop at the Center Parcs Bois aux Daims site which offers products (local specialities, etc.) sourced from local producers.
The socio-economic footprint of the Center Parcs Bois aux Daims site
In 2019, Protourisme conducted a survey which analysed the economic impact of Center Parcs Bois aux Daims(1) by looking at spending by our customers outside the Center Parcs:
E over 1/4 of customers engage in activities outside the Center Parcs;
E an average of 7 was spent in the local area (i.e. Vienne) by each Center Parcs customer (mostly on services and eating out), amounting to total consumption by customers outside the Center Parcs in the département of Vienne of 7.4 million in 2017 (including taxes);
E 520 employees in 2018, over half of whom live in the Lot & Garonne area;
E from the construction of the site to the 10th year of operation, the Center Parcs Bois aux Daims will have generated 1,400 direct and indirect jobs outside the site.
KPIs
E Local purchases on sites in Europe (within a 150 km radius of the site): 84% local purchases in the construction phase.
E Local purchases/Operation Center Parcs France (within a 150 km radius of the site): 32% local purchases in the operation phase.

(1) Survey conducted in September 2018 on 614 respondents.
82 UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2018/2019 ­ PIERRE & VACANCES-CENTER PARCS GROUP

EXTRA-FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE DECLARATION
Creating value for the regions

4.3.4 Supporting general interest projects thatbenefit local populations

Context
Convinced that dynamic regions are key to the success of its business model, in November 2017 the Group set up the Pierre & Vacances-Center Parcs Group Foundation, to boost regional vitality and forge community links. It only supports general interest organisations (associations, foundations, etc.) working on projects relating to at least one of the three following areas: E nature and leisure for all; E culture and local memory; E social and professional integration. The Foundation has an allowance of 250,000 per year and relies on volunteering by Group employees.
Policy and action plan
Each project supported by the Foundation must be located within a 50 km radius of one of the Group's holiday sites. This strong geographical proximity enables the Group to involve employees in specific initiatives in their local area, which they care about and for which they are motivated to act.

In 2018/2019, the Foundation supported 12 projects (almost 50% of which had already been financed in 2017/2018) to which it has allocated 20,000 on average. It has intensified its initiatives and continued to create local synergies with associations and employees.
This financial support enables the Foundation to contribute to the Sustainable Development Goals of the United Nations:
SDGs addressed by projects supported by the Foundation

8%
12: Responsible consumption and production
25%
11: Sustainable cities and communities

8%
14: Life
below water

25%
4: Quality education
34%
8: Decent work and economic
growth

To support this strategy, this year the Foundation developed the following communication tools:
E a separate website to showcase the Foundation's work: fondation.groupepvcp.com;
E a clip introducing the Foundation, its mission and its areas of work;
E in-house tools that enable employees to learn about the Foundation's identity and the processes for selecting projects.

4

83 UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2018/2019 ­ PIERRE & VACANCES-CENTER PARCS GROUP

4

EXTRA-FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE DECLARATION
Creating value for the regions

Results

Among the 12 projects supported by the Foundation in 2018/2019, the following four projects are a particularly good illustration of the work that has been done:

Name of the project supported

Location

Akindo/Work Lommel in Belgium, hard Chill hard near Center Parcs
De Vossemeren

La Source-

Near Center Parcs

La Guéroulde Les Bois Francs

Sauvegarde des In Porquerolles,

Forêts Varoises/ near

Copains

Pierre & Vacances

Presqu'île de Giens

La Ruche Marseille/ Passe la 3e!

In Marseille, near Adagio Marseille

Ambition Creation and consolidation of a programme to help young people aged 13 to 30 access regional leisure and vocational training opportunities.
Gives families who are geographically and socially isolated the chance to engage in the plastic arts and go on cultural outings.
E Preservation of ancient Porquerolles tree species and management of organic market gardening by workplace inclusion employees.
E Introduction of a culinary transformation laboratory and launch of the "Les Jardins de Porquerolles" organic produce brand.
Creation of an entrepreneurship programme for residents of disadvantaged areas of the city of Marseille.

Local synergies

Number of employees involved

E Career workshops led by

E 4 ambassadors

employees of Center Parcs

organised the

De Vossemeren

"Run for Akindo"

E Young people can spend time relaxing at Center Parcs.

with around 200 participants.

E Community team building organised by the Center Parcs management team to help the association organise its summer

E 10 employees organised a community team building event.

activities.

E 4 employees helped

E A charity run by employees in aid of Akindo which raised an extra

organise a careers day.

2,000 for the association.

E A meeting room at Les Bois Francs was made available for a week-long art workshop for 16 parents and children.
E Installation of a fresco at the entrance of Les Bois Francs

E 3 ambassadors organised events with the beneficiaries of the association.

E Hosting of an art exhibition featuring works by beneficiaries of the association.

E A half-day community team

E 1 ambassador

building event run by local teams organised a

to help the association with

community team

harvesting and weeding.

building session

E Throughout the summer:

with 16 employees.

a weekly sale of "Les Jardins

de Porquerolles" produce at

Pierre & Vacances residences.

E Creation of a Porquerolles tourist map handed out to customers to tell them about the Copains project.

E One Copains beneficiary employed at Pierre & Vacances on a fixed-term contract.

E Provision of 50 places at La Ruche Marseille co-working space for Adagio customers and employees.

E 1 ambassador organised two skills sponsorship training sessions.

E 2 x 2-hour training sessions on business negotiation and management techniques led by Adagio employees.

84 UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2018/2019 ­ PIERRE & VACANCES-CENTER PARCS GROUP

EXTRA-FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE DECLARATION
Being exemplary in the course of our business

In 2018/2019, almost 80 employees took part in one of the Foundation's initiatives, and were able to discover a new way of investing in their region.
Center Parcs Europe organizes many activities throughout the year to increase awareness of customers (children and adults) about the preservation of nature. The Kids Climate Conference was held for the 8th consecutive year in partnership with the Missing Chapter at Center Parcs Hoch Sauerland (Germany). This event aims to raise the awareness of children from surrounding schools to the issues of

climate change. The proposals that emerged from it were submitted to the mayors of the communes.
In addition, Center Parcs Bispinger Heide organized the "Naturcampus" in collaboration with the Lüneburger Heide Nature Park Association in September 2019. This event, which brought together 90 children, offered them the opportunity to explore nature under the following themes: the wolf, the Lüneburger heather, the bee and climate change.

4.4 Being exemplary in the course
of our business
4
4.4.1 Acting as a responsible employer

4.4.1.1 Our HR strategy and values
Human resources are central to the Group's performance and the tourism activity accounts currently for 85% of jobs. The challenge is to manage the development of our business lines, expertise and corporate culture to support:
E the growing digitalisation of the tourism sector, with customers increasingly booking, reviewing and recommending holidays online, fuelling the demand for IT professionals (developers, data analysts, UX/UI designers, cybersecurity experts, etc.);
E the flexibility on arrival dates offered to our customers requires greater agility from reception and housekeeping staff in particular;
E the competition in the holiday rental market, leading to a change in the owner relationship;
E the internationalisation of the market with new sites opening in China, requiring us to develop our global expertise;
E the development of the business model, with the growth in "contract management" and franchises;
E increased customer demand for high-quality, up-to-date products and services.
This transformation requires team commitment and engagement and a Group culture underpinned by two key values: "to enable togetherness" and "to be responsible entrepreneurs".

Policy
To support this change, the Human Resources Department is implementing a strategy based on the following pillars: E attracting and hiring new talent and skills within the Group; E developing the talent and skills of teams; E ensuring that teams are committed to the Group's values. The policy, actions implemented and results achieved during the year for each of these pillars are detailed below.
The Group's profile
The Group's activities require the expertise of different business lines: E tourism operations: front desk, reception, maintenance, renovation,
security, housekeeping, swimming pools, events management, site management, operational control; E property development business lines: property development and promotion, property marketing and managementand relationships with the owners; E support functions: marketing, finance, IT services, purchasing, legal, human resources, communication, sustainable development, security; E business functions, digital, analytics and customer relations.

85 UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2018/2019 ­ PIERRE & VACANCES-CENTER PARCS GROUP

4

EXTRA-FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE DECLARATION
Being exemplary in the course of our business

Average annual headcount by country and average annual Group headcount by full-time equivalent

12,599
8,039 5,138 2,878 3,091 529 963 2017/2018 average

12,853
8,279 5,118 2,963 3,015 684 1,074 2018/2019 average

Spain Germany Belgium The Netherlands France GROUP FTE GROUP

Distribution of average headcount by country

6%
Spain
37%
France

9%
Germany

24%
Belgium

24%
The Netherlands

Breakdown of headcount at 30 September by age range

11%

12%

22%

22%

45%

43%

22%

23%

2017/2018 2018/2019

over 55 years 46-55 years 25-45 years under 25 years

86 UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2018/2019 ­ PIERRE & VACANCES-CENTER PARCS GROUP

EXTRA-FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE DECLARATION
Being exemplary in the course of our business

Key employment figures within the Group
Breakdown of headcount by gender

Proportion of women in management at 30 September 2019

36%

36%

47%
Male
managers

53%
Female
managers

64%

64%

2017/2018 2018/2019

Men Women

Breakdown of employees by contract type

1%

1%

15%

16%

7%

6%

6%

5%

12%

12%

59%

60%

2017/2018 2018/2019

Paid interns Student jobs Extras Seasonal Fixed term contract Permanent

Breakdown of headcount at 30 September by seniority

25% 27%

22% 23%

17% 14%

12% 12%

24% 24%

Breakdown of contracts by rate of ativity

44%
100%

42%
<50%
14%
50%-100%

4

Under 2 years

2-5 years 6-10 years 11-15 years More than
15 years 2017/2018 2018/2019

The turnover rate of 20.8% this year is slightly higher than last year (19.1%). The increase is due to numerous employees leaving and joining the Group on account of:
E site openings (Les Senioriales in Sainte-Marie (Réunion, France), Allgaü in Germany, Eurobuilding (Spain);

E new organisations deployed at head office (notably PVCI and some support functions);
E the increasing business activity of the Villages Nature®;
E the highly competitive labour market in some countries, particularly the Netherlands.

87 UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2018/2019 ­ PIERRE & VACANCES-CENTER PARCS GROUP

4

EXTRA-FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE DECLARATION
Being exemplary in the course of our business

Turnover rate
Number of new staff Number of departures TURNOVER RATE

2017/2018 1,924
2,110 19.1%

2018/2019 2,312
2,293 20.8%

Breakdown of departures by reason in 2018/2019

Absenteeism rate

46.9%

23%

9% 6.6% 3.7%
0.2%

9.6% 0.5% 0.5%

4.5% 4.7%

3.2% 3.5%

4.7% 4.2%

2.6% 2.9%

6.3% 3.1%

3.3% 3.7%

Belgium

France Germany The

Spain

Netherlands

2017/2018 2018/2019

GROUP

The absenteeism rate has increased slightly, from 3.3% in 2017/2018 to 3.7% in 2018/2019. The reason for this trend is the higher rate in Spain due to the increase in absenteeism periods of employees on temporary contracts.

(Belgium, oTfhEaenndNfeeCfootrfoomhrnpeaeltcrprlofioeaayxErcnenstnmoddoude-sna,mtnlioatefRcltGretcerreRrsrrDDmioeeieiitaaagnssicmmltssirnorammeoopnaiiannteanntssciymtrrt)ssssiioeaaaoollnncdssntst Death Other

4.4.1.2 Attracting and hiring talents
Context
Given the strong labour market in most of the countries where the Group operates, the Group has had to rethink its approach and employer image to attract and hire new talents.
Policy and action plan
During the 2018/2019 financial year, the Human Resources Department continued to refine and strengthen the Group's value proposition as an employer. During the year, the Human Resources Department intensified the work on the employer brand, the aim of which is to: E ensure that the Group stands out from its competitors with a
clear identity resulting from: ­ a precise definition of the employer brand platform,

­ the launch of an online toolkit enabling field-based recruiters to create their own recruitment tools (posters, billboards, social media, etc.) for local recruitment campaigns. A total of 120 tools are available, covering a wide range of requirements,
­ updating our employer identity using photo shoots of employees from all over Europe to increase the authenticity of national recruitment campaigns;
E boosting applications through targeted recruitment campaigns with:
­ a brand new recruitment strategy using job boards (specialised job sites such as LinkedIn, Indeed, Xing, Job Teaser and Welcome to the Jungle) and social media (recruitment video aimed at cleaners, lifeguards, etc.);

88 UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2018/2019 ­ PIERRE & VACANCES-CENTER PARCS GROUP

EXTRA-FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE DECLARATION
Being exemplary in the course of our business

E improving the Group's image and reputation on social media by:
­ enhancing the Group's reputation on LinkedIn with a dedicated page (25% increase in followers during the 2018/2019 financial year),
­ creating the hashtag #PVCPTeam, giving employees a voice so that they can be ambassadors for the Group's employment pledge on social media.
The Group is testing new ways of recruiting for certain technical roles using immersion, site tours, meetings with future colleagues and a fast-track application process, rather than the traditional CV and covering letter.
Seasonal workers, human capital to be developed for Pierre & Vacances
Hiring staff on seasonal contracts is essential for Pierre & Vacances residences to run smoothly and cope with busy periods during the high season. Pierre & Vacances employs 700 seasonal workers in winter and 1,200 in summer. Because they are the key to a successful season, all seasonal workers take the Work@PV integration and development program, which provides them with 4,000 hours of training each year. The course consists of an integration session, training course with the culture and practices at Pierre & Vacances, and an end-of-season appraisal during which they receive feedback about their performance and have the opportunity to share any ambitions they might have to develop or move elsewhere within the Group. The retention rate for seasonal workers is 49.8% for the Pierre & Vacances business line.
KPI
49.8%: retention rate for seasonal workers (up from 45% in 2017/2018). This corresponds to the percentage of seasonal workers who have already spent a season working for Pierre & Vacances France either that year or in the previous year. It represents a change in scope and definition compared with the previous year, since in 2017/2018 the definition was as follows: "Proportion of seasonal workers who worked at least one season in year N and at least one season in year N-1".
4.4.1.3 Skills development
Context
Skills development is a fundamental challenge for supporting the transformation of our business lines. The Group is keen to develop and invest in its human capital by employing teams who are committed and ready to learn new skills.
Policy
Skills development is largely based on a training policy that facilitates the growth of the business lines. The policy consists of five strands:
E health, safety and environment;
E business line expertise;

E sales;
E customer relations;
E management and leadership.
Within each strand, the Group strives to develop its employees' cross-disciplinary skills in areas such as foreign languages and office technology. Training needs are identified in one of two ways:
E either the employee can request training during his or her annual appraisal;
E or the department in charge of development and training will decide, jointly with each business line, to train employees on a specific topic or policy (such as Happy Family Makers at Center Parcs).
During the 2018/2019 financial year, the majority of training actions helped to:
E facilitate the transformation of the business lines to cope with major changes;
E develop the skills of our employees so that they can respond to business challenges;
E build on the expertise of managers, who are key to enhancing team performance.
Action plan
Facilitate the transformation of the business lines to cope with major changes
E To support the digitalisation of our businesses, 41 employees from the IT, Tourism Sales, Digital and Innovation departments were trained in IT software, "agile" working methods and new graphic animation tools.
E Welcome@PV: a pilot project was launched for the reception team at the Pierre & Vacances Le Crotoy residence to assist the whole team (six employees) in the transition to more modern, open-plan and digital reception areas. The training enabled them to become familiar with the new reception layout and guided them through the new customer service procedure.
Training ­ key to meeting business challenges
E Center Parcs Europe: launch of the "WE ARE ALL" two-part cultural transformation programme, comprising "Happy Family Makers", which seeks to enhance the customer experience at all points of contact, and "Improving together", a version of the Lean methodology, which aims at improving working conditions and make employees more productive so that more time can be devoted to customers.
E Handling of complaints and abuse at Pierre & Vacances: more than 100 employees have been trained in handling disputes (communication techniques and the customer refund process, in the case of a straightforward complaint) and/or abuse (physical assault or verbal abuse). The aim of this training is to provide support for sites that are being upgraded, while at the same time teaching staff how to handle changes in customer behaviour.

4

89 UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2018/2019 ­ PIERRE & VACANCES-CENTER PARCS GROUP

4

EXTRA-FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE DECLARATION
Being exemplary in the course of our business

Making managers the key to team performance
E Convinced that the actions and skills of managers are essential to the Group's performance, PVCP is continuing its leadership and management training programme. Launched in 2014, the programme is based on a common framework of values: B-CORE (Best in Class/Client Centric/Ownership/Role Model/Entrepreneur). Two new modules have been added to the common framework of managerial values for local leaders and managers:
­ a module focused on "intrapreneurship" for Pierre & Vacances site and regional managers. The aim of this module is to encourage site and regional managers to envision new ways of working with local communities, creating business and development opportunities for their teams;
­ an intensive module on coaching and feedback techniques for local managers and middle management. In all, 27 managers have completed this training.
E Evaluating employee performance is one of the manager's key tasks in an effort to ensure continuous improvement. Fully digitalised via the Group-wide H@RIS tool and information system, the evaluation is formally carried out each year during the employee performance appraisal. In 2018/2019, 91% of our employees completed an

appraisal. Lastly, HR and managers carried out a comprehensive talent review during the year. This was part of a Group-wide approach based on the 9box, which compares the level of performance and potential. This talent review was accompanied by an employee performance review ­ irrespective of their level of performance and potential ­ designed to develop and implement personal development action plans for Group employees.
Results
378 managers B-Core trained
Training hours distribution in 2018/2019

9%
Business line expertise
34%
Health, safety and environment
9%
Leadership and management

28%
Customer services
1%
Sales
20%
Professional development

Total number of training hours
Total number of training hours Average number of training hours per employee Proportion of employees trained Proportion of women among trained employees Training budget

2017/2018 69,446 9.19 60% 61%
2,415,698

2018/2019 92,573 11.40 63% 64%
3,131,305

4.4.1.4 Fostering employee engagement and satisfaction
Context
The Group is convinced that customer satisfaction is closely linked to the satisfaction and engagement of the employees who greet our guests and assist them on a daily basis. This is why, for the past few years, one of the pillars of our HR management policy has been employee engagement, which has a direct bearing on overall performance. The Group also believes that employees are more engaged in their work if they buy in to the Group's mission statement and its role within society.
Policy and actions
The Happy@Work approach requires all employees to be more engaged. This is a three-step programme:

E measuring employee engagement every two years using the Happy@Work questionnaire, which asks employees how they feel about their work environment;
E sharing and analysing the figures for each department in small working groups;
E taking action to improve engagement and job satisfaction. Following the previous survey in 2017, 600 actions were implemented by teams throughout the Group.
As part of this approach, the Group also organises events for its employees which enable them to socialise with and meet other colleagues. These events help bolster employee engagement while fuelling their search for meaning, a key driver of engagement. Each year, the Grand Tour Pierre & Vacances and Village Tour Center Parcs, conferences organised by each business line, annual 1Team1Time Group Leaders seminar and management seminars provide team-building opportunities where the Group can share its strategy during a day of discussion, brainstorming and communication around its future direction. Sportsday was attended by 1,400 employees from the Center Parcs Europe and VillagesNature® Paris sites. For two days, they took part in sporting events designed to foster team spirit and a sense of belonging and solidarity.

90 UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2018/2019 ­ PIERRE & VACANCES-CENTER PARCS GROUP

EXTRA-FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE DECLARATION
Being exemplary in the course of our business

maeva.com, the Group's HR test bed
To be more agile in its operation and organisation, the maeva.com business line and the Group's HR Department have embarked on a project to transform maeva.com's HR policy in a bid to attract, hire, develop and engage staff who are younger, more agile and digital than elsewhere in the Group. Based on the results of this project, an engagement questionnaire was set up using the Peakon tool. Mirroring the Happy@Work concept, this weekly survey is sent to all employees so that the engagement of maeva.com employees can be continuously improved. The new tool offers more flexibility in terms of the rate at which employees are interviewed, and enables improvements to be implemented more swiftly.
Results
2019 Happy@Work results: E participation rate: 74%, up 2% from the 2017 campaign; E 82% of employees say they are satisfied with the company in
general; E 76% are proud to work for the Group; E 70% believe their work contributes to their professional and
personal development; E 70% would recommend the Group as an excellent place to work.
4.4.1.5 Promoting access to work for all
Context
The Group takes the view that having an inclusive policy and tackling all forms of discrimination contributes to employee well-being and the creation of human value. Committed to employing workers with disabilities, the Group is continuing its efforts to tackle discrimination.
Policy, action plan and results
The Group has had a disability policy in France since 2005. The last disability agreement was signed in 2018 and covered 13 entities. Itis implemented via the CSR and HR policies of the PVCP Group.
Employment of workers with disabilities ­ France.

As part of its disability initiative (Mission Handicap), the Group has a proactive policy aimed at:
E supporting workers with disabilities;
E adapting the workstations of people with disabilities wherever necessary;
E informing and educating employees about disability;
E raising awareness of disability among recruiters and improving the direct employment rate;
E adapting workstations;
E encouraging the use of the protected sector in our purchasing processes and improving the indirect employment rate.
Mission Handicap is led by a dedicated team in charge of disability initiatives. The team has stepped up its communication and awareness actions and events: internally with initiatives at head office (testing employees on what they know about disability, updating information on the intranet, organising an information stand); activities on site (organising an information stand during the Grand Tour Pierre & Vacances 2019); a campaign to encourage staff to work with the protected sector through organisations helping people with disabilities into work (Support and Work Assistance Establishment).
Disability awareness day (DuoDay)
For the first time in May 2019, the Group took part in DuoDay, an event held throughout France. Employee volunteers were called on to form 17 duos: nine at head office and eight on site. Group employees spent the whole day mentoring someone with a disability who was looking for a job or a considering a career change via support organisations (Cap Emploi, Pôle Emploi, Support and Work Assistance Establishment, etc.). The aim of the event was to promote career opportunities within the tourism industry. For the employees, it was a chance to learn more about disability in the workplace and to overcome any prejudices. Employees and trainees alike gave very positive feedback on the day. Following the event, participants could choose to have their resume forwarded to the recruitment team to investigate potential job opportunities. The scheme also led to a work placement in reception and at the call centre at head office in September 2019.
There are 201 workers(1) with disabilities at Pierre & Vacances and Center Parcs France, equivalent to 3.9% of the in-scope workforce. This represents a marginal increase of 0.1 percentage points on last year. Efforts to tackle discrimination in general extend beyond France, with Center Parcs also taking steps to employ people with disabilities at its sites.

Proportion of employees recognised as workers with disabilities Number of employees with disabilities during the year Number of employees recognised as workers with disabilities recruited during the year Number of adaptations of the working environment for employees with disabilities

2017/2018 2.8% 147 21 0

2018/2019 3.9% 201 28 13

4

(1) Figures for the period 1 January 2018 to 31 December 2018.
91 UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2018/2019 ­ PIERRE & VACANCES-CENTER PARCS GROUP

4

EXTRA-FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE DECLARATION
Being exemplary in the course of our business

4.4.1.6 Promoting gender equality
Context
The proportion of female managers ­ an indicator that has been monitored for several years ­ remains high (and stable) within the Group's workforce. This year, the Group published the gender equality index, launched in 2019 to measure the gender pay gap.

E Pierre et Vacances (PV RESIDENCES & RESORTS France): 93/100;
E Center Parcs (UES Tourisme: CENTER PARCS RESORTS FRANCE and SNC DOMAINE DU LAC D'AILETTE): 93/100;
E UES SUPPORT (GIE PV-CP Services, PV-CP Gestion exploitation, PV-CP Distribution and PV Développement): 79/100.
All three entities exceed the threshold of 75 points, below which companies must take corrective action or face financial penalties.

Policy, action plan and results
Women make up 65% of employees (unchanged from the previous year) and 53.1% of managers are women. Women account for 63% of trained employees, which is consistent with their representation in the workforce.
Each year, equal pay indicators are shared with labour partners during the Statutory Annual Wage Negotiations. In accordance with the French law on the freedom to choose one's professional future, the gender equality index has been calculated for three Group entities:
List of agreements signed or renewed during the year:

4.4.1.7 Labour relations
The Group respects the freedom of association and the right to collective bargaining in the countries where it operates. Determined to foster a constructive labour relations, the Management regularly informs and consults staff representatives on key decisions taken. During the 2018/2019 financial year, several agreements were renewed:

Agreements Health Insurance Agreements
Health insurance and welfare protection in the form of a unilateral employer declaration
Record of the disagreement over the Statutory Annual Wage Negotiations Agreement for the Statutory Annual Wage Negotiations Collective agreement to set up the Economic Social Committee (ESC) Agreement on electronic voting
Equal opportunities action plan
Pre-election Memorandum of Understanding Pre-election Memorandum of Understanding Outsourcing of catering services
Collective labour agreement concerning the tourism sector Agreement on HR-Rodibus controlling Willis Towers Watson Assurance santé

Scope
PVCI ­ UES Support ­ UES Tourisme ­ Pierre & Vacances Résidences & Resorts France
SET Pierre & Vacances Martinique, SET Pierre & Vacances Guadeloupe, La France du Nord au Sud, Maeva gestion
PVCI ­ UES Support ­ UES Tourisme, Pierre & Vacances Résidences & Resorts France
SET Pierre & Vacances Martinique, SET Pierre & Vacances Guadeloupe
PVCI ­ UES Support ­ UES Tourisme ­ Pierre & Vacances Résidences & Resorts France
PVCI ­ UES Support ­ UES Tourisme ­ Pierre & Vacances Résidences & Resorts France
PVCI ­ UES Support ­ UES Tourisme ­ Pierre & Vacances Résidences & Resorts France
SET Pierre & Vacances Martinique
SET Pierre & Vacances Guadeloupe
Center Parcs Les Ardennes + Sunparks Belgique (De Haan aan Zee + Oostduinkerke aan Zee)

Year of signature 2018
2019 2019 2019 2019 2019 2019 2018 2019 April 2019

Duration of validity Unspecified
Unspecified Annual Annual Unspecified Unspecified Annual 4 years 4 years Not specified

The Netherlands The Netherlands The Netherlands

2019 2019 2019

2 years
1 year
1 year renewable each year

92 UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2018/2019 ­ PIERRE & VACANCES-CENTER PARCS GROUP

EXTRA-FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE DECLARATION
Being exemplary in the course of our business

4.4.1.8 Ensuring the health and safety of our employees
Context
The safety of our employees and customers is of the utmost concern for the Group, both from a health and business point of view. In the last two years, the two occupations most affected by accidents at work were technical staff and cleaners. The issue of operational risk is managed jointly by the Operational Risk departments and the Human Resources Department. A dedicated team specific to each business line has been set up within Center Parcs and Pierre & Vacances.
Policy
To guarantee a healthy, safe environment for all customers and employees in the Group's residences and resorts, the Prevention & Safety Operational Risk departments of Pierre & Vacances and Center Parcs have established a framework for action addressing the following three areas: anticipation, analysis and training/coaching.
Nine risk areas have been identified in accordance with the regulations:
E workplace health and safety;
E security;
E fire safety;
E accessibility;
E leisure activities;
E swimming pools;
E playgrounds;
E food safety;
E safe drinking water (legionella bacteria).
Action plan
For Pierre & Vacances
The Operational Risk ­ Prevention and Safety manager manages risk in France and Spain. He is represented at a regional level by two prevention and safety officers in each operational department. Each Pierre & Vacances and maeva.com site has a single regional contact person for all the risks identified.
The target is a 30% reduction in workplace accidents by 2022. In Spain, Pierre & Vacances is seeking to maintain the accident frequency and severity rate. The trend is positive, since the number of accidents in France and Spain fell by 26% during the year. This decrease reflects the efforts made in:
E awareness-raising and training:
­ training specific to each business line: housekeeping, reception, engineering, events management, lifeguards. 163 employees received training on ergonomics and body mechanics in an effort to reduce workplace accidents,

­ an awareness day was held at the group's head office with seven workshops on occupational health and safety (fire safety, first aid, cardiovascular risks, welfare, workstation ergonomics, virtual reality). 550 employees took part,
­ training of all seasonal workers: a charter summarising the seven safety pillars has been published to raise awareness among employees working in our residences during the season;
E prevention: audits were carried out at 40% of residences in France and Spain;
E the first phase of work to improve the accessibility (for disabled people) of our buildings was completed as part of the Scheduled Accessibility Program. 40% of public buildings are yet to be upgraded by 2021;
E management and reporting: a monthly report is sent to Pierre & Vacances management and employees.
Using safety briefings to prevent accidents
Safety briefings are short, informal meetings where participants share information on a specific health and safety topic. Each month, the Prevention & Safety department sends a document to organise them on-site. These opportunities for discussion are part of a participatory and feedback-based approach in line with our Health and Safety policy. Lasting around 10-15 minutes, the safety briefings can be led by the various team leaders or site manager. During the year, invitations to hold safety briefings were also sent to employees at head office, with information on topics such as how to use new forms of mobility (e.g. electric scooters) safely, or on what measures to take during a heat wave.

For Center Parcs
Risk management is the responsibility of the head of operational risk at Center Parcs Europe. He is assisted by four national managers (one in each country of operation, i.e. Germany, Belgium, the Netherlands and France). These national managers work closely with the SHE managers (Safety, Health, Environment) at each Center Parcs site.
The safety policy and procedures are communicated to staff in order to reduce accidents at the sites.

Results
Frequency/severity rate of workplace accidents ­ Group

Frequency rate Severity rate

2017/2018 32.2 1.38

2018/2019 34.9 1.47

4

93 UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2018/2019 ­ PIERRE & VACANCES-CENTER PARCS GROUP

4

EXTRA-FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE DECLARATION
Being exemplary in the course of our business

4.4.2 Implementing a responsible purchasing policy

Context

Policy and action plan

Totalling around 742 million during the 2018/2019 financial year, purchasing is a key performance lever for the Group in terms of its CSR. The Purchasing Department manages only part of the Group's purchases.
The Group published its vigilance plan for the first time this year and has decided to step up its supplier audits.

The Purchasing Department has introduced a responsible purchasing policy based on four pillars:
E purchasing responsible products and services for our brands;
E building a responsible supplier database;
E improving our relations with subcontractors and suppliers;
E being a long-term economic partner to the regions.
During the financial year, the Group made 92% of its purchases from European suppliers, 46% from French suppliers and less than 1% from suppliers in countries considered to be "at risk", notably China.

Purchasing responsible products and services for our brands
During the year, the responsible purchasing specifications were adapted to become CSR criteria, which have an impact on tender specifications. The CSR criteria are derived from the Group's CSR strategy, CSR risk mapping on supply chains, and the commitments undertaken by the business lines. Risk areas have been identified for high-risk purchasing categories:

Purchasing categories Maintenance Chemicals and cleaning products Laundry, cleaning and temporary employment services Building trades Linen Single-use products Indoor and outdoor furniture Maintenance work and upgrades, water purification, drinking water maintenance Uniforms and protective clothing

Risk areas Environmental risks Environmental and Human rights risks Environmental and Human rights risks Environmental and Human rights risks Environmental risks Environmental risks Environmental and Human rights risks Environmental risks Environmental and Human rights risks

Approved in June 2019, the CSR criteria are applied to all new contracts and contracts up for renewal by Purchasing on the Operations and Construction sectors. These criteria affect the contracts signed by the Purchasing Department and contribute to the Group's CSR targets. For example, if a supplier is unable to confirm that it meets the CSR criteria, it is excluded from the tendering process.

Building a responsible supplier database
The "CSR supplier pre-qualification" is now outsourced to an independent third party. When a supplier or service provider is selected by the Purchasing Department, its CSR performance is assessed using three questionnaires (see vigilance plan).
Relations with subcontractors and suppliers
The Pierre et Vacances Center Parcs Group has held the Responsible Supplier Relations Label since 2016. In 2019, the Purchasing Department renewed its Responsible Purchasing and Supplier Relations Label for another three years. The label's criteria have been updated and extended following the introduction of ISO 20400, the international standard on sustainable procurement. In addition to the label, the Group has achieved a "convincing" level of maturity under the standard.

The average payment time for the Tourism France scope is 46 days. The increase of five days is largely due to the two entities at head office which have been added to the scope of analysis.
Each year, the Purchasing Department polls a representative sample of the supplier panel to ascertain how satisfied suppliers are with their business dealings with the Group. The results of the 2019 survey "Suppliers, your opinion matters" were as follows:
E 64% of suppliers are satisfied with their business dealings with the Group;
E more than 85% of suppliers think that the tendering process is clear and fit for purpose;
E suppliers believe that more emphasis could be given to CSR issues in calls for tenders. The Pierre & Vacances Tourism Committee has therefore approved the CSR criteria for several purchasing categories.

94 UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2018/2019 ­ PIERRE & VACANCES-CENTER PARCS GROUP

EXTRA-FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE DECLARATION
Being exemplary in the course of our business

Being a long-term economic partner to the regions
In the construction phase
The Group is keen to have a positive impact on the local economy, for example by partnering with companies based less than 150 km from the point of consumption of services when developing new sites. During the last financial year therefore, 84% of construction purchases were made within 150 km of the construction site (compared with 73% in the previous financial year).

In the operational phase
On average, 32% of purchases made during the operational phase at the five Center Parcs France sites (excluding Villages Nature®) were made within 150 km of the site.
Results
E The amount spent with suppliers from the protected and adapted sector stood at 316,000 excluding VAT in 2017/2018 (compared with 259,000 excluding VAT in 2017/2018).
E The 306 suppliers selected by the Purchasing Department during the last financial year were asked to complete various questionnaires to assess their CSR performance. Micro and small enterprises are generally less mature in terms of CSR than medium-sized and large enterprises.

Type of questionnaire Percentage of suppliers that responded to the questionnaire Average score obtained/100

Micro/small and Medium-sized/large

medium enterprises

enterprises

11%

26%

27/100

59/100

Anti-corruption 27%
39/100

Eco-labelled products made up 31% of the cleaning products available to Pierre & Vacances in 2018/2019, up from 12% in 2017/2018.

4

4.4.3 Improve the environmental performance of sites

4.4.3.1 Climate action
Context
Climate change is a major challenge for the tourism sector. On the one hand, tourism companies contribute to it by building new facilities, , and by providing transport, lodging and meals for holidaymakers (generating greenhouse gases). The tourism and property development sectors contribute 8% and 30%, respectively, to greenhouse gas emissions in the world. In addition, weather phenomena (decreasing snowfall, natural catastrophes, etc.) are having an impact on the destination choices of tourists.
The carbon assessment prepared by the Group has identified the areas which have the greatest impact (see chart below from the Group's 2016 Carbon Assessment).

Breakdown of CO2 emissions sources (tCO2e) - 2016 Carbon Assessment
47%
31%
12% 4% 2% 2% 1% 1%

CaoEirnqscutiborpunuOsFcdtmitioiethniooOeneotdtrCsnnsho(ipppCetbtnuuurrimurrrrg(aso)cccaEtmvvwhhhnoemuealaaatel,aissssrmstngeeeeser,gysss)

Customer travel to our sites and energy consumption accounts for nearly 80% of the Group's greenhouse gas emissions. As a result, the Group has committed to energy transition by: E taking action on asset resilience (via building certifications); E working to decrease its carbon footprint;
95 UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2018/2019 ­ PIERRE & VACANCES-CENTER PARCS GROUP

4

EXTRA-FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE DECLARATION
Being exemplary in the course of our business

E including renewable energy sources in new building projects;
E promoting local tourism.
The group launched its strategy on the reduction of Greenhouse Gas emissions. The results will be disseminated next year.
Policy and action plan
The Group is committed to the fight against climate change throughout the value chain:
E in the construction phase: by implementing an eco-design approach for the residences it builds. The goal is to achieve environmental performance for buildings which meets the required certification for all new building projects in France (High Environmental Quality) and similar standards for all projects in Europe (DGNB in Germany for instance) and China (in the latter country, the Group provides consulting only) and to include a significant share of renewable energy production;
E in the operational phase: by monitoring the greenhouse gas emissions generated by the Group's energy consumption and by implementing actions to reduce them.
In the development phase
Three construction projects are under way:
E the Center Parcs Lot & Garonne Les Landes de Gascogne (400 cottages ­ delivery in 2021) will be "HQE Aménagement" certified (High Quality Environment certification in building and landscaping) to ensure the project's environmental performance and to address economic and societal concerns (integration in the region, consultation measures, etc.). With respect to the low-carbon strategy, the project intends to provide 80% of the village centre's heating needs with renewable energy (wood heat). The cottages are targeting E+ C- certification which guarantees the energy performance of the buildings and a low carbon footprint. In addition, no air conditioning is planned for the water park or for the cottages ­ ventilation systems will be installed;

E although they do not have an environmental certification, the two construction projects in the mountain region, which will be delivered in the winter of 2020/2021, will be energy efficient.
­ The Pierre & Vacances Premium residence at Méribel (Hévana) (85 units) is energy efficient as a result of its limited energy loss thanks to compact architecture, mineral wool exterior insulation, high-performance windows and low energy requirements and thanks to its bioclimatic architecture (building oriented to limit heating needs).
­ At the Pierre & Vacances Premium residence at Avoriaz Crozats (37 units), 100% of heating and hot water needs will be provided by renewable energy (connection to the Avoriaz wood heating system).
The indicator on environmental certification of construction covers projects delivered during the fiscal year. No project delivery has been made this year, as a consequence it is not published.
In the operational phase
The Group addresses the two main sources of greenhouse gas emissions by:
E improving the energy performance of sites;
E promoting local tourism.
Reducing energy use-related CO2 emissions
Energy use-related CO2 emissions were up slightly (188,538 tonnes of CO2e) in 2018/2019. The increase was the direct result of the increase in energy consumption at Center Parcs Europe sites (see 4.3.3).
Actions have been undertaken within each business line to manage energy consumption and promote the use of renewable energies (see Chapter 4.3.3). In addition, the installation of renewable energy equipment is studied for each new project. Center Parcs intends to increase the use of renewable energies (target to be defined); Villages Nature® Paris tends towards carbon neutral on the energy consumption thanks to its use of geothermal energy.

Results
100% of construction projects use renewable energy (the KPI used covers the projects delivered during the financial year. It was not published this year as there were no deliveries).

Volume of CO2 emissions from energy consumption managed by the Group

CP 2017/2018 2018/2019

Number of sites included in the scope

25

26

GHG emissions (in tonnes of CO2 equiv.)

161,005

172,808

Scope: same as energy volumes. Usage by heating networks is not included. Calculation based on the ADEME Carbon Assessment tool (version 7.5 of 15 January 2016).

PV

2017/2018 2018/2019

159

153

17,124

17,274

Group

2017/2018 2018/2019

184

179

178,129

190,082

Capitalising on the proximity and accessibility of our sites
Since its creation, the Group's strategy has been to promote local tourism by developing tourist sites located near towns and cities. Pierre & Vacances sites are designed for local holidays. When a Center Parcs is designed (regardless of whether it is located in Europe or China), the trading area is calculated based on a

maximum travel time of 2.5 hours. The Group is working to reduce the carbon impact of customer transport in several ways:
E ongoing research into solutions to facilitate access to its sites via public transport (partnership with the SNCF, ride sharing platform, etc.) and mobility solution alternatives to cars during stays (promotion of bicycle routes, organisation of excursions, etc.);

96 UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2018/2019 ­ PIERRE & VACANCES-CENTER PARCS GROUP

EXTRA-FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE DECLARATION
Being exemplary in the course of our business

E roll-out plan for electric vehicle charging stations on Center Parcs sites. Initiated at the start of the financial year, this programme will provide 100% of Center Parcs with electric charging stations by the summer of 2020. As of the end of this financial year, 52% (13 of 25) Center Parcs are equipped with charging stations for electric vehicles.
The Group is also providing solutions for employee mobility: head office mobility plan in progress, travel policy, shuttles for employees at certain Center Parcs sites. The Group has updated the service vehicle fleet by adding electric and hybrid vehicles.
4.4.3.2 Certification of our villages and residences
Context
Among the changes affecting tourism, increasing collective awareness of environmental and social impacts are major issues that need to be tackled. Customer appetite for information enabling the selection of environmentally-responsible tourist destinations is growing.

Policy and action plan
In order to improve the environmental quality of our sites, the Group is using the leading international environmental label for tourist lodging and restaurants: Clef Verte certification. It guarantees respect for the environment and for people via the implementation of environmental, social and societal criteria. The certification process also encourages certified residences to implement a continuous improvement approach given that improvements are identified during each audit.
The Group has set itself the following goals for the 2018/2019 financial year:
E Clef Verte certification for all of its Premium and Villages residences in mainland France as part of its "Faisons plus ensemble" environmental policy;
E certification of all of its Center Parcs resorts (including Sunparks and Villages Nature®) as part of the Naturall program.
Results
E Pierre & Vacances: 100% of Premium residences and 90% of Villages certified Clef Verte in France.
E Center Parcs: 100% of resorts certified Clef Verte in France.
E 33% of Group sites certified.

Rental category PV Village PV Premium PV Center Parcs (including Sunparks) TOTAL

Sites certified Clef Verte
9 24 19
5 57

Percentage of sites certified compared to the total number of sites in the category (in mainland France for PV)
90% 100%
22% 19% 33%

4

4.4.3.3 Sustainable operation of our sites

Context
According to a 2018(1) study led by Booking.com, over two thirds (68%) of travellers plan to stay in an environmentally-friendly rental, compared to 65% in 2017 and 62% in 2016. This increase shows that our customers expect our residences to be sustainably managed. The heat waves and drought suffered in the summer of 2019 by the countries in which the Group operates (Germany, Belgium, France, Spain and the Netherlands) raised awareness among people of climate issues and of the need to manage water and energy consumption.

Policy and action plan
Water use
The environmental policies of the Group's brands provide for:
E Naturall: a 25% decrease in water consumption (ratio by rental night) between 2010 and 2022;
E Faisons plus ensemble: a 15% decrease in water consumption (ratio by rental night) between 2014 and 2022.
An experiment was carried out at Villages Nature® Paris to encourage our customers to reduce their water consumption each time they take a shower. Connected shower heads were installed in 57 cottages (114 shower heads). A shower uses an average of 40 to 60 litres of water. Thanks to a light display, the intelligent shower head shows the amount of water used in real time. A red light indicates when the shower has used more than 30 litres of water.
After six months, the experiment results recorded that our customers used an average of 26.11 litres of water for their shower. After raising customer awareness, the volume was reduced by 10% to 23.46 litres on average.

(1) https://globalnews.booking.com/where-sustainable-travel-is-headed-in-2018/

97 UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2018/2019 ­ PIERRE & VACANCES-CENTER PARCS GROUP

4

EXTRA-FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE DECLARATION
Being exemplary in the course of our business

Targeted action on sites identified as medium or high risk for water resources (overall risk)
During the year, the Group developed a water stress study using the World Water Resources (WRI) Aqueduct tool for Center Parcs, Pierre & Vacances and maeva.com. The study identifiedthat 29% of sites were located in "very vulnerable" or "vulnerable" areas. These are residences located in Spain, in the Mediterranean basin, and some Center Parcs in Belgium, Germany, the Netherlands and France (1). A report on the analysis was provided at a Pierre & Vacances Executive Management Committee meeting to raise the awareness of the operational teams. Awareness-raising actions were identified with the teams responsible for facilities management, renovation and the SOGIRE (co-ownership syndicate).
Concrete action was also taken on sites, for example, the installation of a rain water recovery tank at the Amara residence in Avoriaz.
Energy use
The Group has implemented an energy consumption reduction policy via its brands:
E The Naturall programme plans to:
­ achieve a 25% reduction in energy consumption per person per night between 2010 and 2022,
­ increase the use of renewable energies (including the production of renewable energy on site and the purchase of green energy).
To date, renewable energy accounts for 16.1% of Center Parcs Europe's total energy consumption (in kWh).

Share of renewable energies gross consumption
Share of renewable energies produced on sites
Share of renewable energies purchased (as part of green energy contract)
Share of renewable energies (over Center Parcs Europe's total energy consumption)

In kWh 7.5% 8.5%
16.1%

E the goal of the "Faisons plus ensemble" programme is to reduce the energy consumption per rental night at Pierre & Vacances residences by 20% between 2014 and 2022.
At Center Parcs, the energy management approach is rolled-out jointly with the ISO 14001 (environmental management system) and ISO 50001 (energy management) certification processes.
Pierre & Vacances is continuing to improve its energy efficiency efforts by replacing equipment and carrying out preventive maintenance on installations. This includes, for example, a remote heating management system for the residence at Val Thorens (France) to reduce electricity consumption and a project to monitor water leaks based on threshold alerts at the Saint-Anne de Guadeloupe site.
Actions intended to better manage our energy consumption have been implemented on several Center Parcs sites:
E installation of a power co-generation system at Bostalsee (Germany) and De Vossemeren (Belgium);
E installation of a remote metering system at De Eemhof (the Netherlands) to ensure more reliable water and electricity consumption readings;
E a new air treatment system has been installed in the central equipment at Vielsam and De Haan (Belgium);
E various technical installations have been improved thanks to the installation of frequency regulators and measurement systems;
E new, more efficient boilers have been installed at three parks;
E intelligent thermostats have been installed at Bispingen (Germany).

Results and KPIs

Total volume of water and energy used by the sites, managed by the Group

2017/2018

CP

PV

Group

Number of sites included in the scope

25

159

183

TOTAL WATER (M3)

3,592,045 1,854,936 5,446,981

Volume of water (m3)/night(1)

0.86

0.59

0.74

TOTAL ENERGY (IN MWH)

705,963

146,948

852,911

Volume of energy (kWh)/night(1)

170

47

117

Electricity (in MWh)

167,767

112,965

280,732

Gas (in MWh)

493,782

12,176

505,958

Wood heating system & geothermal energy (in MWh)

44,414

0

44,414

Fuel oil (in MWh)

0

7,187

7,187

Urban heat (in MWh)

0

14,620

14,620

(1) Nights: an accommodation rented for one night represents one night, irrespective of the number of occupants.

2018/2019

CP 26 4,103,211 0.92 765,253 171 163,071 544,597

PV 153 1,836,705 0.60 139,836
46 106,690
14,635

57,585 0 0

0 6,548 11,963

Group 179
5,939,916 0.78
905,089 120
269,760 559,232
57,585 6,548
11,963

(1) Given that there is no data from the Aqueduct tool for the sites located in the French West Indies, the island of Réunion, Mauritius and the Greek islands, they have not been analysed.
98 UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2018/2019 ­ PIERRE & VACANCES-CENTER PARCS GROUP

EXTRA-FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE DECLARATION
Being exemplary in the course of our business

Pierre & Vacances scope
At Pierre & Vacances sites, there has been a decrease in energy consumption per rental night due to the rise in winter temperatures, resulting in a drop in electricity consumption at our mountain residences. The total volume of energy consumed has decreased due to the reduction in the scope of operations (from 159 to 153 sites). The ratio of volume of water consumed per night has decreased slightly ( from 0.59 m3/night to 0.60 m3/night). This increase can be explained mainly by the heat waves during summer (which led to an increase in the volume of water associated with watering).
Center Parcs scope
The increase in water consumption is the result of the high consumption at Villages Nature® (which has the largest outdoor swimming pool of business line Center Parcs), water leaks, water quality issues and renovation work at certain parks. The total volume of energy consumption increased due to the opening of Allgaü and increased occupancy (+7.2%). The volume of energy per rental night remained virtually the same (171 KWh/night compared to 170 KWh/night in 2017/2018) thanks to the investments made (co-generation systems, renovation of certain installations).
The European Center Parcs sites are certified ISO 14001 and ISO 50001, attesting to the efficiency of the energy and environmental management system:
E 77% of Center Parcs sites are certified ISO 50001;
E 77% of Center Parcs sites are certified ISO 14001.
This approach was extended to the Sunparks sites in 2018/2019.
4.4.3.4 Reducing waste and promoting the circular economy
Context
The collection and processing of waste generated by operating our sites is one of the Group's major concerns. The average waste produced per customer per night at our Center Parcs sites is 1 kg. Pierre & Vacances customers are aware of the importance of reducing and better recycling waste. They confirmed their desire to improve waste sorting at our residences in our customer satisfaction survey.
Policy and action plan
In the construction and renovation phase: ensure the proper management of construction waste
The Group implements waste sorting and recycling at its various construction sites. Although recycling waste is a major concern of the teams, the green construction site approach could not be implemented in the two construction projects under way in France (Hevana, Crozats) for internal organisation reasons.

The renovation projects account for a significant share of the business activity and the Group is implementing a policy to promote the reuse of materials and circular economy.
Furniture and electrical and electronic waste (WEEE) are recycled via specialised channels which are managed by eco-organisations which the Group contacts for each renovation job. In 2018/2019, 254 tonnes (131 tonnes the previous year) were collected via these organisations in France. The increase is the result of improved monitoring carried out during the financial year in France. On average, 194 kg of waste are generated for each renovated flat (see distribution below).
Overall tonnage by type of renovation waste in 2018/2019

19.8
Construction and demolition waste
17.9
Non-hazardous industrial waste
1.1
Paper and cardboard
22.7
WEEE

192.8
Furniture

In the operational phase
Center Parcs
Our aim is to optimise waste sorting so that we can work together with our waste management providers to recycle a high proportion of our waste. Prompting employees by means of clear communication and operating standards, and raising customers' awareness of best practices to be adopted are just some of the Group's levers for action.
A commitment was made to recycling as part of the Naturall policy: 40% of waste sorted in 2018/2019 and 60% of waste sorted by 2022. The 2022 target includes a reduction in the volume of waste generated (goal of 0.9 kg per customer per night by 2022).
On the Center Parcs sites, cooperation with private waste management service providers means that waste can be monitored at each site. However, the Group is dependent on the reports provided by each service provider. Discrepancies in reporting reliability were observed according to the service providers. Works to improve data reliability are underway.
This target is staggered over the next few years and is included in the environmental programme of each site and in ISO 14001 certification.
Pierre & Vacances
All Pierre & Vacances residences are equipped to enable customers to sort their waste (household waste, cardboard and plastic packaging, glass). The waste is collected by local authority services; Pierre & Vacances does not have any information about quantities. A study was launched during the financial year to obtain a clear picture of waste sorting practices at Pierre & Vacances residences. The results, to be provided in 2020, will enable updating of the services implemented to increase the rate of sorting.

4

99 UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2018/2019 ­ PIERRE & VACANCES-CENTER PARCS GROUP

4

EXTRA-FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE DECLARATION
Data collection methods

Results
In 2018/2019, the sorting rate across all Center Parcs sites in Europe reached 43% (up compared to the previous year: 39.7%). The increase was due to the very high rate of sorting at the Allgaü (Germany) site which opened in October 2018 and is equipped with a very innovative collection and sorting system.
The volume of waste per night per person is 1.02 kg.
Operations: waste sorting volume and distribution figures

Volume and waste sorting rate ­ Center Parcs Number of sites Total (in tons) Recycling rate Volume of waste produced per overnight stay (kg/night/person)

2016/2017 24
17,190 34% 0.99

2017/2018 25
19,129 40% 1.11

2018/2019 26
19,495 43% 1.02

Breakdown by waste type ­ Center Parcs

2016/2017

Non-hazardous industrial waste ­ unsorted

66.5%

Glass

9.1%

Cardboard/paper

10.2%

Biodegradable waste

12.0%

Other non-hazardous waste ­ sorted

2.0%

Hazardous waste

0.2%

Scope: Center Parcs and Sunparks in France, Belgium, the Netherlands and Germany and Villages Nature®.

2017/2018 60.2% 11.1% 10.3% 8.9% 9.5% 0.03%

2018/2019 57.0% 8.7% 7.4% 16.9% 9.9% 0.2%

4.5 Data collection methods
4.5.1 Reporting scope
The reporting reference year runs from 1 October 2018 to 30 September 2019. The Adagio brand's social and environmental reporting is included in the AccorHotels Registration Document as the brand signed up to that Group's sustainable development programme in 2015/2016.
4.5.2 Reported data
The annual extra-financial performance declaration is based on: E employment, environmental, and some societal indicators devised in line with a protocol describing the indicators, in detail, together with
a calculation and internal control methods and data collection responsibilities; E information and indicators monitored by the departments in question and forwarded for reporting purposes.

100 UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2018/2019 ­ PIERRE & VACANCES-CENTER PARCS GROUP

EXTRA-FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE DECLARATION
Data collection methods

4.5.3 Data collection methods

Employment data (Section 4.4.1)
Reporting scope
For employment data, all employees paid by the Group are included, irrespective of the business (property development or tourism) or the brand (Center Parcs, Pierre & Vacances, Maeva, Les Senioriales and Villages Nature® Paris) for which they work and in all five countries where the Group operates (France, Belgium, the Netherlands, Germany and Spain). Teams based outside the EU (China) are not included in the reporting scope. They account for less than 0.4% of the workforce. Lastly, the indicators do not include temporary staff.
Data collection and tools
Control and collection of employment data is managed by Human Resources teams in each country. Various data controllers coordinate raw data collection via payroll or HRIS tools, or monitoring tools specific to each country. Indicators are then consolidated by country and on a Group-wide basis.
Environmental data (Section 4.4.3)
Reporting scope
For environmental data, the reference scope consists of all of the Group's operational units marketed for over a year as at 30 September 2019, with the exception of Les Senioriales (where water and energy use is not managed by the Group) and Maeva time-share residences. With regard to Villages Nature® Paris, water, energy and waste data are incorporated in Center Parcs Europe data. Sites and residences marketed but not operated (maeva.com, franchises, etc.) are not included in the reporting scope.

Data collection and tools
E Across Pierre & Vacances sites, the Group consolidates water and energy use for which joint owners under lease agreements are responsible. Volumes of water and energy consumption are for the Group's share of each site. Data is supplied by ICARE ­ the internal energy use management tool. Data is reported by the sites. The strategic support team at head office monitors water and energy consumption at the sites, performs budget reconciliation and analyses differences. It also supports regional maintenance managers in producing assessments and alerts them in the event of abnormal, unexplained changes.
E The concept of shared use does not apply to Center Parcs. Water and energy use and waste production are monitored weekly and monthly by the energy coordinator for each site. Monthly data are verified by an internal expert who analyses and consolidates the data and monitors targets for all European sites. Center Parcs sites will use the Icare software from 2019/2020 to collect water, energy and waste data.
E As with Center Parcs Europe, Pierre & Vacances environmental data (in m3 or in KWh) are reported by number of overnight stays: an overnight stay corresponding to a unit rented for one night, regardless of the number of occupants.
Societal data (Sections 4.1.4, 4.3.4 and 4.4.2)
Purchasing, customer satisfaction and construction data are supplied directly by the departments in question which consolidate these indicators so that they can be managed and the scope is the same as for environmental data. It should be noted that the Purchasing Department introduced a responsible purchasing policy based on a number of quantifiable indicators and targets which are monitored and implemented through specific action plans.
Find the details of the summary protocol of the CSR report on www.groupepvcp.com, Sustainable Development section.

4

101 UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2018/2019 ­ PIERRE & VACANCES-CENTER PARCS GROUP

4

EXTRA-FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE DECLARATION
Independent Third-Party Body report

4.6 Independent Third-Party Body report
Report from the Independent Third-Party Body on the Consolidated Non Financial Performance Statement in the Management Report
This is a free translation into English of the original report issued in the French language and it is provided solely for the convenience of English speaking users. This report should be read in conjunction with, and construed in accordance with, French law and professional standards applicable in France.
To the Shareholders, In our quality as an independent verifier, accredited by the COFRAC under the number n° 3-1681 (scope of accreditation available on the website www.cofrac.fr), and as a member of the network of one of the statutory auditors of your entity Pierre et Vacances, we present our report on the consolidated non-financial statement established for the year ended on the 30th September 2019 (hereafter referred to as the "Statement"), presented in the management report pursuant to the provisions of the Article L. 225 102-1, R. 225-105 et R. 225-105-1 of the French Commercial Code (Code de Commerce).
Responsibility of the entity
It is the responsibility of the Board of Directors to establish the statement in compliance with the legal and regulatory provisions including a presentation of the business model, a description of the main non-financial risks, a presentation of the policies applied regarding these risks as well as the results of these policies, including key performance indicators. The Statement has been established by applying the procedures of the entity (hereinafter referred to as the "Criteria"), the significant elements of which are presented in the Statement and available on its website(1).
Independence and quality control
Our independence is defined by regulatory requirements pursuant to the provisions of the Article L. 822-11-3 of the French Commercial Code (Code de Commerce) and the Code of Ethics of our profession. In addition, we have implemented a quality control system, including documented policies and procedures to ensure compliance with ethical standards, professional standards and applicable laws and regulations.
Responsibility of the independent verifier
It is our role, based on our work, to express a limited assurance conclusion on: E the compliance of the Statement with the provisions of Article R. 225-105 of the French Commercial Code; E the fairness of the information provided pursuant to paragraph 3 of I and II of Article R. 225 105 of the French Commercial Code, namely
the results of the policies, including key performance indicators, and the actions related to the main risks, hereinafter the "Information". Nonetheless, it is not our responsibility to express any form of conclusion on: E the compliance by the entity with other applicable legal and regulatory provisions, particularly regarding the vigilance plan and the fight against
corruption and tax evasion; E the compliance of products and services with applicable regulations.
Nature and scope of the work
Our work described below has been carried out in accordance with the provisions of articles A. 225 1 et seq. of the French Commercial Code determining the procedures in which the independent third party conducts its mission and according to professional standards as well as to the international ISAE standard 3000 ­ Assurance engagements other than audits or reviews of historical financial information.
(1) http://www.groupepvcp.com/ section « publications »
102 UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2018/2019 ­ PIERRE & VACANCES-CENTER PARCS GROUP

EXTRA-FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE DECLARATION
Independent Third-Party Body report

The work that we conducted enables us to assess the compliance of the Statement with the regulatory provisions and the fairness of the Information: E we took note of the activity of all the companies included in the scope of consolidation, the statement of the main social and environmental
risks related to this activity, and, if applicable, its effects regarding compliance with human rights, the fight against corruption, tax evasion as well as the resulting policies and their results; E we assessed the suitability of the Criteria in terms of its relevance, comprehensiveness, reliability, neutrality and understandability by taking into consideration, if relevant, the best practices of the industry; E we verified that the Statement covers each category of information provided in III of Article L. 225-102-1 of the French Commercial Code regarding social and environmental matters, as well as respect of human rights and the fight against corruption and tax evasion; E we verified that the Statement includes an explanation justifying the absence of the information required by the 2nd paragraph of III of Article L. 225-102-1 of the French Commercial Code; E we verified that the Statement presents the business model and the main risks related to the activity of all the entities included in the scope of consolidation; including if relevant and proportionate, the risks created through its business relationships, products or services, policies, actions and results, including key performance indicators; E we verified, when relevant to the main risks or the policies presented, that the Statement presents the information provided for II in Article R. 225-105 II of the French Commercial Code; E we assessed the process of selecting and validating the main risks; E we inquired about the existence of internal control and risk management procedures put in place by the entity; E we assessed the consistency of the results and the key performance indicators selected regarding the main risks and policies presented; E we verified that the Statement includes a clear and reasonable explanation for the absence of a policy regarding one or more of these risks; E we verified that covers the consolidated scope, i.e. all the companies included in the scope of consolidation in accordance with Article L. 233-16 of the French Commercial Code, with the limits specified in the Statement; E we assessed the collection process put in place by the entity for the completeness and fairness of the Information; E we implemented the key performance indicators and other quantitative results that we considered the most important presented in Appendix 1: ­ analytical procedures to verify the correct consolidation of the collected data as well as the consistency of their evolutions, ­ detailed tests based on samples, consisting of checking the correct application of the definitions and procedures and reconciling the
data with the supporting documents. This work was carried out with a selection of contributing entities listed below: the entity Pierre et Vacances France, specifically the Ouest Campagne Operational Direction and the sites Pierre et Vacances La Petite Venise and Le Clos d'Eguisheim, and the entity Center Parcs Germany, specifically the site of Center Parcs Bostalsee, which cover 23% of the workforce and 34% of the energy consumptions; E we consulted documentary sources and conducted interviews to corroborate the qualitative information (actions and results) that we considered the most important presented in Appendix 1; E we assessed the overall consistency of the Statement with our knowledge of the entity; E we consider that the work we have done by exercising our professional judgment allows us to express a limited assurance conclusion; an assurance of a higher level would have required more extensive verification work.
Means and resources
Our verification work mobilized the skills of five people and took place between September and November 2019 on a total duration of intervention of about seven weeks. We conducted about ten interviews with the persons responsible for the preparation of the Statement, in particular the directions of CSR, environment, human resources, health and safety, risks, procurement, development (France and international).
Conclusion
Based on our work, we have not identified any significant misstatement that causes us not to believe that the non-financial statement complies with the applicable regulatory provisions and that the Information, taken together, is fairly presented, in compliance with the Criteria.

4

103 UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2018/2019 ­ PIERRE & VACANCES-CENTER PARCS GROUP

4

EXTRA-FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE DECLARATION
Independent Third-Party Body report

Comments
Without qualifying our conclusion above and in compliance with the provisions of Article A. 225-3 of the French Commercial Code (Code de Commerce), we express the following comment: Group definitions are not sufficiently shared with consolidated entities, particularly at the international level and regarding renewable energy, turnover and health and safety indicators.

Paris-La Défense, 18 December 2019

Independent Verifier EY & ASSOCIÉS

Philippe AUBAIN

Jean-François BELORGEY

Associate Director sustainable development

Partner

Appendix 1: The most important information

SOCIAL INFORMATION Quantitative Information (including key performance indicators) Average yearly headcounts, turnover, return rate of seasonal workers. Frequency rate, accident severity rate. Average number of training hours per employee trained. ENVIRONMENTAL INFORMATION Quantitative Information (including key performance indicators) Energy consumption per rental night.
Percentage of renewable energy in the global consumptions of Center Parcs. Greenhouse gas emissions in Tons of CO2 equivalent linked to energy consumption managed by the Group. Water consumption per rental night. Waste sorting rate on Center Parcs. SOCIETAL INFORMATION Quantitative Information (including key performance indicators)

Qualitative Information (actions or results) Employment (attractiveness and retention). Health and safety. Training.
Qualitative Information (actions or results) Center Parcs "Naturall" and Pierre & Vacances "Faisons plus ensemble" policies. The monitoring of energies, including green energies. Waste Management during renovation and exploitation phase. The protection of water resources. The protection of biodiversity.
Qualitative Information (actions or results) Management of the impact of new developments (local acceptance, energy efficiency, environmental certification, available surfaces). Sustainable procurement. Owners' relationship management. Fight against food waste.

104 UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2018/2019 ­ PIERRE & VACANCES-CENTER PARCS GROUP

EXTRA-FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE DECLARATION
Vigilance plan

4.7 Concordance tables
Table of Concordance of the Elements Required by the Non-Financial Statement
Topics Business model description Description of the major risks related to the group's activity Human rights Fight against corruption General Data Protection Regulation Climate change Circular economy Food waste Collective agreements in force Fight against discrimination Societal commitments Tax evasion Fight against food insecurity; respect for animal welfare; responsible, fair and sustainable food

Chapter Chapter 1 of the URD Chapter 2 of the URD
4.1.4.3 4.1.4.3 4.1.4.3 4.4.3.1 4.4.3.4
4.2.2 4.4.1.6 4.4.1.5
4.3.4 4.1.4.3
4.2.2

4

4.8 Vigilance plan
4.8.1 Regulatory framework
The Pierre & Vacances-Center Parcs Group has implemented a vigilance plan in line with the French duty of care law for parent and subcontracting companies. The plan contains reasonable vigilance measures to identify risks and prevent violations of: E human rights and fundamental liberties; E personal health and safety; E the environment. It targets the major risks resulting from the business activities of the Group and of the companies controlled by the Group as well as the activities of subcontractors and suppliers with which there is an ongoing commercial relationship.
Governance
The plan and its components are applicable to all Pierre & Vacances Group brands. It is designed in cooperation with the representatives and managers of the Group departments: Purchasing, Legal, Sustainable Development, Human Resources and Risk Management.

105 UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2018/2019 ­ PIERRE & VACANCES-CENTER PARCS GROUP

4

EXTRA-FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE DECLARATION
Vigilance plan

4.8.2 Risk mapping
Methodology
Risk mapping for the duty of care has been developed using the following sources: E a materiality analysis of the Group's sustainable development challenges (2016); E business risk mapping; E CSR risk mapping (updated in 2019); E the ethical alert system (2019).

4.8.3 Procedures to assess the situation of brands, subcontractors and suppliers

4.8.3.1 Pierre & Vacances-Center Parcs Group

Organisation of the internal controls for business and labour law risks
The Group's activities are subject to the risks related to its type of business. Internal controls are organised as follows to prevent the risks:
E the Legal Department intervenes upstream to secure the Group's legal commitments and monitors disputes involving all of the operational subsidiaries;
E Group Internal Audit, in partnership with the Legal Department, monitors the Group's risk mapping and works with the different business units to prepare the annual audit plan and via missions requested by General Management. The missions and topics dealt with may affect all of the Group's businesses and subsidiaries;
E together with Group Internal Audit and the Operational Control team, the Operational Finance Department takes an active role in financial audits as well as in social and regulatory audits related to the tourism operations of the residences in order to protect human capital and ensure compliance with the laws and regulations in effect. These audits are mainly carried out on the operating sites (residences or villages from all the brands). The choice of sites audited is decided by Group Internal Audit based on the type of site and on specific criteria.

Operational risks organisation

PVCP Group assessment procedures
The Group has included procedures and action plans in its CSR roadmap to assess and prevent the risks related to duty of care. The system is described in the following sections of the Universal Registration Document.

Risks related to the duty of care Human rights
Health and safety of employees and customers
The environment

Sections in the registration document 4.1.2 Listening to our stakeholders 4.1.4 Responsible governance and ethical practices 4.3.4 Supporting general interest projects that benefit local populations 4.4.1.7 Ensuring the health and safety of our employees 4.4.1.3 Fostering employee engagement and satisfaction 4.4.3.1 Climate action 4.4.3.2 Certification and labelling of our villages and residences 4.4.3.3 Sustainable operation of our sites 4.4.3.4 Reducing waste and promoting the circular economy

106 UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2018/2019 ­ PIERRE & VACANCES-CENTER PARCS GROUP

EXTRA-FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE DECLARATION
Vigilance plan

The Operational Department of Center Parcs Europe and Pierre & Vacances Tourisme is made up of operational security experts (water quality, fire prevention, etc.) who coordinate the health and safety policy on the sites for all customers and employees and take all necessary steps (training, operational audits, crisis management).
Center Parcs and Villages Nature®
Risk management is organised by country. A Risk Manager is the national contact for the operational teams in each country and monitors legal and regulatory requirements and changes at local and national level. The operational risk management process is based on the ISO 14001 standard and on an HSE (Health, Safety, Environment) management system.

Pierre & Vacances and Maeva France and Spain
The Operational Risk Manager ­ Prevention and Security, manages risk in France and Spain. Regional prevention and security officers represent this manager on the ground and ensure the smooth roll-out of defined procedures. Each Pierre & Vacances and Maeva site has a single regional contact person, i.e. a prevention and safety officer, for all risk areas identified.
In Spain, a risk prevention tool enables each site to perform a risk analysis and produce a "Document Unique des Risques" (risk report).
Results
E 112 "Health, Safety and Environment" audits led on the scope Pierre& Vacances Center Parcs.
E The Group did not carry out any social audit during the financial year because it has no new suppliers in China.

4.8.3.2 Suppliers and subcontractors

The Pierre & Vacances-Center Parcs Group has implemented a Responsible Purchasing policy which consists of:
E alignment of the responsible purchasing policy and strategy with the CSR objectives set by the Group;
E risk management and opportunities to define priorities and action plans;
E the implementation of an approach to prevent corruption, notably via the signature of an ethics code by all Group purchasers.
The objective of the policy is to secure the supply chain to reduce risks (reputation, licence to operate), promote local purchasing (development

of channels and contribution to local employment) and to commit to a sustainable and balanced relationship with partners and subcontractors.
Assessment of the CSR performance of suppliers
Local cleaning (SME/VSE), laundry, construction and furniture (related to the Construction business) service providers account for a significant share of Group suppliers.
The Group's expenditures break down as follows:

Breakdown of Group purchasing by category

25%

10% 7%
5%

14%

13%

11%

6%

2%

1% 3% 2% 1%

4

Rents MaintenRaetnacile

&

MarkFIetanicfinloigr,timpeHrasiuFtinoF&AtlmoodCuan&idonmdTai&nCHseRsdnocoiteBLv&rsnshseeotssuprEvnrgitciuoetnioaltslrtitsuaetiiilarroioiocnngggtcnsyyeygeng

Security

When a supplier is selected by the Purchasing Department, the supplier or subcontractor must answer one of several questionnaires assessing its CSR performance.
E The SME/VSE questionnaire is based on ISO 26000: the questionnaire consists of 10 questions which assess the maturity level of the smallest suppliers without penalising them when compared to larger companies.

E The CSR questionnaire based on ISO 26000: this questionnaire consists of 16 questions. It is intended for ISEs and large companies and asks them to document their actions. The two questionnaires cover matters relating to the environment, employment, ethics, human rights and responsible purchasing.
E The anti-corruption questionnaire: based on the Sapin 2 Law: this questionnaire has 17 questions. It assesses the supplier's compliance with the Sapin 2 law. It is sent to medium-size and large companies.

107 UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2018/2019 ­ PIERRE & VACANCES-CENTER PARCS GROUP

4

EXTRA-FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE DECLARATION
Vigilance plan

E The questionnaires are sent via the self-assessment platform (ACESIA). The results do not condition the selection of a supplier or service provider. On the other hand, this step is required to establish a contract with the supplier. In addition, the results obtained are valid for the duration of the contract.
Results
E 167 suppliers answered to CSR questionnaire.

E The amount spent with suppliers from the protected and adapted sector stood at 316,000 excluding VAT (compared with 259,000 excluding VAT in 2017/2018).
Supplier audits
Pierre & Vacances-Center Parcs carries out checks via independent auditors. This is notably the case for Chinese suppliers. 100% of all Chinese suppliers were audited in 2018. A suitable monitoring action plan was implemented by the Purchasing Department to track the audits.

4.8.4 Risk mitigation and serious harm prevention actions

4.8.4.1 Pierre & Vacances-Center Parcs Group
Crisis management
The Group has implemented a specific crisis management organisation to ensure the handling of any situation with the potential to endanger its employees, its customers, its interests and/or its reputation. This specific crisis management system consists of a dedicated, multi-disciplinary team headed by the Operational Risks Department.
4.8.4.2 Suppliers and subcontractors
Training
E In 2018, 100% of all Group purchasers received awareness training about CSR issues and new responsible specifications for purchase categories said to be "at risk".
E The Code of ethics and the charter of best purchasing practices were signed by all purchasers.

Inclusion of CSR in calls for tender
CSR criteria are included in calls for tenders for certain categories of purchases in order to impact the contract agreed with the supplier or service provider. The criteria are the result of the risk mapping done for the Group's supply chain. The compulsory criteria reflect the operational implementation of the Group's CSR objectives. Compliance with the criteria is a prerequisite for access to the tender. An escalation procedure is initiated when a supplier does not meet the criteria. It provides for a meeting between the CSR Department, the person in charge of the call for tenders and the Purchasing Department to find a compromise.
CSR clause in contracts
A CSR clause is included in the consultation rules covering the terms and conditions of calls for tender and is signed by all buyers. The clause is included in all purchasing contracts and is available in French and English.

4.8.5 Alert and whistleblowing mechanism

The Group has implemented an internal alert system available to all employees with access to KIT+. The Group provides its employees with a mechanism to report any occurrences of fraud or corruption via this system.

The alert system has been active since March 2019. It will be extended to the countries in which the Group operates (Belgium, the Netherlands, Germany, Spain) and, at a later time, to all Group stakeholders.

108 UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2018/2019 ­ PIERRE & VACANCES-CENTER PARCS GROUP

EXTRA-FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE DECLARATION
Table of key indicators

4.9 Table of key indicators

Corres-

ponding

CSR risks/

oppor- CSR policy

tunities area

Scope

Policy/objective

KPI

Results 2017/2018 2018/2019

Sites close to nature and local communities (opp.)

Using sustainable

CP

develop-

ment to

enhance the customer PV

offering and

experience

To offer one nature activity at 100% of sites by 2020
To offer one nature activity at 100% of sites

Proportion % of sites offering nature activities

75%

92%

Number of children who took part in a nature activity (children's club)

-

4,586

Site search Creating

To adopt a consultative approach

Damage to ecosystems

environmental/ economic/

commensurate with the scale

Construction of the development and the local

France

context (> 100 housing units

Stakeholder social

with significant environmental

relations value

issues at stake)

in the

commu-

nities

Construction To consider the environmental

where

France

sensitivity of the sites

our sites

are located

CP

To have a dedicated management plan for 100% of sites

% of developments for which a local the appropriate consultation was conducted
% of developments projects (>100 housing units situated in undeveloped areas) for which a preliminary environmental study was carried out
Proportion % of sites with a dedicated plan to manage green spaces

80%

77%

60%

66%

75%

58%

Group

To incorporate CSR criteria for high-risk purchasing categories

% of high-risk purchasing categories covered by responsible specifications

100%

100%

Construction Europe

To monitor and optimise our local construction purchases and set targets for our flagship projects

% of local purchases during construction phase

73% (France scope)

84% (France scope)

CP France

To monitor and optimise our local % of local purchases during

operational purchases

operational phase

24% (scope CP
France)

32% (scope CP
France)

Recruitment and retention of employees

Attracting and growing (retaining) talent

Group

Health and safety of employees and customers

Group Group

PV

To monitor and manage employee safety -30% accident rate at PV France (2022)
To develop our employees' skills
To monitor and improve employee satisfaction

Rate of workplace accidents
Severity rate of workplace accidents
Average number of training hours per employee % of employees trained
Satisfaction rate in the Happy@Work satisfaction survey
Rate of retention of seasonal workers*

32.2
1.38
9.19
60% (no survey in 2017/2018/ survey every
two years)
45%

34.9 1.47 11.4 63% 82%
49.8%

Group

Turnover

19.1%

20.8%

Group

To guarantee equal opportunities Share % of female managers

52.9%

53.1%

4

109 UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2018/2019 ­ PIERRE & VACANCES-CENTER PARCS GROUP

4

EXTRA-FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE DECLARATION
Table of key indicators

Corres-

ponding

CSR risks/

oppor- CSR policy

tunities area

Scope

Policy/objective

KPI

Results 2017/2018 2018/2019

Water

Being

resources exem-

PVD

Damage to ecosystems

plary in the course

CP

Waste mana-

of our business

CP

gement

Energy performance

Climate change resilience
PV

To obtain eco-certification for

% of projects delivered with an

100% of new property developments environmental building certification

100%

NC*

To obtain ISO 14001 certification % of CP sites with ISO 14001

for 100% of CP sites

certification

80%

77%

100% of CP sites awarded the Clef Verte label

% of CP sites awarded Clef Verte certification

20%

19%

% of PV Premium sites awarded the Clef Verte label

92%

100%

(France

(France

excluding excluding

overseas overseas

departments) departments)

100% of Premium and Villages sites awarded the Clef Verte label

% of PV Villages sites awarded the Clef Verte label

84%

90%

(France

(France

excluding excluding

overseas overseas

departments) departments)

% of PV sites awarded the Clef Verte label

35%

36%

CP and PV

To obtain an eco-label for sites in operation

% of Group sites awarded the Clef Verte label
% of Group sites awarded the Clef Verte label or ISO 14001 certified

29%

33%

41%

45%

Energy use per overnight stay

170 KWh/ 171 KWh/

(in kWh)

night

night

To reduce energy consumption

CP

by 25% by 2022 (2010 baseline) 2010 baseline = 172.3 KWh

Percentage reduction (2010 baseline)* since FY2017/2018,

per overnight stay)

calculated on the basis of

-1.3%

-1.2%

consumption per overnight stay and

no longer per person per night

Energy use per overnight stay

To reduce energy consumption

(in kWh)

PV

by 20% by 2022 (2014 baseline) 2014

baseline = 46 KWh per overnight stay Percentage reduction

(2014 baseline)

47 -16%

44 -21%

To reduce water consumption

Ratio (m3/overnight stay)

CP

by 25% by 2022 (2010 baseline)

2010 baseline = 0.932 m3/night Percentage reduction

0.86 m3/ night
-7,7%

0.92 m3/ night
-1,3%

To reduce water consumption

Ratio (m3/overnight stay)

PV

by 15% by 2022 (2014 baseline

= 0.59 m3/night)

Percentage reduction

0.59 -14%

0.60 -10,4%

CP

To ensure that 60% of operational waste is recycled by 2022

% of waste sorted

39.8%

43%

Construction France

To monitor construction waste

% of waste separated on site

data not - collected
this year

Renovation To monitor waste separation

France

at renovation sites

% of renovation waste recovered

-

85%

Group

To assess the Group's carbon footprint

Group carbon footprint on energy

178,129 tCO2e

190,092 tCO2e

110 UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2018/2019 ­ PIERRE & VACANCES-CENTER PARCS GROUP

EXTRA-FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE DECLARATION
Table of key indicators

Corres-

ponding

CSR risks/

oppor- CSR policy

tunities area

Scope

Policy/objective

KPI

Quality Satis-

CP

of our

faction

stakeholder of our

PV

relations Customers

and Owners Group

stakeholders

To monitor the satisfaction rate To monitor the satisfaction rate

Net Promoter Score Net Promoter Score

To monitor the lease renewal rate Lease renewal rate

* No project delivered during the financial year. ** Result based on an estimate for a site where operations are ongoing.

Results

2017/2018 1.8%
15.1%

2018/2019 3.2%
21.3%

76%

83%**

4

111 UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2018/2019 ­ PIERRE & VACANCES-CENTER PARCS GROUP

4

EXTRA-FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE DECLARATION

This page has been left blank intentionally.
112 UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2018/2019 ­ PIERRE & VACANCES-CENTER PARCS GROUP

5 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

5.1 Information on the consolidated

financial statements

114

5.1.1 Group revenue

114

5.1.2 Group profit (loss)

120

5.1.3 Reconciliation table ­ IFRS income

statements

121

5.1.4 Investment spending and financial

structure

123

5.2 5.2.1 5.2.2 5.2.3
5.2.4 5.2.5
5.2.6
5.2.7

Consolidated financial statements 126

Consolidated income statement

126

Statement of comprehensive income 126

Consolidated statement of financial

position

127

Consolidated statement of cash flows 128

Consolidated statement of changes

in equity

129

Notes to the consolidated financial

statements

130

Statutory auditors' report on the

consolidated financial statements

182

5.3 Information on the parent company financial statements 186

5.3.1 The Company's business activities

186

5.3.2 Changes in the business

186

5.3.3 Changes in financial position

187

5.3.4 Outlook

188

5.3.5 Subsidiaries, associates and other

long-term equity investments

188

5.3.6 Allocation of profit

188

5.3.7 Reminder of previously distributed

dividends

189

5.3.8 Non tax deductible expenses

189

5.3.9 Table of the Company's results

over the last five years

189

5.3.10 Information on payment maturities 190

5.4 Parent company financial

statements

191

5.4.1 Income statement

191

5.4.2 Balance sheet

192

5.4.3 Notes to the parent company

financial statements

194

5.4.4 Statutory auditors' report

on the financial statements

214

113 UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2018/2019 ­ PIERRE & VACANCES-CENTER PARCS GROUP

5

FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Information on the consolidated financial statements

5.1 Information on the consolidated financial statements

Preamble:
IFRS 11 "Joint Arrangements" involves the consolidation of joint ventures (primarily the Adagio and Villages Nature® Paris partnerships) using the equity method rather than the proportionate consolidation method. The Group's operational reporting continues to consolidate joint ventures using the proportionate method,

considering this presentation to be a better reflection of its performance measurement. Income statement items and business indicators commented on below are taken from such operational reports. The reconciliation tables with IFRS income statements are set out in paragraph 5.1.3.

5.1.1 Group revenue

As of 1 October 2018, the Group applied the recognition standard "IFRS 15 ­ Revenue from Contracts with Customers". This resulted in a sharp increase in 2018/2019 revenue, driven primarily by the signing of renovation/disposal operations at Center Parcs, for which the Group is considered as a "principal" under the terms of IFRS 15 (for further details see paragraph 5.1.3).

(in  millions)

2018/2019

2017/2018

from Pro-forma IFRS 15

operational from operational

reporting

reporting

Change

Tourism

1,365.1

1,273.1

+7.2%

Pierre & Vacances Tourisme Europe Center Parcs Europe(2)

596.8 768.2

580.9 692.2

+2.7% +11.0%

of which rental revenue

923.6

858.4

+7.6%

Pierre & Vacances Tourisme Europe Center Parcs Europe(2)

406.9 516.6

400.1 458.2

+1.7% +12.7%

Property development

307.7

196.6

+56.6%

TOTAL, FINANCIAL YEAR

1,672.8

1,469.6

+13.8%

(1) Restated for the impact: - at PVTE, the net reduction in the network operated (withdrawals from loss-making sites and the non-renewal of leases); - at CPE, net growth in assets operated, primarily driven by the opening of Center Parcs Allgäu in October 2018.
(2) Including Villages Nature® Paris (29.1 million in 2018/2019), of which 23.0 million in annual rental revenue.

Change excluding
offering effects(1)
+4.5% +3.6% +5.2%

2017/2018 Published (before IFRS 15) from operational reporting
1,356.4
659.7
696.8
858.4
400.1
458.2
166.5 1,523.0

Group revenue for the full financial year (1 October 2018 to 30 September 2019) was 1,672.8 million.
E Revenue from tourism activities totalled 1,365.1 million, an increase of 7.2% compared with the previous financial year.
­ Rental revenue was up +7.6%, driven by both average net letting rates (+5.1%) and the number of nights sold (+2.4%). The occupancy rate stood at 75% over the full year (vs. 73.6% in 2017/2018).
On a like-for-like basis, business was up +4.5%, exceeding the +4% annual target set by the Ambition 2022 strategic plan.
All destinations experienced growth: +5.2% for the Center Parcs Europe segment (+3.7% for Center Parcs sites and +45.7% for Villages Nature® Paris), +4.7% for Adagio residences, +4.7% for

mountain resorts and +2.2% for seaside resorts (metropolitan France, French West Indies and Spain).
­ Revenue from other tourism business was up +6.5%, with +7.5% for the Center Parcs Europe segment and +5.1% growth for the Pierre & Vacances Tourisme Europe segment.
E Revenue from property development stood at 307.7 million, compared with 196.6 million in 2017/2018. This was primarily due to the contribution from Center Parcs site renovations (158.1 million) and from Les Senioriales (76.5 million).
Property reservations registered during the financial year represented revenue of 688.3(1) million, higher than those registered over the same period of the previous financial year (364.4 million).

(1) Including block reservations for Les Senioriales, not included in the reservations referenced in the revenue announcement dated 15 October 2019.

114 UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2018/2019 ­ PIERRE & VACANCES-CENTER PARCS GROUP

FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Information on the consolidated financial statements

5.1.1.1 Tourism Business

Key indicators
(in  millions)
Revenue o/w rentals o/w ancillaries(1)
Average Net Letting Rate (ALR)(2) (in ) No. of weeks sold Occupancy rate
(1) Catering, events, mini market, stores, marketing, etc. (2) Average letting rate per week of accommodation net of distribution costs.

2018/2019 1,365.1 923.6 441.5 708
1,304,609 74.9%

2017/2018 Proforma IFRS 15
1,273.1 858.4 414.7 674
1,274,034 73.6%

Change +7.2% +7.6% +6.5% +5.1% +2.4% +1.8%

The rise in the average net letting rate (+5.1%) covered all Pierre & Vacances Tourisme destinations (city: +6.4%, mountain: +4.0%, seaside: +1.9%), as well as Center Parcs (+4.1%) and Villages Nature® Paris (+7.4%) sites. The number of weeks sold was also up (+2.4%),

against a backdrop of stable marketed inventory. The occupancy rate stood at 74.9%, up +1.8%, driven by Villages Nature® Paris (+9.2%), Center Parcs sites (+3.9%), and mountain residences (+2.1%).

Characteristics of the holiday residence portfolio operated(1) at the end of the financial year

(by number of apartments)
Pierre & Vacances Tourisme Europe o/w Pierre & Vacances non-premium label France o/w Pierre & Vacances premium France o/w Pierre & Vacances Spain o/w Adagio and Adagio access
Center Parcs Europe o/w Center Parcs o/w Sunparks
Villages Nature® TOTAL
(1) Excluding the marketing business, multiple ownership and franchise. (2) Including management contracts.

2018/2019 28,788 11,487 2,718 4,671 9,912 16,581 15,199 1,382 821 46,190

2017/2018 29,170 12,459 2,791 4,196(2) 9,724 15,582 14,194 1,388 775 45,527

Change -382 -972 -73 +475 +188 +999
+1,005 -6
+46 +663

The holiday residence portfolio operated by the Group at 30 September 2019 was up by 663 accommodation units compared with 30 September 2018. This increase was mainly due to:
E the operation of the new Center Parcs Allgäu in Germany (+1,000 cottages), four new city residences (+376 apartments), four new sites in Spain (+475 apartments), of which 2 management contracts, and 19 additional apartments in the Deauville Presqu'île de la Touques residence;

E that partially offset:
­ the end-of-lease withdrawals from Pierre & Vacances residences in France (-376 apartments) Spain (-160 apartments), and Adagio residences (-118 apartments),
­ as well as the loss of leases on the Pierre & Vacances brand in France (-689 apartments), Spain (-35 apartments), and on the Adagio brand (-70 apartments).

5

115 UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2018/2019 ­ PIERRE & VACANCES-CENTER PARCS GROUP

5

FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Information on the consolidated financial statements

Breakdown of Group(1) rental revenue by customer origin

Pierre & Vacances Tourisme Europe

2018/2019 2017/2018

France

57.2%

59.3%

The Netherlands

4.5%

4.0%

Germany

3.3%

3.3%

Belgium

2.8%

3.1%

UK

7.2%

7.1%

Spain

6.8%

5.3%

Russia & Eastern European Countries

2.3%

2.4%

Italy

1.6%

1.4%

Scandinavia

1.1%

1.3%

Switzerland

1.3%

1.2%

Other

11.9%

11.6%

(1) Excluding Villages Nature® Paris, for which 2017/2018 data were not available. (2) Not available.

Center Parcs Europe(1)

2018/2019 2017/2018

28.3%

31.1%

22.4%

23.5%

30.3%

26.3%

12.2%

12.4%

2.4%

2.6%

0.1%

0.0%

NA(2)

NA(2)

0.0%

0.0%

0.3%

0.4%

NA(2)

NA(2)

4.0%

3.7%

Total

2018/2019 2017/2018

41.3%

44.6%

14.3%

14.2%

18.1%

15.4%

7.9%

8.0%

4.4%

4.8%

3.1%

2.5%

NA(2)

NA(2)

0.8%

0.7%

0.7%

0.8%

NA(2)

NA(2)

9.4%

9.0%

The majority of the Group's rental revenue is generated by foreign customers (58.7%), including German (18.1%), Dutch (14.3%), and Belgian (7.9%) customers, mainly due to the presence of
Analysis of revenue by resort/country Pierre & Vacances Tourisme Europe
Number of apartments Seaside Mountain French West Indies Cities TOTAL

CenterParcs Europe in the Netherlands (eight villages), Germany (six villages) and Belgium (six villages).

2018/2019 13,359 4,666 851 9,912 28,788

2017/2018 13,630 4,972 844 9,724 29,170

Change -271 -306 +7 +188 -382

Rental revenue (in  millions) Seaside Mountain French West Indies Cities TOTAL

2018/2019 154.0 80.3 15.9 156.8 406.9

2017/2018 153.4 81.5 15.8 149.4 400.1

Change excluding Change offering effects

+0.3%

+2.4%

-1.5%

+4.7%

+0.9%

+0.9%

+4.9% +1.7%

+4.7% +3.6%

Average net letting rates (for a week's rental) (in  before tax) Seaside Mountain French West Indies Cities TOTAL

2018/2019 553 853 743 544 597

2017/2018 543 820 723 511 575

Change +1.8% +4.0% +2.7% +6.4% +3.8%

116 UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2018/2019 ­ PIERRE & VACANCES-CENTER PARCS GROUP

FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Information on the consolidated financial statements

Seaside Mountain French West Indies Cities TOTAL

Number of weeks sold

2018/2019 2017/2018

278,230

282,430

94,129

99,378

21,409

21,800

288,262

292,491

682,030

696,099

Change -1.5% -5.3% -1.8% -1.4% -2.0%

Occupancy rate

2018/2019 2017/2018

67.6%

67.2%

86.0%

84.3%

63.4%

65.8%

78.8%

79.4%

74.0%

73.9%

Change +0.6% +2.1% -3.7% -0.7% +0.1%

Center Parcs Europe (excluding Villages Nature® Paris)
Number of apartments The Netherlands France Belgium Germany TOTAL

2018/2019 5,340 4,378 3,058 3,805
16,581

2017/2018 5,340 4,377 3,064 2,801
15,582

Change 0
+1 -6 +1,004 +999

Rental revenue (in  millions) The Netherlands France Belgium Germany TOTAL

2018/2019 147.7 154.6 76.3 115.1 493.6

2017/2018 140.9 154.8 73.4 73.4 442.5

Change excluding Change offering effects

+4.8% -0.1%

+4.8% +3.8%

+4.0%

+1.7%

+56.7% +11.6%

+3.6% +3.7%

Average net letting rates (for a week's rental) (in  before tax) The Netherlands France Belgium Germany TOTAL

2018/2019 732
1,024 693 805 815

2017/2018 718
1,009 678 682 782

Change +2.0% +1.5% +2.2%
+18.0% +4.1%

The Netherlands France Belgium Germany TOTAL

Number of weeks sold

2018/2019 2017/2018

201,838

196,347

150,991

153,414

110,063

108,215

142,979

107,673

605,871

565,650

Change +2.8% -1.6% +1.7%
+32.8% +7.1%

Occupancy rate

2018/2019 2017/2018

75.5%

74.0%

75.8%

70.6%

71.2%

71.5%

81.7%

77.6%

76.1%

73.2%

Change +2.0% +7.4% -0.5% +5.2% +3.9%

5

117 UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2018/2019 ­ PIERRE & VACANCES-CENTER PARCS GROUP

5

FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Information on the consolidated financial statements

5.1.1.2 Property development activities
Breakdown of property development revenue by programme
(in  millions)
Les Senioriales Pierre & Vacances Premium Méribel Pierre & Vacances Salou (Spain) Adagio access Lille Pierre & Vacances Avoriaz Arietis Pierre & Vacances premium Deauville Villages Nature® Paris Adagio access Palaiseau Marketing fees Other Revenue before the impact of IFRS 15 Revenue associated with the application of IFRS 15 TOTAL REVENUE FROM PROPERTY DEVELOPMENT

2018/2019 76.5 22.7 8.3 7.8 5.4 3.4 1.1 0.2 18.1 6.2
149.7 158.1 307.7

2017/2018 84.7 7.7 9.5 3.5 0.8 22.5 12.1 1.2 16.6 7.9
166.5 30.0
196.6

Revenue from property development stood at 307.7 million in 2018/2019.
The sharp increase in revenue for the financial year was due to the contribution made by renovation/disposal operations at Center Parcs for which the Group is considered as a "principal" under the terms of IFRS 15. Revenue from these operations stood at 158.1 million in 2018/2019, compared with 30 million in 2017/2018.

2018/2019 revenue also included the following programmes:
E Les Senioriales, with three programmes delivered over the financial year (Soustons, Bassens and Saint-Priest);
E Pierre & Vacances Méribel, with delivery scheduled for December 2019;
E the sale of accommodation at the residence located in Salou in Spain that was already operated by the Group;
E the Adagio access residence in the centre of Lille, delivered in September 2019.

Deliveries (number of units)
Palaiseau Lille TOTAL ADAGIO Deauville Presqu'île de la Touques TOTAL PIERRE ET VACANCES Villages Nature® LES SENIORIALES TOTAL

2018/2019 110 79 189 0 0 0 222 411

2017/2018 0 0 0
133 133 365 570 1,068

118 UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2018/2019 ­ PIERRE & VACANCES-CENTER PARCS GROUP

FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Information on the consolidated financial statements

Property reservations including VAT

2018/2019

2017/2018

Change

Property reservations excluding block sales

New

Reservations (in  millions)

137.9

154.7

-10.9%

Number of apartments

518

596

-13.1%

Average price (in  thousands) Re-sales(1)

266.2

259.6

+2.5%

Reservations (in  millions) Number of apartments

65.9

48.4

+36.2%

446

350

+27.4%

Average price (in  thousands)

147.8

138.3

+6.9%

Les Senioriales

Reservations (in  millions)

52.5

141.1

-62.8%

Number of apartments

238

757

-68.6%

Average price (in  thousands) TOTAL EXCLUDING BLOCK SALES

220.6

186.4

+18.3%

Reservations (in  millions) Number of apartments

256.2 1,202

344.2 1,703

-25.6% -29.4%

Average price (in  thousands)

213.1

202.1

+5.4%

Property reservations - block sales

Reservations (in  millions)

432.1

20.2

+2,039.1%

Number of apartments

1,737

53

+3,177.4%

Average price (in  thousands) TOTAL

248.8

381.1

-34.7%

Reservations (in  millions)

688.3

364.4

+88.9%

Number of apartments

2,939

1,756

+67.4%

Average price (in  thousands)

234.2

207.5

+12.9%

(1) The Group's re-sale business is a means of stimulating a secondary market of apartments operated by the Pierre & Vacances Group. Owners wishing to sell their property can contact the Group, which puts them in contact with potential buyers interested in purchasing a property with a Group lease. This business generates commission of around 6% on the selling price.

Reservation contracts enable buyers to pay a deposit to reserve a property asset currently being built or renovated with a seller.
Group and non-Group property development revenue (value of reservations signed over the financial year, net of cancellations during the same period) reached 688.3 million, corresponding to

2,939 reservations, compared with 364.4 million (1,756 reservations) in 2017/2018.
Excluding block sales, reservations were worth 256.2 million, corresponding to 1,202 units reserved, compared with 344.2 million (1,703 units) in 2017/2018.

5

119 UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2018/2019 ­ PIERRE & VACANCES-CENTER PARCS GROUP

5

FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Information on the consolidated financial statements

Principal stock of apartments marketed at 30 September 2019

Programmes
Excluding third-party marketing Deauville Presqu'île de la Touques Deauville Presqu'île de la Touques T2 Méribel Lille Villages Nature® Paris 1 Avoriaz Arietis Les Senioriales De Haan Third-party marketing Vielsalm Hochsauerland Zandvoort Nordseeküste Eemhof TOTAL GROUP

New/Renovation
N N N N N N N R
R R R R R

Opening
2018 2021 2019 2019 2017/2018 2020

No. of units
133 28 95 79
916 39
4,720 518
350 548 509 345 701 8,981

% reserved
90% 39% 96% 100% 97% 82% 91% 100%
100% 100%
97% 100%
73% 92%

5.1.2 Group profit (loss)

(in  millions)
Revenue
OPERATING PROFIT (LOSS) FROM ORDINARY ACTIVITIES Tourism Tourism Villages Nature® Paris Tourism excluding Villages Nature® Paris
Property development o/w Allgäu additional costs
Other operating income and expenses o/w costs associated with the restructuring plan
Financial expenses Share of net income (loss) of equity-accounted investments
PRE-TAX PROFIT (LOSS) Taxes in the financial year
o/w reversal of deferred tax assets PROFIT (LOSS) FOR THE YEAR
Attributable to owners of the Company Non controlling interests
Temporary items (Allgäu additional costs, restructuring, reversal of deferred tax assets) PROFIT (LOSS) BEFORE TEMPORARY ITEMS
(1) IFRS 15 pro-forma FY 2018. (2) These data were restated for the impacts of the interpretation of IAS 23 published in December 2018.

2018/2019 1,672.8
30.9 29.6 -5.5 35.1
1.3 -13.7
-9.7 -4.1
-20.8 0.9
1.3 -34.4 -18.8 -33.0 -33.0
0.0
-36.6 3.6

2017/2018 pro-forma
1,469.6(1)
9.8(2) 20.1 -11.6 31.7
-10.2
-4.7 -1.3
-19.2(2) 1.6
-12.5 -33.6 -19.0 -46.0(2) -46.0
0.0
-20.3 -25.7

Change 203.2
21.0 9.5 6.1 3.4
11.5 -13.7
-5.0 -2.8
-1.6 -0.6
13.8 -0.8 0.2 13.0 13.0 0.0
-16.3 29.3

120 UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2018/2019 ­ PIERRE & VACANCES-CENTER PARCS GROUP

FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Information on the consolidated financial statements

The Group's operating profit (loss) from ordinary activities stood at 30.9 million, up sharply on the previous year (9.8 million).
E Operating profit (loss) from tourism activities totalled 29.6 million, up 47% on 2017/2018:
­ operating profit from ordinary activities, excluding VillagesNature® Paris, was 35.1 million, up 11%.
It included business growth (+13 million) and initial savings generated by the Ambition 2022 plan (+5 million). These gains more than offset the impact of inflation on expenses (principally salaries, rents and energy), estimated at -10 million, as well as the impact of the temporary closure of Center Parcs sites undergoing renovation (-5 million).
Corrected for this situational effect, the operating profit from ordinary activities stood at 40 million, up 25% on the previous year (32 million);
­ Villages Nature® Paris' operating loss from ordinary activities was down by half (-5.5 million vs. -11.6 million in 2017/2018). The site recorded an average occupancy rate of 74% over the year (vs. 66% in 2017/2018) and an increase in the average net letting rate of over 7%.
E Operating profit (loss) from property development totalled 1.3 million, versus -10.2 million in 2017/2018.
This growth was mainly due to:
­ the contribution made by Center Parcs renovations/disposals in Belgium and The Netherlands (+26 million);

­ partially offset by additional costs at Domaine d'Allgäu (-14 million), following a spate of bad weather as well as technical issues with the operation of the site in terms of heating systems and the roll out of fibre optic.
Other operating income and expenses included not only site withdrawal costs but also costs relating to Group restructuring (-4.1 million) which mainly explain the change in this item.
Net financial expenses totalled 20.8 million, an increase relative to 2017/2018, due especially to the annualisation of interest expenses on a Euro PP issue in February 2018.
In 2018/2019, the Group recorded a pre-tax net profit of 1.3 million.
Deferred tax expenses primarily relate to the reversal of tax receivables in France, the increasing internationalisation of the Group's activities reducing the capacity to use tax losses in France in the medium term (the Group uses a five-year time horizon, even though tax losses can be carried forward indefinitely).
The Group's net loss was down: it stood at -33.0 million, versus -46.0 million in 2017/2018, a 28% improvement.
When corrected for non-recurring items (Allgäu additional costs, restructuring costs and the adjustment to tax receivables), the net profit for 2018/2019 would have been 3.6 million).

5

5.1.3 Reconciliation table ­ IFRS income statements

(in  millions)
Revenue Operating profit (loss) from ordinary activities Other operating income and expenses Financial income (expense) EA companies' share of profit (loss) Income tax NET PROFIT (LOSS)

FY 2019 operational reporting
1,672.8 30.9 -9.7 -20.8 0.9 -34.4 -33.0

IFRS 11 adjustments
-77.8 -0.6 +0.1 +2.3 -3.5 +1.7 0.0

FY 2019 IFRS 1,595.0 30.2 -9.6 -18.5 -2.5 -32.7 -33.0

121 UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2018/2019 ­ PIERRE & VACANCES-CENTER PARCS GROUP

5

FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Information on the consolidated financial statements

(in  millions)
Revenue Operating profit (loss) from ordinary activities Other operating income and expenses Financial income (expense) EA companies' share of profit (loss) Income tax NET PROFIT (LOSS)

FY 2018

FY 2018

published

pro-forma

FY 2018

operational Restated. Restated. operational Restated. Restated.

IFRS

reporting IFRS 15 IAS 23 reporting IFRS 15 IFRS 11 proforma

1,523.0 -53.4

1,469.6 +53.4 -88.3 1,434.7

9.1

+0.8

9.8

+7.8

17.7

-4.7

-4.7

-4.7

-18.3

-0.9

-19.2

+2.2

-17.0

1.6

1.6

-16.4

-14.8

-33.6

-33.6

+6.4

-27.2

-45.9

0.0

-0.1

-46.0

0.0

0.0

-46.0

E IFRS 11 adjustments
The Group's operational reporting continues to consolidate joint ventures (primarily Adagio and Villages Nature® Paris) using the proportionate method, considering this presentation to be a better reflection of its performance measurement. In contrast, joint ventures are consolidated using the equity method in consolidated IFRS financial statements.
E IFRS 15 adjustments
As of 1 October 2018, the Group applies the new revenue recognition standard "IFRS 15 ­ Revenue from Contracts with Customers".
The main impacts on revenue are the following:
­ tourism: in terms of its tourism marketing mandates and various outsourcing contracts (catering, events, ski lifts, etc.), the Group acts mostly as an "agent" under the terms of IFRS 15 and only its net remuneration must be recognised in revenue.
Application of IFRS 15 therefore leads to a decline in tourism revenue, which so far recorded the volume of business generated by these activities, with no impact on the Group's net profit (loss) for the year;
­ property development: sales operations on behalf of third parties are analysed on a case by case basis in order to establish whether the Group acts as an "agent" or a "principal".
The outcome of this analysis is a sharp increase in revenue in 2018/2019, driven primarily by the signing of renvoation/disposal operations at Center Parcs during the first half, for which the Group is considered as a "principle" under the terms of IFRS 15.

E IAS 23 restatements
Further to the IFRS Interpretations Committee decision on IAS 23, published in December 2018, the Group no longer capitalises borrowing costs on its property development transactions. Since this decision was applied retrospectively, the 2017/2018 comparative period was restated as shown in the table above.

122 UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2018/2019 ­ PIERRE & VACANCES-CENTER PARCS GROUP

FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Information on the consolidated financial statements

5.1.4 Investment spending and financial structure

5.1.4.1 Main cash flows

(in  millions)

2018/2019

2017/2018 pro-forma*

Cash flows (after interest and tax) Change in working capital requirements

+34.5 +32.2(2)

+28.9(1) +5.2(2)

Cash flow from operating activities

+66.7

+34.1

Net operational investment spending

-54.7

-66.0

Net financial investment Cash flow from investment activities

+7.5 -47.2(2)

-0.8 -66.8(2)

OPERATIONAL CASH FLOWS

+19.5

-32.7

Acquisitions and disposals of treasury shares Change in loans and other borrowings

-0.1 -13.2

-0.1 +63.6(1)

CASH FLOW FROM FINANCING ACTIVITIES

-13.3

+63.5

INCREASE (DECREASE) IN CASH AND CASH EQUIVALENTS

+6.3

+30.8

(1) Reclassification of the impact of redeeming the 2019 ORNANE (cash flow of -23.2 million) from cash flows to changes in loans and sundry liabilities. (2) Reclassification of the inflow of income from equity-accounted investments (+5.5 million in 2018/2019 and +4.8 million in 2017/2018) from cash flows from investment
activities to cash flows from operating activities (change in WCR). * These data were restated for the impacts of the interpretation of IAS 23 published in December 2018.

In 2018/2019, the Group's tourism and property development businesses generated a cash resource of +66.7 million, compared with +34.1 million the previous year.
This positive change was due to:
E the rise in operating cash flows (+34.5 million in 2018/2019 vs. +28.9 million in 2017/2018), mainly relating to the growth in operating performances;
E the cash resource generated by the change in working capital requirements (+32.2 million, compared with +5.2 million the previous year) related, in particular, to a growth in receipts from tourism reservations following the improvement in business and the opening of new destinations (notably Domaine Center Parcs d'Allgäu).
Net cash flows from investing activities amounted to -47.2 million and mainly included:
E net investments of 44 million in site operation, including:
­ 26.5 million of net investments for the renovation and improvement of the product mix for all Center Parcs Europe villages, including an investment of 10.3 million in German villages, 5.8 million in French villages, 5.4 million in Dutch villages, and 5.0 million in Belgian villages,
­ 16.2 million of net investments in residences and villages operated under the Pierre & Vacances Tourisme Europe brand, including 12.2 million in residences and villages in mainland France, 2.5 million to renovate villages in the French West Indies, and 1.5 million in residences in Spain,
­ 1.3 million of net investments in Les résidences Senioriales,

E net investments in IT systems (technical and functional improvements) in the amount of 11.7 million (websites, CRM, RendezvousCheznous platform, etc.) that partially offset the repayment of deposits and guarantees amounting to -9.0 million net.
Net cash flow from financing activities amounted to -13.3 million and mainly included:
E the net repayment of property development bridging loans of 8.3 million on the Les Senioriales programmes and the Pierre et Vacances Méribel Ravines and Avoriaz Crozats programmes;
E the repayment of the balance of a loan put in place for property development in Spain for a total of 2.1 million;
E the annual amortisation of financial liabilities corresponding to finance leases for 2.8 million;
5.1.4.2 Statement of financial information
Structure of statement of financial position
Given the management principles adopted by the Pierre & Vacances-Center Parcs Group in its tourism and property development businesses, the following points should be noted regarding the contribution of these two businesses to the consolidated statement of financial position.

5

123 UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2018/2019 ­ PIERRE & VACANCES-CENTER PARCS GROUP

5

FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Information on the consolidated financial statements

Tourism Business
The tourism business is not particularly capital intensive since the Group does not intend to own the villages or residences that it operates. As such, investment spending primarily concerns:
E furniture for apartments sold unfurnished to individual investors;
E general services for the residences;
E leisure facilities for holiday villages (swimming pools, sports and recreational facilities, children's clubs, etc.);
E some of the commercial premises (restaurants, bars, seminar rooms, etc.).
Ownership of these assets is a guarantee of the Group's long-term management of the sites concerned.
However, it should be noted that, for Center Parcs, the leases entered into with institutional investors, investments in central facilities and cottages are borne by the Group.
Working capital requirements in the tourism business are structurally negative, but vary significantly over the financial year depending on the season.
Property development activities
Concerning the Group's property development businesses, the construction of new property programmes should be distinguished from property renovation activities.
E New developments of Pierre & Vacances residences and villages in France generally require little capital and have the following financial characteristics:
­ the capital required to fund each new residence is equivalent to around 10% of the cost price before tax;

­ bridging loans are set up for each transaction;
­ the relative size of working capital requirement items on the statement of financial position (accounts receivable, work in progress, deferred income and prepayments) is significant.
Sales signed with a notary and not yet recognised in earnings are booked to the statement of financial position as current liabilities. At the same time, expenses incurred on these same transactions are booked as work in progress. Revenue and margins on property development programmes are reported using the percentage of completion method. The percentage of completion is calculated by multiplying the percentage of construction progress by the percentage of revenue from property sales signed at a notary's office.
As a result of the marketing approach (off-plan sales) and pre-marketing conditions that it sets for itself before construction begins, the Group has low levels of stock of land and completed properties.
E The new Center Parcs villages programmes and, in particular, construction of facilities on behalf of institutional investors, generally result in a temporary deterioration in working capital requirements since the Group pre-finances some of these expenditures and works.
E The property renovation business mainly consists of the sale, on behalf of the institutional owners of Center Parcs Domaines, of existing cottages due to be renovated. As part of these operations, the Pierre & Vacances-Center Parcs Group may have to hold certain assets temporarily (purchase options for the institutional owners subject to pre-marketing conditions), or pre-finance certain work where the funds received from investors are only released on delivery of the renovated property (country-specific rules).

Simplified statement of financial position

(in  millions)

30/09/2019

Goodwill

158.9

Net fixed assets

475.4

TOTAL INVESTMENTS

634.3

Equity

251.4

Provisions for risks and charges

76.2

Net financial debt

228.6

WCR and others

78.1

TOTAL RESOURCES

634.3

(1) These data were restated for the impacts of the interpretation of IAS 23 published in December 2018.

30/09/2018(1) 158.9 461.0 619.9 285.8 56.6 247.7 29.8 619.9

Changes 0.0
+14.4 +14.4 -34.4 +19.6 -19.1 +48.3 +14.4

The net carrying amount of goodwill totalled 158.9 million. The main goodwill items were: E Tourisme Europe: 138.2 million; E Les Senioriales: 18.9 million. Net fixed assets at 30 September 2019 include: E 130,7 million of intangible assets; this amount mainly includes
the 85.9 million net value of the Center Parcs brand;

E 288.3 million for property, plant and equipment; this amount essentially includes assets used in the operation and marketing of villages under the Center Parcs and Sunparks brands for a net amount of 211.2 million (including 90.7 million corresponding to finance leases for the central facilities of Domaine du Lac d'Ailette) and villages and residences from the Pierre & Vacances Tourisme Europe brands for a net amount of 71.9 million;

124 UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2018/2019 ­ PIERRE & VACANCES-CENTER PARCS GROUP

FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Information on the consolidated financial statements

E non-current financial assets of 37.8 million, consisting primarily of guarantee deposits paid to property owners and to lessors and suppliers.
E 18.2 million of equity-accounted investments, mainly comprising the Group's investment in the share capital of the Adagio joint venture and in the joint venture in China;
E 0.4 million in non-consolidated investments in associates and other long-term equity investments.
The increase in net fixed assets (+14.4 million) mainly stems from:
E investments of 44.0 million as part of tourism business operations;
E the development of information systems, net of the sale of certain assets, in the amount of 11.7 million;
E the 7.6 million increase in the value of equity-accounted investments associated with the growth in the Adagio sub-group's net income and the revaluation of the Group's interest (44%) in the joint-venture in China following capital investment from new Chinese partners.
The deduction of provisions for depreciation, amortisation and impairment for the period (-39.5 million) and the drop in non-current financial assets (-7.7 million) associated, in particular, with the repayment of guarantee deposits.

Equity totalled 251.4 million at 30 September 2019, (compared with 285.8 million at 30 September 2018), after taking into account:
E net income for the period of -33.0 million;
E a drop in equity before earnings of -1.4 million due notably to the IFRS accounting of actuarial differences on retirement benefit obligations, stock options and treasury shares.
Provisions for risks and expenses totalled 76.2 million at 30 September 2019, compared with 56.6 million at 30 September 2018.
At 30 September 2019, provisions for risks and expenses primarily consisted of:
E provisions for risks in relation to shares in equity-accounted companies: 43.7 million (principally, Villages Nature®);
E provisions for pensions: 17.9 million;
E provisions for renovations: 7.5 million;
E provisions for disputes, restructuring costs and site closures: 5.7 million.
The increase in provisions for risks and expenses (+19.6 million) primarily related to the increase in the provision for investments in Villages Nature® companies (+13.2 million).

Net debt reported by the Group at 30 September 2019 broke down as follows:

(in  millions)
Gross debt Cash (net of overdrafts/drawn revolving facilities) Net debt
o/w net bank/bond debt o/w rental commitments ­ Ailette facilities

30/09/2019 342.1 -113.5 228.6 132.2 96.4

30/09/2018 354.9 -107.3 247.7 148.8 98.9

Changes -12.8 -6.3 -19.1 -16.6 -2.5

Net debt at 30 September 2019 (228.6 million), down 19.1 million on the previous year, mainly related to:
E the ORNANE issue in December 2017 for a principal amount of 100 million;
E the "Euro PP" bonds issued respectively in July 2016 for a par value of 60 million and in February 2018 for a par value of 76 million;
E the bridging loans taken out by the Group to finance property development programmes to be sold amounting to 7.2 million (relating to the Pierre & Vacances programmes in Méribel and Avoriaz, as well as the Les Senioriales programmes as at 30 September 2019);
E less cash and cash equivalents, net of bank overdrafts/drawn revolving facilities, of 113.5 million.
To this 132.2 million debt are added financial liabilities stemming from adjustments of sale and lease-back contracts in the amount of 97.9 million, including 96.4 million for the central facilities at Center Parcs Domaine du Lac d'Ailette.

It should be noted that, at 30 September 2019, the Group had a revolving credit facility of 200 million entered into on 14 March 2016 (maturing in 2021), as well as four confirmed credit lines totalling 34 million.
On 30 September 2019, none of these lines had been used, reflecting the high level of liquidity maintained.
An Adjusted Net Debt/EBITDAR ratio, valid for the revolving facility, is calculated contractually once a year at 30 September:
E Adjusted Net Financial Debt: means Net Financial Debt plus the Group's rental commitments over the five years following the end of the reporting period and discounted at a rate of 6.0%;
E EBITDAR: refers to EBITDA increased by annual rents.
This ratio, which should be 3.50 or below at 30/09/2019, was adhered to.

5

125 UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2018/2019 ­ PIERRE & VACANCES-CENTER PARCS GROUP

5

FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Consolidated financial statements

5.2 Consolidated financial statements

5.2.1 Consolidated income statement

(in  thousands)

Notes

Revenue

25

Purchases and external services(1)

26

Employee expenses

27

Depreciation, amortisation and impairment

28

Other operating income

29

Other operating expenses on ordinary activities

29

OPERATING PROFIT (LOSS) FROM ORDINARY ACTIVITIES

3

Other operating income and expenses(2)

30

OPERATING PROFIT (LOSS)

3

Financial income(1)

31

Financial expenses

31

FINANCIAL INCOME (EXPENSE) (1)

Income tax

32

Share of net income (loss) of equity-accounted investments

8

PROFIT (LOSS) FOR THE YEAR(1)

Of which:

E attributable to owners of the Company

E non-controlling interests

(1) These data were restated for the impacts of the interpretation of IAS 23 published in December 2018 ­ see Note 1.2. (2) These items are now shown on the front of the income statement ­ see Note 31.

2018/2019 1,594,967 -1,124,744 -378,166 -53,220 7,968 -16,574 30,231 -9,590 20,641 2,173 -20,634 -18,461 -32,662 -2,543 -33,024
-33,023 -1

2017/2018 pro-forma(1)
1,434,725 -1,004,859
-355,502 -57,309 15,752 -15,126 17,681 -4,654 13,027 24,774 -41,751 -16,977 -27,234 -14,851 -46,036
-46,035 -1

5.2.2 Statement of comprehensive income
(in  thousands)
PROFIT (LOSS) FOR THE YEAR Translation adjustments Effective portion of gains and losses on hedging financial instruments Deferred tax Other comprehensive income (loss) that may be reclassified subsequently to profit or loss, net of tax Actuarial gains and losses on retirement benefit obligations after tax Other comprehensive income (loss) that will not be reclassified subsequently to profit or loss, net of tax Other comprehensive income (loss), net of tax TOTAL COMPREHENSIVE INCOME Of which:
E attributable to owners of the Company E non-controlling interests
(1) These data were restated for the impacts of the interpretation of IAS 23 published in December 2018 ­ see Note 1.2.

2018/2019 -33,024 86 0 0
86 -1,355
-1,355 -1,269 -34,293
-34,292 -1

2017/2018 pro-forma(1)
-46,036 -11 0 0
-11 4,608
4,608 4,597 -41,439
-41,438 -1

126 UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2018/2019 ­ PIERRE & VACANCES-CENTER PARCS GROUP

FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Consolidated financial statements

5.2.3 Consolidated statement of financial position

Assets
(in  thousands)
Goodwill Intangible assets Property, plant and equipment Equity-accounted investments Non-consolidated investments in associates and other long-term equity investments Other non-current financial assets Deferred tax assets NON-CURRENT ASSETS Inventories and work in progress(1) Trade receivables Other current assets Current financial assets Cash and cash equivalents CURRENT ASSETS TOTAL ASSETS

Notes 4 5 7 8
9 10 32
3 11/12/23
13/23 14/23 14/23
15 3 3

30/09/2019 158,951 130,683 288,351 18,184
437 37,791 59,284 693,681 177,701 252,358 185,411 93,599 114,806 823,875 1,517,556

Liabilities

(in  thousands)

Note

Share capital

16

Share premium

Treasury shares

Capital increase Reserves(1)

Consolidated profit (loss) (1)

EQUITY ATTRIBUTABLE TO OWNERS OF THE COMPANY

Non controlling interests

EQUITY

16

Long-term borrowings

18

Non-current provisions

17

Deferred tax liabilities

32

Other non-current liabilities

22/23

NON-CURRENT LIABILITIES

3

Short-term borrowings

18

Current provisions

17

Trade payables

21/23

Other financial liabilities

22/23

Current financial liabilities

22/23

CURRENT LIABILITIES

3

TOTAL EQUITY AND LIABILITIES

(1) These data were restated for the impacts of the interpretation of IAS 23 published in December 2018 ­ see Note 1.2.

30/09/2019 98,052 21,241 -5,562 157
170,559 -33,023 251,424
23 251,447 330,075
68,299 9,628 9
408,011 13,299 7,910
340,388 476,681
19,820 858,098 1,517,556

30/09/2018 pro-forma (1)
158,951 124,607 278,687
10,610
1,623 45,477 73,119 693,074 180,351 236,247 196,223 66,657 116,230 795,708 1,488,782

5

30/09/2018 (1) 98,045 21,248 -5,588 1,426
216,695 -46,035 285,791
23 285,814 335,355
51,985 6,648 1,603
395,591 28,550 4,575
319,376 420,998
33,878 807,377 1,488,782

127 UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2018/2019 ­ PIERRE & VACANCES-CENTER PARCS GROUP

5

FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Consolidated financial statements

5.2.4 Consolidated statement of cash flows

(in  thousands)
Operating activities Consolidated profit (loss) Depreciation, amortisation and impairment of non-current assets Expenses on grant of share options Gain (loss) on disposal of assets Share of profit (loss) of equity-accounted investments Costs of net financial debt(1) Change in fair value of the ORNANE monetisation option Tax expense (including deferred taxes) Operating cash flows before change in working capital requirements Net interest paid Taxes paid Cash flows after interest and tax(1) Change in working capital requirements (including in employee benefits liability) Inventories and work in progress(1) Other working capital items NET CASH FLOWS FROM (USED IN) OPERATING ACTIVITIES (I) Investing activities Acquisitions of property, plant and equipment, and intangible assets Purchases of financial assets Acquisitionsof subsidiaries (net of acquired cash) Subtotal of disbursements Proceeds from disposals of property, plant and equipment, and intangible assets Disposals of financial assets Divestments of subsidiaries (net of cash paid) Subtotal of receipts Dividends received (or inflow of income) from equity-accounted investments NET CASH FLOWS FROM (USED IN) INVESTING ACTIVITIES (II) Financing activities Acquisitions and disposals of treasury shares Proceeds from new loans and other borrowings Repayment of loans and other borrowings Exchange rate effects NET CASH FLOWS FROM (USED IN) FINANCING ACTIVITIES (III) NET INCREASE (DECREASE) IN CASH AND CASH EQUIVALENTS (IV = I + II + III) (1) Cash and cash equivalents at start of the reporting period (V) Cash and cash equivalents at reporting date (VI = IV + V)
(1) These data were restated for the impacts of taking into account the clarification on IAS 23 of December 2018.

Notes
31 32
11/23 11/23
5/7 17
16 18 18 15 15

2018/2019

2017/2018 pro-forma(1)

-33,024 44,410
1 -794 2,543 18,700
0 32,662 64,498 -17,756 -12,195 34,546 26,637
2,650 23,987 61,183

-46,035 39,870
1,625 828
14,851 40,040 -22,902 27,234 55,510 -33,630 -16,190
5,690 369
3,947 -4,345 6,060

-57,970 -3,915 -1,769
-63,654 3,254
11,206 2,010
16,470 5,531
-41,653

-70,001 -3,589 0
-73,591 3,978 2,806 0 6,784 4,796
-62,011

-73 7,187 -20,474
90 -13,269
6,261 107,256 113,517

-102 184,144 -97,322
-16 86,703 30,752 77,271 107,256

128 UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2018/2019 ­ PIERRE & VACANCES-CENTER PARCS GROUP

FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Consolidated financial statements

5.2.5 Consolidated statement of changes in equity

(in  thousands)

Number of shares

Share Share Treasury capital premium shares

Fair value

Equity

reserves

attribu-

Trans-

(mainly

Consoli- table to

Non Total

lation

hedging

dated owners control- share-

adjust- financial

profit of the

ling holders'

ments instruments) Reserves (loss) Company interests equity

BALANCE AT 30 SEPTEMBER 2017 ­ PUBLISHED 9,801,723 98,017 21,276 -5,541 -146

79 269,896 -56,727 326,854

24 326,878

Impacts of the interpretation of IAS 23

-1,102

-1,102

-1,102

BALANCE AT
30 SEPTEMBER 2017 ­ PRO-FORMA(1)

9,801,723 98,017 21,276 -5,541

-146

79 268,794 -56,727 325,753

24 325,777

Capital increase

-11

0

-11

-11

Actuarial gains and losses on retirement benefit obligations

4,608

4,608

4,608

Net Profit (loss)

-46,035 -46,035

-1 -46,036

Total comprehensive income

0

0

0 -11

0 4,608 -46,035 -41,438

-1 -41,439

Capital increase

0

0

Dividends paid

0

0

Change in treasury shares held

-47

-102

-149

-149

Share-based

payment expenses

2,842

28

-28

1,625

1,625

1,625

Other movements

0

0

Allocation of profit for the year

-56,727 56,727

0

0

BALANCE AT 30 SEPTEMBER 2018

9,804,565 98,045 21,248 -5,588 -157

79 218,198 -46,035 285,791

23 285,814

Capital increase

86

0

86

86

Actuarial gains and losses on retirement benefit obligations

-1,355

-1,355

-1,355

Net Profit (loss)

-33,023 -33,023

0 -33,023

Total comprehensive income

0

0

0

86

0 -1,355 -33,023 -34,292

0 -34,292

Capital increase

7

-7

0

0

Dividends paid

0

0

Change in treasury shares held

26

-99

-73

-73

Share-based

payment expenses

667

-1

-1

-1

Other movements

-1

-1

-1

Allocation of profit for the year

-46,035 46,035

0

0

BALANCE AT

30 SEPTEMBER

2019

9,805,232 98,052 21,241 -5,562 -71

78 170,708 -33,023 251,424

23 251,447

(1) These data were restated for the impacts of the interpretation of IAS 23 published in December 2018 ­ see Note 1.2.

5

129 UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2018/2019 ­ PIERRE & VACANCES-CENTER PARCS GROUP

5

FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Consolidated financial statements

5.2.6 Notes to the consolidated financial statements

Summary of notes to the consolidated financial statements

Preamble

131

NOTE 1 Accounting principles

131

NOTE 2 Highlights of the financial year

and scope of consolidation

141

Segment information

148

NOTE 3 Operating segment information

148

Analysis of main financial position items

150

NOTE 4 Goodwill

150

NOTE 5 Intangible assets

150

NOTE 6 Impairment testing of goodwill and intangible

assets with indefinite useful lives

151

NOTE 7 Property, plant and equipment

153

NOTE 8 Equity-accounted investments

154

NOTE 9 Non-consolidated investments in associates

and other long-term equity investments

156

NOTE 10 Other non-current financial assets

156

NOTE 11 Inventories and work in progress

156

NOTE 12 Contribution of property development

programmes to the gross amount of

inventories

157

NOTE 13 Trade receivables

158

NOTE 14 Other current assets

158

NOTE 15 Cash and cash equivalents

159

NOTE 16 Group shareholders' equity

159

NOTE 17 Provisions

160

NOTE 18 Financial liabilities

162

NOTE 19 Financial Instruments

166

NOTE 20 Market risks

166

NOTE 21 Trade payables

169

NOTE 22 Other current and non-current liabilities

169

NOTE 23 Change in working capital requirements

170

NOTE 24 Maturity of receivables and liabilities

170

Analysis of main income statement items

171

NOTE 25 Revenue

171

NOTE 26 Purchases and external services

172

NOTE 27 Employee expenses

172

NOTE 28 Depreciation, amortisation and impairment 173

NOTE 29 Other operating income and expenses

from ordinary activities

173

NOTE 30 Other operating income and expenses

174

NOTE 31 Financial income (expense)

174

NOTE 32 Income tax and deferred tax

175

NOTE 33 Earnings per share

177

Other financial information

178

NOTE 34 Number of employees

178

NOTE 35 Off-statement of financial position

commitments

178

NOTE 36 Remuneration of executive management

anddirectors

179

NOTE 37 Parent company

180

NOTE 38 Related party transactions

180

NOTE 39 Events after the reporting period

181

130 UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2018/2019 ­ PIERRE & VACANCES-CENTER PARCS GROUP

FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Consolidated financial statements

Preamble

Pierre et Vacances is a French Public Limited Company (société anonyme), governed by a Board of Directors and listed on Euronext Paris.
The consolidated financial statements reflect the financial position of Pierre et Vacances and its subsidiaries (hereinafter referred to as "the Group"), as well as its interests in associates and joint ventures.

The financial statements are presented in euros, rounded to the nearest thousand.
The Board of Directors approved the Group's consolidated financial statements for the year ended 30 September 2019 on 25 November 2019.

Note 1 Accounting principles

1.1 - General framework
Pursuant to European Regulation No. 1606/2002 of 19 July 2002, the consolidated financial statements for the 2018/2019 financial year have been prepared in accordance with IFRS (International Financial Reporting Standards) as adopted by the European Union at 30 September 2019 (these standards are available at http://ec.europa.eu/finance/accounting/ias/index_en.htm).
The IFRS accounting standards include IFRS, IAS (International Accounting Standards) and their IFRIC (International Financial Reporting Interpretations Committee) and SIC (Standing Interpretations Committee) interpretations.
These standards and interpretations used for the 2018/2019 financial year are the same as those applied in the Group's financial statements for the 2017/2018 financial year, except for those adopted by the European Union which must be applied for the first time in the financial year beginning 1 October 2018 and for which the Group had not elected for early adoption (see section 1.2 ­ Changes in accounting standards).
1.2 - Changes in accounting standards
New standards and interpretations, which must be applied for the first time in the financial year beginning 1 October 2018, were used to prepare the financial statements for the 2018/2019 financial year.
The new standards, interpretations and amendments applied by the Group for the 2018/2019 financial year and not applied in advance in the financial statements for the 2017/2018 financial year include the following:
E IFRS 15 "Revenue from Contracts with Customers";
E IFRS 9 "Financial Instruments";
E amendments to IAS 7 "Statement of Cash Flows" detailing additional information to be provided on changes in balance sheet financial liabilities;
E amendments to IAS 12 "Income Taxes" regarding accounting for deferred tax assets for unrealised losses;
E amendments to IFRS 12 "Disclosure of Interests in Other Entities" regarding information to be provided about holdings classed in accordance with IFRS 5 as "Non-current Assets Held for Sale and Discontinued Operations";

E the amendment to IFRS 2, on the classification and measurement of certain share-based payments;
E the IFRS 2014/2016 improvement cycle (subject to adoption by the European Union).
Apart from IFRS 15, the main impacts of which are shown below, first-time adoption of these standards did not have any material impact on the Group.
IFRS 15 ­ Revenue from Contracts with Customers
The application of IFRS 15 "Revenue recognition" is mandatory for reporting periods beginning on or after 1 January 2018. It introduces a single revenue recognition model.
For first-time adoption, the Group decided to apply the cumulative effect method, with no restatement for published comparative periods. Data for previous reporting periods are not, therefore, restated.
The main impacts of this new standard related to the agent/principal issue, in both the Group's tourism and property development businesses. For this reason, the Group is classed as the principal when it controls the promised service before transferring it to the customer. In this case, the revenue and expenses incurred are presented on a gross basis as separate items of the income statement. In the opposite circumstances, the Group is classed as an agent and only net remuneration is recognised as revenue.
It should be noted that the application of this new standard has no impact on the rate of recognition of the Group's property margins according to the method of advancement, the Group having always taken into account the value of the land in determining the percentage of progress of the programmes concerned.

5

131 UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2018/2019 ­ PIERRE & VACANCES-CENTER PARCS GROUP

5

FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Consolidated financial statements

For the 2018/2019 reporting period, first-time adoption of IFRS 15 generated the following impacts on the Group's income statement, with no impact on the operating profit (loss) from ordinary activities nor on the consolidated profit (loss):

(in  thousands)
Revenue Tourism
Property development Purchases and external services Other operating income Operating profit (loss) from ordinary activities

Excluding IFRS 15
1,602,548 1,382,001
220,547 -1,145,401
-3,498 30,231

Impacts relating to first adoption of IFRS 15 -7,581 -81,334 73,753 20,657 -13,076 0

Amounts published
1,594,967 1,300,667
294,300 -1,124,744
-16,574 30,231

E The group's revenue was negatively impacted by the first-time adoption of IFRS 15. This reclassification includes:
­ on tourism revenue: the main impacts of this new standard related to the Group's classification as an agent for some of its tourism activities, particularly in relation to distribution operations. Likewise, IFRS 15 changes the way in which stay fees granted to individual investors are treated, revenue and rental charges of the same value now being set off in full, thereby reducing each of these income statement items.
These restatements had a negative impact on the Group's tourism revenue;
­ the cost of renovation work carried out, in particular, at the Center Parcs Bois Francs (in France), Hochsauerland (in Germany) and Zandvoort (in the Netherlands), operations where the Group acts as principal according to IFRS 15 criteria. Previously, income from, and expense incurred for, renovations were shown under "purchases and external services";
­ the Group's share of the profit from the renovation of Center Parcs sites, recognised to date as other operating income from ordinary activities.
IFRS 9 "Financial Instruments"
The IFRS 9 standard "Financial Instruments" is mandatory for financial years beginning on or after 1 January 2018, i.e. from the 2018/2019 financial year for the Pierre & Vacances-Center Parcs Group.

E The standard replaces the IAS 39 standard and is based on three major elements:
­ the classification and measurement of financial assets and liabilities;
­ the impairment of financial assets;
­ hedge accounting.
Analyses conducted by the Pierre & Vacances-Center Parcs Group showed that there were no impacts on the consolidated financial statements associated with the application of this new standard, both in terms of the classification and measurement of financial assets and liabilities or the impairment of financial assets, the Group not being affected by hedge accounting.
IAS 23: Borrowing costs
On 7 December 2018, the IFRS interpretations committee published a decision which now makes it impossible to incorporate borrowing costs into the production cost of a property complex sold to end customers via sale contracts that provide for an over-time transfer of control, such as an off-plan "VEFA" sale contract.
From 1 October 2017, the Group will no longer capitalise borrowing costs on its property development transactions.
Since this clarification applies retrospectively, the cancellation of financial expense accrued to that point led the Group to impact the income statement and the statement of financial position for comparative periods as follows:

Simplified statement of financial position at 30 September 2018:
Assets Inventories Liabilities Reserves Consolidated profit (loss) EQUITY

30/09/2018 Published
181,542
217,796 -45,945 287,005

IAS 23
-1,191
-1,102 -89
-1,191

30/09/2018 Restated
180,351
216,694 -46,034 285,814

132 UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2018/2019 ­ PIERRE & VACANCES-CENTER PARCS GROUP

FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Consolidated financial statements

Simplified income statement for 2017/2018:
Operating profit (loss) from ordinary activities Financial income (expense) NET PROFIT (LOSS)

2017/2018 Published
16,914 -16,121 -45,946

IAS 23 767 -856 -89

2017/2018 Restated
17,681 -16,977 -46,035

Notes 3 ­ "Segment information", 11 ­ "Inventories and work in progress", 12 ­ "Contribution of property development programmes to the gross amount of inventories", 24 ­ "Change in working capital requirements", 30 ­ "Other operating income and expenses" and 32 "Financial income (expense)" were restated for the impacts of the interpretation of IAS 23 to present comparable data across all of the Group's consolidated financial statement line items.
1.3 - Future standards, amendments to standards and interpretations
Some standards published by the IASB do not apply until 30 September 2019. The assessment of the impact of these future standards on the Groups' consolidated financial statements is as follows:
IFRS 16 ­ Leases
IFRS 16 "Leases" is mandatory for reporting periods beginning on or after 1 January 2019, i.e. Pierre & Vacances-Center Parcs Group's 2019/2020 financial year.
It removes the distinction between operating leases and finance leases and provides a simple accounting model for operating leases on the lessee's statement of financial position with the recognition:
E of an asset representing the right to use the asset leased; and
E of a liability in respect of the obligation to pay rents.
The Group will apply the simplified retrospective transition method, with retrospective calculation of the right-of-use. Choosing this method means that previous periods will not be restated.
The standard provides for different levels of simplification in relation to the transition. The Group adopted those that allow for contracts with a term of less than twelve months, and contracts relating to low-value assets, to be excluded and those that allow the initial contract term to be used to determine the discount rate to apply on the transition date.
E Existing leases have been identified and the data needed to estimate the impact of IFRS 16 on the Group's profit (loss) and net position have been collected. Almost all leases related to goods leased by the Group for its tourism business (apartments, cottages, central facilities). The estimated impact on the financial statements is currently being calculated.
­ interpretation of IFRIC 23, "Uncertainty over income tax treatments" which came into force on 1 January 2019;
­ amendment to IAS 28, on long-term investments in associates and joint ventures;
­ amendments arising from IFRS 2015 ­ 2017 annual improvements.

1.4 - Basis of presentation
Individual financial statements of the Group's consolidated companies, which are prepared according to the accounting regulations applicable in their respective countries, are restated to comply with the Group's accounting policies.
All fully consolidated companies are consolidated on the basis of annual financial statements or positions at the reporting date of the parent company, namely 30 September.
The Group's consolidated financial statements have been prepared on a historical cost basis, except for the following assets and liabilities which, if present at the reporting date, are recognised at their fair value: derivative financial instruments, financial assets held-for-trading and available-for-sale financial assets. The carrying amount of the assets and liabilities hedged against changes in fair value is adjusted to take into account such changes attributable to the risks hedged.
As provided for by IAS 1 "Presentation of Financial Statements", the Group reports income statement items according to their nature.
Operating profit (loss) includes "Other operating expenses" and "Other operating income". These line items essentially comprise non-recurring items such as gains and losses on disposals, restructuring expenses and impairment losses.
Statement of financial position items are classified into current and non-current assets, and current and non-current liabilities. The Group's current assets include cash and cash equivalents, assets held for sale and assets consumed in a normal operating cycle. All other assets are classified as non-current. Current liabilities consist of liabilities that mature in the Group's normal operating cycle or within 12 months after the reporting date. All other liabilities are classified as non-current.
The statement of cash flows is presented using the indirect method.
1.5 - Use of accounting estimates
The preparation of consolidated financial statements in accordance with international accounting principles requires Group management to use a number of estimates and assumptions that have an effect on the assets and liabilities and on the expenses and income in the income statement, as well as on any assets and liabilities mentioned in the notes.
The main estimates made by Management when preparing financial statements involve assumptions about the recoverability of tax losses (see Note 33), the determination of earnings at the end of property programmes, the classification of lease agreements as finance leases or operating leases, the valuation of goodwill and the useful lives of operating assets, property plant and equipment, and intangible assets.

5

133 UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2018/2019 ­ PIERRE & VACANCES-CENTER PARCS GROUP

5

FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Consolidated financial statements

These estimates are made on a going concern basis and are drafted according to the information available when they were made. It is possible that the actual amounts are subsequently found to be different from the estimates and assumptions made in preparing the financial statements presented.
1.6 - Scope and method of consolidation
The following consolidation methods have been used:
E full consolidation, all the companies over which the Group exercises exclusive control, directly or indirectly, in law or in fact;
E equity method ­ joint ventures (companies operated jointly within the context of joint control) as well as shares of companies over which the Group directly or indirectly exercises significant influence without, however, having control. Significant influence is presumed when the Group holds more than 20% of the voting rights.
Consolidation using the equity method requires an interest in an associate or joint venture to be recognised initially at the acquisition cost, then adjusted at a later date for the net income and other comprehensive income (loss) of the associate or joint venture attributable to the owners of the Company.
Share of net income (loss) of these entities is incorporated into the Group's consolidated profit (loss), on a specific line entitled "Share of net income (loss) of equity-accounted investments".
The results of companies acquired during the year are consolidated as from the date on which control (exclusive or joint) or significant influence begins. The results of the companies sold during the year are consolidated up to the date on which control or notable influence ceases.
1.7 - Foreign currency translation methods
Translation of transactions denominated in foreign currency
A company's functional currency is the currency of the primary economic environment in which the Company operates. Transactions made in a currency other than the functional currency are translated at the exchange rate in effect at the time they occur. At the reporting date, receivables and corresponding payables are converted into the functional currency at the reporting date exchange rate. The resulting translation differences are recognised in profit or loss.
Translation of foreign currency financial statements
The statement of financial position of companies whose functional currency is not the euro are translated into euros at the reporting date exchange rate and their income statement at the average exchange rate for the year.
The resulting translation differences are shown in shareholders' equity and will be recognised in profit (loss) for the year during which control of the business ceases.

Business combinations
Acquisition costs
The cost of purchasing shares equals the fair value of the assets handed over, the liabilities incurred or assumed, and the equity instruments issued by the buyer on the date of purchase.
The costs directly attributable to the acquisition are recognised under other operating expenses for the period during which they are incurred.
Earn-outs, irrespective of their likelihood of payment, are recognised at fair value in liabilities or shareholders' equity as of the acquisition date; subsequent adjustments must be reported in profit (loss) if the initial entry was under liabilities.
Identifiable assets, identifiable liabilities and goodwill
When they integrate the Group, the assets and liabilities that can be measured separately are reported in the consolidated statement of financial position at their fair value. Assets intended for resale are measured at their fair values less the selling costs. Goods intended for use in operation are measured at their fair value.
The fair value of brand names, as identifiable intangible assets, is determined using a multi-criteria approach generally accepted for the purpose ("relief from royalty" method, excess cash-flows method and cost approach).
The measurement of identifiable assets determines their new gross carrying amount. This serves as a basis for subsequent calculations of gains or losses on disposal, depreciation, amortisation, and impairment losses.
Goodwill represents any amount in excess of the consideration transferred and, if applicable, the difference between the value of "non-controlling interests" and the net fair value of identifiable assets and liabilities of the acquired company. Depending on the option selected for measuring these interests at the date control is acquired (fair value or share of net assets acquired), the goodwill recognised represents either the share acquired by the Group (partial goodwill) or the share of the Group and the share of the non-controlling interests (total goodwill).
If the difference is positive, it is recorded under "Goodwill" for companies consolidated by the full consolidation method and under "Equity-accounted investments" for joint ventures or companies over which the Group exercises significant influence. If the difference is negative, it is posted directly to profit or loss.
If, in the 12 months following the acquisition date, new information leads to a new assessment of the fair values of the assets and liabilities when they were included in the consolidated statement of financial position, the fair values are updated. The remeasurement will result in a change in the gross amount of the goodwill.
When a company is purchased in stages, the previous shareholding is reassessed at fair value on the date control is acquired and the difference from the net carrying amount is recognised in profit or loss.

134 UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2018/2019 ­ PIERRE & VACANCES-CENTER PARCS GROUP

FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Consolidated financial statements

Commitment to buy out non-controlling interests
When the Group grants purchase options on their investments to shareholders of its fully consolidated subsidiaries, it anticipates this additional purchase of shares. These commitments are recognised as financial liabilities at the discounted value of the buy-back price, along with an entry to non-controlling interests and any remaining balance being recorded in equity.
1.9 - Non-current assets held for sale and associated liabilities
Assets and liabilities that the Group decided to sell during the year are presented on a separate line item of the statement of financial position ("Non-current assets and disposal groups held for sale"), if they are available for immediate sale and the sale is highly probable.
When several assets are intended to be sold in a single transaction, the asset group and the related liabilities are measured overall at the lowest of the net carrying amount and the fair value net of the selling costs. Non-current assets classified as held for sale are no longer depreciated.
1.10 - Goodwill impairment tests
Under IFRS , goodwill is not amortised but is subject to impairment testing whenever there is an indication that it may be impaired and at least once a year at the end of the financial year, namely at 30 September.
This test is carried out in order to take account of any changes that may have reduced the profitability and value of the goodwill. Such events or circumstances include significant unfavourable changes of a permanent nature, affecting the economic environment or the assumptions and objectives adopted at the date of acquisition.
The assets are combined into cash generating units (CGUs). A CGU is the smallest group of assets generating cash flows largely independent of other asset groups. The CGU groups adopted by Pierre et Vacances-Center Parcs for assessing the recoverable amount of goodwill are the Group's operating segments used to analyse its results for internal reporting purposes.
This impairment test involves comparing the recoverable amount of the cash generating units (CGUs), or of the CGU group, with the net carrying amount of the corresponding assets, including any goodwill. Through these impairment tests, the Group ensures that the recoverable amount of goodwill is not less than the net carrying amount. The recoverable amount is the higher of the fair value less selling costs or the value in use.
If an asset is to be sold, the recoverable amount is determined based on the fair value less selling costs.
The fair value less selling costs is the selling price that could be obtained in a transaction carried out in normal market conditions between informed and consenting parties, less the costs to sell and the costs of withdrawing from the business. The asset's selling price is determined with reference to similar recent transactions or valuations made by independent experts when a sale is in the offering.

Value in use is the future net discounted cash flows that would be generated by the CGU or group of CGUs. Cash flow projections come from five-year business plans developed internally by operating segments. For periods beyond five years, they are estimated using a perpetual growth rate. The discount rate used is based on the average cost of capital reflecting current market assessments of the time value of money and the risks specific to the asset tested. These discount rates are after-tax rates applied to after-tax cash flows. They are used to determine recoverable amounts that are identical to those obtained using pre-tax rates applied to pre-tax cash flows.
An impairment loss is recognised in profit and loss if the carrying amount of a goodwill item is greater than its recoverable amount. Any impairment losses are recorded in "Other operating expenses". Any impairment loss recognised for a goodwill item may not be reversed in future periods.
1.11 - Intangible assets
Intangible assets individually acquired are stated in the statement of financial position at their purchase cost less accumulated amortisation and impairment losses.
Intangible assets acquired as part of a business combination are reported at their fair value on the date of acquisition, separately from the goodwill if they are identifiable, that is to say if they satisfy one of the following two conditions:
E they result from legal or contractual rights; or
E they can be separated from the entity acquired.
They primarily consist of brand names.
Intangible assets include:
E brand names classed as intangible assets with indefinite useful lives, the Group having decided that there was no foreseeable limit to the period over which it expects to be able to use them.
These assets are recorded in the statement of financial position on the basis of a valuation made at the date of acquisition by independent experts using a multi-criteria approach, which takes into account brand name awareness and expected future contribution to profits.
Brand names are not amortised but their value is subject to a test if there is an indication that they may be impaired and at least once a year. A provision for impairment losses is reported if the amount determined using impairment tests is lower than their net carrying amount.
The Group determines the value in use of each of its brand names by updating their carrying amounts using the same method as that used for goodwill impairment tests (i.e. discounted future cash flows generated by the business covered by the brand) or the "relief from royalty" method (projection to infinity of future royalties from the brand). Any impairment losses are reported in the income statement, under "Other operating expenses". The corresponding provision may subsequently be reversed if the value in use becomes higher than the net carrying amount;

5

135 UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2018/2019 ­ PIERRE & VACANCES-CENTER PARCS GROUP

5

FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Consolidated financial statements

E the other intangible assets that the Group has classified as intangible assets with definite useful lives. Essentially, these are concessions and patents that mainly include software licences and expenditure on computer programs. These non-current assets are amortised using the straight-line method over periods reflecting their useful lives, usually between three and eight years. If there is an indication of impairment loss, a valuation test is automatically carried out.

1.12 - Investment subsidies
Investment subsidies are shown on the statement of financial position as a reduction in the value of the asset for which they were received.

1.13 - Property, plant and equipment
Items of property, plant and equipment are reported in the statement of financial position at their historic acquisition cost or at their construction cost or else, for assets owned by entities consolidated for the first time, at their acquisition-date fair value less any accumulated depreciation and any reported impairment losses. Interest on capital borrowed to finance the production of property, plant and equipment items during the period prior to their being placed in service is considered to be an integral part of their construction costs.
Lease agreements are classified as finance leases and are restated in the consolidated financial statements when in substance they transfer to the Group virtually all the risks and benefits inherent in ownership of these properties. The level of risk transferred is measured by analysing the terms of the agreement.
Property, plant and equipment items acquired through finance lease agreements are presented in assets at the lower of the item's market value and the discounted value of future lease payments. Depreciation is recognised over the asset's useful life, the corresponding liability being reported along with the related interest expense.
Unlike finance leases, operating leases are recognised in the income statement as lease payments under "Purchases and external services". These lease payments mainly relate to buildings and fittings and are spread on a straight-line basis over the duration of the contracts.
Rent commitments, representing total future minimum payments over the remaining lease term, are indicated in Note 36 "Off-statement of financial position commitments".
From the date they are placed in service, property, plant and equipment items are depreciated over their useful lives, using a component-based approach and the straight-line method:

Buildings Equipment, fixtures and fittings Furniture Other property, plant and equipment

20-54 years 5-16 years 7-12 years 3-4 years

Items of property, plant and equipment are considered impaired when their economic value appears lower than their net carrying amount as a result of events or circumstances occurring during the financial year.

Thus, at each reporting date, the Group assesses whether there is any indication of impairment loss relating to identifiable asset groups whose continuous use generates cash flows that are largely independent of those generated by other assets or asset groups. Consequently, the Group analyses, for example, the change in revenue or in operating profit (loss) generated by these cash-generating units, or groups of cash-generating units. In the case of a material unfavourable change, the Group then determines the recoverable amount of all the assets concerned. This is the higher of the fair value less selling costs, and the value in use. The value in use is determined on the basis of the discounted future cash flows estimated.
Any impairment losses are reported in the income statement, under "Other operating expenses" and the corresponding provision may be subsequently reversed if the economic value becomes higher than the net carrying amount.
1.14 - Non-current financial assets
This category mainly comprises available-for-sale financial assets, loans and receivables due from associates and non-consolidated entities, loans and security deposits that mature in more than 12 months.
Equity interests in unconsolidated companies are classified as "Available-for-sale financial assets" and therefore are recognised on the statement of financial position at their fair value. Positive and negative changes in value are recorded directly in other comprehensive income or loss. For shares listed on the stock market and for unlisted shares, fair value is an estimate of their fair value. If the fair value cannot be determined reliably, the shares are recognised at their acquisition cost. If there is an objective indication that these shares may be impaired (a significant or prolonged decline in value), a provision for irreversible impairment is recognised under "Other operating expenses".
Other non-current financial assets are recorded at amortised cost using the effective interest rate method. If there is an objective indication of impairment loss, a provision for impairment is recognised for the difference between the net carrying amount and the recoverable value, along with an entry to income. This provision may be reversed if the recoverable amount subsequently improves.
1.15 - Inventories and work in progress
Inventories mainly include the inventories of finished goods and work in progress for the property development business, assets held for sale and inventories of goods intended for resale as part of the Group's Tourism business.
Inventories of finished goods and work in progress are valued at the lower of their purchase price or production costs, and their probable net realisable amount. If the realisable amount of the inventories (price net of selling expenses) is less than their carrying amount, a provision for impairment loss is recorded accordingly.
The Group applies the percentage of completion method to report the revenue and margins of its property development business. All direct costs pertaining to property development programmes are accrued, including marketing fees. When the work is completed, committed expenditures that are not yet invoiced are capitalised in inventories.

136 UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2018/2019 ­ PIERRE & VACANCES-CENTER PARCS GROUP

FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Consolidated financial statements

1.16 - Trade receivables
Due to the nature of the Group's businesses, trade receivables are short-term and are therefore recognised at their nominal amount.
Since 1 October 2018, the Group has applied IFRS 9 which introduced a provisioning model that aims to recognise provisions for financial assets on the basis of expected credit losses.
Counterparty risk is estimated by considering country risk, counterparty default and the nature of the operating receivable.
Further, for the accounting of contracts according to the percentage of completion method, the Group's property development trade receivables include:
E calls for funds to buyers as the work progresses for work not yet paid;
E "invoices to be issued" corresponding to calls for funds not yet issued for off-plan sales contracts.
1.17 - Cash and cash equivalents
The gross balance of cash and cash equivalents, as presented under assets on the statement of financial position, includes cash and demand deposits, as well as short-term investments (unit trusts ­ Sicav ­ and mutual funds) for terms of less than three months, which are classified as available-for-sale securities. These investments comply with the four criteria of the AMF, their terms are for less than three months, they are available for sale at any time for their nominal amount, and the foreign exchange risk is very low.
Cash and cash equivalents in the consolidated statement of cash flows represent gross amounts less overdrafts.
Accrued interest on items included in net cash is reported under net cash.
1.18 - Pierre et Vacances treasury shares
Shares in Pierre et Vacances held by the parent company and/or by Group companies, irrespective of the purpose of the holding, are recorded at their acquisition cost as a reduction to consolidated equity. The income from any sale of treasury shares is recognised directly in consolidated reserves at their value net of tax and does not impact profit (loss) for the year.
1.19 - Share-based payment
Share options granted by the Group to its employees and executives are reported as an employee expense representing services rendered by the beneficiaries of these plans. Thus, the recognised expense reflects the fair value of the options granted calculated on the date of their grant by the Board of Directors using the "Black & Scholes" method. This expense is spread over the vesting period along with corresponding increases in reserves.
The grant of benefits to employees through a Group Share Ownership Plan also falls under the scope of IFRS 2 to the extent that a discount is given when the employee buys the shares. Thus, when the subscription price granted to employees includes a discount from the fair value of the share at the grant date, an expense is recognised immediately or over the vesting period unless acquisition is immediate.

1.20 - Provisions
A provision is reported when, at the reporting date, the Group has an obligation to a third party that results from a past generating fact, the measure of which can be estimated reliably and will probably or certainly cause an outflow of resources to the benefit of the third party with no at least equivalent consideration expected from that party. This obligation may be legal, regulatory, contractual or implicit. Provisions are reported at the value that represents the best estimate of the amount to be paid to settle the obligation. If the amount or the maturity cannot be estimated with sufficient reliability, the obligation is treated as a contingent liability and is disclosed in the notes.
Thus, to take account both of its contractual commitments and maintenance policy for the property leased, the Group records provisions for renovation expenses in its financial statements. These provisions are intended to take account of future renovation costs to be paid by the Group through the end of the lease term. They are calculated on the basis of discounted future renovation costs.
Furthermore, in the case of restructuring, an obligation is recognised whenever the restructuring has been announced and included in a detailed, formal plan before the reporting date.
1.21 - Provisions for retirement and other post-employment benefits
Post-employment benefits
The Pierre & Vacances-Center Parcs Group complies with employee retirement legislation, regulations and customs in each of the countries in which it operates.
Group companies pay salary-based contributions to the appropriate institutions. As such, they carry no actuarial liability for these retirement plans. For these defined-contribution plans, payments made by the Group are recorded in profit (loss) as expenses for the period to which they relate.
Certain entities within the Group also have their own retirement plan for their employees. A provision for the corresponding actuarial liability is recorded in the consolidated financial statements. The same applies in France for Group commitments to employees for end of service awards. For these defined benefit plans, the cost of providing the benefits is estimated using a retrospective method based on end of service salaries.
Under this method, the cost of the commitments is recognised as an expense in such a way as to spread it evenly over the employees' period of service. The amount of the provision includes the present value of estimated future payments taking into account length of service, mortality rate, employee turnover rate and valuation and discounting assumptions. For defined-benefit plans partially or wholly financed by contributions paid into a separate fund or an insurance company, the assets of these entities are valued at their fair value. The liability is then recorded in the statement of financial position after deducting the value of the plan assets that cover this obligation.

5

137 UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2018/2019 ­ PIERRE & VACANCES-CENTER PARCS GROUP

5

FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Consolidated financial statements

Actuarial gains and losses result from changes in the actuarial assumptions used for valuations from one year to the next, and from any variance in the obligation or the value of the funds with respect to the actuarial assumptions made at the beginning of the financial year. Under IAS 19 "Employee Benefits", these resulting actuarial gains and losses are recognised in other comprehensive income.
Other long-term benefits
When signing corporate agreements, the Group also grants its personnel other long-term benefits during employment such as bonuses and free holidays at the holiday residence portfolio managed by the Group; they are given to employees according to their years of service. These benefits are also the subject of provisions that are determined by using an actuarial calculation to estimate the cost incurred by the Group for the benefits granted. Where necessary, the actuarial differences that are revealed in the year are amortised immediately in the year in which they are reported.
Past service cost
The modification or introduction of a new benefits plan after employment has ceased, or other long-term benefits may increase the present value of the obligation reflecting the benefits defined for services rendered during previous years and called "past service costs". These past service costs are expensed immediately in the year they are incurred.
The expense representing the change in net commitments for retirement and other post-employment benefits is recognised in profit or loss from ordinary operations or in other financial income and expenses according to the nature of the underlying items. The effect of the reversal of the discounting of the retirement benefit obligation, net of expected return of plan assets, is reported under "Other financial income and expenses".
The portion at more than one year of the "Provisions for retirement and other post-employment benefits" is classified as non-current provisions and the portion at less than one year as current provisions. This current portion reflects the payments that the Group estimates it will have to make in the 12 months following the reporting date.
1.22 - Loans and other borrowings
Financial liabilities
All loans are initially recorded at the cost which reflects the fair value of the amount received net of the costs for setting up the loan. Thereafter, these loans are recorded at amortised cost using the effective interest rate method and the difference between the cost and the repayment amount is recognised in profit (loss) over the term of the loans.
The effective interest rate is the rate used to obtain the carrying amount of a loan at the outset by discounting the future cash payments and receipts over the life of the loan. The carrying amount of the loan at the outset includes the transaction costs and any associated premiums.
If the future interest expense is hedged, the financial liabilities whose cash flows are hedged continue to be measured at amortised cost, the change in value of the effective portion of the hedging instrument being recognised in other comprehensive income (loss).

In the absence of any hedging relationship, or for the ineffective portion of the hedging instrument, the changes in value of the derivative instruments are recorded in net financial income (expenses).
Bonds redeemable in cash and new and/or existing shares (ORNANE)
The ORNANE bonds are similar to convertible bonds (OCEANE), which share increases in the Group share price with investors by allotting them an outperformance premium representative of the difference between the stock market share price on the maturity date and the bond's principal.
The Group may thus issue a variable number of shares depending on the share price and the redemption option being exercised. At maturity, the Group may apply the following redemption terms at its discretion:
a) Option 1: redemption by conversion into new and/or existing shares;
b) Option 2: redemption by paying the principal and the outperformance premium in cash;
c) Option 3: redemption by paying the principal and the outperformance premium partly in cash and in new and/or existing shares.
Accordingly, the option component of ORNANE bonds does not meet the condition of exchanging a fixed amount of cash for a fixed number of equity instruments required by IAS 32 in order to recognise a derivative instrument in equity and must therefore be recognised as a derivative instrument at fair value through profit or loss.
As such, ORNANE is a bond comprising two components:
E a liability component recognised at amortised cost under liabilities;
E an equity component (derivative) recognised at mark-to-market value under liabilities, the fair value of which is determined as the difference between the fair value of the hybrid contract and the fair value of the liability component. Further changes in the fair value of this derivative are recognised in financial income (expense) under a separate item called "Change in the fair value of the ORNANE derivative", as shown in the related note on financial income (expense).
1.23 - Derivative financial instruments
Amounts due to credit institutions offering variable interest rates, the Pierre & Vacances-Center Parcs Group may have to hedge its future interest expense by using derivative financial instruments such as interest rate swaps. The Group's policy is to reduce its exposure to interest rate fluctuations.
These risks are managed centrally, allowing the Group to define the main hedging guidelines. The positions are traded over the counter with first class banking counter parties.
Hedge accounting applies if:
E the hedging relationship is clearly documented at the date it is implemented; and
E the effectiveness of the hedging relationship is demonstrated prospectively and retrospectively at each reporting date.

138 UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2018/2019 ­ PIERRE & VACANCES-CENTER PARCS GROUP

FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Consolidated financial statements

Derivative financial instruments are reported in the statement of financial position at their fair value. The market value is established on the basis of market data and is confirmed by stock market prices provided by financial institutions.
The changes in the fair value of the instruments acquired to hedge certain liabilities are recognised directly in other comprehensive income (loss) for the effective portion of the hedge and, in the absence of a hedging relationship or for the ineffective portion of the hedge, the changes in the value of the derivative financial instruments are reported in net financial income (expenses).
1.24 - Deferred tax
All temporary differences existing at the reporting date between the carrying amounts of the asset and liability items and the amounts of those same items for tax purposes are recorded as deferred taxes and calculated using the liability method. Deferred taxes on temporary differences and losses carried forward are calculated at approved and quasi-adopted rates that will apply on the probable date of reversal of the differences concerned, if these are fixed, or, failing this, at tax rates approved at the reporting date. The effects of tax rate changes are recorded in profit (loss) for the year during which the rate change is made.
Deferred tax benefits arising from tax losses that can be carried forward are not reported as deferred tax assets unless there is a high likelihood that they will be used within a reasonable period of time.
The tax expense is recognised in profit (loss) except for tax relating to items recognised in other comprehensive income or loss that is recorded directly in other comprehensive income or loss.
Deferred tax assets and liabilities, irrespective of their due date, are not discounted and are off set when they relate to a single tax entity.
1.25 - Deferred income
Deferred income is income that is received or recorded before the underlying services have been performed or the underlying goods have been delivered. It is classed as a contract liability within the meaning of IFRS 15.
This item primarily consists of sales signed in the presence of a notary for property not yet delivered, for the proportion exceeding the revenue calculated by the percentage of completion method.
To a lesser extent, this item also includes "support funds". In fact, the sale of property assets to owners is generally accompanied by a commitment from the Group to pay annual rents in proportion to the property sale price. When the rent commitments are greater than market rates at the time of the sale, the excess rent, called "support funds" is recognised as a reduction in the selling price of the property. In this way, the excess portion of the property development margin is recorded in deferred income and, after the property is delivered, is recognised in profit or loss using a straight-line method over the lease term.

1.26 - Revenue
Consolidated revenue comprises:
E tourism: the pre-tax value of holidays and related income earned during the financial year, as well as fees due as part of its marketing activity.
For residences run under management agreements, only management fees invoiced to the customer are included in revenue. Revenue for the part of Center Parcs' catering and food trade business, which is outsourced, includes royalties from the service providers;
E property development:
­ property sales generated by the property development business and recognised according to the percentage of completion method (see Note 1.27 ­ Revenue recognition method ­ Property development) less, where applicable, on the date the apartments are delivered, the "support funds" (see Note 1.25 ­ Deferred income). The amount is initially recorded in deferred income and then gradually recognised in revenue using the straight-line method over the term of the lease,
­ project management fees billed as the work progresses to property development programmes,
­ marketing fees,
­ the Group's share of the profit from renovations of Center Parcs sites.
All revenue is valued at the fair value of the consideration received or to be received, net of rebates, discounts and allowances, VAT and other taxes. Services are recognised when rendered.
1.27 - Revenue recognition method ­ Property development
Our property development business is mainly based on off-plan sales contracts (VEFA) through which the seller immediately transfers the land rights to the buyer, as well as ownership of the existing buildings. Future construction works become the property of the buyer as and when the work is completed. The costs incurred or future costs and the income from ordinary activities can be reliably measured.
In this case, the buyer has very limited influence over the design of the property.
Accordingly, the transfer of control occuring as the work is completed, revenue and margins on property development programmes are reported using the percentage of completion method. In order to apply the percentage of completion method, the Group has defined the rate of completion by multiplying the percentage of construction progress, i.e. the cost of the work completed in relation to the cost of the work budgeted, by the percentage of revenue from property sales signed at a notary's office.

5

139 UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2018/2019 ­ PIERRE & VACANCES-CENTER PARCS GROUP

5

FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Consolidated financial statements

For ongoing programmes that are not yet delivered, when the situation on completion is a loss, a provision for losses on completion, taking account of the most likely assumptions, is immediately reported.
In addition, as part of the Center Parcs renovation projects, the Group recognises income associated with the provision of support services for the resale of property assets to new institutional investors under Revenue. These services are recognised when the contract of sale for the property assets in question is signed.
1.28 - Employee expenses
Employee expenses include all the payments and commitments made by the Group, including employee profit-sharing and the expenses associated with share-based payments.
Until 1 January 2019, this item also included accrued income for the Competitiveness and Jobs Tax Credit introduced by the 3rd amended finance law for 2012. On 1 January 2019, this tax credit was replaced by a permanent reduction in employer's contributions.
1.29 - Operating profit (loss)
Operating profit (loss) includes all income and expense directly relating to the Group's activities, whether this income and expense is recurring or whether it is the result of non-recurring decisions or operations.
Operating profit (loss) from ordinary activities is an intermediate aggregate intended to facilitate understanding of the company's operating performance, and its comparability from one period to another.
Other operating income and expenses are reported in accordance with the AMF guidelines. Only events that, due to their frequency, amount or nature, are likely to affect the relevance of the monitoring of the Group's operating performances, are presented. This item includes gains and losses on disposals of non-current assets, impairment losses on property, plant and equipment, and intangible assets, restructuring expenses (notably as part of STAFF departures) and expenses related to legal proceedings, which are material to the Group.
1.30 - Income tax
Income tax expense or benefit includes both current tax, the corporate value-added tax (cotisation sur la valeur ajoutée des entreprises or CVAE) and deferred tax resulting from temporary differences and consolidation adjustments, where justified by the tax position of the Group's companies.

France's 2010 budget, approved in December 2009, introduced a regional economic tax (contribution économique territoriale or CET) to replace business tax (taxe professionnelle or TP). The CET has two components: the corporate real estate tax (contribution foncière des entreprises or CFE) and the corporate value-added tax (CVAE). The CFE, the extent of which depends on the rental value of property liable for real estate tax, is very similar to business tax and can hence be likened to an operating expense for accounting purposes. The CVAE is based on the added value shown in the parent company financial statements and has a number of characteristics similar to income tax with respect to IAS 12.
Following the advice of the French National Accounting Board (Conseil National de la Comptabilité) issued on 14 January 2010, the Group decided to treat the CVAE as an income tax expense.
1.31 - Earnings per share
Earnings per share are calculated by dividing profit (loss) attributable to the owners of the Company by the weighted average number of shares outstanding during the financial year, less the Pierre et Vacances treasury shares recorded as a reduction in equity. The average number of shares outstanding during the financial year is the number of ordinary shares outstanding at the beginning of the financial year, adjusted by the number of ordinary shares repurchased or issued during the year.
To calculate diluted earnings, profit (loss) for the year attributable to the owners of the Company and the weighted average number of shares are adjusted to take account of the maximum impact of the conversion of dilutive instruments into ordinary shares. The impact of any possible future share issue including those resulting from the conversion of instruments that give deferred access to the share capital of the parent company is therefore factored into the calculation of earnings per share.
The negative impact linked to the existence of instruments with an equity component is calculated by taking into account all dilutive instruments issued, whatever their maturity and regardless of the probability of conversion to ordinary shares, excluding instruments with a relative effect.
For the years disclosed, the existing dilutive instruments include share options and bonus share grants. The accretive effects of share options are calculated according to the "share buyback" method by which the funds that will be collected when the option is exercised or the vested shares are purchased are considered to be assigned primarily to repurchasing Pierre et Vacances shares at the market price.

140 UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2018/2019 ­ PIERRE & VACANCES-CENTER PARCS GROUP

FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Consolidated financial statements

Note 2 Highlights of the financial year and scope of consolidation

2.1 - Highlights for the 2018/2019 financial year
Governance
Since 2 September 2019, Yann Caillère ­ drawing on 40 years of experience working at the highest level in leading Tourism industry companies ­ has been CEO of the Pierre & Vacances-Center Parcs Group.
He succeeded Olivier Bremond who was appointed deputy CEO of S.I.T.I., the Pierre & Vacances-Center Parcs Group's main holding company.
Strategic agreements in China
On 21 December 2018, S.I.T.I. acquired the full interests, previously owned by HNA Tourism Group in Pierre et Vacances S.A., i.e, or 10.00% of the Company's capital and 13.50% of its net voting rights. This acquisition put an end to all of the capital and commercial ties linking HNA Tourism and Pierre & Vacances-Center Parcs.
In August 2019, the Pierre & Vacances-Center Parcs Group signed partnership agreements with two state-owned groups that are leaders in their sectors: an investment bank and a construction and civil engineering company, which have respectively subscribed for 44% and 12% of the Chinese Joint-Venture backing Pierre & Vacances-Center Parcs activities in China, with Pierre & Vacances-Center Parcs Group holding a 44% stake.
To date, the Joint-Venture has signed project management assistance and tourism management contracts for 14 projects inspired by Center Parcs and Pierre & Vacances concepts.
Developments in the tourism offering
Opening of Center Parcs Allgaü
After an opening period affected by a spate of bad weather, the site, in operation since 2018, has enjoyed huge commercial success, recording a 90% occupancy rate in the 4th quarter.
Developing the Pierre & Vacances offering in Spain
Pierre & Vacances' Spanish holiday residence portfolio is still expanding with two new lease sites, one in Madrid and one in Andalusia (Estepona).
Developing the Adagio offering
In 2018/2019, Adagio operated four new residences (Lille, Montpellier, London and Casablanca), and opened seven new franchise sites (four in France, two in Germany, one in the Netherlands).
Temporary closure of Domaine du Lac d'Ailette
The Lac d'Ailette Center Parcs was closed between 3 September 2018 and 8 February 2019 for renovations. The site now offers refurbished accommodation, connected services and revamped leisure and catering areas.

Acquisitions operations
On 16 January 2019, the Group announced the acquisition of the business capital of French start-up RendezvousCheznous.com, a marketplace launched in 2014 that connects holidaymakers with local hosts for authentic experiences. This acquisition fits with the strategy of the Pierre & Vacances brand to round out its offer by proposing customers immersive and experiential holidays.
Center Parcs project in Roybon
On 21 November 2018, the State Council validated the Pierre & Vacances-Center Parcs Group's appeal, thereby breaking the ruling by which the Lyons Administrative Court of Appeal had cancelled the authorisation of the water law. On 21 May 2019, this same Court ruled that the area of wet lands affected by the project should be reviewed by an expert, as should those offered in compensation.
The Group is confident that the future findings of said expert review will provide positive technical answers to the questions raised by the Court of Appeal.
Threshold crossings
S.I.T.I. and the HNA Tourism Group, acting in concert, declared that, on 21 December 2018, they had crossed the threshold of 50% of the voting rights and 1/3, 30%, 25%, 20%, 15%, 10% and 5% of the share capital and voting rights of Pierre et Vacances SA and are no longer acting in concert.
This threshold crossing resulted from HNA Tourism Group's sale of its entire holding in Pierre et Vacances to S.I.T.I.
2.2 - Main changes in the scope of consolidation
Main changes in the scope of consolidation for the 2018/2019 financial year
Over the financial year, the Group structured and strengthened its development resources in China by means of strategic agreements with local partners (see Note 2 "Highlights").
As a result, the subsidiary renamed "Beau Village Limited" is now 44%-owned by the Group and consolidated using the equity method.
Other changes during the 2018/2019 financial year
In addition, during the 2018/2019 financial year, the Group continued its policy of rationalising and simplifying operations and legal organisations by creating new companies or making internal changes of scope (mergers and liquidations of companies through the transfer of all assets and liabilities).

5

141 UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2018/2019 ­ PIERRE & VACANCES-CENTER PARCS GROUP

5

FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Consolidated financial statements

Main changes in the scope of consolidation for the 2017/2018 financial year
No material disposals occurred during the 2017/2018 financial year.

Other changes during the 2017/2018 financial year
In addition, during the 2017/2018 financial year, the Group continued its policy of rationalising and simplifying operations and legal organisations by creating new companies or making internal changes of scope (mergers and liquidations of companies through the transfer of all assets and liabilities).

2.3 - Main consolidated entities French entities

Legal form Holding companies SA SNC EIG Tourism France SA Center Parcs SAS Property development SAS SAS SARL China Limited liability company Limited liability company Limited liability company Tourism Tourism France SARL SASU SA SA SAS
SAS SA SAS SAS SAS SAS SAS SAS SAS

Consolidation

Company

method(1)

Pierre & Vacances Parent company

Pierre & VacancesFI

FC

PV-CP Services

FC

Pierre & Vacances Tourisme Europe

FC

Center Parcs Holding Belgique

FC

PV-CP Immobilier Holding SAS

FC

Pierre & Vacances Senioriales Programme Immobilier

FC

Pierre & Vacances Transactions

FC

PVCP China Company Limited

FC

PVCP China Real Estate Brokerage

Company Limited

FC

Beau Village Limited

EA

Clubhotel

FC

La France du Nord au Sud

FC

Clubhotel Multivacances

FC

Compagnie Hôtelière Pierre & Vacances

FC

Orion

FC

Pierre & Vacances Esterel

Développement

FC

PV-CP Distribution

FC

Pierre & Vacances Rénovation Tourisme

FC

PV-CP City

FC

PV-CP Holding Exploitation

FC

PV-CP Gestion Exploitation

FC

PV Résidences & Resorts France

FC

SET Pierre & Vacances Guadeloupe

FC

SET Pierre & Vacances Martinique

FC

% interest at 30/09/2019
100.00% 100.00% 100.00%
100.00%
100.00%
100.00% 100.00% 100.00%
100.00%
100.00%
44.00%
100.00% 100.00% 100.00% 100.00% 100.00%
100.00% 100.00% 100.00% 100.00% 100.00% 100.00% 100.00% 100.00% 100.00%

% interest at 30/09/2018
100.00% 100.00% 100.00%
100.00%
100.00%
100.00% 100.00% 100.00%
100.00%
100.00%
40.00%
100.00% 100.00% 100.00% 100.00% 100.00%
100.00% 100.00% 100.00% 100.00% 100.00% 100.00% 100.00% 100.00% 100.00%

142 UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2018/2019 ­ PIERRE & VACANCES-CENTER PARCS GROUP

FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Consolidated financial statements

Legal form SARL SNC SARL SNC SA Villages Nature® SAS Adagio SAS SAS Center Parcs SAS SNC Property development Immobilier France SNC SNC SNC SNC SNC SNC SNC SNC SNC SNC SNC SCI SCI SCI SCI SCI SCI SCI SCI SCI SCI SCI SCI SCI SCI SCI SCI

Company SGRT SICE
Maeva Gestion Société Hôtelière de l'Anse à la Barque
Sogire

Consolidation method(1)
FC FC FC FC FC

% interest at 30/09/2019
100.00% 100.00% 100.00% 100.00% 100.00%

Villages Nature® Tourisme

EA

50.00%

Adagio Adagio Formations & Prestation de Services

EA

50.00%

EA

50.00%

Center Parcs Resorts France Domaine du Lac d'Ailette

FC

100.00%

FC

100.00%

Biarritz Loisirs Belle Dune Clairière Bois de la Mothe Chandenier Cottages Bois de la Mothe Chandenier Équipements Bois de la Mothe Chandenier Foncière Bois Francs Equipements Caen Meslin Loisirs
Colmar Loisirs Avoriaz Téléphérique Flaine Montsoleil Centre Flaine Montsoleil Extension Les Senioriales Boulou Les Senioriales Charleval Les Senioriales de Bassan Les Senioriales de Bracieux Les Senioriales de Cavillargues Les Senioriales de Cevennes ­ St Privat des Vieux Les Senioriales de Gonfaron Les Senioriales d'Izon Les Senioriales de Jonquières Les Senioriales de Juvignac Les Senioriales de la Celle Les Senioriales de la Côte d'Azur ­ Grasse Les Senioriales de Medis Les Senioriales de Nandy Les Senioriales de Pont Aven Les Senioriales de Pringy

FC

100.00%

FC

100.00%

FC

100.00%

FC

100.00%

FC

100.00%

FC

100.00%

EA

40.00%

FC

100.00%

FC

100.00%

FC

100.00%

FC

100.00%

FC

100.00%

FC

100.00%

FC

100.00%

FC

100.00%

FC

100.00%

FC

100.00%

FC

100.00%

FC

100.00%

FC

100.00%

FC

100.00%

FC

100.00%

FC

100.00%

FC

100.00%

FC

100.00%

FC

100.00%

FC

100.00%

% interest at 30/09/2018
100.00% 100.00% 100.00% 100.00% 100.00%
50.00%
50.00% 50.00%
100.00% 100.00%
100.00% 100.00% 100.00% 100.00% 100.00% 100.00%
40.00% 100.00% 100.00% 100.00% 100.00% 100.00% 100.00% 100.00% 100.00% 100.00% 100.00% 100.00% 100.00% 100.00% 100.00% 100.00% 100.00% 100.00% 100.00% 100.00% 100.00%

5

143 UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2018/2019 ­ PIERRE & VACANCES-CENTER PARCS GROUP

5

FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Consolidated financial statements

Legal form SCI SCI SCI SCI SCI SCI SCI SCCV SCI SCI SCI SCI SCI SCI SCI SNC SNC SCI SCI SCI SCI SCCV SCCV SCCV SCCV SCCV SCCV SCI SCCV SNC SCCV SNC SCCV SCCV SAS SCCV SARL SA SARL SA
SAS SAS

Company Les Senioriales de Rambouillet
Les Senioriales de Soulac Les Senioriales de Vias
Les Senioriales des Landes ­ Hinx Les Senioriales en Ville Cenon
Les Senioriales en Ville de Luce Les Senioriales en Ville de Marseille ­ St Loup
Les Senioriales en Ville de Saint Ave Les Senioriales en Ville de Saint Avertin
Les Senioriales en Ville d'Emerainville Les Senioriales en Ville Manosque Les Senioriales en Ville de Mions Les Senioriales de Pollestres Les Senioriales Ville de Nîmes Les Senioriales Ville de Castanet Les Senioriales Ville de Dijon Les Senioriales Ville de Tourcoing Les Senioriales du Pornic Les Senioriales Ville de St Étienne Les Senioriales Ville de Soustons
Les Senioriales Ville de Rillieux la Pape Les Senioriales en Ville de Fontenay-aux Roses
Les Senioriales en Ville de Mantes-la-Jolie Les Senioriales en Ville de Pessac Les Senioriales en Ville du Teich
Les Senioriales de la Rochelle Laleu Les Senioriales en Ville de Cavaillon
SCI Les Senioriales de Pourrières Les Senioriales de Mordelles
Les Senioriales en Ville de Saint Palais sur Mer Les Senioriales en Ville de Noisy Le Grand Les Senioriales en Ville de Sannois SCCV Toulouse Ponts Jumeaux A1 SCCV Palaiseau RT Les Villages Nature® de Val d'Europe Nantes Russeil Peterhof II Pierre & Vacances Conseil Immobilier Pierre & Vacances Courtage Pierre & Vacances Développement Pierre & Vacances Senioriales Promotion et Commercialisation Pierre & Vacances Senioriales Exploitation

Consolidation method(1) FC FC FC FC FC FC FC EA FC FC FC FC FC FC EA FC EA FC FC FC FC EA FC FC FC FC FC FC FC FC FC FC EA EA EA EA FC FC FC FC
FC FC

% interest at 30/09/2019
100.00% 100.00% 100.00% 100.00% 100.00% 100.00% 100.00%
50.00% 100.00% 100.00% 100.00% 100.00% 100.00% 100.00%
50.00% 100.00%
50.00% 100.00% 100.00% 100.00% 100.00%
50.00% 100.00% 100.00% 100.00% 100.00% 100.00% 100.00% 100.00% 100.00% 100.00% 100.00%
50.00% 50.00% 50.00% 50.00% 100.00% 100.00% 100.00% 100.00%
100.00% 100.00%

% interest at 30/09/2018
100.00% 100.00% 100.00% 100.00% 100.00% 100.00% 100.00%
50.00% 100.00% 100.00% 100.00% 100.00% 100.00% 100.00%
50.00% 100.00%
50.00% 100.00% 100.00% 100.00% 100.00%
50.00% 100.00% 100.00% 100.00% 100.00% 100.00% 100.00% 100.00% 100.00% 100.00% 100.00%
50.00% 50.00% 50.00% 50.00% 100.00% 100.00% 100.00% 100.00%
100.00% 100.00%

144 UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2018/2019 ­ PIERRE & VACANCES-CENTER PARCS GROUP

FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Consolidated financial statements

Legal form

Company

SNC

Presqu'île de La Touques

SAS

Foncière Presqu'île de La Touques

SNC

CP Centre Est

SAS

Tourisme et Rénovation

SNC

Villages Nature® Hébergements

SNC

SNC Villages Nature® Hébergements II

SNC

SNC Villages Nature® Équipements I

SNC

SNC Villages Nature® Équipements II

SNC SARL

Nature Hébergement I Villages Nature® Management

Center Parcs

SNC

Ailette Equipement

SNC

Bois des Harcholins Foncière

SNC

Bois des Harcholins Spa

SNC

Bois des Harcholins Village II

SNC

Bois Francs Hébergements

SNC

Roybon Cottages

SNC

Roybon Equipements

Other

SAS

Pierre & Vacances Investissement 24

SAS

Pierre & Vacances Marques

(1) FC: full consolidation, EA: equity accounted, N/A: not applicable.

Consolidation method(1) FC EA FC FC EA EA EA EA EA EA
FC FC FC FC FC FC FC
FC FC

% interest at 30/09/2019
100.00% 50.00%
100.00% 100.00%
50.00% 50.00% 50.00% 50.00% 37.50% 50.00%
100.00% 100.00% 100.00% 100.00% 100.00% 100.00% 100.00%
100.00% 100.00%

% interest at 30/09/2018
100.00% 50.00%
100.00% 100.00%
50.00% 50.00% 50.00% 50.00% 37.50% 50.00%
100.00% 100.00% 100.00% 100.00% 100.00% 100.00% 100.00%
100.00% 100.00%

5

145 UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2018/2019 ­ PIERRE & VACANCES-CENTER PARCS GROUP

5

FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Consolidated financial statements

Foreign companies

Legal form Holding companies Center Parcs NV
GmbH GmbH BV GmbH BV BV GmbH & Co.KG BV GmbH BV GmbH Tourism Center Parcs NV GmbH GmbH GmbH GmbH
GmbH
GmbH GmbH
GmbH SA NV NV NV Adagio GmbH Ltd GmbH SARL Srl
SA Orion SL

Company

Method of % interest au % interest au Country consolidation(1) 30/09/2019 30/09/2018

Center Parcs Europe Center Parcs Deutschland
Kunden-Center Center Parcs Germany Center Parcs Germany Holding Center Parcs Medebach Beteiligungs Center Parcs NL Holding Center Parcs Participations
Center Parcs Service Center Parcs Sunparks Pierre & Vacances-Center Parcs Suisse PVCP Support Services PVCP Holding Germany GmbH

The Netherlands
Germany Germany The Netherlands Germany The Netherlands The Netherlands Germany The Netherlands Switzerland The Netherlands Germany

FC

100.00%

100.00%

FC

100.00%

100.00%

FC

100.00%

100.00%

FC

100.00%

100.00%

FC

100.00%

100.00%

FC

100.00%

100.00%

FC

100.00%

100.00%

FC

100.00%

100.00%

FC

100.00%

100.00%

FC

100.00%

100.00%

FC

100.00%

100.00%

FC

100.00%

100.00%

Center Parcs België Center Parcs Bungalowpark Allgäu Center Parcs Bungalowpark Bispingen Center Parcs Bungalowpark Bostalsee Center Parcs Entwickelungsgesellschaft
Center Parcs Bungalowpark Heilbachsee
Center Parcs Bungalowpark Hochsauerland
Center Parcs Leisure Deutschland Sunparks Bungalowpark Nordseeküste Foncière Loisirs Vielsalm Center Parcs Ardennen Sunparks Vielsalm Sunparks Leisure
Adagio Deutschland Adagio Hotels UK
New City Aparthotels Betriebs New City Suisse Adagio Italia
Pierre & Vacances Exploitation Belgique
SET Orion

Belgium Germany Germany Germany Germany
Germany
Germany Germany
Germany Belgium Belgium Belgium Belgium
Germany UK
Austria Switzerland
Italy
Belgium
Spain

FC

100.00%

100.00%

FC

100.00%

100.00%

FC

100.00%

100.00%

FC

100.00%

100.00%

FC

100.00%

100.00%

FC

100.00%

100.00%

FC

100.00%

100.00%

FC

100.00%

100.00%

FC

100.00%

100.00%

EA

19.64%

19.64%

FC

100.00%

100.00%

EA

19.64%

19.64%

FC

100.00%

100.00%

EA

50.00%

50.00%

EA

50.00%

50.00%

EA

50.00%

50.00%

EA

50.00%

50.00%

EA

50.00%

50.00%

FC

100.00%

100.00%

FC

100.00%

100.00%

146 UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2018/2019 ­ PIERRE & VACANCES-CENTER PARCS GROUP

FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Consolidated financial statements

Legal form

Company

Tourism other

Srl

Pierre & Vacances Italia

Ltd

P&V Sales & Marketing UK

SL

Pierre & Vacances Maeva Distribution España

SL

SET Pierre & Vacances España

Property development

SL

Bonavista de Bonmont

SL

Pierre & Vacances Développement España

SL

Pierre & Vacances Inversion Inmobiliaria

Srl

Résidence City

Other

BV

Beheer Recreatiepark Zandvoort

GmbH

Center Parcs Entwicklungsgesellschaft Ferienhauspark Bostalsee

GmbH

Pierre & Vacances-Center Parcs Immobilien

BV

Multi Resorts Holding

BV

Center Parcs Development

BV

Pierre & Vacances-Center Parcs Vastgoed

BV

PV-CP China Holding B.V.

SAS

Pierre & Vacances Maroc

(1) FC: full consolidation EA: equity accounted N/A: not applicable.

Country
Italy UK
Spain Spain
Spain Spain Spain
Italy
The Netherlands
Germany Germany The Netherlands The Netherlands The Netherlands The Netherlands Morocco

Method of % interest au % interest au consolidation(1) 30/09/2019 30/09/2018

FC

100.00%

100.00%

FC

100.00%

100.00%

FC

100.00%

100.00%

FC

100.00%

100.00%

FC

100.00%

100.00%

FC

100.00%

100.00%

FC

100.00%

100.00%

FC

100.00%

100.00%

FC

100.00%

100.00%

FC

90.00%

90.00%

FC

100.00%

100.00%

FC

100.00%

100.00%

FC

100.00%

100.00%

FC

100.00%

100.00%

FC

100.00%

100.00%

FC

100.00%

100.00%

5

147 UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2018/2019 ­ PIERRE & VACANCES-CENTER PARCS GROUP

5

FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Consolidated financial statements

Segment information

Based on the internal organisation of the Group, the segment information shows the tourism business and the property development business. This breakdown reflects the operational organisation of the Group in terms of management and control of operations.
The Group develops its activities through two complementary business lines:
E the property development segment, which aims to increase the holiday destinations available and adapt the existing residences and villages to suit changes in customer requirements. This segment includes the construction activities and the marketing to individual investors of hotel rooms, apartments and new or renovated houses. The property development programmes currently available are mainly located in France and Germany. Programmes relating to the renovation of tourism assets operated under the Center Parcs and Sunparks brands are also in the process of being developed in the Netherlands, Germany and Belgium. This segment also includes the development of the Les Senioriales, specialising in building and marketing residences in France and aimed at a customer base of active seniors;

E the tourism segment called "Tourisme Europe", which includes the operation of residences and villages marketed under the Pierre & Vacances, Adagio, Center Parcs and Sunparks brands, located in Europe, mainly France, the Netherlands, Germany, Belgium and Spain.
Within each business segment, there is a country-based organisation that runs the activities from day-to-day. Revenue and total non-current assets in France, where the registered office of the parent company is located, amounted to 958,113,000 and 455,459,000 respectively.
Inter-segment revenue is generated under normal market conditions. No single customer represents a significant share of the revenue of the Pierre & Vacances-Center Parcs Group.
The unassigned assets include long-term investments, other assets of a financial nature, current and deferred tax receivables and non-current assets.
The unassigned liabilities include bank borrowings and current and deferred tax payables.

Note 3 Operating segment information

Since 1 October 2014, in application of IFRS 11, the Pierre et Vacances Center Parcs Group has consolidated all companies in which it exercises joint control with partners using the equity method. These entities were previously consolidated using the proportionate consolidation method.
This change affects all financial statement items but has no impact on the profit (loss) for the period.
In addition, the Pierre & Vacances-Center Parcs Group continues to apply the proportionate consolidation method in its internal operational reporting, since this allows for better assessment of the Group's economic performance and key indicators.

This is why the Group continues to use the proportionate consolidation method when publishing the segment information contained in the notes to the consolidated financial statements, as well as for the management report which also includes an IFRS income statement reconciliation table.
The impact of the application of IFRS 11 is also shown on the right hand side of the table shown below, enabling it to be linked with the data published in the consolidated financial statements.

148 UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2018/2019 ­ PIERRE & VACANCES-CENTER PARCS GROUP

FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Consolidated financial statements

2018/2019

(in  thousands)

Tourism

Property development

Total operational Unassigned reporting (1)

Revenue

1,390,565

332,552

- 1,723,117

Intra-business group revenue

-25,472

-24,836

-

-50,308

External revenue

1,365,093

307,716

0 1,672,809

Operating profit (loss) from ordinary activities

29,566

1,300

0

30,866

Other operating income and expenses

-6,659

-416

-2,608

-9,682

Operating profit (loss)

22,907

884

-2,608

21,184

Depreciation and amortisation

-41,978

-321

0

-42,299

Impairment losses net of reversals

0

-8

0

-8

Property, plant and equipment, and intangible assets

70,486

-18,424

9,692

61,754

Non-current assets

557,994

33,232

128,949

720,175

Current assets

285,734

384,896

178,089

848,719

Total assets

843,728

418,128

307,038 1,568,894

Non-current liabilities

22,146

4,402

364,321

390,869

Current liabilities

607,784

233,940

85,662

927,386

Total liabilities excluding equity

629,930

238,342

449,983 1,318,255

(1) The data are shown before the impact of the adoption of IFRS 11, in accordance with the operational reporting followed by the Group.

Impact of IFRS 11 -78,264 422 -77,842
-635 92
-542 2,143
8
-3,784 -26,494 -24,844 -51,338 17,142 -69,288 -52,146

Total 1,644,853
-49,886 1,594,967
30,231 -9,590 20,642 -40,156
0
57,970 693,681 823,875 1,517,556 408,011 858,098 1,266,109

2017/2018

(in  thousands)

Tourism

Property development(2)

Total operational Unassigned reporting(1)

Revenue

1,383,266

179,355

- 1,562,621

Intra-business group revenue

-26,812

-12,854

-

-39,666

External revenue

1,356,454

166,501

0 1,522,955

Operating profit (loss) from ordinary activities(2)

20,082

-10,240

0

9,842

Other operating income and expenses

-2,901

-652

-1,123

-4,676

Operating profit (loss) (2)

17,181

-10,892

-1,123

5,166

Depreciation and amortisation

-43,784

-253

0

-44,037

Property, plant and equipment, and intangible assets

41,548

22,741

9,363

73,652

Non-current assets

526,771

57,022

143,449

727,242

Current assets(2)

277,228

393,180

166,545

836,953

Total assets(2)

803,999

450,202

309,994 1,564,195

Non-current liabilities

19,186

2,594

367,365

389,145

Current liabilities

542,855

227,907

119,277

890,039

Total liabilities excluding equity

562,041

230,501

486,642 1,279,184

(1) The data are shown before the impact of the adoption of IFRS 11, in accordance with the operational reporting followed by the Group. (2) These data were restated for the impacts of the interpretation of IAS 23 published in December 2018 ­ see Note 1.2.

Impact of IFRS 11 -89,199 969 -88,230
7,839 22
7,861 1,911
-3,651 -34,168 -41,245 -75,413
6,446 -82,662 -76,216

Total(2) 1,473,422
-38,697 1,434,725
17,681 -4,654 13,027 -42,126
70,001 693,074 795,708 1,488,782 395,591 807,377 1,202,968

5

149 UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2018/2019 ­ PIERRE & VACANCES-CENTER PARCS GROUP

5

FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Consolidated financial statements

Analysis of main financial position items
Note 4 Goodwill

(in  thousands)
Tourism Europe Les Senioriales Pierre & Vacances Développement Pierre & Vacances Développement España TOTAL NET AMOUNT
Goodwill was automatically tested for impairment loss at 30 September 2019, according to the procedures described in Notes 1.10 and 6. The tests carried out did not reveal the need to
Net amount at reporting date
(in  thousands)
Gross amount Accumulated impairment loss NET AMOUNT

30/09/2019 138,226 18,926 1,463 336 158,951

30/09/2018 138,226 18,926 1,463 336 158,951

recognise any impairment losses for the 2018/2019 financial year. The position was the same at 30 September 2018.

30/09/2019 181,640 -22,689 158,951

30/09/2018 181,640 -22,689 158,951

Note 5 Intangible assets

(in  thousands)
At 30 September 2017 Gross amount Accumulated depreciation, amortisation and impairment losses NET AMOUNT Changes Acquisitions Net disposals and retirements Depreciation Reclassifications TOTAL CHANGES FOR THE YEAR At 30 September 2018 Gross amount Accumulated depreciation, amortisation and impairment losses NET AMOUNT Changes Acquisitions Net disposals and retirements Depreciation Reclassifications TOTAL CHANGES FOR THE YEAR At 30 September 2019 Gross amount Accumulated depreciation, amortisation and impairment losses NET AMOUNT

Brand names

Other intangible assets

Total intangible assets

105,777 -3,734
102,043

65,569 -45,462 20,107

171,346 -49,196 122,150

-

12,464

12,464

-

-3,876

-3,876

-

-6,161

-6,161

-

30

30

-

2,457

2,457

105,777 -3,734
102,043

72,771 -50,207 22,564

178,548 -53,941 124,607

-

13,431

13,431

-

-1,845

-1,845

-

-5,267

-5,267

-

-243

-243

-

6,076

6,076

105,777 -3,734
102,043

84,018 -55,378 28,640

189,795 -59,112 130,683

150 UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2018/2019 ­ PIERRE & VACANCES-CENTER PARCS GROUP

FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Consolidated financial statements

Intangible assets at 30 September 2019 consisted of:
E "Brand names" including:
­ 85,870,000 for the Center Parcs brand,
­ 7,472,000 for the Pierre & Vacances brand,
­ 3,279,000 for the Sunparks brand,
­ 3,236,000 for the Maeva brand,
­ 2,040,000 for the Les Senioriales brand,
­ 114,000 for the Multivacances brand,
­ and 32,000 for the Ecolidays brand.
According to the method described in the accounting policies for intangible assets (Note 1.11 ­ "Intangible assets"), an impairment test was carried out at 30 September 2019 for each of the brand names on the statement of financial position. These tests did not lead the Group to recognise impairment losses on brand names for the 2018/2019 financial year;
E "Other intangible assets" in the amount of 28,640,000. The change is essentially due to:
­ 13,431,000 in capital investment, including technical and functional enhancements to:
­ Group websites (4,140,000),

­ IT solutions developed by the Group (2,716,000), server renewal (796,000) and licences (362,000),
­ the customer database (2,359,000),
­ the development of new management solutions for owners and business conducted under management agreements with individual owners under the maeva.com brand (417,000),
­ Group financial services and human resources projects (1,051,000),
­ miscellaneous IT projects for 1,590,000;
­ 1,845,000 in sales of IT solutions.
Finance leases
At 30 September 2019, the net amount of "Intangible assets" included 266,000 representing the restatement of assets under finance leases, compared with 367,000 at 30 September 2018. The corresponding residual financial liability stood at 288,000 at 30 September 2019, compared with 394,000 at 30 September 2018 (see Note 18 ­ "Financial liabilities").
At 30 September 2019, the line item "Finance leases" primarily includes IT solutions.

5

Note 6 Impairment testing of goodwill and intangible assets with indefinite useful lives

Brand names and goodwill are not amortised. They are subject to impairment testing whenever there is an indication that they may be impaired and at least once a year at the reporting date, namely at 30 September of each year.
As indicated in Note 1.10 ­ "Goodwill impairment tests" and Note 1.11 ­ "Intangible assets", and in the absence of a fair value less selling costs available at the reporting date, the recoverable value of the cash generating units (CGUs) is determined on the basis of their value in use.
The recoverable amount of each group of assets tested was therefore compared with its value in use, which is defined as being equal to the sum of the future net discounted cash flows.
Cash flows were based on five-year business plans prepared by the operating and finance managers of a CGU or CGU group whose main assumptions (average net selling prices, occupancy rates, inflation, etc.) were reviewed by the Group's Finance Department, according to the division's past performance and external macro-economic information in Europe. The assumptions used to estimate the value in use are based on forecast cash flows from operating activities, which are driven mainly by:
E change in revenue, which varies according to the offering, occupancy rates, average sales prices and the distribution strategy, within the context of upscaling tourism products;

E the implementation of plans to optimise operating costs and support functions;
E and finally, the selective lease renewal policy enabling, in particular, the lowering of the rent expense.
With respect to property development activities, and most particularly the Les Senioriales business, the assumptions used take into account projects already identified and data related to future projects.
Beyond this explicit projection period, cash flows are extrapolated by applying a perpetual growth rate, which was assumed to be in line with the long-term growth rate of the countries in which the businesses operate. The main assumptions used to determine the terminal value are based on historical and prospective data. The latter are prepared by the operational departments concerned, namely the Sales Department, in relation to occupancy rate and marketing, Pricing and Revenue Management for average sales prices, and Business Line for operating margins.
Lastly, the discount rate used in determining values in use justifying the carrying amount of the assets is based on the weighted average cost of the Group's capital. The latter is calculated from the rate of return on 10-year French government bonds and sectoral characteristics, primarily to assess the risk premium and the marginal borrowing cost.

151 UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2018/2019 ­ PIERRE & VACANCES-CENTER PARCS GROUP

5

FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Consolidated financial statements

Within each business segment, the CGU group used to assess the recoverable amount of the assets reflects the Group's activities in terms of financial reporting. Hence, the main CGUs of the Pierre & Vacances-Center Parcs Group, to which virtually all the goodwill and brand names on the statement of financial position relate, are:
E tourism: the Tourisme Europe CGU group which includes the operation and commercialisation of residences and villages in Europe, mainly in France, the Netherlands, Germany, Belgium and Spain;

(in  thousands)
Tourisme Europe Les Senioriales Other CGU groups TOTAL NET AMOUNT

Goodwill 138,226
18,926 1,799
158,951

30/09/2019 Brand
100,003 2,040 -
102,043

E property development: primarily Les Senioriales CGU, which relates to the property development and marketing, in France, of residences targeting active senior citizens.
Analysis of the allocation of goodwill and brand names to the various CGUs thus identified at 30 September 2019 and 30 September 2018.

Total 238,229
20,966 1,799
260,994

Goodwill 138,226
18,926 1,799
158,951

30/09/2018 Brand
100,003 2,040 -
102,043

Total 238,229
20,966 1,799
260,994

The table below summarises the main assumptions used to estimate the value in use and the sensitivity of that recoverable value to changes in perpetual growth rate, discount rate and

revenue indicators (such as occupancy rate and average selling rates) of the main CGUs and CGU groups that represent the majority of the goodwill and intangible assets with indefinite useful lives:

Perpetual growth rate Discount rate used Sensitivity of the recoverable amount to the perpetual growth rate
Sensitivity of the recoverable amount to the discount rate
Sensitivity of the recoverable amount to the occupancy rate Sensitivity of the recoverable amount to the average selling rate
Sensitivity of the recoverable amount to the margin rate

"Tourisme Europe" CGU
1.5% (the same as at 30 September 2018)
8.5% (the same as at 30 September 2018)
A half-point increase and decrease in the perpetual growth rate has an impact of +7% and -6%, respectively, on the recoverable amount. This variation does not lead to the recognition of impairment losses.
A one-point increase and decrease in the discount rate has an impact of -14% and +19%, respectively, on the recoverable amount. This variation does not lead to the recognition of impairment losses.
A one-percent increase and decrease in the occupancy rate has an impact of +11% and -11%, respectively, on the recoverable amount. This variation does not lead to the recognition of impairment losses.
A one-point increase and decrease in the average selling rate has an impact of +10% and -10%, respectively, on the recoverable amount. This variation does not lead to the recognition of impairment losses.
A one-percent increase and decrease in the margin rate has an impact of +13% and -13%, respectively, on the recoverable amount. This variation does not lead to the recognition of impairment losses.

At 30 September 2019, sensitivity testing on the key assumptions detailed above did not lead to the recognition of impairment losses, since the useful value of the CGUs remains higher than their carrying amount.
The amount of goodwill and tangible and intangible assets allocated to the Tourisme Europe business does not have to be impaired as long as the occupancy rate does not drop more than 4.9%, the average selling rate more than 5.8% or the operating margin rate more than 4.3%.

For Les Senioriales, a 9.0% discount rate was used. The sensitivity tests on the assumptions of perpetual growth rate and discount rate yielded results, which were very close to, those obtained for the Tourisme Europe business.

152 UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2018/2019 ­ PIERRE & VACANCES-CENTER PARCS GROUP

FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Consolidated financial statements

Note 7 Property, plant and equipment

(in  thousands)
At 30 September 2017 Gross amount Accumulated depreciation, amortisation and impairment losses NET AMOUNT
Changes Acquisitions Net disposals and retirements Depreciation Reclassifications TOTAL CHANGES FOR THE YEAR
At 30 September 2018 Gross amount Accumulated depreciation, amortisation and impairment losses NET AMOUNT
Changes Acquisitions Net disposals and retirements First-time consolidation Depreciation Reclassifications TOTAL CHANGES FOR THE YEAR
At 30 September 2019 Gross amount Accumulated depreciation, amortisation and impairment losses NET AMOUNT

Land
20,744
-3,170 17,574
458 -51 -578 19 -152
21,125
-3,703 17,422
1,934 -322
0 -430
0 1,182
22,737
-4,133 18,604

Buildings

Fixtures and fittings

Other property,

plant and Total property,

equipment, and

plant, and

assets in progress equipment

240,003
-111,149 128,854

278,673
-207,751 70,922

154,421
-114,088 40,333

693,841
-436,158 257,683

1,570 79
-8,438 2,507 -4,282

16,528 -538
-18,880 1,166 -1,724

38,981 -118
-7,590 -4,111 27,162

57,537 -628
-35,486 -419
21,004

243,509
-118,937 124,572

292,152
-222,954 69,198

187,599
-120,104 67,495

744,385
-465,698 278,687

14,485 -213 0
-8,329 858
6,801

27,084 -59 0
-17,100 3,158
13,083

1,037 -214
26 -8,422 -3,818 -11,391

44,540 -808 26
-34,281 198
9,675

257,927
-126,554 131,373

321,976
-239,695 82,281

183,180
-127,087 56,093

785,820
-497,469 288,351

5

Property, plant and equipment items, with a total net carrying amount of 288,351,000 at 30 September 2019, essentially include the assets used in the operations of:
E the Center Parcs and Sunparks villages, with a net amount of 211,242,000 (90,680,000 of which corresponding to finance leases for the central facilities at Domaine du Lac d'Ailette), mainly consisting of furniture and general fittings needed for operating the villages.
The main changes for the year arose from:
­ investments of 26,467,000 for improving the product mix of all the Center Parcs villages, including 10,310,000 for the German villages, 5,750,000 for the French villages, 5,368,000 for the Dutch villages, and 5,038,000 for the Belgian villages,
­ depreciation for the period of 23,366,000;
E the Pierre & Vacances Tourisme Europe residences and villages, for a net amount of 71,934,000. Property, plant and equipment mainly comprise general services, fittings and furniture needed for operating the sites.

During the financial year, the operating companies invested 16,245,000, primarily to modernise existing sites.
Depreciation for the period stood at 10,146,000.
Investment subsidies are shown as a reduction in the value of the asset for which they were received. At 30 September 2019, the Pierre & Vacances-Center Parcs Group had not recorded any significant amounts for investment subsidies.
Finance leases:
At 30 September 2019, the net amount of "Property, plant and equipment" included 94,632,000 representing the restatement of assets under finance leases, compared with 97,485,000 at 30 September 2018. The corresponding residual financial liability stood at 99,024,000 at 30 September 2019, compared with 100,358,000 at 30 September 2018 (see Note 18 ­ "Financial liabilities").
At 30 September 2019, the item "Finance leases" mainly covers the central facilities of the Domaine Center Parcs du Lac d'Ailette for 90,680,000; the corresponding financial liability amounted to 96,357,000.

153 UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2018/2019 ­ PIERRE & VACANCES-CENTER PARCS GROUP

5

FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Consolidated financial statements

Note 8 Equity-accounted investments

Under IFRS 11, the revenues and expenses, assets and liabilities of interests in associates or joint ventures are consolidated in the Group's consolidated financial statements using the equity method.
At 30 September 2019, the following companies were consolidated using the equity method:
E the entities comprising the Adagio Group (50%); E the entities comprising the Villages Nature® Group (50%, with the
exception of SNC Nature Hébergements 1);
E SNC Nature Hébergements 1 (37.5%);
E SAS Foncière Presqu'île de la Touques (50%);
E La Financière Saint-Hubert SARL (55%);
E Les Senioriales Ville de Castanet (50%);
E Les Senioriales Ville de Tourcoing (50%);
E Les Senioriales Ville de Cesson Sevigné (50%);
(in  thousands)
Beau Village limited Adagio Les Senioriales Other joint ventures NET VALUE OF EQUITY-ACCOUNTED INVESTMENTS

E Les Senioriales en Ville de Fontenay aux Roses (50%); E Les Senioriales en Ville de Saint Avé (50%); E Les Senioriales de Nancy (50%); E SCCV Les Senioriales en ville de Schiltigheim (50%); E SCCV Les Senioriales d'Angers (50%); E Immalliance Seniors Le Pin (50%); E Beau Village Limited (44%) see Note 2.1 on the highlights of the
financial year for Strategic Agreements in China; E SCCV Nantes Russeil (50%); E SNC Caen Meslin (40%); E SCCV Palaiseau RT (50%); E SCCV Toulouse Pont Jumeaux A1 (50%).

30/09/2019 3,966
12,182 1,350 686
18,184

30/09/2018 791
8,325 1,114
380 10,610

In 2018/2019, Beau Village Limited recorded a capital increase following the acquisition of two new Chinese investors (see Note 2 on highlights).
The Group's holding in this structure (44%) was revalued and increased to 3,966,000 at the end of September 2019.
In addition, some joint ventures are negative contributors. These are primarily Villages Nature® companies.
A provision for liabilities was recognised for these companies in the Group's consolidated financial statements. At 30 September 2019, this commitment totalled 43,684,000.

Summary of financial information for the main joint ventures
A summary of financial information (based on 100%) for each of the main joint ventures is shown below. These amounts are taken from the joint ventures' financial statements, prepared in accordance with IFRS and Pierre & Vacances-Center Parcs Group accounting principles and methods. The data are presented before eliminations of intragroup data.

2018/2019 income statement
Joint ventures summary income statement (data presented on 100% basis)
Revenue Purchases and external services Employee expenses Depreciation, amortisation and impairment Other operating income and expenses OPERATING PROFIT (LOSS) FROM ORDINARY ACTIVITIES Other operating income and expenses OPERATING PROFIT (LOSS) Costs of net financial debt Other financial income and expenses FINANCIAL INCOME (EXPENSE) Tax expense PROFIT (LOSS) FOR THE YEAR (DATA PRESENTED ON 100% BASIS) TOTAL
Percentage shareholding (weighted average) Group's share of profit (loss)

Adagio 99,448 -63,081 -22,239 -2,720
-240 11,168
-87 11,081
-5 444 439 -3,756 7,764

Villages Nature® 62,267 -54,794 -8,093 -9,975 -1,106 -11,701 -99 -11,800 -3,674 -886 -4,560 413 -15,947

50% 3,882

50% -7,973

Other 23,892 -21,542
0 -819 326 1,803
0 1,803 -568
0 -568
-37 -2,080
n/a -2,246

-6,337

In addition to the income (loss) generated by companies consolidated using the equity method, the income statement item "Share of net income (loss) of equity-accounted investments" also includes the impact of strategic agreements in China signed in 2018/2019 (see Note 2.1 ­ "Highlights").

154 UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2018/2019 ­ PIERRE & VACANCES-CENTER PARCS GROUP

FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Consolidated financial statements

2017/2018 income statement
Joint ventures summary income statement (data presented on 100% basis) Revenue Purchases and external services Employee expenses Depreciation, amortisation and impairment Other operating income and expenses OPERATING PROFIT (LOSS) FROM ORDINARY ACTIVITIES Other operating income and expenses OPERATING PROFIT (LOSS) Costs of net financial debt Other financial income and expenses FINANCIAL INCOME (EXPENSE) Tax expense PROFIT (LOSS) FOR THE YEAR (DATA PRESENTED ON 100% BASIS) TOTAL Percentage shareholding (weighted average) Group's share of profit (loss)

Adagio 90,683 -58,688 -19,826 -1,982 -1,272
8,916 -46
8,870 -36 71 35
-2,674 6,231

Villages Nature® 85,174 -77,788 -8,896 -21,387 -2,188 -25,085 1 -25,084 -2,460 -1,984 -4,444 -10,195 -39,723

50% 3,115

50% -19,862

Other 44,379 -39,283
0 -922 144 4,318
0 4,318
213 -269
-56 232 4,494

42% 1,896

-14,851

Statement of financial position at 30 September 2019 (financial data presented on 100% basis)

Assets (in  thousands) Non-current assets Current assets TOTAL ASSETS

Adagio 33,084 66,051 99,135

Villages Nature® 67,408
179,780 247,188

Other joint ventures 8,864
59,351 68,215

Liabilities (in  thousands) Equity Non-current liabilities Current liabilities TOTAL EQUITY AND LIABILITIES

Adagio 24,430
3,434 71,270 99,135

Villages Nature® -84,686 48,796 283,078 247,188

Other joint ventures 11,302 880 56,033 68,215

Statement of financial position at 30 September 2018 (financial data presented on 100% basis)

Assets (in  thousands) Non-current assets Current assets TOTAL ASSETS

Adagio 29,388 52,796 82,184

Villages Nature® 105,410 176,909 282,319

Other joint ventures 2,067
68,542 70,609

Liabilities (in  thousands) Equity Non-current liabilities Current liabilities TOTAL EQUITY AND LIABILITIES

Adagio 16,743
3,259 62,182 82,184

Villages Nature® -55,575 47,231 290,663 282,319

Other joint ventures 3,924 704
65,981 70,609

5

155 UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2018/2019 ­ PIERRE & VACANCES-CENTER PARCS GROUP

5

FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Consolidated financial statements

Note 9 Non-consolidated investments in associates and other long-term equity investments

(in  thousands)
Gross amount Impairment losses NET AMOUNT

30/09/2019 437 437

30/09/2018 1,623 1,623

"Non-consolidated investments in associates and other long-term equity investments" were down by 1,186,000, mainly as a result of the sale of the 10% capital interest in Gran Dorado Zandvoort BV, Gran Dorado Port Zélande BV and Medebach Park BV held by Multi Resorts Holding BV and amounting to 1,552,000.

The other "Non-consolidated investments in associates and other long-term equity investments" are equity interests in various companies in which the Pierre & Vacances-Center Parcs Group does not have a controlling interest and over which it does not exercise significant influence.

Note 10 Other non-current financial assets

(in  thousands)
Gross loans and other financial assets Impairment losses TOTAL

30/09/2019 38,565 -774 37,791

30/09/2018 45,762 -285 45,477

"Loans and other financial assets", whose net carrying amount at 30 September 2019 was 37,791,000, consist primarily of guarantee deposits paid to property owners and to lessors and suppliers.

The 7,197,000 drop was primarily due to the repayment of guarantee deposits.

Note 11 Inventories and work in progress

As mentioned in Note 1.2 Changes in accounting standards (IAS 23 ­ Borrowing costs), the Group no longer capitalises borrowing costs on its property development transactions. Since this clarification of the IFRS Interpretation Committee, dated 7 December 2018, applies retrospectively, the cancellation of financial expense accrued to that

point led the Group to impact the income statement and the statement of financial position for comparative periods presented.
The breakdown of the contribution of each of the property development programmes to the gross amount of the inventories is shown in Note 12.

(in  thousands)
Work in progress(1) Finished goods GROSS PROPERTY DEVELOPMENT PROGRAMMES Impairment losses NET PROPERTY DEVELOPMENT PROGRAMMES Other inventories TOTAL
(1) These data were restated for the impacts of the interpretation of IAS 23 published in December 2018 ­ see Note 1.2.

30/09/2019 154,786 16,908 171,694 -2,408 169,286 8,415 177,701

30/09/2018 pro-forma(1)
138,993 35,487
174,480 -1,662
172,818 7,533
180,351

156 UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2018/2019 ­ PIERRE & VACANCES-CENTER PARCS GROUP

FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Consolidated financial statements

Note 12 Contribution of property development programmes to the gross amount of inventories

(in  thousands)

Country

Inventories 30/09/2018(1)

Total increases

Center Parcs ­ Roybon

France

40,370

347

Sénioriales property development programmes

France

40,939

46,049

Center Parcs Sud Ouest

France

11,138

11,218

Meribel Ravines

France

17,707

17,537

Center Parcs Bois Francs Foncière

France

6,395

3,403

Empuriabrava

Spain

5,746

5,964

PV Aime La Plagne

France

5,248

684

Presqu'île de la Touques

France

4,751

1,144

Center Parcs Poligny (Jura)

France

4,884

0

Center Parcs le Rousset (Saône et Loire)

France

4,769

0

Avoriaz Crozats

France

4,316

4,875

Salou

Spain

7,660

14,388

Belle Dune Village

France

268

1,826

Dhuizon Loisirs

France

356

989

Center Parcs ­ Kempervennen

The Netherlands

0

599

Center Parcs ­ Huttenheugte

The Netherlands

0

581

Center Parcs Bois Harcholins

France

2,859

50

Boisroger

France

511

0

Manilva

Spain

529

0

Center Parcs Heilbachsee

Germany

0

19,763

Center Parcs ­ Heiderbos

The Netherlands

0

349

Center Parcs ­ Meerdal

The Netherlands

0

338

Flaine Montsoleil Centre

France

398

1

Center Parcs ­ Bois de la Mothe Chandenier

France

1,357

73

De Haan

Belgium

1,371

0

Center Parcs Nordseeküste

Germany

1,152

0

Center Parcs Eifel

Germany

569

0

Lille loisirs

France

271

7,149

Center Parcs Port Zelande

The Netherlands

235

0

Center Parcs Vielsalm

Belgium

2

0

Miscellaneous property development programmes (less than 200,000 on an individual basis)

10,676

75,042

TOTAL VALUE OF PROPERTY INVENTORY

174,480

212,370

(1) These data were restated for the impacts of the interpretation of IAS 23 published in December 2018 ­ see Note 1.2.

Total reductions
-46,592
-20,420 -2,146 -5,746 -25 -909 0 0 -4,903
-19,300 0
-365 0 0
-2,374 0
-46 -19,303
0 0 -66 -1,197 -1,371 -1,152 -569 -7,420 -235 -2

Inventories 30/09/2019
40,717
40,396 22,356 14,824
7,652 5,964 5,907 4,986 4,884 4,769 4,289 2,748 2,094
980 599 581 535 511 483 460 349 338 333 233
0 0 0 0 0 0

-81,016 -215,156

4,705 171,694

5

The increase in the gross value of property inventory includes, in particular, land acquisitions amounting to 6,006,000 (including 1,855,000 for the Center Parcs Sud-Ouest programme, 1,630,000 for the Senioriales de la Rochelle la Palice programme, 1,351,000 for the Senioriales en ville de Pessac programme and 947,000 for the Senoriales en ville de Cavaillon programme).
It should be noted that the Pierre & Vacances-Center Parcs Group has inventories relating to the Center Parcs de Roybon programme. On 21 November 2018, the French Council of State validated the Pierre & Vacances-Center Parcs appeal by quashing the ruling under

which the Lyon Appeals Court had cancelled the water law authorisation.
On 21 May 2019, this same Court ruled that the area of wet lands affected by the project should be reviewed by an expert, as should those offered in compensation.
The Group is confident that the future findings of said expert review will provide positive technical answers to the questions raised by the Court of Appeal.

157 UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2018/2019 ­ PIERRE & VACANCES-CENTER PARCS GROUP

5

FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Consolidated financial statements

Note 13 Trade receivables

(in  thousands)
Property development Tourism Services GROSS TRADE RECEIVABLES Property development Tourism Services IMPAIRMENT LOSSES TOTAL
At 30 September 2019, the net value of trade receivables had increased by 16,111,000. This increase was mainly due to tourism business (14,688,000). The trade receivables ageing schedule is presented in Note 24.
Note 14 Other current assets

30/09/2019 143,220 109,001 8,638 260,859 -362 -5,965 -2,174 -8,501 252,358

30/09/2018 146,196 92,718 5,480 244,394 -1,623 -4,370 -2,154 -8,147 236,247

14.1 - Other current assets
(in  thousands)
Advances and prepayments to suppliers Taxes and duties Other receivables GROSS AMOUNT Provisions NET OTHER RECEIVABLES Rents Other pre-paid expenses PREPAID EXPENSES TOTAL OTHER CURRENT ASSETS
Other current assets amounted to 185,411,000 at 30 September 2019, up 10,812,000 compared to the 2017/2018 financial year. This change was mainly due to the drop in tax receivables.
Over the 2018/2019 financial year, the Group transferred its competitiveness and employment tax credit (CICE) for the 2017 and

30/09/2019 26,454 62,405 47,330
136,189 -1,983
134,206 26,679 24,526 51,205
185,411

30/09/2018 35,816 81,350 37,553
154,719 -2,184
152,535 23,682 20,006 43,688
196,223

2018 calendar years. This transaction, discounted without recourse, made it possible to transfer virtually all the risks and benefits associated with this account receivable, which was, as a result, derecognised from the balance sheet. The transfer was reflected by net proceeds of 11,568,000 in the 2018/2019 financial year.

14.2 - Current financial assets
(in  thousands)
External current accounts Loans under the "Ownership & Holidays" programme TOTAL
"Current financial assets" mainly include the debit current accounts of joint ventures as well as several loans under the "Ownership & Holidays" programme.

30/09/2019 87,859 5,740 93,599

30/09/2018 60,327 6,330 66,657

The external current accounts item mainly consisted of VillagesNature®-related current accounts.

158 UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2018/2019 ­ PIERRE & VACANCES-CENTER PARCS GROUP

FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Consolidated financial statements

Note 15 Cash and cash equivalents

Breakdown of the cash and cash equivalents balance shown in the consolidated statement of cash flows:

(in  thousands)
Cash Cash equivalents (money market funds and deposits) CASH AND CASH EQUIVALENTS Bank credit balances NET CASH AND CASH EQUIVALENTS

30/09/2019 114,776 30 114,806 -1,289 113,517

30/09/2018 116,200 30 116,230 -8,974 107,256

Cash and cash equivalents mainly consist of the Group's investments, through first class banking institutions, in money market funds that comply with the AMF criteria listed in Note 1.17 ­ "Cash and cash equivalents".

Note 16 Group shareholders' equity

Issued capital and share premium
The share capital at 30 September 2019 was 98,052,320 divided into 9,805,232 shares, including:
E 9,801,723 ordinary shares with a par value of 10;
E 1,476 category A preference shares with a par value of 10, issued on 9 February 2018 and convertible into ordinary shares according to the difference between the weighted share price and the ceiling share price set at 45, or the floor share price set at 30, with adjustments being possible in the event of a change of control or delisting;
E 1,366 category B preference shares with a par unitary value of 10, issued on 9 February 2018 and convertible into ordinary

shares according to the difference between the weighted share price and the ceiling share price set at 45, or the floor share price set at 30, with adjustments being possible in the event of a change of control or delisting.
E 667 category C preference shares with a par value of 10, issued on 18 April 2019 and convertible into ordinary shares according to the difference between the weighted share price and the ceiling share price set at 61.50, or the floor share price set at 41, with adjustments being possible in the event of a change of control or delisting.
During the 2018/2019 financial year, the weighted average number of shares outstanding stood at 9,535,791.

Potential capital
Analysis of the potential capital and changes thereto during 2018/2019 and 2017/2018:
Number of shares at 1st October Number of shares issued during the year (prorata temporis) Pierre & Vacances shares held by Pierre et Vacances SA and deducted from consolidated equity Weighted average number of shares Dilutive effect Pierre & Vacances bonus shares granted Weighted average number of diluted shares

30/09/2019 9,804,565 303
-269,077 9,535,791
357,400 9,893,191

30/09/2018 9,801,723 1,822
-266,257 9,537,288
370,000 9,907,288

Treasury shares
During the 2018/2019 financial year, the Pierre & Vacances-Center Parcs Group vested 667 treasury shares under employee bonus share plans dating from 2017.
To support the share price, the Group also sold and acquired treasury shares generating a net cash outflow of 73,000.

At 30 September 2019, the Group held 270,428 treasury shares for a total value of 5,562,000.
Dividends paid:
The Shareholders' Combined Ordinary and Extraordinary Meeting of 7 February 2019 decided not to distribute any dividend for the 2017/2018 financial year.

5

159 UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2018/2019 ­ PIERRE & VACANCES-CENTER PARCS GROUP

5

FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Consolidated financial statements

Note 17 Provisions

(in  thousands)
Provisions for renovations Provisions for retirement and other post-employment benefits Provisions for legal proceedings Provisions for restructuring costs, employee departures and site closures Provisions for negative equity investments Other provisions TOTAL Non-current portion Current portion

30/09/2018 6,802

Additions 1,008

Reversals used
-196

Reversals not used
-112

15,124 3,069

2,170 1,422

-1,075 -650

0 -323

1,036 30,437
92 56,560 51,985
4,575

1,455
1,393 7,448

-319
12 -2,228

-42
-109 -586

Other changes
0

30/09/2019 7,502

1,768 0

17,987 3,518

0 13,247
0 15,015

2,130 43,684
1,388 76,209 68,299
7,910

The provisions for renovations represent the Group's contractual commitments and maintenance policy for its leased property (see Note 1.20 ­ "Provisions").
Provisions for restructuring, staff departures and site closures relate to the reorganisation of some of the Group's activities, as well as its

selective lease renewal policy, resulting in the closure of loss-making sites.
The provision for negative equity investments which amounted to 43,684,000 at 30 September 2019, up 13,247,000 on 2018/2019, primarily related to Villages Nature® companies.

(in  thousands)
Provisions for renovations Provisions for retirement and other post-employment benefits Provisions for legal proceedings Provisions for restructuring costs, employee departures and site closures Other provisions NON-CURRENT PROVISIONS Provisions for renovations Provisions for retirement and other post-employment benefits Provisions for legal proceedings Provisions for restructuring costs, employee departures and site closures Other provisions CURRENT PROVISIONS TOTAL

30/09/2019 7,314
16,361 897 135
43,592 68,299
188 1,626 2,621 1,995 1,480 7,910 76,209

30/09/2018 6,621
13,950 760 211
30,443 51,985
181 1,174 2,309
825 86
4,575 56,560

Provisions for legal proceedings
Provisions for legal proceedings amounted to 3,518,000 in total, including 2,621,000 of current provisions and 897,000 of non-current provisions.

Each dispute is monitored and analysed by the Group's Legal Department, which, occasionally with the help of external experts, assesses the potential cost on a case-by-case basis. A provision for the estimated cost of the risk is recognised in the financial statements of the various entities involved.

160 UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2018/2019 ­ PIERRE & VACANCES-CENTER PARCS GROUP

FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Consolidated financial statements

Breakdown of provisions for legal proceedings and their changes during the year:

(in  thousands)

Tourism business-related disputes

Balance at 30 September 2018

0

New legal proceedings

498

Reversals related to expenses for the financial year

-76

Reversals not used

0

BALANCE AT 30 SEPTEMBER 2019

422

Property

Individual

development employee disputes

140

2,929

924

-574

-323

140

2,956

Total 3,069 1,422 -650 -323 3,518

At 30 September 2019, apart from the ongoing proceedings mentioned in Note 12, no governmental, legal or arbitration procedure (including any proceedings known to the Group either

pending or threatened) of any significant character, either individually or globally, affected the financial position or profitability of the Group.

Provisions for retirement and other post-employment benefits

Provisions for retirement and other post-employment benefits, which, are assessed by independent actuaries, are determined according to the Group's accounting principles and methods (see Note 1.21

"Provisions for retirement and other post-employment benefits"). The obligations reported relate primarily to France at 30 September 2019. The main actuarial assumptions used are as follows:

Discount rate Salary increase rate Inflation rate

30/09/2019 France 0.25% 1.70% 1.50%

30/09/2018 France 1.50% 1.80% 1.75%

The assumptions for expected long-term return on assets and discount rates used for estimating the Group's obligations have been defined on the basis of recommendations from independent

experts. The discount rate is determined by reference to a market rate based on category one European company obligations (Iboxx Corporate AA 10 +).

The amounts recognised on the statement of financial position at 30 September are:

(in  thousands)
Discounted benefit obligation Fair value of plan assets NET LIABILITY RECOGNISED IN THE STATEMENT OF FINANCIAL POSITION

30/09/2019

Retirement plans

Other benefits

152,346

8,224

142,583

9,763

8,224

30/09/2018

Retirement

Total

plans

Other benefits

160,570 122,535

7,098

142,583 114,509

17,987

8,026

7,098

Total 129,633 114,509
15,124

5

Change in provisions for retirement and other post-employment benefits:

(in  thousands)
Actuarial liability start of the reporting period Current service cost Interest cost Return on plan assets Contributions received and benefits paid Recognised actuarial differences Past service cost Change in scope of consolidation ACTUARIAL LIABILITY AT 30 SEPTEMBER

2018/2019

Retirement plans

Other benefits

8,026

7,098

689

447

110

96

0

0

-853

-490

1,790

446

0

624

0

2

9,763

8,224

2017/2018

Retirement

Total

plans

Other benefits

15,124

14,505

7,172

1,136

1,527

620

206

1,660

99

0

-1,454

0

-1,343

-305

-583

2,236

-6,158

-122

624

-1,755

-88

2

6

0

17,987

8,026

7,098

Total 21,677
2,147 1,759 -1,454 -888 -6,280 -1,843
6 15,124

161 UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2018/2019 ­ PIERRE & VACANCES-CENTER PARCS GROUP

5

FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Consolidated financial statements

Breakdown of the change in the fair value of the assets held to cover the commitments:

(in  thousands)
Fair value of investments at start of the reporting period Effective return on plan assets Employer contributions received Contributions received from plan members Benefits paid and expenses for the year Actuarial difference FAIR VALUE OF INVESTMENTS AT END OF THE REPORTING PERIOD

Financial year 2018/2019 114,509 1,590 749 345 -2,595 27,985 142,583

Financial year 2017/2018 111,449 1,432 304 488 -2,368 3,204 114,509

Sensitivity analysis of the fair value of plan assets

The sensitivity of the fair value of the plan assets for the year is as follows: a 0.25 point increase in the asset discount rate would reduce the fair value of the plan assets by 7,188,000. Conversely, a

0.25 point decrease in the asset discount rate would increase the fair value of the plan assets for the year by 7,494,000.

Analysis of the fair value of the assets held to cover the commitments, by asset category:

(in  thousands)
Insurance FAIR VALUE

30/09/2019 142,583 142,583

30/09/2018 114,509 114,509

Sensitivity analysis of the discounted value of obligations

The sensitivity of the discounted value of the obligations is as follows: a 0.25 point increase in the discount rate would decrease the discounted obligation by 6,781,000.

Conversely, a 0.25 point decrease in the discount rate would increase the discounted obligation by 7,276,000.

Note 18 Financial liabilities
(in  thousands)
Long-term borrowings Amounts due to credit institutions Bond issue Bridging loans Finance leases Other financial liabilities SUB-TOTAL LONG-TERM BORROWINGS Short-term borrowings Amounts due to credit institutions Bridging loans Finance leases Bank credit balances (including the portion of revolving loans drawn down) SUB-TOTAL SHORT-TERM BORROWINGS TOTAL

30/09/2019
0 232,502
2,226 94,498
849 330,075
3,673 4,968 3,369 1,289 13,299 343,374

30/09/2018
2,142 231,720
3,174 97,494
825 335,355
4,014 12,305
3,257 8,973 28,550 363,905

162 UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2018/2019 ­ PIERRE & VACANCES-CENTER PARCS GROUP

FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Consolidated financial statements

In 2018/2019, financial liabilities were down by 20,531,000, including:
E -13,287,000 for the collection and repayment of loans and other borrowings, which were listed as financing activities in the statement of cash flows;
E -7,684,000 relating to the reduction of bank overdrafts;
E 342,000 drop in interest accrued (which appears under "Interest paid" in the statement of cash flows);
E +782,000 for other changes, with no impact on the Group's cash.
Bank borrowings and bridging loans at 30 September 2019 primarily included:
E the ORNANE-type bond issued on 6 December 2017 with a principal amount of 100,000,000 and maturing on 1 April 2023. Bonds redeemable in cash and new or existing shares (ORNANE) are convertible subject to conditions until 25 May 2021, then at any time by delivery of new or existing shares. This issue is accompanied by a 2.00% coupon payable every six months in arrears on 1 April and 1 October every year.
At 30 September 2019, this borrowing was recognised in the Group's consolidated financial statements as 97,545,000;
E the bond issued in the form of an unlisted "Euro PP" private placement on 19 July 2016 with a principal amount of 60,000,000 and maturing in December 2022. This issue was subscribed for by French institutional investors. The opening rate of 4.25% was contractually increased to 4.50% in 2018/2019, in line with the adjusted net debt to Ebitdar ratio obtained by the Group at the end of the previous reporting period.
At 30 September 2019, this borrowing was recognised in the Group's consolidated financial statements as 59,543,000;
E the bond issued in the form of an unlisted "Euro PP" private placement on 14 February 2018 with a principal amount of 76,000,000 and maturing in February 2025. This issue was subscribed for by French institutional investors. The opening rate of 3.90% was contractually increased to 4.25% in 2018/2019, in line with the adjusted net debt to Ebitdar ratio obtained by the Group at the end of the previous reporting period. At

30 September 2019, this borrowing was recognised in the Group's consolidated financial statements as 75,414,000.
The loan agreement signed on 14 March 2016, in the form of a 200 million revolving credit line, was unused at 30 September 2019.
In addition, the Pierre & Vacances-Center Parcs Group has four other confirmed credit lines, which break down as follows:
E 15 million, due in May 2020;
E 10 million;
E 5 million;
E 4 million, due in March 2023.
There was no drawdown against any of these credit lines at 30 September 2019.
In addition, more specifically for the property development business, the Group also has the following financial liabilities:
E bridging loans of 7,194,000 put in place for property development programmes, including in particular:
­ 2,812,000 for the Les Senioriales en Ville du Teich property development programme,
­ 1,440,000 for the Senioriales de la Rochelle Laleu property development programme,
­ 1,302,000 for the Meribel Ravines Premium property development programme,
­ 854,000 for the Avoriaz Crozats Loisirs property development programme,
­ 786,000 for the Senioriales en ville de Cavaillon property development programme.
During the same period, the Group also repaid loans representing cash outflows of 20,474,000, including primarily:
E 12,893,000 corresponding to the repayment of various bridging loans,
E 2,142,000 for the redemption of the loan for property development in Spain as part of the Salou property transaction.

Analysis of the financial liabilities related to finance leases:

(in  thousands)

30/09/2019

Le Domaine du Lac d'Ailette

96,357(1)

PV SA

214(2)

CPE

1,296(3)

TOTAL

97,867

(1) The underlying net asset (90,680,000 at 30 September 2019) is recorded in property, plant and equipment (see Note 7). (2) The underlying net asset (189,000 at 30 September 2019) is recorded in intangible assets (see Note 5). (3) The underlying net asset (1,122,000 at 30 September 2019) is recorded in intangible assets.

30/09/2018 98,904 394 1,453
100,751

5

163 UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2018/2019 ­ PIERRE & VACANCES-CENTER PARCS GROUP

5

FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Consolidated financial statements

Breakdown by maturity
Breakdown of the change in maturity of gross borrowings and other financial liabilities:
Maturities Year N+1 Year N+2 Year N+3 Year N+4 Year N+5 Year > N+5 TOTAL
(1) including 97,545,000 for the ORNANE-type bond and 59,543,000 for the Euro PP-type bond. (2) including 75,414,000 for the Euro PP-type bond.

Balance at
(in  thousands)
30/09/2019 13,299 5,467 3,253
160,737(1) 3,811
156,807(2) 343,374

30/09/2018 28,550 8,326 3,098 3,308
159,846 160,778 363,905

Breakdown of main financial liabilities by interest rate type
Fixed rate
The main fixed-rate borrowings recorded as liabilities in the statement of financial position at 30 September 2019 relate to restatements of finance leases and bond issues. The nominal amount of the fixed-rate borrowings was 330,369,000. The majority of these borrowings carry interest at percentages between 2.00% and 6.02%.

Issue date Finance leases 21/09/2005 01/10/2009 01/10/2014 Bond issue 06/12/2017 14/02/2018 19/07/2016 TOTAL

Maturity date

Principal amount outstanding at 30/09/2019
(in  millions)

31/12/2038

96,4

30/09/2021

0,2

31/12/2024

1,3

01/04/2023 14/02/2025 31/12/2022

97,5 75,4 59,5 330,4

Interest rate
6.02% 6.00% 6.00%
2.00% 4.25% 4.50%

Variable rate
The principal amount of variable rate bank borrowings and bridging loans is 7,194,000 with a 3-month Euribor + margin rate.
To manage the risk associated with interest rate fluctuations on variable rate borrowings, the Pierre & Vacances-Center Parcs Group has, in the past, set up interest rate swap contracts.

Given the low expected use of variable rate lines, the Group did not contract any new hedging instruments.

164 UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2018/2019 ­ PIERRE & VACANCES-CENTER PARCS GROUP

FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Consolidated financial statements

Amounts due to credit institutions and variable rate bridging loans break down as follows:

Issue date Bridging loans: 20/07/2018 02/08/2019 15/09/2017 18/05/2018 10/07/2019 SUB-TOTAL TOTAL

Maturity date
30/06/2020 02/08/2021 31/12/2020 31/05/2020 31/12/2020

Bridging loans Principal amount
outstanding at 30/09/2019
(in  millions)
2,8 1,4 1,3 0,9 0,8 7,2 7,2

Interest rate
3-month Euribor + margin 3-month Euribor + margin 3-month Euribor + margin 3-month Euribor + margin 3-month Euribor + margin

Collateral
(in  thousands)
Guarantees and pledges Mortgages TOTAL

30/09/2019 186,962 6,000 192,962

30/09/2018 193,827 13,400 207,227

Collateral pledged by the Group to secure repayment of its bank borrowings include:
E a first call guarantee of 160,013,000 that can be amortised, granted to the institution that provided the finance lease for the facilities at Domaine du Lac d'Ailette;

E high quality mortgages pledged for bridging loans for the following main property development programmes:
­ Les Senioriales ­ Saint Priest for 3,000,000,
­ Les Senioriales ­ Nîmes for 3,000,000.

Breakdown of the change in maturity of collateral:
Maturities Year N+1 Year N+2 Year N+3 Year N+4 Year N+5 Year > N+5 TOTAL

Balance at
(in  thousands)
30/09/2019 29,204 7,351 5,440 4,894 5,197
140,876 192,962

30/09/2018 16,270 30,239 7,609 4,894 5,197
143,018 207,227

5

165 UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2018/2019 ­ PIERRE & VACANCES-CENTER PARCS GROUP

5

FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Consolidated financial statements

Note 19 Financial Instruments

The table below shows the carrying amount and the fair value of the financial instruments recognised on the statement of financial position:

30/09/2019

30/09/2018

(in  thousands)

IFRS 9 category Carrying amount Carrying amount

ASSETS

Non-consolidated investments in associates and other long-term equity investments

Assets at fair value through other comprehensive income

437

1,623

Related receivables

Assets at amortised cost

1

1

Loans and other financial assets

Assets at amortised cost

37,790

45,476

Non-current financial assets

38,227

47,100

Trade receivables Other current assets(1)

Assets at amortised cost Assets at amortised cost

252,358 45,347

236,247 35,369

Current financial assets

Assets at amortised cost

93,599

66,657

Cash and cash equivalents

Assets at fair value through profit or loss

114,806

116,230

LIABILITIES

Amounts due to credit institutions

Liabilities at amortised cost

3,673

6,156

Bond issue

Liabilities at amortised cost

232,502

231,720

Finance leases

Liabilities at amortised cost

97,867

100,751

Bank credit balances

Liabilities at amortised cost

1,289

8,973

Other financial liabilities

Liabilities at amortised cost

8,043

16,305

Financial liabilities (including short-term portion)

343,374

363,905

Other non-current liabilities

Liabilities at amortised cost

9

1,603

Trade payables Other current liabilities(1)

Liabilities at amortised cost Liabilities at amortised cost

340,388 141,501

319,376 119,254

Financial instruments

Financial liabilities at fair value

-

-

Other current financial liabilities

Liabilities at amortised cost

19,820

33,878

(1) Other current assets and liabilities are restated for items not considered to be "financial instruments" within the meaning of IFRS 9. Thatis to say, advances and prepayments made and received, receivables and liabilities due to the State and prepaid expenses and deferred income.

Financial instruments are classed according to procedures defined by IFRS 9.

Note 20 Market risks

Cash flow management
Cash flow is managed centrally by the specialist staff of the Pierre & Vacances-Center Parcs Group's Finance Department. The surplus cash of subsidiaries is paid into the Group's centralising entity (Pierre et Vacances FI) which redistributes them to the entities that need them and may, depending on projected market trends, invest the balance in "Euro Money Market" instruments to maximise liquidity and comply with the counterparty risk management policy. This centralisation means that financial resources are optimised and the main Group entities' cash flow trends are closely monitored.

Counter-party risk
These operations are carried out with banks authorised by Executive Management in line with the counter-party risk management policy. Because of the diversity of counter-parties, selected from leading banks according to their rating and the knowledge the Group has of them, Pierre & Vacances-Center Parcs considers that it is not exposed to a concentration of credit risk. Since Pierre & Vacances-Center Parcs Group Executive Management would like to be able to access, at any moment, any available cash equivalents consisting of unit trusts and mutual investment funds, these investments are short-term (less than three months) and liquid.

166 UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2018/2019 ­ PIERRE & VACANCES-CENTER PARCS GROUP

FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Consolidated financial statements

Credit risk
Because of the Group's marketing rules concerning the sale of property (selling off-plan), this activity does not pose any significant risks relating to these trade receivables.
In the tourism business, risk of non-payment by customers is low, with over 64% of revenue achieved by direct sale, whereby the payment for services occurs before these services are provided.
Group policy for indirect sales is to work with major market players, diversify its portfolio of tour operators and travel agencies, use agreements drawn up by the Legal Department assisted by its counsels, and check the solvency of the counter-parties.
Capital management
The Group capital management objective is to ensure operational continuity, the profitability of shareholders' capital, and the reliability of partner relationships and to maintain an optimal capital structure in order to limit the cost of committed funds.

To maintain or adjust the committed funds structure, the Group can issue new debt or repay existing debt, adjust the amount of dividends paid to shareholders, make a capital repayment to shareholders, issue new shares, repurchase existing shares or dispose of assets in order to reduce its debt.
The Group communicates on its debt ratio (net debt/equity), a capital control indicator.
Given the fact that the Pierre & Vacances-Center Parcs Group does not aim to own the residences and villages it develops and operates, its exposure to capital risk is therefore limited.
Liquidity risk
At 30 September 2019, the Pierre & Vacances-Center Parcs Group's net cash and cash equivalents balance stood at 113,487,000. This balance equals the gross amount of cash and cash equivalents (114,776,000) less bank overdrafts (1,289,000).
Furthermore, as indicated in Note 18, the Group has four confirmed credit lines, as well as one revolving credit line. There was no drawdown against any of these credit lines at 30 September 2019. The Group has therefore no liquidity risk.

Analysis of assets and liabilities associated with financing activities at 30 September 2019:

(in  thousands)
Amounts due to credit institutions Bond issue Finance leases Other financial liabilities Bank credit balances Gross financial liabilities Cash equivalents Cash assets NET FINANCIAL DEBT

30/09/2019 3,673
232,502 97,867 8,043 1,289
343,374 -30
-114,776 228,568

< 1 year 3,673 0 3,369 4,967 1,289
13,298 -30
-114,776 -101,508

Maturities 1 to 5 years 0 157,088 13,955 2,226 173,269 173,269

> 5 years 0
75,414 80,543
850 -
156,807 -
156,807

5

The Pierre & Vacances-Center Parcs Group's bank borrowings are not based on its debt rating. Contracts governing the Corporate loan and the credit lines contain standard clauses referring to the consolidated financial position of the Group.
The definition and levels of the ratios, also called financial covenants, are fixed in advance in agreement with the lenders. Compliance with the ratios is assessed only once a year at the reporting date. Failure to comply with these ratios authorises the lenders to call in some or all of the debt early.
The loans are all accompanied by the usual legal clauses: "negative pledge", "pari passu" and "cross default".

When the Corporate loan was refinanced in March 2016, a single financial ratio was followed: EBITDAR to adjusted net financial debt (adjusted net financial debt = the Group's net financial debt, plus rent commitments for the next five years, discounted at a rate of 6.0%; EBITDAR = Group operating profit (loss) from ordinary activities plus depreciation, amortisation and impairment, and expenses on grant of share options, before rent for the financial year, excluding registered offices). This ratio must remain less than or equal to 3.50 for the 2018/2019 financial year, a cap set due to the Group's high level of liquidity at the end of September 2019, in accordance with the amendment to the credit agreement signed in February 2019.
This covenant is calculated contractually only once a year, at 30 September. The Pierre & Vacances-Center Parcs Group complied with this ratio for the 2018/2019 financial year.

167 UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2018/2019 ­ PIERRE & VACANCES-CENTER PARCS GROUP

5

FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Consolidated financial statements

At 30 September 2019, contractual interest payments not discounted on financial liabilities outstanding, by maturity date, were as follows:

Contractual interest payments not discounted on outstanding financial liabilities

30/09/2019 107,527

< 1 year 14,832

Maturities 1 to 5 years
49,629

> 5 years 43,066

Interest rate risk
The management of market risk relating to interest rate fluctuations is handled centrally by the Group's Finance Department.
The Group's policy is to reduce its exposure to interest rate fluctuations when these are highly volatile or are expected to rise sharply. To this end, the Group may use derivative hedging

instruments such as interest rate swaps or interest rate caps. The Pierre & Vacances-Center Parcs Group's net financial income (expenses) thus has little sensitivity to interest rate changes. Bridging loans backing property transactions are generally not hedged against expected interest rate changes due to their usually limited duration.

Breakdown of financial assets and liabilities at 30 September 2019:

(in  thousands)
Fixed rate borrowings Variable rate borrowings Other liabilities Accrued interest expense FINANCIAL LIABILITIES Fixed rates loans Variables rate loans Variable rate cash equivalents FINANCIAL ASSETS NET POSITION

30/09/2019 232,502 7,194 850 3,673 244,219 5,653 23,840 30 29,523 214,696

< 1 year 0
4,968 -
3,673 8,641
469 2,544
30 3,043 5,598

Maturities 1 to 5 years 157,088 2,226 159,314 1,841 21,296 23,137 136,177

> 5 years 75,414 850 76,264 3,343 3,343 72,921

The variable rate net position after management at 30 September 2019 was as follows:
(in  thousands)
Borrowings Loans Cash equivalents NET POSITION

30/09/2019 7,194
23,840 30
-16,676

A 1% increase or decrease in short-term rates would have an effect of -0.1667 thousand and +0.1667 thousand, respectively, on net financial income (expenses) for the 2018/2019 financial year, compared with -18.5 million of net financial expenses for the 2018/2019 financial year.

Foreign exchange risk
The majority of the Group's assets and liabilities are denominated in euros. Only some subsidiaries have cash flows denominated in other currencies. As these subsidiaries are only small, the Group is not exposed to changes in foreign currency rates.

168 UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2018/2019 ­ PIERRE & VACANCES-CENTER PARCS GROUP

FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Consolidated financial statements

Note 21 Trade payables
(in  thousands)
Tourism Property development Services TOTAL
"Trade payables" were up by 21,012,000. The trade payables ageing schedule is presented in Note 24.

30/09/2019 260,927 62,074 17,387 340,388

30/09/2018 237,239 67,729 14,408 319,376

Note 22 Other current and non-current liabilities

22.1 - Other current and non-current liabilities
(in  thousands)
Advances and deposits on orders in progress VAT and other tax liabilities Employee and social security liabilities Lease liabilities Other liabilities OTHER OPERATING LIABILITIES Property sales and support funds Other deferred income DEFERRED INCOME TOTAL OTHER LIABILITIES Other financial liabilities Other non-current liabilities

30/09/2019 146,121 63,538 65,095 9 76,406 351,169 88,702 36,819 125,521 476,690 476,681 9

30/09/2018 132,418 62,957 63,126 1,603 56,128 316,232 74,471 31,898 106,369 422,601 420,998 1,603

The 54,089,000 increase in "Other current and non-current liabilities" is essentially due to the increase in other operating liabilities of 34,937,000.

22.2 - Current financial liabilities
(in  thousands)
External current accounts TOTAL

30/09/2019 19,820 19,820

30/09/2018 33,878 33,878

"Current financial liabilities" mainly relate to current accounts with third parties linked to the Group or partners.

5

169 UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2018/2019 ­ PIERRE & VACANCES-CENTER PARCS GROUP

5

FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Consolidated financial statements

Note 23 Change in working capital requirements

Change in working capital requirement for the 2018/2019 financial year:

Activity-related

30/09/2018(1)

changes

Net inventory value(1)

180,351

-2,650

Trade receivables

236,247

16,167

Other current assets

262,880

16,118

TOTAL WORKING CAPITAL REQUIREMENT ­ ASSETS

A

679,478

29,634

Trade payables

319,376

21,058

Other current and non-current liabilities

456,479

40,039

TOTAL WORKING CAPITAL REQUIREMENT ­ LIABILITIES

B

775,855

61,097

WORKING CAPITAL REQUIREMENTS

A-B

-96,377

-31,463

including change in non-operating receivables and payables

-4,826

including change in operating receivables and payables

-26,637

(1) These data were restated for the impacts of the interpretation of IAS 23 published in December 2018 ­ see Note 1.2

Other changes
0 -55 13 -42 -36
-7 -43
1

30/09/2019 177,701 252,358 279,010 709,069 340,388 496,521 836,908 -127,839

Other changes mainly include reclassifications of statement of financial position items, as well as the impact of fluctuations in exchange rates and changes in Group structure.

Note 24 Maturity of receivables and liabilities

(in  thousands)
Other non-current financial assets Trade receivables (net) Other current assets and current financial assets TOTAL ASSETS Other non-current liabilities Trade payables Other current liabilities and current financial liabilities TOTAL LIABILITIES

Amounts not yet due 30/09/2019 or due for <1 year

37,791

37,784

252,358

252,338

279,010 569,159

278,025 568,147

9

9

340,388

340,388

496,501

496,501

836,898

836,898

Amounts due in 1 to 5 years
7 20 975 1,002
-

Amounts due in >5 years 10 10 -

170 UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2018/2019 ­ PIERRE & VACANCES-CENTER PARCS GROUP

FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Consolidated financial statements

Analysis of main income statement items
Note 25 Revenue

(in  thousands)
Tourism including Rental income including revenue from services(1)
Property Development TOTAL
(1) Catering, events, mini-market, stores, marketing, etc.

2018/2019 1,300,667 869,361 431,305 294,300 1,594,967

2017/2018 1,300,790 814,399 486,391 133,935 1,434,725

2018/2019 revenue was negatively impacted by the first-time adoption of IFRS 15 which had an impact of (81,334,000) on tourism revenue and +73,753,000 on the Group's property development revenue. Details of these impacts are provided in Note 1.2.

Since the Group decided to apply the cumulative effect method, data for previous financial years were not restated and were presented before the impacts of this new standard.

Revenue by country
(in  thousands)
France The Netherlands Germany Belgium Spain Italy TOURISM France Germany Spain The Netherlands Belgium China PROPERTY DEVELOPMENT TOTAL

2018/2019 721,186 229,751 162,559 122,674 64,497 0
1,300,667 236,927 18,738 8,440 19,529 9,029 1,637 294,300
1,594,967

2017/2018 796,598 215,768 113,103 117,381 57,888 52
1,300,790 113,891 3,536 10,885 1,961 560 3102 133,935
1,434,725

Revenue in France, where the registered office is located, amounted to 958,113,000.

At 30 September 2019, the Group's order book stood at 688.3 million for its property development business, reflecting the amount of revenue still to be recognised for performance obligations not yet satisfied or partially satisfied on the reporting date.

(in  millions)
Property reservations Number of apartments Average price

2018/2019 688.3 2,939 234.2

2017/2018 364.4 1,756 207.5

5

171 UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2018/2019 ­ PIERRE & VACANCES-CENTER PARCS GROUP

5

FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Consolidated financial statements

Note 26 Purchases and external services

(in  thousands)
Cost of goods sold ­ Tourism Cost of inventories sold ­ Property development(1) Rent and other co-ownership expenses Subcontracted services (laundry, catering, cleaning) Advertising and fees Other (including holiday purchases) TOTAL
(1) These data were restated for the impacts of the interpretation of IAS 23 published in December 2018 ­ see Note 1.2.

2018/2019 -48,327
-197,032 -478,998
-88,301 -135,117 -176,969 -1,124,744

2017/2018 pro-forma(1)
-45,566 -73,436 -472,843 -87,822 -130,289 -194,903 -1,004,859

Purchases and external services amounted to an expense of 1,124,744,000 in the 2018/2019 financial year, up 119,117,000 compared with the 2017/2018 financial year.
In addition, further to the adoption of IFRS 15, the item "Other (including holiday purchases)" was up 17,934,000. The Group does, in fact, act as an agent for some tourism activities and no longer presents holiday purchases in relation to this activity as a cost but as a deduction from revenue (see 1.2).
Likewise, the item "cost of inventories sold ­ property development" was up 123,596,000 on the previous year, primarily as a result of the application of IFRS 15 solely to the 2018/2019 financial year.
Rent expense for the 2018/2019 financial year to individual and institutional owners of the land and buildings of the residences and villages operated by the Group was 382 million, compared with 372 million in 2017/2018.

Due to the application of IFRS 15 at 30 September 2019 and given the Group's use of the "cumulative effect" method in relation to IFRS 15 resulting in the lack of restatement of published comparative periods, the rent expense shown above does not take into consideration rents known as Rents "in Kind" at 30 September 2019, even though they appeared in the amount referred to above for the financial year ended on 30 September 2018.
In this context, as a measure of comparability with the previous year and so as to reflect the same economic reality as the one depicted earlier, the amount of rent received by individual and institutional owners stood at 400.4 million in 2018/2019 in accordance with accounting principles applied on a consistent basis, compared with 372 million the previous year. This increase in rent expenses followed the opening of the Center Parcs Allgaü site in Germany in October 2018.

Note 27 Employee expenses

(in  thousands)
Salaries and wages Social security expenses Defined-contribution and defined-benefit plan expenses Share-based payment expenses TOTAL

2018/2019 -295,487 -81,376 -1,302 -1 -378,166

2017/2018 -271,700 -82,878 701 -1,625 -355,502

Employee expenses amounted to 378,166,000, up by 22,664,000 compared with the 2017/2018 financial year.

This amount also included the recognition of accrued income of 1,546,000 corresponding to the competitiveness and employment tax credit (Crédit d'Impôt pour la Compétitivité et l'Emploi ­ CICE) for the period from 1 October 2018 to 1 January 2019, compared with 6,132,000 for the previous financial year, given the change in related legislation (see Note on accounting principles).

172 UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2018/2019 ­ PIERRE & VACANCES-CENTER PARCS GROUP

FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Consolidated financial statements

Share-based payment expenses
The features of the plans reported are as follows:

Date of grant by the Board of Directors
(in  thousands)
18/04/2017 TOTAL
(1) AGM: bonus share grant.

Type(1) AGM

Number of

End date of

options granted the vesting period

79,700

18/04/2019

79,700

Share-based payment expenses

2018/2019

2017/2018

-1

-945

-1

-945

The employee expense recognised is the fair value of the options granted as calculated on the date of grant by the Board of Directors

using the "Black & Scholes" method. This expense is spread over the vesting period along with corresponding increases in reserves.

The following table presents the valuation assumptions and results for share options and bonus shares:

Share price on date of grant

Plan 18/04/2017

40.48

End date of

Exercise

the vesting

Price Volatility

period

0 34.32% 18/04/2019

Expected maturity
4 years

Risk-free rate

Expected Probability of Option value

dividend beneficiaries

on date

yield rate

leaving

of grant

0.008%

0.0%

3%

24.46

Note 28 Depreciation, amortisation and impairment

5

(in  thousands)
Depreciation Additions to provisions TOTAL

2018/2019 -40,156 -13,064 -53,220

2017/2018 -42,126 -15,183 -57,309

Note 29 Other operating income and expenses from ordinary activities

(in  thousands)
Taxes and duties Other operating expenses on ordinary activities Other operating income from ordinary activities TOTAL

2018/2019 -7,524 -9,050 7,968 -8,606

2017/2018 -7,043 -8,083 15,752 626

"Taxes and duties" comprise tax expense and operational taxes, such as payroll taxes (learning tax, training tax), real estate taxes and television licence fees.
Generally speaking "Other operating income from ordinary activities" and "Other operating expenses on ordinary activities" comprise subsidies and insurance reimbursements, as well as some registered office expenses.

In 2017/2018, the Group's share of the profit from the renovation of Center Parcs Hochsauerland (in Germany) and Zandvoort (in the Netherlands) was shown as "other income". Since the adoption of IFRS 15, in 2018/2019, these transactions have been shown as revenue, given the performance obligations met under IFRS 15 criteria.

173 UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2018/2019 ­ PIERRE & VACANCES-CENTER PARCS GROUP

5

FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Consolidated financial statements

Note 30 Other operating income and expenses

(in  thousands)
Restructuring and site closure costs, net of provisions Gains (losses) on disposals Third party compensation costs as a result of site opening Other TOTAL

2018/2019 -5,752 794 -1,217 -3,415 -9,590

2017/2018 -1,494 -828 -508 -1,824 -4,654

"Other operating income and expenses" represented expenses of 9,590,000 including not only site withdrawal costs but also costs relating to Group restructuring (-4,145,000) which were mainly responsible for the change in this item.

In 2017/2018, this item represented expenses of 4,654,000. They primarily include costs and provisions associated with restructuring and site closures (-1,494,000) as well as income from the disposal of property, plant and equipment for -828,000.

Note 31 Financial income (expense)

(in  thousands)
Gross borrowing costs Income from cash and cash equivalents(1) COSTS OF NET FINANCIAL DEBT Income from loans Other financial income Other financial expenses Change in the fair value of the ORNANE derivative OTHER FINANCIAL INCOME AND EXPENSES TOTAL
Total financial expenses Total financial income
(1) These data were restated for the impacts of the interpretation of IAS 23 published in December 2018 ­ see Note 1.2.

2018/2019 -19,074 374 -18,700 1,070 729 -1,560 0 239 -18,461 -20,634 2,173

2017/2018 pro-forma(1)
-40,292 252
-40,040 1,052 568 -1,459
22,902 23,063 -16,977 -41,751 24,774

Net financial expenses totalled 18,461,000 in the 2018/2019 financial year, compared with 16,977,000 in the 2017/2018 financial year.

2018/2019 financial income (expense) was down 1,484,000 on the previous year due, in particular, to the full-year recognition of financial expenses incurred for the Euro PP 2025 and the ORNANE 2023, subscribed for in the previous year.

174 UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2018/2019 ­ PIERRE & VACANCES-CENTER PARCS GROUP

FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Consolidated financial statements

Note 32 Income tax and deferred tax

Breakdown of the tax expense
(in  thousands)
Consolidated profit (loss) before tax Untaxed income:
Impact of losses carried forward and other temporary differences not recognised or exceeding thresholds Use of recognised tax loss carryforwards Intra-group transactions having a tax impact Other untaxed income Consolidated taxable income Group tax rate Theoretical tax benefit at corporate tax rate applicable in France Differences on tax rates abroad CVAE Other GROUP TAX INCOME (EXPENSE) of which tax payable (including CVAE) of which deferred taxes

2018/2019 2,182
27,097 0
1,078 6,997 37,353 34.43% -12,861 4,454 -4,074 -20,181 -32,662 -15,243 -17,418

2017/2018 -3,861
54,207 -11,475
505 -14,452 24,924 34.43%
-8,581 -1,674 -3,252 -13,726 -27,234 -11,885 -15,348

Tax losses for the year that were not activated due to their unlikely recovery within a reasonable time frame primarily relate to the tax group in France and certain Belgian entities.
Intra-group transactions with a tax impact essentially correspond to the taxation of internal Group loan write-offs, which have no effect on the consolidated pre-tax profit (loss).
Other non-taxable items amounted to 6,997,000 for 2018/2019 and mainly correspond to non-deductible financial expenses, including caps on financial expenses, undercapitalisation interest, leasing costs and the CICE.
The other elements of the breakdown of deferred tax expenses primarily relate to the reversal of tax receivables in France

amounting to 16.1 million, the increasing internationalisation of the Group's activities reducing the capacity to use tax losses in France in the medium term (the Group uses a time horizon between five and six years, even though tax losses can be carried forward indefinitely). In addition, a reversal of tax receivables amounting to 2.7 million was also recognised in Spain in 2018/2019.
The second Court of Appeal ruling handed down on 5 February 2019, which was not appealed by the tax authority, put an end to Pierre et Vacances SA's dispute with the French Tax Authorities relating to a tax audit for the financial years 2003/2004, 2004/2005 and 2005/2006 for which it obtained a favourable outcome. The total amount of its tax loss carry forwards was reinstated and no tax was found to be owed. This dispute has, therefore, been settled.

5

175 UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2018/2019 ­ PIERRE & VACANCES-CENTER PARCS GROUP

5

FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Consolidated financial statements

Analysis of deferred tax assets and liabilities by type and by country
Within the same country, the majority of the Group's entities consolidate their taxable profit. The breakdown of the Group's deferred tax position by country therefore reflects the position of each tax consolidation subgroup.

(in  thousands)
France The Netherlands Belgium Germany Spain Italy China Deferred taxes on temporary differences France Belgium Germany Spain Deferred tax on losses carried forward TOTAL
of which deferred tax assets of which deferred tax liabilities

30/09/2018 7,543
-18,979 1,765 531 -168 175 21 -9,112
66,568 1,385 1,935 5,695
75,583 66,471 73,119 -6,648

Change through profit or loss 77 -889 -1,088 -797 52 0 -21 -2,666 -16,100 -90 4,184 -2,747 -14,753 -17,419

Change through other comprehensive
income or loss
492 100
10 0 0 0 0
602 0 0 0 0 0
602

30/09/2019 8,112
-19,768 687 -266 -116 175 0
-11,176 50,468
1,295 6,119 2,948 60,830 49,654 59,284 -9,628

At 30 September 2019, the Group's net deferred tax position amounted to 49,654,000, -11,176,000 of which represent temporary differences. This amount includes a 21,468,000 deferred tax liability recognised in the Netherlands for the Center Parcs brand (estimated at 85,870,000).
Deferred taxes recognised with respect to tax losses amounted to 60.8 million, including 50.5 million in respect of tourism and property development activities carried out by the Group in France.
These tax loss carryforwards are only recognised as deferred tax assets to the extent that the Group believes, on the basis of business plans relating to tourism and property development programme forecasts, that it is likely to have future taxable income against which the tax losses can be charged within a reasonable time frame. At 30 September 2018, a reasonable time frame was set at between five and six years.

The tax rules applicable at the reporting date, namely those approved at 30 September 2019, were used to calculate the amount of deferred taxes.
In addition, it should be noted that the amount of tax losses which may be used in France is subject to a ruling limiting the crediting of taxable losses to 50% of the profit beyond the first 1 million and in Germany, up to 60% of the profit beyond the first 1 million and in Spain, up to 50% of the profit for tax purposes.
Unused losses carried forward totalled 398.8 million. This relates to the French tax consolidation group for an amount of 267.6 million.

176 UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2018/2019 ­ PIERRE & VACANCES-CENTER PARCS GROUP

FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Consolidated financial statements

Note 33 Earnings per share
Average number of shares
Number of shares issued at 1st October Number of shares issued during the financial year Number of shares issued at the end of the period Weighted average number of shares Weighted average number of potential shares

2018/2019 9,804,565 303 9,804,868 9,535,791 9,893,191

2017/2018 9,801,723 1,822 9,803,545 9,537,288 9,907,288

The various dilutive instruments included in calculating the weighted average number of shares after dilution are presented below:

Number of bonus shares (AGM) awarded by the Board of Directors
of 02/02/2016 on 18/04/2017 and outstanding

Type AGM AGM

Exercise price
(in )
0 0 -

2018/2019 284,200 73,200 357,400

2017/2018 290,300 79,700 370,000

5

Earnings per share

2018/2019

2017/2018

Profit (loss) attributable to owners of the Company (in  thousands)

-33,023

-45,945

Weighted basic earnings (loss) per share, attributable to owners of the Company (in ) Weighted diluted earnings (loss) per share, attributable to owners of the Company (in )(1)

-3.46 -3.46

-4.82 -4.82

(1) The conversion of potential ordinary shares into ordinary shares would decrease the net loss per share. Therefore, in accordance with IAS 33, diluted earnings (loss) per share is equal to basic earnings (loss) per share.

177 UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2018/2019 ­ PIERRE & VACANCES-CENTER PARCS GROUP

5

FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Consolidated financial statements

Other financial information

Note 34 Number of employees

For the last two financial years, the average annual number of employees (full-time equivalent) of Pierre & Vacances-Center Parcs Group companies that are fully consolidated stood as follows:

Management Supervisory staff and other employees TOTAL

2018/2019 1,412 6,877 8,289

2017/2018 1,393 6,448 7,841

Note 35 Off-statement of financial position commitments

The collateral granted by the Group to secure its bank loans and reciprocal commitments are detailed in Note 18 ­ "Financial liabilities". They are therefore not included in the table below:

Maturities

(in  thousands)

< 1 year

1 to 5 years

Rent commitments

348,214

1,263,975

Other commitments given(1)

30,654

11,412

Commitments given

378,868

1,275,387

Completion guarantees

41,078

23,825

Other commitments received

3,516

1,634

Commitments received

44,594

25,459

(1) Including the recognition of compensation for the non-renewal of leases on some Center Parcs sites.

> 5 years 1,855,820
120,010 1,975,830
0 39,610 39,610

30/09/2019 3,468,009 162,076 3,630,085 64,903 44,760 109,663

30/09/2018 2,183,602 146,935 2,330,537 71,668 36,540 108,208

The increase in rent commitments was primarily due to the opening of the Center Parcs Allgäu site, as well as to lease renewals for Center Parcs Bispingen, Heijderbos, Kempervennen and Erperheide sites.

Commitments given
When the land and buildings of the residences and villages operated by the Pierre & Vacances-Center Parcs Group's tourism operating companies are sold, a lease is signed with the new owners. At 30 September 2019, the rent remaining to be paid by the Group

over the residual term of these leases amounted to 3,468 million. The present value of these rent commitments, discounted at a rate of 6.0%, is 2,446 million, of which 1,365 million has a maturity of five years or less.

Breakdown of rent commitments by business segment and maturity date at 30 September 2019:

(in  thousands)

30/09/2019

Pierre & Vacances Tourisme Europe 687,397

Center Parcs Europe

2,780,612

TOTAL

3,468,009

< N+1 124,531 223,683 348,214

N+2 109,060 225,704 334,764

Maturities

N+3

N+4

94,558

86,333

228,619 223,925

323,177 310,258

> N+5 74,425 221,351 295,776

> N+5 198,490 1,657,330 1,855,820

178 UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2018/2019 ­ PIERRE & VACANCES-CENTER PARCS GROUP

FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Consolidated financial statements

Lease agreements for the Pierre & Vacances Tourisme Europe residences and villages entered into with private or institutional investors are usually signed for between 9 and 12 years with the option of renewal on expiry. The leases signed include a fixed rent payment. In certain cases, they can include, in addition to the fixed portion, a variable portion that remains marginal. These rents are subject to indexation clauses corresponding in France to the rent reference index and in Spain to the consumer price index applicable in the respective country.
The agreements to lease the land and buildings of the 25 villages operated under the Center Parcs and Sunparks brands are generally signed for periods of between 11.5 and 15 years, with the option of renewal. The rents are primarily comprised of a fixed element. They are subject to fixed or variable indexation reflecting inflation or the rent reference index applicable in the country in which the assets are located, generally with floor and ceiling rates.
E At 30 September 2019 other commitments given mainly comprised:
­ commitments given under the IT solutions and material outsourcing contract, totalling 23,405,000;
­ a guarantee not exceeding 17,785,000 given to Explotacion Turistica Pierre et Vacances España SLU;
­ of a surety of 4,000,000 from PVSA to BNP Paribas on behalf of SCCV Les Senioriales en Ville de Noisy-Le-Grand in relation to a bridging loan;
­ a 3,724,000 surety issued by PVSA to the STATE TREASURY on behalf of Roybon Équipements SNC concerning the deferred payment of the Architecture, Urban Planning and Environment Council regional tax as well as the regional tax for sensitive natural areas;
­ a 2,298,000 surety issued by BNP Paribas to the State Treasury at the request of PV SA. In the letter of 17 March, asking for a surety to be issued, PV SA agreed to repay BNP

Paribas any amount paid by it in the framework of said surety. On 26 September 2019, the Administrative Court of Montreuil found in favour of PV SA and fully discharged its obligation to pay the sum claimed by the tax authority. The procedure to discharge this lien, as well as a claim for repayment of related interest, is under way;
­ a 10,318,000 parent company guarantee issued by Pierre et Vacances SA on behalf of certain joint ventures to cover the lease commitments entered into by said joint ventures. These commitments are also mentioned in the note on related party transactions in the annual report.
Commitments received
Completion guarantees are issued by banks with respect to property development programmes. The change in completion guarantees at 30 September 2019 resulted from:
E new guarantees issued during the year for a total amount of 15,932,000. The programmes in question are Les Seniorales ­ Ville de Pessac (9,870,000) and Les Senioriales ­ Ville de Cavaillon (6,049,000) ;
E a total reduction of 24,913,000 arising from the partial reduction and end of several guarantees during the financial year, mainly involving Méribel L'Hévana (-9,677,000), Les Senioriales de Soustons (-5,194,000), Palaiseau (-4,066,000), Les Senioriales ­ Noisy-en-Ville (-3,946,000).
Other commitments received mainly correspond to commitments given by banks on behalf of the property development and tourism companies. These commitments enable the latter to obtain the relevant professional licences in property management, property trading and business goodwill so that they can carry out their regulated business. At 30 September 2019, these commitments totalled 39,205,000.

5

Note 36 Remuneration of executive management anddirectors

Attendance fees paid to members of the Board of Directors in 2019 in respect of the 2018/2019 financial year amounted to 230,000 compared to 229,000 for 2017/2018.
For the years ended 30 September 2019 and 30 September 2018, no salary(1) (including benefits of any kind) was paid to a corporate officer directly by Pierre et Vacances SA or by any of th1e Pierre & Vacances-Center Parcs Group companies controlled as defined in Article L. 233-16 of the French Commercial Code.

However, Société d'Investissement Touristique et Immobilier (a company indirectly owned by the Chairman, founder and majority shareholder of Pierre et Vacances SA), as an asset management company, invoiced for fees for the services rendered by Gérard Brémond, Olivier Brémond, Yann Caillère, Martine Balouka, Patricia Damerval and Thierry Hellin. The fees invoiced by S.I.T.I. were calculated on the basis of direct costs (remuneration paid + related employer's expenses + other direct costs: travel expenses, cost of premises, secretarial expenses) plus a 5% margin and calculated prorata for the time spent by each individual on managing the business of Pierre & Vacances-Center Parcs Group companies.

(1) With the exception a gross remuneration of 4,804 paid to Alma Brémond in respect of a fixed-term contract entered into with Center Parcs Resorts France.
179 UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2018/2019 ­ PIERRE & VACANCES-CENTER PARCS GROUP

5

FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Consolidated financial statements

Since these people are on the Group Executive Management Committee, their remuneration is included in the table below:

(in )

2018/2019

2017/2018

Fixed remuneration(1)

2,072,581

1,823,606

Variable remuneration(2)

386,000

572,033

Post-employment benefits(3)

21,803

43,283

Share-based remuneration(4)

0

331,445

TOTAL

2,480,384

2,770,367

(1) Amount paid including reinstatement of the benefit in kind involving the availability of a company car. (2) Paid in the financial year following the year for which it is granted. (3) This amount corresponds to the expense recognised during the financial year. (4) Represents the annual share-based remuneration expense on grants of share options and bonus shares (theoretical measurement on the basis of the of Pierre et Vacances shares
at the date of grant).

For each of them, the variable bonus is determined based on the financial performance of the Pierre & Vacances-Center Parcs Group and the achievement of personal objectives.

Note 37 Parent company
The Pierre & Vacances-Center Parcs Group's financial statements are fully consolidated into those of Société d'Investissement Touristique et Immobilier (S.I.T.I.).

Note 38 Related party transactions

The Group's related parties consist of:
E members of the administrative and management bodies: their remuneration and benefits are detailed in Note 37;
E the parent company of Pierre et Vacances (Société d'Investissement Touristique et Immobilier) and its subsidiaries which are not included in the Group's scope of consolidation;
E joint ventures consolidated using the equity method: ­ entities comprising the Villages Nature® Group,
­ Adagio Group entities,

­ various other entities, namely SAS Presqu'Ile de la Touques, Les Senioriales Ville de Castanet, Les Senioriales Ville de Tourcoing, SNC Caen Meslin, SCCV Nantes Russeil and La Financière Saint-Hubert SARL, SCCV Palaiseau RT, SCCV Toulouse Pont Jumeaux A1, Les Senioriales de Nancy (50%), SCCV Les Senioriales en ville de Schiltigheim (50%), SCCV Les Senioriales d'Angers (50%), Immalliance Seniors Le Pin (50%) and Beau Village Limited (44%).
The main transactions with related companies include:
E rent and administrative staff invoicing;
E the purchase of support and consulting services under the management agreement.
These transactions are completed under normal market conditions.

Related party transactions break down as follows:
(in  thousands)
Revenue Purchases and external services Other operating income and expenses Financial income (expense)

2018/2019 8,438
-16,560 -280 419

2017/2018 22,644 -34,079 -491 -1,171

180 UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2018/2019 ­ PIERRE & VACANCES-CENTER PARCS GROUP

FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Consolidated financial statements

Receivables and liabilities included in the statement of financial position linked to related parties are as follows:

(in  thousands)
Trade receivables Other current assets Trade payables Other financial liabilities

30/09/2019 19,661 87,919 7,258 45,055

30/09/2018 21,921 60,781 8,083 46,104

Off-statement of financial position commitments linked to related parties:

(in  thousands)

30/09/2019

30/09/2018

Guarantees and pledges Rent commitments(1)

12,077 164,684

14,673 157,136

Commitments given

176,761

171,809

Guarantees and pledges

600

600

Completion guarantees

3

14,425

Commitments received

603

15,025

(1) These commitments are covered by a 10,318,000 parent company guarantee granted by PV SA at 30 September 2019, compared with 10,960,000 at 30 September 2018 (see Note 36 ­ "Off-statement of financial position commitments").

5

Note 39 Events after the reporting period
No significant events occurred after the end of the 2018/2019 reporting period.

181 UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2018/2019 ­ PIERRE & VACANCES-CENTER PARCS GROUP

5

FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Consolidated financial statements

5.2.7 Statutory auditors' report on the consolidated financial statements
Year ended 30 September 2019 To the General Meeting of Shareholders of Pierre et Vacances
Opinion
In compliance with the engagement entrusted to us by your General Meetings of Shareholders, we have audited the accompanying consolidated financial statements of PIERRE ET VACANCES for the year ended 30 September 2019. In our opinion, the consolidated financial statements give a true and fair view of the assets and liabilities and of the financial position of the Group as at 30 September 2019 and of the results of its operations for the year then ended in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards as adopted by the European Union. The audit opinion expressed above is consistent with our report to the Audit Committee.
Basis for opinion Audit framework
We conducted our audit in accordance with professional standards applicable in France. We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our opinion. Our responsibilities under those standards are further described in the Statutory Auditors' Responsibilities for the Audit of the Consolidated Financial Statements section of our report.
Independence
We conducted our audit engagement in compliance with independence rules applicable to us, for the period from 1 October 2018 to the date of our report and specifically we did not provide any prohibited non-audit services referred to in Article 5, paragraph 1 of Regulation (EU) no. 537/2014 or in the French Code of Ethics for Statutory Auditors (Code de déontologie de la profession de commissaire aux comptes).
Observation
Without qualifying our opinion, we draw your attention to Note 1.2 "Changes in accounting standards" to the consolidated financial statements which describes the impacts of the application of IFRS 15 "Revenue from Contracts with Customers" on or after 1 January 2018.
Justification of Assessments ­ Key Audit Matters
In accordance with the requirements of Articles L. 823-9 and R. 823-7 of the French Commercial Code (Code de Commerce) relating to the justification of our assessments, we inform you of the key audit matters relating to risks of material misstatement that, in our professional judgment, were of most significance in our audit of the consolidated financial statements for the current period, as well as how we addressed those risks. These matters were addressed in the context of our audit of the consolidated financial statements as a whole, and in forming our opinion thereon, and we do not provide a separate opinion on specific items of the consolidated financial statements.
Evaluation of goodwill and brands Risk identified:
At 30 September 2019, goodwill and brands are recognized in the statement of financial position at a net carrying amount of 261 million, or 17% of total assets. These intangible assets are not amortized and are subject to impairment testing whenever there is an indication that they may be impaired and at least once a year at the end of the reporting period, as mentioned in Notes 1.10 and 1.11 to the consolidated financial statements. As indicated in Note 6 to the consolidated financial statements, the annual impairment test is based on the recoverable amount of each group of assets tested, determined on the basis of discounted future cash flows. We considered the valuation of the recoverable amount of goodwill and brands to be a key audit matter, given the relative significance of these assets in the Group's consolidated statement of financial position and the sensitivity of the recoverable amount to changes in the data and assumptions, particularly cash flow forecasts, discount rates and the perpetual growth rate used.

182 UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2018/2019 ­ PIERRE & VACANCES-CENTER PARCS GROUP

FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Consolidated financial statements

Our response:
We examined the impairment test procedures used by the Group.
We assessed the main estimates, in particular, the assumptions behind the cash flow forecasts and main parameters such as the perpetual growth rate and discounting rates used. This work was carried out with the help of our valuation experts.
We were informed of the outlook for the Group's various businesses based on interviews with management in order to assess the consistency of the cash flow forecasts.
We analyzed the relevance of the analyses of sensitivity to the key assumptions made by the Group and we also made our own sensitivity calculations to corroborate these analyses.
Recoverability of deferred tax assets in relation to tax loss carryforwards and tax risks
Risk identified:
At 30 September 2019, deferred tax assets for tax loss carryforwards amount to 61 million, including 50 million related to real estate and tourism activities in France.
As indicated in Note 1.24 to the consolidated financial statements, these deferred tax assets are only recognized if it is likely that the Group will have sufficient future taxable income against which to set such losses in a reasonable period of time.
The Group's capacity to recover its deferred tax assets within a reasonable time frame is assessed by management at the end of each financial year.
First, therefore, we considered the assessment of the recoverable amount of these deferred tax assets to be a key audit matter due to the significant judgments made by management in recognizing these assets and their material amounts.
In addition, the Group's entities are inspected by the tax authorities on a regular basis, which may give rise to tax reassessments and disputes. An estimate of the risk relating to each dispute is reviewed by the Group's tax department, with the help of its external advisors where necessary. In light of these proceedings and the degree of judgement required to assess the financial risk, we considered the valuation of provisions for tax risks as a key audit matter.
Our response:
Our approach consisted in examining the business plans relating to the tourism activities and real estate development completion forecasts in order to assess the Company's capacity to generate future taxable income against which to charge the tax losses activated. We compared these business plans with the future cash flow forecasts used for annual goodwill and brand impairment tests.
We analyzed the consistency of the methodology used to recognize deferred tax amounts with the tax rules in force on the reporting date, in particular with the tax rates adopted and with the rules limiting the amount of tax losses that can be set off against taxable income specific to each jurisdiction.
With a view to assessing the estimated tax risks, particularly in the case of Pierre et Vacances, and the measurement of the liabilities related to them, with the help of our experts we held meetings with the Group's tax department and consulted the decisions adopted and the correspondence between the local tax authorities, the Group entities and, where applicable, their lawyers. We examined the correct consideration of these developments in the estimation of these risks.
Real Estate development: Valuation of inventories and operating result of real estate development business
Risk identified:
At 30 September 2019, the work in progress and finished goods related to real estate development are recognized in the statement of financial position at 169 million and the operating result for real estate activities (including equity-accounted investments) amounts to 1.3 million for the year ended 30 September 2019.
The accounting methods used to establish revenue, the property margin and the main estimates made by management on the basis of this evidence, are set out in Notes 1.26 and 1.27 to the consolidated financial statements.
The Group's real estate development business is mainly carried out in France based on off-plan sales contracts, and in other countries, through contracts with similar characteristics, through which the Group transfers ownership of future works as work is completed. For these programs, revenue of notarized sales is recorded in accordance with IFRS 15 "Revenue from contracts with customers" and accounted for in the income statement using the percentage of completion method. In order to apply the percentage of completion method, the Group has defined the rate of completion by multiplying the percentage of construction progress ("technical progress rate"), i.e. the cost of the work completed in relation to the cost of the work budgeted, by the percentage of revenue from real estate sales signed at a notary's office ("commercial rate").

5

183 UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2018/2019 ­ PIERRE & VACANCES-CENTER PARCS GROUP

5

FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Consolidated financial statements

This method requires estimates on the part of management and, in particular, the assessment of the technical progress rate and sales, and the measurement of margin at completion. In the case of loss-making contracts, a provision is recorded the year that the loss on completion is identified.
As indicated in Note 1.15 to the consolidated financial statements, the inventories related to real estate development business are valued at the lower of their purchase price or production costs and their probable net realizable amount.
Given the significance of the inventories and the operating result of the real estate activities accounted for in the Group's consolidated financial statements, we considered the valuation of these items to be a key audit matter.
Our response:
Our audit approach is to review the assumptions used by management to assess the operating result of the real estate development business and, in particular, the assumptions relating to sale prices, construction costs, fees for services and internal costs.
The technical progress rates of the programs with a significant property development margin were confirmed to us by the project managers responsible for the developments and we reconciled the commercial rates with the notarial deeds by performing tests of detail on sales for the year ended 30 September 2019.
We also examined the costs incurred and still outstanding on the most significant projects in order to identify onerous contracts and, if applicable, we reconciled these costs to the loss at completion on these contracts.
We paid particular attention to the assessment of inventories for projects not yet commercially launched as well as for projects delivered. For projects not yet commercially launched, we reviewed the existence of prospective profits, through interviews with the management and analysis of the budgets. For projects already delivered, we reviewed the anticipated disposal price of unsold cottages with the disposal price of notarial deeds.
Specific verifications
As required by law we have also verified in accordance with professional standards applicable in France the information pertaining to the Group presented in the management report of the Board of Directors.
We have no matters to report as to its fair presentation and its consistency with the consolidated financial statements.
We attest that the non-financial statement provided for by Article L. 225-102-1 of the French Commercial Code (Code de Commerce) is included in the management report, it being specified that, in accordance with the provisions of Article L. 823-10 of said Code, we have verified neither the fairness nor the compliance with the annual accounts of the information contained in this statement.
Report on Other Legal and Regulatory Requirements
Appointment of the Statutory Auditors
We were appointed as statutory auditors of Pierre et Vacances by the General Meeting of Shareholders held on 3 October 1988 for GRANT THORNTON and on 29 May 1990 for ERNST & YOUNG et Autres. As at 30 September 2019, GRANT THORNTON was in its 32nd year and ERNST & YOUNG et Autres in its 30th year of total uninterrupted engagement, and this was the 20th year since securities of the Company were admitted to trading on a regulated market.
Responsibilities of Management and Those Charged with Governance for the Consolidated Financial Statements
Management is responsible for the preparation and fair presentation of the consolidated financial statements in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards as adopted by the European Union and for such internal control as management determines is necessary to enable the preparation of consolidated financial statements that are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error.
In preparing the consolidated financial statements, management is responsible for assessing the Company's ability to continue as a going concern, disclosing, as applicable, matters related to going concern and using the going concern basis of accounting unless it is expected to liquidate the Company or to cease operations.
The Audit Committee is responsible for monitoring the financial reporting process and the effectiveness of internal control and risk management systems and where applicable, its internal audit, regarding the accounting and financial reporting procedures.
The consolidated financial statements were approved by the Board of Directors.

184 UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2018/2019 ­ PIERRE & VACANCES-CENTER PARCS GROUP

FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Consolidated financial statements

Statutory Auditors' Responsibilities for the Audit of the Consolidated Financial Statements
Objectives and audit approach
Our role is to issue a report on the consolidated financial statements. Our objective is to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the consolidated financial statements as a whole are free from material misstatement. Reasonable assurance is a high level of assurance, but is not a guarantee that an audit conducted in accordance with professional standards will always detect a material misstatement when it exists. Misstatements can arise from fraud or error and are considered material if, individually or in the aggregate, they could reasonably be expected to influence the economic decisions of users taken on the basis of these consolidated financial statements.
As specified in Article L. 823-10-1 of the French Commercial Code (Code de Commerce), our statutory audit does not include assurance on the viability of the Company or the quality of management of the affairs of the Company.
As part of an audit conducted in accordance with professional standards applicable in France, the statutory auditor exercises professional judgment throughout the audit and furthermore:
E identifies and assesses the risks of material misstatement of the consolidated financial statements, whether due to fraud or error, designs and performs audit procedures responsive to those risks, and obtains audit evidence considered to be sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for his opinion. The risk of not detecting a material misstatement resulting from fraud is higher than for one resulting from error, as fraud may involve collusion, forgery, intentional omissions, misrepresentations, or the override of internal control;
E obtains an understanding of internal control relevant to the audit in order to design audit procedures that are appropriate in the circumstances, but not for the purpose of expressing an opinion on the effectiveness of the internal control;
E evaluates the appropriateness of accounting policies used and the reasonableness of accounting estimates and related disclosures made by management in the consolidated financial statements;
E assesses the appropriateness of management's use of the going concern basis of accounting and, based on the audit evidence obtained, whether a material uncertainty exists related to events or conditions that may cast significant doubt on the Company's ability to continue as a going concern. This assessment is based on the audit evidence obtained up to the date of his audit report. However, future events or conditions may cause the Company to cease to continue as a going concern. If the statutory auditor concludes that a material uncertainty exists, there is a requirement to draw attention in the audit report to the related disclosures in the consolidated financial statements or, if such disclosures are not provided or inadequate, to modify the opinion expressed therein;
E evaluates the overall presentation of the consolidated financial statements and assesses whether these statements represent the underlying transactions and events in a manner that achieves fair presentation;
E obtains sufficient appropriate audit evidence regarding the financial information of the entities or business activities within the Group to express an opinion on the consolidated financial statements. The statutory auditor is responsible for the direction, supervision and performance of the audit of the consolidated financial statements and for the opinion expressed on these consolidated financial statements.
Report to the Audit Committee
We submit a report to the Audit Committee which includes in particular a description of the scope of the audit and the audit program implemented, as well as the results of our audit. We also report significant deficiencies, if any, in internal control regarding the accounting and financial reporting procedures that we have identified.
Our report to the Audit Committee includes the risks of material misstatement that, in our professional judgment, were of most significance in the audit of the consolidated financial statements for the current period and which are therefore the key audit matters that we are required to describe in this report.
We also provide the Audit Committee with the declaration provided for in Article 6 of Regulation (EU) no. 537/2014, confirming our independence within the meaning of the rules applicable in France as set out in particular in Articles L. 822-10 to L. 822-14 of the French Commercial Code (Code de Commerce) and in the French Code of Ethics for Statutory Auditors (Code de déontologie de la profession de commissaire aux comptes). Where appropriate, we discuss with the Audit Committee the risks that may reasonably be thought to bear on our independence, and the related safeguards.

5

Neuilly-sur-Seine and Paris-La Défense, 19 December 2019

The Statutory Auditors French original signed by

GRANT THORNTON

ERNST & YOUNG et Autres

Virginie PALETHORPE

Anne HERBEIN

185 UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2018/2019 ­ PIERRE & VACANCES-CENTER PARCS GROUP

5

FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Information on the parent company financial statements

5.3 Information on the parent company financial statements

5.3.1 The Company's business activities

Pierre et Vacances SA, the Group holding company, holds:
E interests in all the subholding companies;
E the lease and fittings at the administrative premises of the registered office situated in the 19th arrondissement of Paris (Espace Pont de Flandre).

At 30 September 2019, there were two types of agreements binding Pierre et Vacances SA and its subsidiaries:
E an agreement on the reinvoicing of head office expenses (rental expenses, depreciation of fittings and furniture);
E sub-leases within the framework of reinvoicing for rent.

5.3.2 Changes in the business

Revenue for the 2018/2019 financial year totalled 7.9 million, versus 14.7 million for the previous financial year, i.e. a fall of 6.8 million.
This drop in revenue primarily relates to the absence of fees. Last year, 6 million was invoiced for services rendered to subsidiaries, primarily in connection with real estate development projects (Allgäu, Center Parcs "Sud-Ouest Cottages", the Center Parcs at Zandvoort in the Netherlands).
The breakdown of revenue generated in the 2018/2019 financial year is primarily as follows:
E 6.8 million in re-invoiced rent expenses representing the share of subsidiary entities for their occupation of premises at the Group's registered office in Artois, in the 19th arrondissement of Paris;
E 0.8 million in invoices for commissions on guarantees of financial commitments given by the Company on behalf of its various subsidiaries.
Transfers of operating expenses of 13.1 million were recorded during the year. These essentially concerned:
E the reinvoicing of head office costs and services of 10.2 million to subsidiaries in respect of their share of the expenses, up 0.7 million compared with 2017/2018;
E operating expenses on borrowings of 1.2 million, reclassified as financial expenses;
E operating expenses associated with the reclassification, on an exceptional basis, of 1.5 million in expenses and fees incurred in connection with restructuring the Group's activities.
Operating expenses for the period are the result of costs incurred by Pierre et Vacances SA to develop the Group's activities as a holding company.
They amounted to 26.8 million for 18/19 compared with 33.6 million for the previous year.
Operating income was negative, with a 5.7 million loss compared with a 1 million profit for the 2017/2018 financial year.

Net financial income was negative at -71.4 million for 2018/2019, compared with net loss of -48.7 million for the previous year.
Financial income for the year is mainly composed of the following items:
E dividend income of 7.4 million from subsidiaries, including:
­ 4.7 million from PV Marques, a subsidiary owning the Group's brands (mainly Pierre et Vacances, Maeva and Multivacances), excluding the "Les Senioriales" brand and those operated by the Center Parcs sub-group,
­ 1.9 million from the company PVFI, the Group's central cash management company,
­ 0.8 million from the company PV Courtage;
E reversals of provisions for impairment losses and reinvoiced expenses amounting to 0.4 million, primarily consisting of the reversal of a provision for impairment losses on investments in the subsidiary, PV-CP China Holding, amounting to 0.3 million;
E other interest income in the amount of 7.7 million, including 7.1 million in interest on the current account held on behalf of Pierre et Vacances FI SNC, a subsidiary that provides centralised cash management for the Group;
E interest expenses in the amount of 12.7 million, notably including:
­ interest on bank borrowing amounting to 8.1 million, including: 2.0 million for the ORNANE-type bond subscribed for on 6 December 2017 and maturing in 2023, 2.7 million relating to the bond issued in the form of an unlisted "Euro PP" private placement maturing in 2019 and issued on 19 July 2016 and 3.4 million for the bond issued in the form of an unlisted "Euro PP" private placement maturing in 2025 and issued on 14 February 2018,
­ interest expense and commissions on bank loans of 1.2 million,
­ interest expense and commissions on short-term financing of 2.6 million,
­ fees and commissions on guarantees in the amount of 0.3 million;

186 UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2018/2019 ­ PIERRE & VACANCES-CENTER PARCS GROUP

FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Information on the parent company financial statements

E amortisation and provisions on financial assets in the amount of 74.2 million, including:
­ provisions for impairment losses on shares in PV-CP Immobilier Holding amounting to 37.6 million,
­ 36.2 million in provisions for the impairment loss on the current account of Les Villages Nature® de Val d'Europe.
Net financial income for the 2017/2018 financial year was a loss of -48.7 million. It mainly consisted of the following:
E dividend income of 7.3 million from subsidiaries, including PV Marques (4.9 million), PVFI (1.8 million) and PV Courtage (0.7 million);
E reversals of provisions for impairment losses and reinvoiced expenses amounting to 4.6 million, primarily consisting of 2.7 million for the reversal of provisions for financial expenses and 1.1 million following the liquidation of Part House;
E other interest income in the amount of 8.1 million, including 7.6 million in interest on the current account held on behalf of Pierre et Vacances FI SNC, a subsidiary that provides centralised cash management for the Group;

E interest expense of 34 million, notably consisting of 21 million for a conversion loss arising from requests to redeem ORNANE-type bonds and 6.1 million for interest on bank borrowings;
E 34.6 million in provisions for impairment losses on financial assets, including provisions for impairment losses on investments (25.5 million for Les Villages Nature® Du Val d'Europe, 4.6 million for Pierre et Vacances Maroc, 0.3 million for PV-CP China BV) and 4.2 million for the impairment of the Les VillagesNature® du Val d'Europe current account.
Non-recurring income was a loss of 1.5 million for the 18/19 financial year compared with a loss of 0.9 million recognised the previous year.
This includes expenses and fees incurred for restructuring the Group's activities.
Pierre et Vacances SA, as the parent company in the tax consolidation group, has recorded a tax saving of 16.7 million in the 2018/2019 financial year resulting from tax consolidation.
As a result, net income for the year was a loss of -61.9 million compared with a loss of -40.7 million in the previous year, due primarily to the reduction in operating profit.

5.3.3 Changes in financial position

The statement of financial position total stood at 1,046.7 million at 30 September 2019, compared with 1,126.7 million at 30 September 2018, down 80 million.
This change is mainly due to:
E a decrease in sundry loans and other borrowings of 16 million;
E a loss of 61.9 million recognised for the financial year.
The net carrying amount of investments in associates and other long term equity investments at 30 September 2019 was 577.6 million and consisted of the following main investments (in  millions):

E Pierre & Vacances Tourisme Europe SA E PV-CP Immobilier Holding SAS E Pierre & Vacances Marques SAS E PV-CP Holding China BV E Adagio SAS E Les Villages Nature® de Val d'Europe E Pierre & Vacances Maroc

422.1 91.4 60.7 2.7 0.5 -

In 2018/2019, Pierre et Vacances SA equity fell by 61.9 million to 771.0 million at 30 September 2019. This change corresponds to the loss of 61.9 million generated during the financial year.

Provisions for risks and expenses at 30 September 2019 amounted to 4.1 million (compared with 3.8 million at 30 September 2018).
Provisions for risks and charges at 30 September 2019 are mainly related to the provisions covering the negative net position of the subsidiary Orion SAS.
With regard to the structure of financial liabilities (252.4 million), these comprised 12.8 million in sundry loans and other borrowings plus the bond issue item (239.6 million) which, at 30 September 2019, corresponded to:
E the ORNANE-type bond issued on 6 December 2017 with a principal amount of 100.0 million and comprising 1,648,261 bonds with a value of 60.67 redeemable at maturity on 1 April 2023;
at the end of the reporting period, interest accrued on loans and borrowings amounted to 1.0 million;
E the bond issued in the form of an unlisted "Euro PP" private placement on 19 July 2016 with a principal amount of 60.0 million and maturing in December 2022. This issue, with a 4.50% coupon (compared with 4.25% until 17 July 2018), was subscribed for by French institutional investors;
at the end of the reporting period, interest accrued on this bond issue amounted to 0.6 million;
E the bond issued in the form of an unlisted "Euro PP" private placement on 14 February 2018 with a principal amount of 76.0 million and maturing in February 2025. This issue, with a 4.25% coupon (compared with 3.90% until 30 September 2018), was subscribed for by French institutional investors. At the end of the reporting period, interest accrued on this bond issue amounted to 2.0 million.

5

187 UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2018/2019 ­ PIERRE & VACANCES-CENTER PARCS GROUP

5

FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Information on the parent company financial statements

5.3.4 Outlook

In 2019/2020, Pierre et Vacances SA will continue to act as the Group holding company under conditions equivalent to those of the past financial year.
5.3.5 Subsidiaries, associates and other long-term equity investments

The activities of the main subsidiaries in 2018/2019 are presented below:
E Pierre & Vacances Tourisme Europe SA
Pierre & Vacances Tourisme Europe SA continued to act as sub-holding company for the tourism business segment. For the Financial year ended 30 September 2019, the loss made by Pierre & Vacances was 20.1 million.
E Pierre & Vacances Marques SAS
The activity of this company consists of collecting royalties from the granting of rights to use its brands. Over this reporting period, the net income of Pierre & Vacances Marques was a 7.7 million profit.
E Pierre & Vacances FI SNC
In 2018/2019, SNC Pierre & Vacances FI continued to exercise its responsibilities for central cash management for the various Pierre & Vacances-Center Parcs Group entities. Over this reporting period, SNC Pierre & Vacances FI recorded net income of 2.1 million.
E PV-CP Immobilier Holding
This sub-holding company for property development reported a loss of 10.7 million in the 2018/2019 financial year.
With regard to these subsidiaries and investments, we present the following information:
E Significant equity investments

During the financial year, the Company made the following equity investments:
­ Pierre et Vacances Investissement 55
On 18 June 2019, following the establishment of Pierre et Vacances Investissement 55, Pierre et Vacances SA subscribed for 1,000 shares (or 100% of the share capital) of said company.
­ Pierre et Vacances Investissement 56
On 18 June 2019, following the establishment of Pierre et Vacances Investissement 56, Pierre et Vacances SA subscribed for 1,000 shares (or 100% of the share capital) of said company.
E Significant disposals
During the year, the Company disposed of stakes in the following companies:
­ Pierre et Vacances Investissement 53 (now PV Senioriales Production)
On 30 November 2018, Pierre et Vacances SA sold to PV Senioriales Promotion et Commercialisation, 1,000 shares in Pierre et Vacances Investissement 53 (i.e. all of the capital), for a total price of 10,000.
E Significant investments and disposals since the year-end
None.

5.3.6 Allocation of profit
We propose allocating the loss for the financial year as follows: E to retained earnings (accumulated losses)
Following this allocation of profit, equity will break down as follows: E share capital (9,805,232 x 10) E issue premiums E merger premiums E statutory reserve E other reserves E retained earnings (accumulated losses) E Total
188 UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2018/2019 ­ PIERRE & VACANCES-CENTER PARCS GROUP

-61,870,410.17
98,052,320.00 21,239,441.39
55,912.36 9,801,723.00 2,308,431.46 639,512,712.48 770,970,540.69

FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Information on the parent company financial statements

5.3.7 Reminder of previously distributed dividends
In accordance with Article 243 bis of the French General Tax Code (Code Général des Impôts), it is reminded that no dividend was paid over the last three fiscal years.

5.3.8 Non tax deductible expenses
In accordance with Article 223 quater of the French General Tax Code (Code Général des Impôts), the financial statements for the last financial year do not include any expenses or charges that are not deductible from taxable income pursuant to Article 39­4 of the Code.

5.3.9 Table of the Company's results over the last five years

Information type I - Company financial position a) Share capital b) Number of shares issued c) Par value (in ) II - Results of transactions a) Revenue before tax b) Income before tax, depreciation, amortisation and impairment c) Income tax d) Income after tax, depreciation, amortisation and impairment e) Profits distributed III - Earnings per share (in ) a) Income after tax, but before depreciation, amortisation and impairment b) Income after tax, depreciation, amortisation and impairment c) Dividend per share IV - Employees a) Number of employees b) Employee expenses, excluding benefits c) Employee benefit expenses

2015

Year ending 30 September

2016

2017

2018

2019

88,215 8,821,551
10.00

98,017 9,801,723
10.00

98,017 9,801,723
10.00

98,046 9,804,565
10.00

98,052 9,805,232
10.00

16,482 26,038 -11,462 73,060
-

12,485 47,772 -31,878 121,387
-

17,051 8,797 -8,431
53,127 -

14,712 0
-7,843 -40,718
-

7,936 -2,574 -16,753 -61,870
-

4.25

8.13

8.28

12.38

0.00

0.00

1.76

-0.78

1.45

5.42

-4.15

-6.31

0.00

0.00

0.00

None.

5

189 UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2018/2019 ­ PIERRE & VACANCES-CENTER PARCS GROUP

5

FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Information on the parent company financial statements

5.3.10 Information on payment maturities

Invoices, received and issued, not yet paid at the end of the reporting period which are past due

End of fiscal year (30 September 2019)

Amounts (in  thousands)

Article D. I.- 1°: Invoices received, past due and not yet paid as of the end of the reporting period

Article D. I.- 2°: Invoices issued, past due and not yet paid as of the end of the reporting period

0 days (indicative)

90 days

1 to

31 to 61 to

or

30 days 60 days 90 days more

Total (1 day and more)

0 days (indicative)

90 days

1 to 31 to 61 to

or

30 days 60 days 90 days more

Total (1 day and more)

(A) Classified as late payment

Number of invoices

56

167

50

21

Amount (incl. VAT)

2,921 3,491 315

47

182 4,035 5,419

0

0

0

74

74

% of total

purchases for the fiscal year

11%

13%

1%

0%

1%

15%

(VAT excl.)

% of total revenue for the fiscal year (VAT excl.)

27%

0%

0%

0%

0%

0%

(B) Invoices excluded from (A) related to disputed or unrecognised receivables

Number of invoices

________________ none ______________

________________ none ______________

Amount (incl. VAT)

________________ 0 ______________

________________ 0 ______________

(C) Reference payment terms used (contractual or legal payment terms ­ Article L. 443-1 of the French Commercial Code)

Reference payment used

Contractual payment terms Legal payment terms

Contractual payment terms Legal payment terms

190 UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2018/2019 ­ PIERRE & VACANCES-CENTER PARCS GROUP

FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Parent company financial statements

5.4 Parent company financial statements

5.4.1 Income statement

(in  thousands)
Sales of service Net revenue Capitalised production costs Operating subsidy Reinvoiced expenses and reversals of write-offs and provisions Other income Operating profit (loss) Other purchases and external expenses Income and other taxes Wages and salaries Social security expenses Depreciation and amortisation Provisions for non-current assets Provisions for current assets Provisions for risks and charges Other operating expenses Operating expenses OPERATING PROFIT (LOSS) Financial income from associates and other long-term equity investments Other interest income Reinvoiced expenses and reversals of provisions Positive translation differences Net gain on disposals of marketable securities Financial income Amortisation and provisions on financial assets Interest expense Net (loss) on disposals of marketable securities Other financial expenses Financial expenses FINANCIAL INCOME (EXPENSE) PROFIT (LOSS) FROM ORDINARY ACTIVITIES, BEFORE TAX

Notes 12 13

2018/2019 7,936 7,936
13,064 37
21,037 22,880
342
1,110 2,209
0
234 26,775 -5,738
7,442 7,739
358
17 15,556 74,156 12,708
116
86,980 -71,424 -77,162

2017/2018 14,712 14,712
15,158 4,737
34,607 29,051
278
1,024 2,812
32
402 33,599
1,008 7,329 8,122 4,568
38 20,057 34,644 33,987
93
68,724 -48,667 -47,659

5

(in  thousands)
Non-recurring income from management transactions Non-recurring income from capital transactions Reinvoiced expenses and reversals of provisions Non-recurring income Non-recurring expenses on management transactions Non-recurring expenses on capital transactions Non-recurring amortisation, depreciation and impairment Non-recurring income NON-RECURRING PROFIT (LOSS) Employee profit-sharing Income tax TOTAL INCOME TOTAL EXPENSES PROFIT (LOSS) FOR THE YEAR

Notes
14 16

2018/2019
2,380
2,380 1,461 2,380
3,841 -1,461
-16,753 38,973 100,843 -61,870

2017/2018
6,710
6,710 902
6,710
7,612 -902
-7,843 61,374 102,092 -40,718

191 UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2018/2019 ­ PIERRE & VACANCES-CENTER PARCS GROUP

5

FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Parent company financial statements

5.4.2 Balance sheet
Assets
(in  thousands)
Intangible assets Property, plant and equipment Other non-current assets Assets in progress Financial assets Other long-term equity investments Loans and other financial assets NON-CURRENT ASSETS Advances and prepayments to suppliers Trade receivables Other receivables Marketable securities Cash and cash equivalents Prepaid expenses CURRENT ASSETS Deferred expenses TOTAL

Notes 1 1

Gross Amount 27,824
6,823

Depreciation, amortisation & impairment Net 30/09/2019 Net 30/09/2018

21,830

5,994

5,024

6,332

491

635

1.2,4
4&5 3.4,5
6 6 4 & 10 11

646,442 19
681,108 17
5,657 482,561
5,562 1,975 4,147 499,919 3,186 1,184,213

68,848 97,010
130 40,400
40,530 137,540

577,594 19
584,098 17
5,527 442,161
5,562 1,975 4,147 459,389 3,186 1,046,673

550,922 19
556,600 17
10,577 545,895
5,588 143
3,469 565,689
4,397 1,126,686

192 UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2018/2019 ­ PIERRE & VACANCES-CENTER PARCS GROUP

Liabilities
(in  thousands)
Issued capital Additional paid-in capital Statutory reserve Other reserves Retained earnings Profit (loss) for the year EQUITY Provisions for risks Provisions for charges PROVISIONS FOR RISKS AND CHARGES Financial liabilities Bond issue Amounts due to credit institutions Sundry loans and other borrowings Operating liabilities Advances and deposits on orders in progress Trade payables Tax and social security liabilities Sundry liabilities Amounts due to suppliers of non-current assets Other liabilities Accruals Deferred income TOTAL LIABILITIES TOTAL

FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Parent company financial statements

Notes
7
2 4 4 4&8
4&5 4 4
4&9 4 & 10

30/09/2019 98,052 21,295 9,802 2,308
701,384 -61,870 770,971
4,160 4,160
239,580 20
12,782
5 9,564
1
9,590
271,542 1,046,673

30/09/2018 98,046 21,301 9,802 2,308
742,102 -40,718 832,841
3,844 3,844
240,014 19
28,787

5

10,169 205

10,807

290,001 1,126,686

193 UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2018/2019 ­ PIERRE & VACANCES-CENTER PARCS GROUP

5

FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Parent company financial statements

5.4.3 Notes to the parent company financial statements

Additional information on the statement

NOTE 14 Non-recurring profit (loss)

206

of financial position and income statement

197

NOTE 15 Total transfers of expenses

206

NOTE 1 Non-current assets

197

NOTE 16 Income tax

207

NOTE 2 Provisions

198

NOTE 17 Increases and reductions in the future

NOTE 3 Other receivables

199

tax liability

208

NOTE 4
NOTE 5 NOTE 6
NOTE 7 NOTE 8

Schedule of maturities of receivables and liabilities
Accrued income and expenses
Marketable securities and cash and cash equivalents
Changes in equity
Sundry loans and long-term borrowings

NOTE 18 Related companies

208

199

Financial commitments and other information 209

201

NOTE 19 Off-statement of financial position

commitments

209

201

NOTE 20 Parent company

211

202

NOTE 21 Remuneration of executive management

202

anddirectors

211

NOTE 9 Other liabilities

203

NOTE 22 List of subsidiaries and equity investments 212

NOTE 10 Accruals

203

NOTE 23 Events after the reporting period

213

NOTE 11 Deferred expenses

203

NOTE 12 Breakdown of operating profit (loss)

204

NOTE 13 Financial income (expense)

205

194 UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2018/2019 ­ PIERRE & VACANCES-CENTER PARCS GROUP

FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Parent company financial statements

Total assets before allocation reported in the statement of financial position at 30 September 2019 (in ): Loss for the year reported in the income statement (in ):
The amounts presented in these notes are in  thousands. The reporting period lasts for 12 months, from 1 October 2018 to 30 September 2019. These annual financial statements were approved by the Board of Directors on 25 November 2019.

1,046,672,858.44 -61,870,410.17

Highlights of the financial year
Governance
Since 2 September 2019, Yann Caillère ­ drawing on 40 years of experience working at the highest level in leading Tourism industry companies ­ has been CEO of the Pierre & Vacances-Center Parcs Group.
He succeeded Olivier Bremond who was appointed deputy CEO of S.I.T.I., the Pierre & Vacances-Center Parcs Group's main holding company.
Strategic agreements in China
On 21 December 2018, S.I.T.I.(1) acquired the full interests, previously owned by HNA Tourism Group in Pierre et Vacances S.A., i.e., or 10.00% of the Company's capital and 13.50% of its net voting rights(2). This acquisition put an end to all of the capital and commercial ties linking HNA Tourism and Pierre & Vacances-Center Parcs.
In August 2019, the Pierre & Vacances-Center Parcs Group signed partnership agreements with two state-owned groups that are leaders in their sectors: an investment bank and a construction and civil engineering company, which have respectively subscribed for 44% and 12% of the Chinese Joint-Venture backing Pierre & Vacances-Center Parcs activities in China, with Pierre & Vacances-Center Parcs Group holding a 44% stake.
To date, the Joint-Venture has signed project management assistance and tourism management contracts for 14 projects inspired by Center Parcs and Pierre & Vacances concepts.
Opening of Center Parcs Allgaü
After an opening period affected by a spate of bad weather, the site, in operation since 2018, has enjoyed huge commercial success, recording a 90% occupancy rate in the 4th quarter.

Acquisitions operations
On 16 January 2019, the Group announced the acquisition of the business capital of French start-up RendezvousCheznous.com, a marketplace launched in 2014 that connects holidaymakers with local hosts for authentic experiences. This acquisition fits with the strategy of the Pierre & Vacances brand to round out its offer by proposing customers immersive and experiential holidays.
Property sales/renovations
Property renovations transactions were completed at two Center Parcs sites in the Netherlands and Belgium in the first quarter of the financial year. These transactions will finance the full renovation and upgrade of the sites.
Accounting principles and methods
Accounting principles and methods ­ The annual financial statements are presented in accordance with the provisions of the 2014 French General Chart of Accounts (Plan comptable général) (Regulation 2014-03 of 05 June 2014 of the French Accounting Standards Authority, or Autorité des Normes Comptables, approved by ministerial order of 8 September 2014, updated by regulation of Autorité des Normes Comptables on 4 November 2016).
Generally accepted accounting principles have been applied, including the principle of prudence, in accordance with the following basic assumptions:
E going concern;
E consistency of accounting methods from one financial year to the next;
E independence of financial years;
and in accordance with professional standards.
The main measurement methods relate to the following:
E Property, plant and equipment and intangible assets. These are measured at their acquisition cost, at their contribution value or at their construction cost.

5

(1) Limited liability company controlled by S.I.T.I. "R", itself controlled by Mr Gérard Brémond, Chairman of the Pierre et Vacances S.A. Board of Directors. (2) Based on 9,804,565 shares and 14,516,853 net voting rights in circulation at 30 November 2018.
195 UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2018/2019 ­ PIERRE & VACANCES-CENTER PARCS GROUP

5

FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Parent company financial statements

With the exception of goodwill, other property, plant and equipment and intangible assets are depreciated or amortised using the straight-line method, over their economic lives established as follows:

Concessions, patents General installations Office furniture and equipment

5 years 10 years 3 to 10 years

The depreciation or amortisation thus calculated is included in operating profit or loss.
E Investments in associates and other long-term equity investments. These are valued at their purchase price or at their contribution value, less any accumulated impairment losses recorded if the net asset value falls below the carrying amount.
At each year-end, the net asset value is determined by reference to the share of enterprise values less the total liabilities of the Group's companies for the companies concerned.
The enterprise value of the companies is, generally speaking, calculated on the basis of discounted future net cash flows. Cash flow projections come from the five-year business plans developed by operational and financial managers. For periods beyond five years, they are estimated using a perpetual growth rate. The discount rate used is based on the average cost of capital reflecting current market assessments of the time value of money and the risks specific to the activities of the companies evaluated.
E Loans and other financial assets. This item essentially includes the amount of deposits paid to our partners.
E Trade receivables. A provision is made for risk of non-recovery of receivables when a debtor shows a risk of insolvency or disputes the basis of receivables or when payments are unusually delayed. The provisions are based on an individual assessment of this risk of non-recovery.

E Other receivables. These include, in particular, tax receivables, VAT, Group current accounts, sundry receivables and accrued income.
Current accounts are initially valued at their purchase price or at their contribution value.
Where they present a risk of non-recovery, they are covered by an impairment which recognises the subsidiary's repayment capacity and its growth outlook.
E Marketable securities. These are recognised at their acquisition cost. They are subsequently measured at the lower of their acquisition cost and their market value.
E Pierre et Vacances treasury shares are reported:
­ as assets on the statement of financial position under "Marketable securities", when these shares are explicitly reserved, on acquisition, either to be granted to employees or to stimulate the market under the liquidity agreement;
­ or otherwise as long-term equity investments.
E Prepaid expenses and deferred income. This item principally comprises operating income and expenses.
E Deferred expenses. Such expenses relate to costs for setting-up financial programs in accordance with statutory norms
E Recognising the profit (loss) from subsidiaries: in accordance with statutory provisions, the profit or loss of subsidiaries in the form of a partnership exempt from corporate income tax are included in the same year.

196 UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2018/2019 ­ PIERRE & VACANCES-CENTER PARCS GROUP

FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Parent company financial statements

Additional information on the statement of financial position and income statement

Note 1 Non-current assets

Tangible and intangible assets
Intangible assets Brand names, concessions, patents Businesses goodwill Other intangible assets Intangible assets in progress TOTAL INTANGIBLE ASSETS Property, plant and equipment Miscellaneous fixtures Office and computer equipment, and furniture TOTAL PROPERTY, PLANT, AND EQUIPMENT Financial assets Long-term equity investments and related loans and receivables Loans and other financial assets TOTAL FINANCIAL ASSETS TOTAL GROSS TANGIBLE AND INTANGIBLE ASSETS

30/09/2018
3,003 19,470
3,577 26,050
4,670 2,315 6,985

Acquisitions 846

Disposals and retirements

1,647 2,493
21 29 50

-719 -719
-212
-212

582,432 19
582,452 615,486

64,020
64,020 66,563

-10
-10 -941

30/09/2019
3,849 19,470
4,505 27,824
4,479 2,344 6,823
646,442 19
646,461 681,108

5

Depreciation, amortisation and impairment
Brand names, concessions, patents Businesses goodwill Other intangible assets TOTAL INTANGIBLE ASSETS
Property, plant and equipment Miscellaneous fixtures Office and computer equipment, and furniture TOTAL PROPERTY, PLANT, AND EQUIPMENT
Financial assets Long-term equity investments and related loans and receivables Loans and other financial assets TOTAL FINANCIAL ASSETS
TOTAL DEPRECIATION, AMORTISATION AND IMPAIRMENT TOTAL NET TANGIBLE AND INTANGIBLE ASSETS

30/09/2018 1,556
19,470
21,026
4,441 1,909 6,350
31,510
31,510
58,886 556,600

Increases 804
804
60 134 194
37,622 37,622 38,620 27,943

Reductions
-212 -212 -284 -284 -496 -445

30/09/2019 2,360
19,470
21,830
4,289 2,043 6,332
68,848
68,848
97,010 584,098

The net increase in the value of tangible and intangible assets of 27,498,000 in the year was mainly due to:
E the PV-CP Immobilier Holding 64,000,000 capital increase;
E the net increase in IT projects under way, in the amount of 928,000.

E the reversal of the provision for impairment losses on investments in the subsidiary PV-CP China Holding B.V. of 284,000 that leads to a net value of these shares equal to 2,718,000;
E Provision due to impairment losses on the shares of the subsidiary PVCP Immobilier Holding of -37,565,000 reducing the net value of these shares to 91,400,000, taking into account the company's valuation at the reporting date.

197 UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2018/2019 ­ PIERRE & VACANCES-CENTER PARCS GROUP

5

FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Parent company financial statements

Note 2 Provisions

Provisions for risks and charges Provisions for impairment losses
E Goodwill E Investments in associates and other
long-term equity investments E Trade receivables E Current accounts TOTAL

30/09/2018 3,844
19,470
31,510 161
4,182 59,167

Increases 316

Reductions used

Reductions not used

30/09/2019 4,160

37,622
36,218 74,156

19,470

284

68,848

19

12

130

40,400

19

296

133,008

At 30 September 2019, provisions consisted of the following:
Provisions for risks and charges corresponding to provisions covering the negative net positions of the subsidiary Orion SAS for a total amount of 4,080,000 and PV Maroc for 80,000.
Provisions for impairment losses on goodwill from internal restructuring operations for a total amount of 19,470,000.
Provisions for impairment losses on investments in associates and other long-term equity investments primarily relate to the following:
E 37,565,000 for PV-CP Immobilier Holding; E 25,456,000 for Les Villages Nature® de Val d'Europe ;
E 5,757,000 for Pierre & Vacances Maroc;

E 38,000 for Orion SAS.
Provisions for impairment losses on other assets correspond to:
E 130,000 for trade receivables;
E the impairment loss on the current account of Les VillagesNature® de Val d'Europe for 40,400,000.
Reversals of 315,000 relate to:
E the reversal of provision for impairment losses on shares in PV-CP China Holding BV of 284,000;
E the reversal of provisions for impairment losses on other assets, including 31,000 on trade receivables.

198 UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2018/2019 ­ PIERRE & VACANCES-CENTER PARCS GROUP

FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Parent company financial statements

Note 3 Other receivables

CURRENT ACCOUNTS Pierre & Vacances FI SNC Les Villages Nature® de Val d'Europe SAS Pierre et Vacances Maroc STATE AND OTHER PUBLIC AUTHORITIES OTHER RECEIVABLES AND MISCELLANEOUS ACCOUNTS IN DEBIT TOTAL

30/09/2019 464,632 390,522 73,712 398 2,457 15,472 482,561

30/09/2018 534,883 487,699 46,887 297 9,148 6,046 550,077

Receivables in current accounts primarily consist, first, of the receivable owed to Pierre et Vacances FI SNC, a subsidiary of Pierre et Vacances SA, which carries out centralised cash management for all of the group's subsidiaries, and, second, of the receivable owed to Les Villages Nature® de Val d'Europe SAS.
Amounts due from the State and other public authorities primarily correspond to:
E the VAT credit vested as of 30 September 2019, for a total of 879,000,000 (as compared with 55,000 in consolidated VAT credits as of the end of the previous financial year);
E the balance of the Competitiveness and Employment Tax Credit (CICE) of 280,000 accrued by the company as the head of the tax group for 2018, not yet assigned;
E input VAT of 1,153,000 (versus 727,000 at the previous year-end);

E family tax credits of 70,000.
Moreover, during the year, the company sold off the Group receivable stemming from the French competitive and employment tax credit (CICE) for the 2017 and 2018 calendar years. This non-recourse and discount operation therefore resulted in a net collection of 11,568 million for the year ending 30 September 2019.
The "Other receivables" item primarily relates to sums owed to Pierre et Vacances SA by subsidiaries:
E 9,739,000 in income tax in its capacity as head of the consolidated tax group, compared with 939,000 for the previous year;
E consolidated VAT for the month of September 2019 in the amount of 5,003,000 (compared with 4,301,000 for September 2018).

5

Note 4 Schedule of maturities of receivables and liabilities

Receivables Other financial assets Advances and prepayments to suppliers Trade receivables State and other public authorities Group and associates Other receivables Accruals

Amount 19 17
5,657 2,457 464,632 15,472 4,147 492,401

Due date

less than 1 year

More than 1 year

19

17

5,657

2,457

464,632

15,472

4,147

492,382

19

199 UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2018/2019 ­ PIERRE & VACANCES-CENTER PARCS GROUP

5

FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Parent company financial statements

The members of the consolidated VAT group as of 30 September 2019 are: E C.T.M. SAS (formerly Pierre et Vacances Investissement XXXXIII SAS); E Center Parcs Resorts France SAS; E Club Hôtel SARL; E Club Hôtel Multivacances SAS; E Commerces Patrimoine Cap Esterel SNC; E Curchase SAS (formerly Pierre et Vacances Investissement XXXXVI SAS); E Domaine du Lac d'Ailette SNC; E GIE PV-CP Services; E Le Rousset Equipement SNC; E Lille loisirs SNC; E Maeva Gestion SARL (formerly Société de Gestion des Mandats SARL); E Orion SAS; E Pierre et Vacances SA; E Pierre et Vacances Esterel Développement SAS; E Pierre et Vacances Investissement XXIV SAS; E Pierre et Vacances Investissement XXXXVII SAS; E Pierre et Vacances Marques SAS; E PV Rénovation Tourisme SAS;

E Pierre et Vacances Tourisme Europe SAS; E Pierre et Vacances Senioriales Gestion Immobilière
Investissement SAS; E Pierre et Vacances Senioriales Programmes Immobiliers SAS; E Poligny Cottages SNC; E Poligny Equipements SNC; E La Gare du Bois Roger (formerly PV Prog 49) SNC; E PV-CP City SAS; E PV-CP Distribution SA; E PV-CP Gestion Exploitation SAS; E PV-CP Holding Exploitation SAS; E PV-CP Immobilier Holding SAS; E PV Résidences et Resorts France SAS; E SGRT SARL; E Société d'Exploitation Touristique Pierre et Vacances Guadeloupe SAS; E Société d'Exploitation Touristique Pierre et Vacances Martinique SAS; E Société Hôtelière de l'Anse à la Barque SNC; E Sogire SA; E Sud Ouest Cottages SNC; E Sud Ouest Equipements SNC.

Total liabilities Bond issue Amounts due to credit institutions Sundry loans and long-term borrowings Advances and deposits on orders in progress Trade payables Tax and social security liabilities Other liabilities

Amount 239,580
20 12,782
5 9,564
1 9,590 271,542

Under 1 years 3,580 20
12,356 5
9,564 1
8,090 33,616

Due date

1 to 5 years more than 5 years

160,000

76,000

426

878 160,878

622 77,048

At 30 September 2019, the bond issue item comprises:
E the ORNANE-type bond issued on 6 December 2017 with a principal amount of 100,000,000 and comprising 1,648,261 bonds with a value of 60.67 redeemable at maturity on 1 April 2023. Bonds redeemable in cash and/or new and/or existing shares (ORNANES) can be converted at any time by settlement in new or existing shares."
At the end of the reporting period, interest accrued on loans and borrowings amounted to 1,000,000;
E the bond issued in the form of an unlisted "Euro PP" private placement on 19 July 2016 with a principal amount of 60,000,000 and maturing in December 2022. This issue, with a 4.50% coupon (compared with 4.25% until 17 July 2018), was subscribed for by French institutional investors;
At the end of the reporting period, interest accrued on this bond issue amounted to 561,000.
E the bond issued in the form of an unlisted "Euro PP" private placement on 14 February 2018 with a principal amount of

76,000,000 and maturing in February 2025. This issue, with a 4.25% coupon (compared with 3.90% until 30 September 2018), was subscribed for by French institutional investors. At the end of the reporting period, interest accrued on this bond issue amounted to 2,019,000.
Other liabilities include 1,719,000 relating to the rent-free period for the Group head office buildings in the 19th arrondissement of Paris which extends up to July 2027.
None of Pierre et Vacances SA's bank borrowings are based on its or the Group's rating. Amounts due to credit institutions include contractual clauses relating to the consolidated financial position of the Pierre et Vacances Center Parcs Group. These ratios are adjusted to the repayment profile for these loans. The level and definition thereof have been fixed in consultation with the lenders on the basis of forecasts. Compliance with these ratios is assessed only once a year at the reporting date. Failure to comply with these ratios authorises the lenders to call in some or all of the debt early. These credit lines are also all provided with the usual legal covenants: "negative pledge", "pari passu" and "cross default".

200 UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2018/2019 ­ PIERRE & VACANCES-CENTER PARCS GROUP

FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Parent company financial statements

Note 5 Accrued income and expenses

Accrued income Customers Accrued Competitiveness and Employment Tax Credit (CICE) for the year
Accrued expenses Suppliers Interest accrued on loans and borrowings Attendance fees State Other

30/09/2019 4
75 79
30/09/2019 2,592 3,580 233
6 6,411

30/09/2018 1,209 83 1,292
30/09/2018 2,941 4,014 327 3 7 7,292

Note 6 Marketable securities and cash and cash equivalents

5

During the 2018/2019 financial year, the Pierre & Vacances-Center Parcs Group vested 667 preference shares under employee bonus share plans dating from 2017.
These preference shares may be converted to ordinary shares at any time during a period of six years following 18 April 2021, at the request of employee beneficiaries made to Pierre et Vacances SA.
The distribution of preference shares in the financial year ended 30 September 2019 was the subject of a capital increase through the issue of 667 preference shares of 10 each, fully drawn from the merger premiums account in the amount of 7,000.

Marketable securities, which amounted to 5,562,000 at 30 September 2019, consist exclusively of treasury shares.
At 30 September 2019, the Company held:
E 262,442 treasury shares intended to be granted to employees and totalling 5,436,000;
E 7,986 shares acquired to adjust the stock market price, for an amount of 126,000.
Cash and cash equivalents amounted to 1,975,000 at 30 September 2019, compared with 143,000 at the end of the previous year.

201 UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2018/2019 ­ PIERRE & VACANCES-CENTER PARCS GROUP

5

FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Parent company financial statements

Note 7 Changes in equity

EQUITY AT 30 SEPTEMBER 2017 Capital increase Retained earnings Profit (loss) for the year EQUITY AT 30 SEPTEMBER 2018 Capital increase Statutory reserve Retained earnings Profit (loss) for the year EQUITY AT 30 SEPTEMBER 2019

Share capital 98,017 29

Additional paid-in capital
21,330
-29

Reserves and retained
earnings 701,085
53,127

98,046 6

21,301 -6

754,212

Profit (loss) for the year
53,127
-53,127 -40,718 -40,718

98,052

21,295

-40,718 713,494

40,718 -61,870 -61,870

Total 873,559
-40,718 832,841
-61,870 770,971

During the financial year, on 18 April 2019, a capital increase was carried out through the issue of 667 preference shares of 10 each. This increase was fully drawn from the merger premiums account.

At 30 September 2019, the share capital of the company Pierre et Vacances SA consisted of 9,805,232 shares of 10 each for a total of 98,052,000.
At 30 September 2019, Société d'Investissement Touristique et Immobilier (S.I.T.I.) held 49.81% of the capital of Pierre et Vacances SA.

Note 8 Sundry loans and long-term borrowings
Current accounts Société d'Investissement Touristique et Immobilier (S.I.T.I.) Deposits received TOTAL

30/09/2019 12,356 12,356 426 12,782

30/09/2018 28,361 28,361 426 28,787

202 UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2018/2019 ­ PIERRE & VACANCES-CENTER PARCS GROUP

FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Parent company financial statements

Note 9 Other liabilities

Payables relating to income tax consolidation Payables relating to the VAT consolidation group Sundry liabilities TOTAL

30/09/2019 984
6,649 1,957 9,590

30/09/2018 1,479 7,053 2,275
10,807

Payables relating to tax consolidation are linked to the recognition by Pierre et Vacances SA of income tax advances resulting from tax consolidation in its capacity as parent company of the tax consolidation group.
Total liabilities relating to the VAT consolidation group are linked to the recognition of subsidiaries' VAT liabilities for the September 2019

VAT return submitted in its capacity as parent company of the tax consolidation group.
Sundry liabilities include attendance fees for the 2018/2019 financial year for a total of 233,000.

Note 10 Accruals

Assets Rents and rental charges Miscellaneous TOTAL

30/09/2019 2,284 1,863 4,147

30/09/2018 2,087 1,382 3,469

The "Miscellaneous" item includes 1,843,000 in expenses relating to computer rental costs under licences and maintenance agreements at 30 September 2019.

5

Note 11 Deferred expenses

Bond issuance fees Bank lending fees TOTAL

30/09/2018 2,914 1,483 4,397

Increases

Reductions 611 600
1,211

30/09/2019 2,303 883 3,186

The reduction over the financial year of bond issuance fees corresponds to 611,000 for the amortisation during the year of deferred expenses relating to the "EURO PP" type bonds maturing in 2022 and 2025 and the "ORNANE" type bond maturing in 2023.

The reduction during the financial year of bank lending fees for the amount of 600,000 corresponds to the amortisation for the financial year of deferred expenses relating to the syndicated credit line maturing in 2021.

203 UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2018/2019 ­ PIERRE & VACANCES-CENTER PARCS GROUP

5

FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Parent company financial statements

Note 12 Breakdown of operating profit (loss)

Services Miscellaneous rentals TOTAL REVENUE Reinvoicing of expenses and fees Miscellaneous income Reversal of provisions TOTAL OPERATING INCOME Rents and rental charges Miscellaneous fees Other purchases and external expenses Depreciation, amortisation and impairment TOTAL OPERATING EXPENSES OPERATING PROFIT (LOSS)

2018/2019 1,148 6,788 7,936
13,032 37 32
21,037 7,975 4,614
12,977 1,209
26,775 -5,738

2017/2018 7,981 6,731
14,712 15,153
4,737 5
34,607 8,023 9,093
13,639 2,844
33,599 1,008

Revenue for the 2018/2019 financial year mainly consisted of:
E 1,148,000 in invoices for various services rendered, including 862,000 in invoices for commissions on guarantees of financial commitments given by the Company on behalf of its various subsidiaries compared with 1,060,000 in the previous financial year.
The amount of 7,981,000 for the previous year mainly included 5,598,000 invoiced for services rendered to subsidiaries, primarily in connection with real estate development projects including the Center Parcs in Germany in Allgäu (Baden Württemberg), in the

amount of 3,516,000, the Center Parcs "Sud-Ouest Cottages" situated in France in the Lot et Garonne department in the amount of 1,000,000, and the Center Parcs at Zandvoort in the Netherlands in the amount of 910,000;
E 6,788,000 in re-invoiced rent expenses representing the share of subsidiary entities for their occupation of premises at the Group's registered office in Artois, in the 19th arrondissement of Paris.
There was an operating loss for the financial year of -5,738,000 compared with a profit of 1,008,000 in 2017/2018.

204 UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2018/2019 ­ PIERRE & VACANCES-CENTER PARCS GROUP

FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Parent company financial statements

Note 13 Financial income (expense)

Financial income from associates and other long-term equity investments Reinvoiced expenses and reversals of provisions Other interest income Other financial income FINANCIAL INCOME Amortisation and provisions on financial assets Interest expense Net expenses on disposals of marketable securities Other financial expenses FINANCIAL EXPENSES FINANCIAL INCOME (EXPENSE)

2018/2019 7,442 358 7,739 17
15,556 74,156 12,708
116
86,980 -71,424

2017/2018 7,329 4,568 8,122 38
20,057 34,644 33,987
93
68,724 -48,667

Net financial income was negative at -71,424,000 for 2018/2019, compared with a negative net financial income of -48,667,000 for the previous year.
It is mainly composed of the following items:
E dividend income of 7,442,000 from subsidiaries, including:
­ 4,734,000 from PV Marques, a subsidiary owning the Group's brands (mainly Pierre et Vacances, Maeva and Multivacances), excluding the "Les Senioriales" brand and those operated by the Center Parcs sub-group,
­ 1,917,000 from the company PVFI, the Group's central cash management company,
­ 791,000 from the company PV Courtage;
E reversals of provisions for impairment losses and reinvoiced expenses amounting to 358,000, including 284,000 for the reversal of the provision for impairment losses on the shares in the subsidiary PV-CP China Holding;
E other interest income in the amount of 7,739,000, including 7,144,000 in interest on the current account held on behalf of Pierre et Vacances FI SNC, a subsidiary that provides centralised cash management for the Group:
E interest expenses in the amount of 12,708,000, notably including:
­ interest expenses on bank loans of 8,135,000 including:
­ 2,000,000 relating to the "ORNANE" bond issue subscribed for on 6 December 2017 and maturing in 2023,
­ 2,746,000 relating to the bond issued in the form of an unlisted "Euro PP" private placement maturing in 2019 and issued on 19 July 2016,
­ 3,389,000 relating to the bond issued in the form of an unlisted "Euro PP" private placement maturing in 2025 and issued on 14 February 2018,
­ interest expense and commissions on bank loans of 1,211,000,

­ interest expense and commissions on short-term financing of 2,633,000,
­ fees and commissions on guarantees in the amount of 269,000;
E amortisation and provisions on financial assets in the amount of 74,156,000, including:
­ provisions for the impairment loss on the current account of Les Villages Nature® de Val d'Europe for 36,218,000,
­ provisions for impairment losses on investments in subsidiaries of respectively 37,565,000 for PV-CP Immobilier Holding, 25,000 for Pierre et Vacances Maroc, 15,000 for VillagesNature® Management,
­ 236,000 in provisions to cover the net negative position of Orion and 80,000 for PV Maroc.
There was a net financial loss for 2017/2018, which amounted to -48,667,000.
It mainly consisted of the following:
E dividend income of 7,329,000 from subsidiaries, including 4,855,000 from PV Marques and 1,775,000 from PV FI;
E interest income of 8,122,000 on current accounts, including 7,585,000 from Pierre & Vacances FI SNC;
E income of 4,568, including the reversal of provisions for impairment losses on the shares in the subsidiary Part House dissolved during the financial year, as well as the reversal of the provision for financial expenses to cover the capital loss resulting from the options exercised at the close of the financial year ending on 30 September 2017 for the redemption of "ORNANE"-type bonds amounting to 2,730,000.
E financial expenses of 33,987,000, including, in particular:
­ interest expense and commissions on bank loans and Group financial debt of 8,124,000,
­ interest expense and commissions on short-term financing of 2,450,000,

5

205 UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2018/2019 ­ PIERRE & VACANCES-CENTER PARCS GROUP

5

FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Parent company financial statements

­ fees and commissions and expenses on sureties and interest rate swaps of 517,000,
­ the loss upon the liquidation of PART HOUSE in the amount of 1,490,000,
­ the conversion loss arising from requests to redeem "ORNANE"-type bonds in the amount of 20,973,000;

E amortisation and provisions on financial assets in the amount of 34,644,000, including:
­ provisions for impairment losses primarily on investments in subsidiaries of, respectively, 25,456,000 for Les Villages Nature® du Val d'Europe and 4,646,000 for Pierre et Vacances Maroc,
­ provisions for the impairment loss on the current account of Les Villages Nature® de Val d'Europe for 4,182,000.

Note 14 Non-recurring profit (loss)

Non-recurring profit (loss) on management transactions Non-recurring profit (loss) on capital transactions Exceptional additions to, and reversals of, provisions and reinvoiced expenses NON-RECURRING PROFIT (LOSS)

2018/2019 -1,461
-1,461

2017/2018 -902
-902

The non-recurring loss on management transactions for the year of -1,461,000 consists of 1,458,000 in miscellaneous expenses and fees incurred in connection with restructuring the Group's activities.
The non-recurring loss for the previous financial year was -902,000.

It mainly consisted of a non-recurring loss on management transactions for the year of 902,000 and miscellaneous expenses and fees incurred in connection with its holding company activities.

Note 15 Total transfers of expenses

Reinvoiced Head Office costs and services Borrowing costs reclassified to deferred expenses spread over the loan terms Borrowing costs reclassified to financial income (expenses) Operating expenses reclassified to non-recurring income (loss) Reinvoiced miscellaneous expenses TOTAL TRANSFERS OF OPERATING EXPENSES Reinvoiced bank guarantees TOTAL TRANSFERS OF FINANCIAL EXPENSES Reinvoiced non-recurring expenses TOTAL TRANSFERS OF NON-RECURRING EXPENSES TOTAL TRANSFERS OF EXPENSES

2018/2019 10,168
1,211 1,458
194 13,031
75 75
13,106

2017/2018 9,460 2,746 2,070 675 202
15,153 192 192
15,345

206 UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2018/2019 ­ PIERRE & VACANCES-CENTER PARCS GROUP

FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Parent company financial statements

Note 16 Income tax

Pierre et Vacances SA is the head of the tax consolidation group that it set up on 1 October 1996. At 30 September 2019, the members of this group were: E C.T.M. SAS (formerly Pierre et Vacances Investissement XXXXIII SAS); E Center Parcs Holding Belgique SAS; E Center Parcs Resorts France SAS; E Club Hôtel SARL; E Club Hôtel Multivacances SAS; E Commerces Patrimoine Cap Esterel SNC; E Compagnie Hôtelière Pierre et Vacances SAS; E Curchase SAS (formerly Pierre et Vacances Investissement
XXXXVI SAS); E maeva.com Immobilier Services SAS; E La France du Nord au Sud SAS; E LAB Senioriales (formerly pvi 50); E Maeva Gestion SARL (formerly Société de Gestion des Mandats SARL); E Maeva Holding SAS (formerly Pierre et Vacances Investissement
XXXXIX SAS); E Orion SAS; E Peterhof 2 SARL; E Pierre et Vacances SA; E Pierre et Vacances Conseil Immobilier SAS; E Pierre et Vacances Courtage SARL; E Pierre et Vacances Développement SAS; E Pierre et Vacances Esterel Développement SAS; E Pierre et Vacances FI SNC; E Pierre et Vacances Investissement XXIV SAS; E Pierre et Vacances Investissement XXXXVII SAS;
Breakdown of the tax expense
Tax income from previous financial years Tax passed on by subsidiaries Net tax (benefit)

E Pierre et Vacances Investissement 51 SAS; E Pierre et Vacances Marques SAS; E Pierre et Vacances Rénovation Tourisme SAS; E Pierre et Vacances Senioriales Gestion Immobilière
Investissement SAS; E Pierre et Vacances Senioriales Production SAS (formerly PVI 53); E Pierre et Vacances Senioriales Programmes Immobiliers SAS; E Pierre et Vacances Tourisme Europe SAS; E Pierre et Vacances Transactions SARL; E PVCI Finances (formerly PVI 52); E PV-CP China Holding SAS (formerly PVI 54); E PV-CP City SAS; E PV-CP Distribution SA; E PV-CP Finances SAS; E PV-CP Gestion Exploitation SAS; E PV-CP Holding Exploitation SAS; E PV-CP Immobilier Holding SAS; E PV Résidences et Resorts France SAS; E PV Senioriales Exploitation SAS; E PV Senioriales Promotion et Commercialisation SAS; E SGRT SARL; E SICE SNC; E Société d'Exploitation Touristique Pierre et Vacances Guadeloupe SAS; E Société d'Exploitation Touristique Pierre et Vacances Martinique SAS; E Sogire SA; E Tourisme Rénovation SAS.
76 16,677 16,753

Each subsidiary in the tax consolidation group recognises its tax as if it were levied separately. Pierre et Vacances SA, as the parent company in the tax consolidation group, records the tax saving resulting from tax consolidation.
In the absence of a tax consolidation group, Pierre et Vacances SA would not have owed any corporate income tax for the 2018/2019 financial year.
Tax income from previous financial years corresponds to the family tax credit provisioned in respect of the 2018 calendar year, and amounts to 70,000.

The second Court of Appeal ruling handed down on 5 February 2019, which was not appealed by the tax authority, put an end to Pierre et Vacances SA's dispute with the French Tax Authorities relating to a tax audit for the financial years 2003/2004, 2004/2005 and 2005/2006 for which it obtained a favourable outcome. The total amount of its tax loss carry forwards was reinstated and no tax was found to be owed. This dispute has, therefore, been settled.

5

207 UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2018/2019 ­ PIERRE & VACANCES-CENTER PARCS GROUP

5

FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Parent company financial statements

Note 17 Increases and reductions in the future tax liability

The overall taxable profit of the consolidation group led by Pierre et Vacances SA was 5,576,000 for 2018/2019, corresponding to a loss at the standard tax rate that may be carried forward.

The amount of tax loss carry forwards accrued by the tax consolidation group totalled 453,760,000 at 30 September 2019.

Note 18 Related companies
Statement of financial position items Net equity interests Trade receivables Other receivables(1) Sundry loans and long-term borrowings(1) Trade payables Other liabilities Income statement items Financial income Non-recurring expenses Non-recurring income
(1) These items, which are shown as a net value, are mainly composed of current accounts.

Companies related

Companies with which the company has
an ownership interest

577,094 5,154
406,392 -12,782
-2,397 -7,633

500 349 33,312

-259

14,598

483

208 UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2018/2019 ­ PIERRE & VACANCES-CENTER PARCS GROUP

FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Parent company financial statements

Financial commitments and other information
Note 19 Off-statement of financial position commitments

Guarantees and pledges:
Lease payment guarantees
First demand guarantee to Sogefinerg (Ailette finance lease)
Guarantee given within the framework of contracts to outsource CPE IT solutions and equipment
Counter-guarantee given on behalf of Uniqua to Unicredit Bank Austria AG for the operating of a holiday residence in Vienna
Counter-guarantee issued to Société Générale on behalf of PV Exploitation Belgique to secure a leasehold agreement
Surety issued on behalf of the SNC Sud-Ouest Cottages under an unilateral sale agreement signed by Groupement Forestier du Domaine du Papetier, Mr Frezier and the Corbefin consortium
Surety on behalf of PVD SA to the local authority of Courseulles sur Mer for the purchase of land
Surety given to Eurosic Lagune SARL on behalf of CP Participations BV to guarantee all of its obligations in connection with the buyback of the shares of Center Parcs Allgaü
Surety issued to SoGePi on behalf of PV Italia as part of the sale of Calarossa
Surety issued on behalf of SET PV Espana SL to Caixa Bank in connection with the opening of a credit line
Letter of intent given to Compagnie d'études et de transactions immobilières SA on behalf of Sociedad de Explotacion Turistica Pierre et Vacances España SLU under an operating lease for the "Himalaia Hotels" tourist complex in Pas de la Casa. First demand guarantee given to Foncière des Murs SCA on behalf of Center Parcs Ardennen to guarantee buybacks of unsold cottages on the Vielsam site.
Letter of intent given to EB2 Gestion Hotelera SL on behalf of Sociedad de Explotacion Turistica Pierre et Vacances España SLU under an operating lease for the tourism complex in Madrid
Surety issued on behalf of SET PV Espana SL to Caixa Bank in connection with the signature of a credit line
Surety issued on behalf of Bonnavista de Bonnemont to Caixa Bank in connection with the signing of a mortgage agreement
Surety issued to the Treasury on behalf of Roybon Équipements SNC concerning the deferred payment of the Architecture, Planning and Environment Council regional tax as well as the regional tax for sensitive natural areas
First demand guarantee to Lufthansa Airplus Servicekarten on behalf of various Group subsidiaries following the signing of "Air Plus Carte Logée" implementation contracts.

30/09/2019 30/09/2018

1,118,974 155,927 23,405

1,232,610 160,013 18,220

1,200

1,200

685

685

0

85

159

159

0

7,077

262

0

0

453

7,157 10,628
4,000 0
3,724 465

0 0 4,000 2,142
3,724 465

5

Mortgages: Mortgage on behalf of Les Senioriales ­ Toulouse Pont Jumeaux Mortgage on behalf of Les Senioriales ­ Pollestres Mortgage on behalf of Les Senioriales ­ Bassens Mortgage on behalf of Les Senioriales ­ Nimes Mortgage on behalf of Les Senioriales ­ Saint Priest
COMMITMENTS GIVEN
Guarantees and pledges: Rent guarantee deposit ­ Artois Guarantee received from Accor for 50% of the counter-guarantee amount to Unicredit Bank Austria AG for the operating of a residence in Vienna Guarantee deposit for additional parking spaces and other buildings in Artois
COMMITMENTS RECEIVED
RECIPROCAL COMMITMENTS

30/09/2019 30/09/2018

0 0 0 3,000 3,000 1,332,586

5,450 3,800 3,600 3,000 3,000 1,449,683

1,476
600 158 2,234
0

1,476
600 158 2,234
00

209 UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2018/2019 ­ PIERRE & VACANCES-CENTER PARCS GROUP

5

FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Parent company financial statements

Lease payment guarantees:
Pierre et Vacances SA has provided guarantees totalling 1,118,974,000, as described below:
E to La Française and Eurosic for rent commitments related to the Center Parcs village in Allgäu in Germany, with an outstanding amount for the term of the leases of 348.3 million;
E to institutional investors for rent commitments related to the Center Parcs village in Bois Aux Daims, with an outstanding amount for the term of the leases of 149.8 million;
E to La Foncière des Murs for rent commitments related to the Sunparks villages, with an outstanding amount for the term of the leases of 255.1 million;
E for payment of rent for the village of Eemhof to the Dutch company Zeeland Investments Beheer, owner of the land and buildings of the village. Outstanding rent commitments for the remaining term of the lease came to 163.0 million;
E to the owner of the land and buildings of the Center Parcs village of Bostalsee in the Sarre region of Germany, together with Center Parcs Bungalowpark GmbH, for payment of rent owed by its operating subsidiary. Outstanding rent commitments for the remaining term of the lease came to 1.1 million;
E to Eurosic for rent commitments related to the Center Parcs village in Bois Francs, with an outstanding amount for the term of the leases of 114.3 million;
E to Eurosic for rent commitments related to the Center Parcs village in Chaumont, with an outstanding amount for the term of the leases of 18.5 million;
E to the owner of the land and buildings of the Center Parcs village of Butjadinger Küste in Tossens, Germany, together with Center Parcs Europe NV, for payment of rent owed by its operating subsidiary. Outstanding rent commitments for the remaining term of the lease came to 5.6 million;
E to Uniqua, owner of the residence in Vienna, for payment of 50% of outstanding rent commitments for the remaining term of the lease amounting to 4.2 million;
E to Spectrum Real Estate Gmbh, owner of the residence in Munich, for payment of 50% of outstanding rent commitments for the remaining term of the lease amounting to 4.1 million;
E to the individual owners of the Bonmont residence, for payment of outstanding rent commitments for the remaining term of the lease amounting to 10.8 million;
E to the owner of the Adagio residence in Liverpool, for the payment of 50% of rent owed by its operating subsidiary Adagio UK Limited. Outstanding rent commitments for the remaining term of the lease came to 1.1 million;
E to the owner of the Adagio residence in Cologne, for the payment of 50% of rent owed by its operating subsidiary Adagio Deutschland GmbH. Outstanding rent commitments for the remaining term of the lease came to 1.0 million;

E to Llopuig S.L., owner of the Tossa Del Mare residence, for payment of outstanding rent commitments for the remaining term of the lease amounting to 0.5 million;
E to Diesco De Restauracio S.L., owner of the Calacristal residence, for payment of outstanding rent commitments for the remaining term of the lease amounting to 0.5 million;
E to Eurosic Investments Spain, SOCIMI S.A.U., owner of the "Estartit Complex" residence, for payment of outstanding rent commitments for the remaining term of the lease amounting to 8.5 million;
E to Eurosic Investments Spain, SOCIMI S.A.U., owner of the El Puerto residence, for payment of outstanding rent commitments for the remaining term of the lease amounting to 7.6 million;
E to Eurosic Investments Spain, SOCIMI S.A.U., owner of the Terrazas residence, for payment of outstanding rent commitments for the remaining term of the lease amounting to 25.2 million.
First demand guarantee to Sogefinerg (Ailette finance lease)
Within the framework of the building of central facilities (tropical paradise, restaurants, bars, shops, sports and leisure facilities) at the new Center Parcs in Aisne, Pierre et Vacances signed a public service delegation agreement with the Conseil Général de l'Aisne, which delegates to Pierre et Vacances and its subsidiaries the design, building and operation of the leisure centre facilities. Furthermore, a tripartite agreement was signed between Pierre et Vacances, the Conseil Général de l'Aisne and a finance institution to set up the financing for this work. Part of the cost of building the facilities is being provided by a subsidy from the Conseil Général de l'Aisne. The remaining financing is based on the transfer of assets to the financial institution as an off-plan sale performed by a property development subsidiary indirectly owned by Pierre et Vacances. The transfer is supplemented by a lease of the facilities. In the framework of the finance lease for the facilities, Pierre et Vacances SA has granted a first demand guarantee of 155,927,000 that will be amortised over the term of the lease, i.e. until 31 December 2038. On this date, the Conseil Général will regain ownership of the facilities free of charge.
Reciprocal commitments
The derivative financial instruments contracted by the Pierre & Vacances-Center Parcs Group to manage interest rate risk no longer existed at the reporting date.
Registration of preferential right
The tax administration registered the preferential right of the Treasury resulting from a carry back receivable for 2,298,000 repaid to the Group, which would be called into question were the outcome of this dispute to be unfavourable.
On 26 September 2019, the Montreuil Administrative Court found in favour of PV SA and fully discharged its obligation to pay the sum claimed by the tax authority; the procedure to discharge this lien was under way at the reporting date.

210 UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2018/2019 ­ PIERRE & VACANCES-CENTER PARCS GROUP

FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Parent company financial statements

Note 20 Parent company
The Company's financial statements are fully consolidated into those of Société d'Investissement Touristique et Immobilier ­ S.I.T.I. SA.

Note 21 Remuneration of executive management anddirectors

Attendance fees paid to members of the Board of Directors in 2019 in respect of the 2018/2019 financial year amounted to 230,000 compared to 229,000 for 2017/2018.
For the years ended 30 September 2019 and 30 September 2018, no salary (including benefits of any kind) was paid to a corporate officer directly by Pierre et Vacances SA or by any of the Pierre & Vacances-Center Parcs Group companies controlled as defined in Article L. 233-16 of the French Commercial Code.

However, Société d'Investissement Touristique et Immobilier (a company indirectly owned by the Chairman, founder and majority shareholder of Pierre et Vacances SA), as an asset management company, invoiced for fees for the services rendered by Gérard Brémond, Olivier Brémond, Yann Caillère, Martine Balouka, Thierry Hellin and Patricia Damerval. The fees invoiced by S.I.T.I. were calculated on the basis of direct costs (remuneration paid + related employer's expenses + other direct costs: travel expenses, cost of premises, secretarial expenses) plus a 5% margin and calculated prorata for the time spent by each individual on managing the business of Pierre & Vacances-Center Parcs Group companies.

Since these people are on the Group Executive Management Committee, their remuneration is included in the table below:

2018/2019

2017/2018

Fixed remuneration(1)

2,072,581

1,823,606

Variable remuneration(2)

386,000

572,033

Post-employment benefits(3)

21,803

43,283

Share-based remuneration(4)

0

331,445

TOTAL

2,480,384

2,770,367

(1) Amount paid including reinstatement of the benefit in kind involving the availability of a company car. (2) Paid in the financial year following the year for which it is granted. (3) This amount corresponds to the expense recognised during the financial year. (4) Represents the annual share-based remuneration expense on grants of share options and bonus shares (theoretical measurement on the basis of the of Pierre et Vacances shares
at the date of grant).

For each of them, the variable bonus is determined based on the financial performance of the Pierre & Vacances-Center Parcs Group and the achievement of personal objectives.

5

211 UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2018/2019 ­ PIERRE & VACANCES-CENTER PARCS GROUP

5

FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Parent company financial statements

Note 22 List of subsidiaries and equity investments

Subsidiaries, associates and other long-term equity investments SUBSIDIARIES (more than 50% of the capital held): PV-CP Immobilier Holding Pierre et Vacances FI SNC Pierre et Vacances Courtage SARL Orion SAS Curchase SAS Pierre et Vacances Investissement XXXXVII SAS PV CP Support Services BV Pierre et Vacances Maroc Multi-Resorts Holding BV Pierre et Vacances Tourisme Europe Pierre et Vacances Marques SAS PV-CP China Holding BV Pierre et Vacances Maeva Tourisme Haute Savoie SARL Entwicklungsgesellschaft Ferienhauspark Bostalsee GmbH Pierre et Vacances Investissement 51 SAS PVCP CHINA HOLDING SAS (ex PVI 54) Pierre et Vacances Investissement 55 SAS Pierre et Vacances Investissement 56 SAS SUBSIDIARIES (more than 10% of the capital held): GIE PV-CP Services Adagio SAS Les Villages Nature® de Val d'Europe SAS Villages Nature® Management SARL

Equity other than Share share capital capital (excluding profit)

Portion of capital held
(in %)

Gross value of shares held

31 15
8 38 10 10 18 147 18 52,590 62,061 2,718
8 100
10 10 10 10

15,245 1,276 520 -3,882 219 -26 56 -137 28
98,586 3,611 -294 -1 16 -3 -3 0 0

100.00 99.00 99.80
100.00 100.00 100.00 100.00
99.99 100.00 100.00
97.78 100.00 100.00
59.95 100.00 100.00 100.00 100.00

128,965 15 8 38 10 10 18
5,757 18
422,130 60,686 2,718 8 20 10 10 10 10

150 1,000 50,461
0

2 11,146 -58,823
-2

28.00 50.00 50.00 50.00

30 500 25,456
15

212 UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2018/2019 ­ PIERRE & VACANCES-CENTER PARCS GROUP

FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Parent company financial statements

Loans and receivables Net carrying outstanding granted amount by the company and of shares held not yet paid back

Amount of deposits and endorsements
given by the Company

Revenue before tax for the last financial year

91,400 15 8 0 10 0 18 0 18
422,130 60,686 2,718 8 20 3 10 10 10

0

0

7

0

0

0

0

0

1,062

0

0

86

0

0

1,622

0

0

0

0

0

0

398

0

0

0

0

0

0

0

0

0

0

11,672

0

0

0

0

0

0

0

0

0

0

0

0

0

0

0

0

0

0

0

0

0

30

0

500

0

0

73,712

0

0

0

0

0

86,347

0

240

0

0

Profit (loss) for the year
ended

Dividends collected by the Company
during the financial year

Comments

-10,680 2,109 604 -237 259 -3 0 -90 392
-20,119 7,671 -198 0 -11 -4 -3 0 0

0 1,917
791 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
4,734 0 0 0 0 0 0 0

30/09/2019 30/09/2019 30/09/2019 30/09/2019 30/09/2019 30/09/2019 30/09/2019 30/09/2019 30/09/2019 30/09/2019 30/09/2019 30/09/2019 30/09/2019 30/09/2019 30/09/2019 30/09/2019 30/09/2019 30/09/2019

0 2,635 -15,033
1

0 30/09/2019 0 31/12/2018 0 30/09/2019 0 30/09/2019

5

Note 23 Events after the reporting period
No significant events occurred after the reporting period.

213 UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2018/2019 ­ PIERRE & VACANCES-CENTER PARCS GROUP

5

FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Parent company financial statements

5.4.4 Statutory auditors' report on the financial statements
Year ended 30 September 2019 To the General Meeting of Shareholders of Pierre et Vacances
Opinion
In compliance with the engagement entrusted to us by your General Meetings of Shareholders, we have audited the accompanying financial statements of Pierre et Vacances for the year ended 30 September 2018. In our opinion, the financial statements give a true and fair view of the assets and liabilities and of the financial position of the Company as at 30 September 2018 and of the results of its operations for the year then ended in accordance with French accounting principles. The audit opinion expressed above is consistent with our report to the Audit Committee.
Basis for Opinion Audit Framework
We conducted our audit in accordance with professional standards applicable in France. We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our opinion. Our responsibilities under those standards are further described in the Statutory Auditors' Responsibilities for the Audit of the Financial Statements section of our report.
Independence
We conducted our audit engagement in compliance with independence rules applicable to us, for the period from 1 October 2017 to the date of our report and specifically we did not provide any prohibited non-audit services referred to in Article 5, paragraph 1, of Regulation (EU) no. 537/2014 or in the French Code of Ethics for Statutory Auditors (Code de déontologie de la profession de commissaire aux comptes).
Justification of Assessments ­ Key Audit Matters
In accordance with the requirements of Articles L. 823-9 and R. 823-7 of the French Commercial Code (Code de Commerce) relating to the justification of our assessments, we inform you of the key audit matters relating to risks of material misstatement that, in our professional judgment, were of most significance in our audit of the financial statements for the current period, as well as how we addressed those risks. These matters were addressed in the context of our audit of the financial statements as a whole, and in forming our opinion thereon, and we do not provide a separate opinion on specific items of the financial statements.
Valuation of investments in associates and related current accounts Risk identified:
At 30 September 2019, the net carrying amount of investments in associates and related current accounts as recorded in the statement of financial position was 611 million, or 58% of total assets. They are valued at their purchase price or at their contribution value. When the net asset value falls bellows the net carrying amount, a provision for impairment is recorded in the amount of the difference. As indicated in Chapter 2 "Accounting principles and methods" of the notes to the financial statements, the net asset value is generally determined by reference to the share of the enterprise values less the net debts for the entities concerned. The enterprise value of entities is calculated on the basis of discounted future net cash flows. Cash flow projections are taken from the business plan prepared by the Group's operational and financial management. Given the significance of investments in associates and related current accounts in the statement of financial position and the sensitivity of valuation models to the assumptions used, we considered the valuation of the net asset value of equity investments in associates and other long-term equity investments as a key audit matter.
Our response:
Our assessment of these valuations is based on the process implemented by the company to determine the net asset value of investments in associates and the recoverability of related current accounts. Our work consisted, in particular, of: E assess the main estimates, in particular the assumptions underlying the cash projections and main parameters such as the long-term
growth rate and the discounted rates used, on which the estimate of the intrinsic value is based. These analyses were performed with the help of valuation experts; E reconcile the net debts used by the management and the net debts recorded in the financial statements of the entities concerned; E test the accuracy of the company's calculation of net asset values;
214 UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2018/2019 ­ PIERRE & VACANCES-CENTER PARCS GROUP

FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Parent company financial statements

E in specific cases, when the net asset value was not based on the enterprise value less the net debt but on the share of equity, examine the consistency of share of equity used by the Group with the financial statements of these entities.
Specific verifications
We have also performed, in accordance with professional standards applicable in France, the specific verifications required by French law.
Information provided in the Management Report and in the Other Documents Provided to the Shareholders with respect to the financial position and the financial statements
We have no matters to report as to the fair presentation and the consistency with the financial statements of the information given in the management report of the Board of Directors and in the other documents provided to the Shareholders with respect to the financial position and the financial statements. In accordance with French law, we report to you that the information relating to payment times referred to in Article D. 441-4 of the French Commercial Code (Code de Commerce) is fairly presented and consistent with the financial statements.
Report on Corporate Governance
We attest that the Board of Directors' Report on Corporate Governance sets out the information required by Articles L. 225-37-3 and L. 225-37-4 of the French Commercial Code (Code de Commerce). Concerning the information given in accordance with the requirements of Article L. 225-37-3 of the French Commercial Code (Code de Commerce) relating to remunerations and benefits received by the directors and any other commitments made in their favor, we have verified its consistency with the financial statements, or with the underlying information used to prepare these financial statements and, where applicable, with the information obtained by your Company from controlling and controlled companies. Based on these procedures, we attest the accuracy and fair presentation of this information. With respect to the information relating to items that your Company considered likely to have an impact in the event of a public purchase offer or exchange, provided pursuant to Article L. 225-37-5 of the French Commercial Code (Code de Commerce), we have agreed these to the source documents communicated to us. Based on our work, we have no observations to make on this information.
Other information
In accordance with French law, we have verified that the required information concerning the purchase of investments and controlling interests and the identity of the shareholders and holders of the voting rights has been properly disclosed in the management report.
Report on Other Legal and Regulatory Requirements.
Appointment of the Statutory Auditors
We were appointed as statutory auditors of Pierre et Vacances by the General Meeting of Shareholders held on 3 October 1988 for GRANT THORNTON and on 29 May 1990 for ERNST & YOUNG et Autres. As at 30 September 2019, GRANT THORNTON was in its 32nd year and ERNST & YOUNG et Autres in its 30th year of total uninterrupted engagement, and this was the 20th year since securities of the Company were admitted to trading on a regulated market.
Responsibilities of Management and Those Charged with Governance for the Financial Statements
Management is responsible for the preparation and fair presentation of the financial statements in accordance with French accounting principles and for such internal control as management determines is necessary to enable the preparation of financial statements that are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error. In preparing the financial statements, management is responsible for assessing the Company's ability to continue as a going concern, disclosing, as applicable, matters related to going concern and using the going concern basis of accounting unless it is expected to liquidate the Company or to cease operations. The Audit Committee is responsible for monitoring the financial reporting process and the effectiveness of internal control and risk management systems and where applicable, its internal audit, regarding the accounting and financial reporting procedures. The financial statements were approved by the Board of Directors.

5

215 UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2018/2019 ­ PIERRE & VACANCES-CENTER PARCS GROUP

5

FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Parent company financial statements

Statutory Auditors' Responsibilities for the Audit of the Financial Statements
Objectives and audit approach
Our role is to issue a report on the financial statements. Our objective is to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements as a whole are free from material misstatement. Reasonable assurance is a high level of assurance, but is not a guarantee that an audit conducted in accordance with professional standards will always detect a material misstatement when it exists. Misstatements can arise from fraud or error and are considered material if, individually or in the aggregate, they could reasonably be expected to influence the economic decisions of users taken on the basis of these financial statements.
As specified in Article L. 823-10-1 of the French Commercial Code (Code de Commerce), our statutory audit does not include assurance on the viability of the Company or the quality of management of the affairs of the Company.
As part of an audit conducted in accordance with professional standards applicable in France, the statutory auditor exercises professional judgment throughout the audit.
And furthermore:
E identifies and assesses the risks of material misstatement of the financial statements, whether due to fraud or error, designs and performs audit procedures responsive to those risks, and obtains audit evidence considered to be sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for his opinion. The risk of not detecting a material misstatement resulting from fraud is higher than for one resulting from error, as fraud may involve collusion, forgery, intentional omissions, misrepresentations, or the override of internal control;
E obtains an understanding of internal control relevant to the audit in order to design audit procedures that are appropriate in the circumstances, but not for the purpose of expressing an opinion on the effectiveness of the internal control;
E evaluates the appropriateness of accounting policies used and the reasonableness of accounting estimates and related disclosures made by management in the financial statements;
E assesses the appropriateness of management's use of the going concern basis of accounting and, based on the audit evidence obtained, whether a material uncertainty exists related to events or conditions that may cast significant doubt on the Company's ability to continue as a going concern. This assessment is based on the audit evidence obtained up to the date of his audit report. However, future events or conditions may cause the Company to cease to continue as a going concern. If the statutory auditor concludes that a material uncertainty exists, there is a requirement to draw attention in the audit report to the related disclosures in the financial statements or, if such disclosures are not provided or inadequate, to modify the opinion expressed therein;
E evaluates the overall presentation of the financial statements and assesses whether these statements represent the underlying transactions and events in a manner that achieves fair presentation.

Report to the Audit Committee
We submit a report to the Audit Committee which includes in particular a description of the scope of the audit and the audit program implemented, as well as the results of our audit. We also report significant deficiencies, if any, in internal control regarding the accounting and financial reporting procedures that we have identified.
Our report to the Audit Committee includes the risks of material misstatement that, in our professional judgment, were of most significance in the audit of the financial statements for the current period and which are therefore the key audit matters that we are required to describe in this report.
We also provide the Audit Committee with the declaration provided for in Article 6 of Regulation (EU) no. 537/2014, confirming our independence within the meaning of the rules applicable in France as set out in particular in Articles L. 822-10 to L. 822-14 of the French Commercial Code (Code de Commerce) and in the French Code of Ethics for Statutory Auditors (Code de déontologie de la profession de commissaire aux comptes). Where appropriate, we discuss with the Audit Committee the risks that may reasonably be thought to bear on our independence, and the related safeguards.

Neuilly-sur-Seine and Paris-La Défense, 19 December 2019

The Statutory Auditors French original signed by

GRANT THORNTON French member of Grant Thornton International

ERNST & YOUNG et Autres

Virginie PALETHORPE

Anne HERBEIN

216 UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2018/2019 ­ PIERRE & VACANCES-CENTER PARCS GROUP

6 ADDITIONAL INFORMATION

6.1 Person responsible for the Universal

6.3 Fees paid to the Statutory

Registration Document

Auditorsandmembers

and auditingthe financial

oftheirnetwork

219

statements

218

6.1.1 Name of the person assuming responsibility for the Universal

6.4 Information incorporated

by reference

219

Registration Document

218

6.1.2 Declaration of the person assuming

6.5 Documents on display

219

responsibility for the Universal

Registration Document

218

6.6 Reference tables

220

6.2 Statutory Auditors

218

217 UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2018/2019 ­ PIERRE & VACANCES-CENTER PARCS GROUP

6

ADDITIONAL INFORMATION
Person responsible for the Universal Registration Document and auditingthe financial statements

6.1 Person responsible for the Universal Registration Document and auditing the financial statements

6.1.1 Name of the person assuming responsibility for the Universal Registration Document

Gérard BRÉMOND, Chairman. This information is provided under the sole responsibility of the executives of the Company.
6.1.2 Declaration of the person assuming responsibility for the Universal Registration Document

I hereby certify, after taking all reasonable measures to that effect, that the information contained in this Universal Registration Document is, to the best of my knowledge, accurate and does not include any omission that would distort its substance.
I hereby certify that, to the best of my knowledge, the financial statements have been prepared in accordance with applicable accounting standards and give a true and fair view of the assets, financial position and results of the Company and all companies in the Group, and that the management report, whose concordance

table is given on page 222, presents a true and fair picture of the changes in the business, the results and the financial position of the Company and all companies in the Group, and describes the main risks and uncertainties they face.
Paris, 19 December 2019
Gérard BRÉMOND,
Chairman

6.2 Statutory Auditors

Principal Statutory Auditors:
ERNST & YOUNG & Autres Anne HERBEIN 1/2, place des Saisons ­ 92400 COURBEVOIE-PARIS-LA DÉFENSE 1 First appointed by the General Meeting of 29 May 1990 Reappointed for six years by the General Meeting of 4 February 2016 GRANT THORNTON Virginie PALETHORPE 29, rue du Pont ­ 92200 Neuilly-Sur-Seine First appointed by the General Meeting of 4 February 2016

Deputy Statutory Auditors:
AUDITEX 1/2, place des Saisons ­ 92400 COURBEVOIE-PARIS-LA DÉFENSE 1 First appointed by the General Meeting of 28 February 2013 Reappointed for six years by the General Meeting of 4 February 2016 INSTITUT DE GESTION ET D'EXPERTISE COMPTABLE ­ IGEC 29, rue du Pont ­ 92200 Neuilly-Sur-Seine First appointed by the General Meeting of 4 February 2016

218 UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2018/2019 ­ PIERRE & VACANCES-CENTER PARCS GROUP

ADDITIONAL INFORMATION
Documents on display

6.3 Fees paid to the Statutory Auditors andmembers oftheirnetwork

Ernst & Young & Autres

Grant Thornton

Amount

%

Amount

%

(in  thousands)

2018/2019 2017/2018 2018/2019 2017/2018 2018/2019 2017/2018 2018/2019 2017/2018

Audit

Statutory audits, certifications,

examination of individual and

consolidated financial statements

1,235

1,188

94%

94%

323

364

94%

93%

Issuer

317

381

24%

30%

147

192

43%

49%

Fully integrated subsidiaries

918

807

70%

64%

176

172

51%

44%

Services other than the certification of accounts(1)

74

71

6%

6%

19

26

6%

7%

Issuer

43

48

3%

4%

0

6

0%

2%

Fully integrated subsidiaries

31

23

2%

2%

19

20

6%

5%

o.w. legal, tax, social

7

3

TOTAL

1,308

1,259

100%

100%

342

390

100%

100%

(1) This section sets out the diligence and services provided to the issuer or its subsidiaries by the Auditors and members of their networks. These may be required by legal measures or provided at the request of the Group or its subsidiaries in respect of independence rules.

6.4 Information incorporated by reference

6

In accordance with Article 28 of Commission Regulation (EC) No. 809/2004, the following information is incorporated by reference in the present Universal Registration Document:
E the consolidated financial statements and corresponding audit reports shown on pages 104 to 164 (financial report) of the 2017/2018 Registration Document registered with the AMF on 14 December 2018 under number D. 18-0982;
E the consolidated financial statements and corresponding audit reports shown on pages 106 to 165 (financial report) of the 2016/2017 Registration Document registered with the AMF on 15 December 2017 under number D. 17-1108;

E the Group management report shown on pages 6 to 20 and 92 to 103 (financial report) of the 2017/2018 Registration Document filed with the AMF on 14 December 2018 under number D. 18-0982;
E the Group management report shown on pages 6 to 34 (financial report) of the 2016/2017 Registration Document filed with the AMF on 15 December 2017 under number D. 17-1108;
E parts not included in these documents are either irrelevant to the investor or covered elsewhere in the Universal Registration Document.

6.5 Documents on display
The regulatory information provided by Pierre & Vacances-Center Parcs pursuant to the provisions of articles 221-1 et seq. of the French Financial Markets Authority (AMF) General Regulation is available at the following URL: http://www.groupepvcp.com/fr/90/finance/publications.
219 UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2018/2019 ­ PIERRE & VACANCES-CENTER PARCS GROUP

6

ADDITIONAL INFORMATION
Reference tables

6.6 Reference tables

Cross-reference table of the Universal Registration Document
This reference table is based on the headings set out in Annex I and II of Delegated Regulation (EU) 2019/980 of the Commission of 14 March 2019 and refers to the pages of this Universal Registration Document on which the relevant information can be found.

N°

Information

Persons responsible, third party information,

1.

experts' reports and competent authority approval

2.

Statutory auditors

3.

Risk factors

4.

Information about the Group

5.

Business overview

5.1

Principal activities

5.2

Principal markets

The important events in the development of the issuer's

5.3

business

5.4

Strategy and objectives

Dependence on patents, licenses, contracts or new

5.5

manufacturing processes

Basis for any statements made by the Group regarding

5.6

its competitive position

5.7

Investments

6.

Organisational structure

6.1

Brief description of the group

6.2

List of significant subsidiaries

7.

Operating and financial review

7.1

Financial condition

7.2

Operating results

8.

Capital resources

8.1

Information on capital resources

8.2

Sources and amounts of cash flows

8.3

Information on borrowing requirements and funding structure

8.4

Restrictions on the use of capital resources

8.5

Anticipated sources of funding

9.

Regulatory environment

10.

Trend information

11.

Profit forecasts or estimates

Administrative, management and supervisory bodies

12.

and senior management

12.1 Board of Directors and Senior Management

Conflicts of interest affecting administrative, management 12.2 and supervisory bodies and Senior Management

13.

Remuneration and benefits

13.1 Remuneration and benefits in kind

Amounts set aside or accrued to provide pension, retirement 13.2 or similar benefits

Pages
218 218
28 13
6-12 9-10
6-11 11-12
n/a
10 123; 187
16 16
114; 186 114; 186
124; 159; 187 123; 159; 162 123; 159; 187
n/a 123; 159; 187
33 11 n/a
40 40-46
41 50 50-62
50-62

220 UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2018/2019 ­ PIERRE & VACANCES-CENTER PARCS GROUP

ADDITIONAL INFORMATION
Reference tables

N° 14. 14.1 14.2 14.3 14.4 14.5 15. 15.1 15.2 15.3 16 16.1 16.2 16.3
16.4 17.
18. 18.1 18.2 18.3 18.4 18.5 18.6 18.7 19. 19.1 19.1.1 19.1.2 19.1.3 19.1.4 19.1.5 19.1.6 19.1.7 19.2 19.2.1 19.2.2 19.2.3 20. 21.

Information Board practices Expiry date of current terms of office Service contracts Information about the issuer's Audit Committee and Remuneration Committee Statement regarding the compliance with the corporate governance regime Potential material impacts on corporate governance Employees Number of employees and breakdown of persons employed Shareholding and stock options Employee involvment in the capital of the issuer Major shareholders Notifiable interests in share capital or voting rights Existence of specific voting rights Control of the Company Agreements known to the Company which could lead to a change in control, if implemented Related-party transactions Financial information concerning the Company's assets and liabilities, financial position and profits and losses Historical financial information Interim financial information Audit of annual historical financial information Pro-forma financial information Dividend policy Legal and arbitration proceedings Significant change in the financial position Additional information Share capital Issued capital Other shares Treasury shares Tradeable securities Conditions of acquisition Options or agreements History of share capital Memorandum of association and bylaws Corporate purpose Rights and privileges of shares Items potentially affecting a change of control Material contracts Documents available

Pages 47-50
40 41 49-50 47 n/a
178 50
19-20
21 14 15
n/a 16-17
180-181 114; 186 114; 186
219 122
22 160 n/a
18 18 18 21 159 18 20 18-20 13-14 13 13 n/a n/a 219

6

221 UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2018/2019 ­ PIERRE & VACANCES-CENTER PARCS GROUP

6

ADDITIONAL INFORMATION
Reference tables

Management report cross-reference table pursuant to Articles L. 225-100 et seq. of the French Commercial Code.

Item

Sections Pages

I. Activities Analysis of trends in the Company's business, results and financial position during the year Analysis of trends in the Group's business, results and financial position during the year Results of subsidiaries and controlled companies Research and development Description of the main risks and uncertainties Information on receivable and supplier payment terms Table of the Company's results over the last five years Foreseeable change Post-closing events II. Information on environmental, social and societal commitments Information on personnel matters and impacts of the business on labour Information on environmental issues and environmental impacts of the business Information on societal commitments to sustainable development III. Legal information and information on the shareholders Employee participation in the share capital Identity of shareholders holding more than 5%; treasury shares Information on share buybacks Amount of dividends distributed over the last three years Equity investment or takeover of companies domiciled in France Table summarising authorisations in force granted by the General Meeting to the Board of Directors as concerns capital increases and use made of these delegations during the year Information likely to have an impact in the event of a public offering IV.Information on corporate officers Application of the principle of balanced gender representation Offices and positions held in any company by each of the officers during the year Total compensation and benefi ts in kind paid to each corporate officer Summary of transactions by officers in the securities of the Company Agreements entered into between an executive officer or significant shareholder and subsidiaries of the Company

5.3

186

5.1

114

5.1; 5.3 114; 186

n/a

n/a

2.2

28

5.3

190

5.3

189

1.1; 5.3 11. 188

5.2; 5.4 181; 213

4.4 4.1; 4.2; 4.3
4.1

85 70-83
70

1.4.1

19

1.4.1

19

1.4.6

21

1.4.8

22

5.3.5

188

3.3

64

3.4

65

3.1.4 3.1.2
3.2 3.2.3

46 42-45
50 63

3.2.3

63

222 UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2018/2019 ­ PIERRE & VACANCES-CENTER PARCS GROUP

Photo credits: Photothèque Pierre & Vacances ­ Cécil MATHIEU

HEAD OFFICE L'Artois - Espace Pont de Flandre 11, rue de Cambrai - 75947 Paris Cedex 19
Tel. : +33 (0)1 58 21 58 21
FINANCIAL INFORMATION Tel. : +33 (0)1 58 21 54 76 E-mail: info.fi n@groupepvcp.com
PRESS RELATIONS Tel. : +33 (0)1 58 21 54 61 E-mail: valerie.lauthier@groupepvcp.com
www.groupepvcp.com

