EXPLOITING OPPORTUNITIES EFFICIENTLY
ANNUAL REPORT 2017

KEY FIGURES

 000
Sales Germany Central region1) Americas Asia/Pacific
Order backlog as of 31 December EBITDA pre exceptionals2) EBITDA EBIT pre exceptionals2) EBIT Net profit Earnings per share in  Dividend per share in  Cash flow from operating activities Depreciation & amortization Capex Balance sheet total as of 31 December Shareholders' equity as of 31 December Equity ratio as of 31 December Net debt4) as of 31 December Employees as of 31 December5)

2017
268.5 60.9 120.7 29.0 57.9 92.3 5.8 2.3 -6.7 -10.7 -21.2 -3.28 ­3) 19.7 13.0 11.7 249.6 69.1 27.7% -18.1 1,763

2016 Change in %

286.6 61.3 131.9 35.8 57.5 80.7 20.7 22.2 7.4 8.8 4.2 0.64 0.60 10.9 13.4 18.3 278.6 94.8 34.0% -21.8 1,788

-6.3 -0.7 -8.5 -19.1 +0.6 +14.5 -72.2 -89.7 n/a n/a n/a n/a n/a +81.4 -3.1 -36.0 -10.4 -27.1
+17.1 -1.4

2015
312.9 64.4 124.4 49.1 75.1 95.2
­ 17.4
­ 3.9 -0.1 -0.02 0.60 18.4 13.5 23.0 278.8 101.0 36.2% -17.4 1,894

2014
308.5 66.8 132.6 52.8 56.4 90.5
­ 31.1
­ 18.3 9.8 1.67 0.80 3.1 12.8 18.7 273.9 74.9 27.3% -32.7 1,942

2013
304.4 65.0 139.0 50.6 49.9 66.0
­ 36.9
­ 24.9 15.4 2.59 1.00 27.4 12.0 24.8 247.6 91.9 37.1% -6.2 1,853

1) Africa and Europe without Germany, 2) Exceptionals: restructuring charges, non-scheduled depreciation and amortization, charges for design and implementation of IT-projects, M&A costs as well as profit and loss from the disposal of non-current assets no longer required for business operations. Exceptionals were first disclosed in the reporting year 2016.
3) Recommendation to the Annual General Meeting, 4) Without pension provisions, 5) Without apprentices

Percentages and figures in this report may include rounding differences. The signs used to indicate rates of change are based on economic aspects: improvements are indicated by a plus "+" sign, deteriorations by a "-" sign. Rates of change >+100% are shown as >+100%, rates of change <-100% as "n/a" (not applicable).

CONTENTS
01_Letter to the Shareholders 04_Supervisory Board Report 08_About R. STAHL 18_Share 21 _Group Management Report 56 _Consolidated Financial Statements 64 _Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 132 _Further disclosures 146 _Glossary 148 _Locations

LETTER TO THE SHAREHOLDERS

1

Dr. Mathias Hallmann, CEO
EXPLOITING OPPOR TUNITIES EFFICIENTLY
Ladies and Gentlemen, 2017 was one of the most difficult years in R. STAHL's history. Our components and system solutions for explosion protection are used wherever flammable materials are handled in industrial environments ­ and especially in the production and processing of crude oil and natural gas, as well as their downstream products. As a result, our business is depending to a large extent on the market price of crude oil. Although oil prices recovered from the record lows of the previous year, they were still depressed in 2017 ­ fluctuating between US$ 45 and US$ 65 per barrel and thus far below the US$ 100-plus prices recorded in 2014 and the preceding years. Over the past few years, the oil and gas industry has steadily adapted its business models to this "new normal" of persistently low oil prices and significantly reduced its costs. As a result, production costs for crude oil in the European North Sea region, for example, were more than halved between 2013 and 2017. These stringent cost reductions have enabled companies to operate profitably again, despite significantly lower selling prices.

2

R. STAHL AR 2017

This trend had significant consequences for suppliers like R. STAHL. Not only were investments in new production projects frozen, but also postponed maintenance for existing plants led to a decline in demand and volumes for our products. This resulted in overcapacity in our competitive environment, accompanied by growing pressure on prices. Our original expectations that we could at least partially offset this negative price trend with volume growth later in the year failed to materialize. Compared to the previous year, sales fell again by 6.3%, or around  18 million, to  268.5 million. In view of our cost structures, this meant we could no longer achieve a positive result: at  -6.7 million, earnings before interest and taxes (EBIT) pre exceptionals for 2017 were within our adjusted guidance corridor from November last year. Against this backdrop, R. STAHL will not be paying a dividend for the reporting year ­ for the first time since the economic crisis of 2002.
We are cautiously optimistic about the future development of our key markets. Order intake in 2017 stabilized at the prior-year level. Companies in the oil and gas industry have begun to push ahead with major projects for producing and processing oil and gas which they had previously put on hold. This is also reflected in renewed growth in our order intake during the first quarter of 2018, compared to the final quarter of the previous year. However, as with the slump in demand of the last two years, there is a certain time delay before this recovery reaches R. STAHL's top line. According to market experts, oil and gas prices are unlikely to reach their former highs in the foreseeable future. This is due in part to the changed competitive situation resulting from the availability of huge shale oil volumes in the USA, as well as a slowdown in medium- to long-term growth in demand, for example as a consequence of increasing electromobility. These trends force suppliers of the oil and gas industry to emulate their customers and significantly raise efficiency.
A detailed analysis of our current situation shows that we have many unique strengths in those areas of greatest importance for our business. In particular, this includes a strong appreciation of our products and solutions by our customers, who associate R. STAHL with superior expertise, quality and innovative strength in explosion protection solutions. This underlines the fact that we are on the right path in terms of what we do from a strategic point of view. However, we must significantly improve how we do things, in order to exploit the opportunities arising from these strengths more efficiently. We need to become more agile so we can respond more quickly to changing external requirements. We therefore intend to exploit the potential of our global organization better than before by reducing complexity, strengthening our corporate functions, implementing more efficient processes and structures, and driving digitization ­ an area in which we have long been supporting our customers with automation solutions: by creating a new corporate organization with global responsibilities, lean management in production, the harmonization of our IT systems, and the optimization and streamlining of our product portfolio. This will not only increase the efficiency of our processes, but also reduce their cost. And we will take the same approach with changes to our sales organization: making it leaner and more closely aligned with the needs of our international customers. "A Tradition of Innovation" ­ the theme of our last year's annual report was forward-looking and carefully chosen. For our clear strategic objective is to extend our technological lead in explosion protection with the aid of new and innovative solutions which offer significant added value for our customers.

LETTER TO THE SHAREHOLDERS

3

In 2017, we continued to drive our pioneering developments in explosion protection ­ some of which are presented in this report. With efficiency gains in our sales organization and innovative new products, we expect to return to profitable sales growth regardless of the development of our key markets.
At the beginning of 2018, we introduced earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization (EBITDA) pre exceptionals as key performance indicator of profitability to steer the Group. Exceptional items refer to oneoff income and expenses not related to our continued operations, such as costs incurred during the course of necessary restructuring measures. This not only makes profitability of our operating business better comparable than before, but also establishes the internal conditions for us to quickly and systematically implement the tasks that lie ahead. Based on the above mentioned measures to reduce costs and grow sales, we expect EBITDA pre exceptionals to improve in the mid to high double-digit percentage range for the current year.
2018 will be a year of change for R. STAHL. We have already implemented some of these changes, more will follow. I would like to thank you, our shareholders, for your continued loyalty and support ­ especially in the current challenging situation. With our measures to enhance efficiency, we believe we are well positioned to return R. STAHL to its former earnings power. We aim to achieve this goal within the next two years. I would also like to take this opportunity to express my sincere gratitude to all employees of R. STAHL! The tasks ahead will require a great deal of hard work and dedication from us all. We look forward to taking this path together with our employees and with you, dear shareholders. I would also like to thank our customers and business partners for the trust they continue to place in us and our products, which is both an obligation and an inspiration for us every day.
Dr. Mathias Hallmann CEO

DR.-ING. MATHIAS HALLMANN, CEO, has been a member of the Executive Board of R. STAHL since 1 October 2017 and was appointed CEO as of 1 January 2018. The enginee ring graduate has many years of experience in business consultancy as well as in manage ment positions for industrial companies.

4

R. STAHL AR 2017

DEAR SHAREHOLDERS,
A review of developments over the past three years illustrates that conditions in our most important customer industries have radically changed. Whereas R. STAHL was able to post double-digit growth in sales and earnings during boom phases and times of triple-digit crude oil prices, R. STAHL's financial figures have since been hit correspondingly hard by the reverse situation of persistently low oil prices: after business already suffered in the previous year, 2017 marked a further year of declining sales and earnings. The cost-reduction program that was successfully completed in 2016 was unable to prevent the significant earnings erosion. The changed market conditions therefore require fundamental changes to our organization and processes towards streamlining and increased efficiency. The Supervisory Board supports the measures already initiated by the Executive Board.
In the second half of the past financial year, R. STAHL laid the foundation for a change in the position of CEO. At its extraordinary meeting on 25 August 2017, the Supervisory Board resolved, with the consent of Martin Schomaker, to terminate his contract as of 31 December 2017 before the three-year contract extension agreed in 2016 was completed. His successor, Dr. Mathias Hallmann, was appointed as a member of the Executive Board as of 1 October 2017 and as CEO as of 1 January 2018. Since Bernd Marx stepped down from his position on the Executive Board with immediate effect on 9 February 2018, Dr. Mathias Hallmann has been the sole member of the Executive Board until further notice. The Supervisory Board would like to thank the two departing Executive Board members for their many years of service for the company.
Throughout the reporting period, the Supervisory Board advised the Executive Board and monitored the com pany's management in accordance with its legal obligations, the Articles of Association and its own rules of procedure. The success of the R. STAHL Group is based essentially on trusting cooperation between the Supervisory Board and the Executive Board. The Executive Board maintains a constant dialogue with the Supervisory Board and informs it punctually and in detail on all significant company events. The Supervisory Board monitors the work of the Executive Board on the basis of regular oral and written reports. The members of the Supervisory Board were informed at least once a month about the Group's key performance indicators. During personal meetings, as well as in verbal and written reports, the Executive Board regularly informed the Chairman of the Supervisory Board about the company's development and discussed current issues with him. The Executive Board also explained those exceptional events that were of particular importance for the Group.
Supervisory Board meetings In the reporting period, the Supervisory Board convened on nine occasions, of which five were ordinary and four extraordinary meetings. Attendance of these Supervisory Board meetings was 100%.

SUPERVISORY BOARD REPORT

5

Heiko Stallbörger, Chairman of the Supervisory Board
As in every year, the five ordinary meetings of the Supervisory Board were held on a regular basis. These meetings focused on the economic position and development prospects of the R. STAHL Group, as well as important business events. The Executive Board reported regularly to the Supervisory Board on the sales, earnings and financial performance of the company. The Supervisory Board meetings also dealt with questions of strategy for the Group and its business units. In particular, the following topics were discussed:
At its meeting on 20 February 2017, the Supervisory Board discussed the preliminary annual financial statements and the company's corporate governance report and risk management system. In accordance with the recommendations made by the Audit Committee following a tender procedure, the Supervisory Board approved the proposal to the Annual General Meeting for the election of the auditor for the 2017 financial statements. The results of the previously conducted efficiency audit were also presented to the Supervisory Board and subsequently discussed in detail.
At the following meeting on 20 April 2017, the Supervisory Board approved the annual financial statements. The annual financial statements and auditor's report were explained by the Executive Board and Ebner Stolz GmbH & Co. KG. At the same meeting, the Supervisory Board discussed the individual agenda items and the agenda as a whole for the Annual General Meeting 2017.
At the meeting on 1 June 2017, final preparations were made for the Annual General Meeting held on the following day.
The meeting in September focused in particular on the analysis of the operating business trend and the Group's future strategic development. The Supervisory Board was also informed about the current status of R. STAHL's implementation of the CSR guideline.
At its final meeting of the year on 12 December 2017, the Supervisory Board held its regular in-depth review of planning for the coming years and the budget for 2018, and approved both. Prior to the meeting, there was a joint training session for the Executive Board and Supervisory Board on the latest compliance requirements for executive bodies.

6

R. STAHL AR 2017

Focus areas of the Supervisory Board's extraordinary meetings At the extraordinary meeting held via telephone on 7 February 2017, the Supervisory Board approved the planning and budget for the current financial year after further intensive discussions.
At the second extraordinary meeting on 28 July 2017, held once again via telephone, the Supervisory Board analyzed the business situation after completing the first half-year. In view of the persistently tense market en vironment the Executive Board informed the Supervisory Board about measures to reduce costs and secure earnings.
At the third extraordinary meeting on 15 August 2017, the Supervisory Board dealt with recommendations and resolutions of the Administration Committee regarding a possible successor for Martin Schomaker on the Executive Board and adopted the necessary legal decisions for the procedure. Following final negotiations of the Chairman of the Supervisory Board with Martin Schomaker and Dr. Mathias Hallmann, the Supervisory Board adopted the final resolutions regarding a successor on the Executive Board at a further extraordinary meeting held on 25 August 2017.
Meetings of the committees The Audit Committee held four meetings in the reporting period, which were attended by all members. During the first meeting (held by telephone) at the beginning of the year, the committee discussed and evaluated in detail the results of the previously conducted tender procedure and prepared and adopted the recommendation to the full Supervisory Board regarding the proposal to the Annual General Meeting for the election of auditors for the 2017 financial statements. At its three further (regular) meetings, the committee dealt with questions of accounting, risk management and compliance, the necessary independence of the auditors, the issuing of the audit mandate to the auditors, the determination of audit focal points and the fee agreement.
The Administration Committee held four meetings in 2017, which were attended by all members. In the reporting period, the Administration Committee was largely concerned with the search for candidates to succeed Martin Schomaker. It also met twice outside of meetings to hold talks. The necessary legal steps for the procedure were decided and its decision recommendation to the Supervisory Board as a whole adopted. Insofar as still relevant, the committee prepared the compensation decisions of the full Supervisory Board and presented proposals for the respective total remuneration of the Executive Board members. It also prepared the Super visory Board's assessment on the appropriateness of Executive Board remuneration.
The Strategy Committee was not convened in the reporting period as its activities are currently suspended (see Supervisory Board Report for the financial year 2016).
The Supervisory Board was regularly informed about the work of the committees.
Annual financial statements The annual financial statements of R. STAHL AG as of 31 December 2017, as well as the consolidated financial statements of R. STAHL AG, were audited by the auditing firm selected by the Annual General Meeting and appointed by the Audit Committee of the Supervisory Board, BDO AG Wirtschaftsprüfungsgesellschaft, Hamburg, and were granted each an unqualified auditor's opinion with reference. The reference is related to the assessment of financial risks as stated by the Executive Board in the Group Management Report and the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements.

SUPERVISORY BOARD REPORT

7

In its release from 7 March 2018, the company announced that due to the changes in the Executive Board as well as the neccessary adjustments related to the recoverability of deferred taxes on loss carryforwards for fiscal year 2017 that became visible in February 2018, it felt compelled to delay the date of the release of its Annual Report 2017 and the date of its Annual General Meeting 2018 in order to re-examine all facts of the annual financial statements. As a result, at its meeting from 26 April 2018, the Supervisory Board was only able to receive detailed reports from the Executive Board and the auditor on the current status of the annual financial statements and its audit, and to discuss and approve the status and the new timeline provided by the Executive Board. With regard to the approval of the annual financial statements, the Supervisory Board postponed its examination and resolution to the next meeting on 7 June 2018 and asked the Executive Board for immediate notification in case of any unexpected deviations from the timeline. In additon, at its meeting on 26 April 2018, the Supervisory Board examined the legitimate, correct and appropriate reporting of the separate non-financial Group statement (CSR report) outside of the Group management report and critically examined the Executive Board's methods, procedures and processes used to gather the relevant data and information. As no objections were raised, the Supervisory Board approved the CSR report. Since 28 April 2018, the CSR report is available at the website www.r-stahl.com under the section corporate/corporate responsibility (see also the respective reference in the Group management report).
Following the completion of the audit of the annual financial statements within the aforementioned timeline, the auditor confirmed that the consolidated annual financial statements comply with IFRS applicable to the EU and with the supplementary commercial law requirements of section 315a (1) HGB. All members of the Super visory Board were provided with the annual financial statements and the consolidated financial statements, the management reports and the corresponding auditor's reports.
The Audit Committee intensively discussed the financial statements and auditor reports with the auditor, particularly addressing the very important Key Audit Matters. Subsequently, at its meeting from 7 June 2018, the Supervisory Board thoroughly examined the documents of the financial statements. In this context, the Audit Committee informed all members of the Supervisory Board about its findings. During the meeting, the auditor was present and available for discussions. The Supervisory Board agreed to the auditor's results and did not raise any objections against the annual financial statements and the management reports. The Audit Committee and the Supervisory Board also intensively dealt with the facts that compelled the Executive Board to assess the company's financial risk position as stated in the management report and the notes to the financial statements. Based on the measures mentioned and already being implemented, the Audit Committee and the Supervisory Board are extremely confident that the described facts only represent a theoretical risk that does not materialize. The Supervisory Board therefore approved the annual financial statements of R. STAHL AG prepared by the Executive Board as well as the consolidated financial statements, including the management reports, in accordance with Sections 170 and 171 AktG. The annual financial statements are thus adopted.
The Supervisory Board would like to thank the Executive Board and all employees of the R. STAHL Group, in Germany and abroad, for the hard work and dedication they displayed over the past year. We will continue to advise the Executive Board in the challenging quarters ahead and carefully examine its proposals and decisions in the interests of the company. Particular gratitude is extended to the shareholders of R. STAHL AG for the trust they placed in us.
Heiko Stallbörger Chairman of the Supervisory Board

8

R. STAHL AR 2017

R. STAHL 2020
Inventor of numerous pioneering innovations in the field of ex plosion protection, almost 100 years of market experience with leading positions in Europe and the world, acclaimed for its un compromising quality and customer orientation ­ R. STAHL's strengths do not immediately suggest a company in need of fundamental structural change. But what is the value of trad ition when confronted by new future challenges? Is market and quality leadership an asset if adequate profitability still cannot be achieved?
STRUCTURAL REALIGNMENT OF THE GROUP
Sustainable success in dynamic markets requires more than just outstanding products, fast market access and close customer proximity ­ a company must also constantly question its own structures and processes. Since focusing on explosion protection in 2005, R. STAHL has steadily and systematically expanded its global market position ­ with innovative and value-adding new products, with its evolution from component manufacturer to systems supplier, with regional expansion in growth markets and with company acquisitions. The dramatic slump in demand from the oil and gas sector in recent years has demonstrated that our cost and corporate structures, as well as our internal processes, are insufficiently capable of securing our profitability under adverse market conditions. Over the years, the level of complexity in many success-critical areas has not only led to high costs, but also made efficient and globally uniform processes more difficult to achieve. This is particularly true for our global organizational structure, our product portfolio, and our processes and systems. Our top priority now is therefore to reduce the high level of complexity in these areas and thereby enhance the efficiency of our processes. We aim to achieve this with the Group's global realignment programme "R. STAHL 2020", which we began to implement in early 2018. We will focus on three main areas:

ABOUT R. STAHL

9

1 CREATION OF A GLOBAL CORPORATE ORGANIZATION WITH STANDARDIZED GROUP-WIDE PROCESSES
2 OPTIMIZATION OF THE R. STAHL PRODUCT PORTFOLIO 3 HARMONIZATION OF OUR GLOBAL IT SYSTEMS
This will enable us to create the necessary conditions and scope to fully exploit the opportunities for sustainable and profitable growth arising in our markets. We aim to have largely completed the implementation of these measures by the end of 2019.

Flexible production line for control units at the Waldenburg facility. Thick-walled "Ex d" enclosures can be seen in the back right of the picture.

10

R. STAHL AR 2017

1 CREATION OF A GLOBAL CORPORATE ORGANIZATION WITH STANDARDIZED GROUP-WIDE PROCESSES
In times of high double-digit market growth, our decentralized organization with small and independently operating companies was the fastest way to serve dynamic and fast-growing local markets and capture market share. Today, ongoing globalization and far-reaching market changes in the field of explosion protection in recent years have forced us to rethink our approach. The critical success factors are no longer speed and individuality at any price, but rather a product offering that can be delivered punctually, in consistently high quality and at competitive prices to any customer site around the world. In view of the growing demands on our customers from internationalization and cost pressure, global standards in operations and processes play an increasingly key role. With this in mind, we realigned our corporate organizational structures as of 1 April 2018: away from largely independent subsidiaries and towards a group structure in which the key functions are managed centrally. This will have decisive advantages:
· C entralized and global production management will ensure consistent product quality and production standards at our facilities around the world. It will also enable more efficient management of capacity utilization throughout our global manufacturing network.
· G lobal responsibilities in marketing and sales will facilitate the uniform group-wide marketing of our products and lean, standardized sales processes.
· A corporate HR department responsible for all of our companies around the world will enable us to manage and develop our human resources across the entire Group.
· Q uantitative management based on key financial performance indicators will be more closely steered at Group level with the aid of adjusted, function-specific value levers.

ABOUT R. STAHL

11

2 OPTIMIZATION OF OUR PRODUCT PORTFOLIO
"However complex the technical challenge ­ we always find a way." This sentence summarizes what made R. STAHL one of the most highly acclaimed suppliers in explosion protection: absolute customer orientation, outstanding technical expertise, uncompromising quality, bespoke solution offerings. However, offering customers such an extensive scope of choice and design inevitably leads to extremely complex, and thus costly, order processing, production and logistics processes. As our product portfolio has grown ever larger over the years, so too has the effort required to maintain each of the products in our data systems, to ensure their availability, and to guarantee their compliance with certification requirements. A closer comparison of the technical differences within individual product groups reveals that the vast majority of technical requirements can often be solved perfectly with a just few different products ­ and such a huge variety of parts is often not necessary. Against this backdrop, we have therefore begun to review our entire portfolio with the aim of removing products no longer in demand, and replacing those in low demand with equivalent solutions from our existing product range. In this way, we expect to achieve significant and sustainable cost reductions for the maintenance and provision of R. STAHL's product offerings ­ without compromising the value proposition for our customers.
3 HARMONIZATION OF OUR GLOBAL IT SYSTEMS
Centrally managed, group-wide processes require a uniform infrastructure so they can be efficiently designed and standardized. Systems for digital data processing ­ IT systems ­ play a key role in these efforts: they ensure compatibility at all locations around the globe by using consistent data structures and interfaces, and enable standardized and automated processes that are not only less expensive, but also more robust and thus less susceptible to error.
At present, the R. STAHL Group's IT system landscape is also highly complex: more than half a dozen different IT systems world-wide incur significantly higher costs than standard solutions, for example for the synchronization of data interfaces, system maintenance and support, or employee training. We have therefore set ourselves the target of reducing the number of IT systems and thus harmonizing our global system landscape and processes, in order to reduce costs and increase efficiency.

12

R. STAHL AR 2017

FOCUS ON INNOVATION
With the clear strategic goal of expanding our long-held position as a technology leader, we once again drove forward numerous developments in explosion protection in several product areas in 2017. The result: a market-changing enclosure technology, new highly efficient LED luminaires and improved automation solutions for Industry 4.0.
NEXT-GENERATION ENCLOSURE TECHNOLOGY: EXpressure®
The aim of explosion protection is quite simple really: to safely prevent explosions in technical ins tallations. Reliable explosion protection solutions are based on the fundamental principle that four things need to occur simultaneously to trigger an explosion: there must be a combustible substance, an oxidizing agent, a source of ignition and a suitable ratio between the combustible substance and the oxidizing agent. The primary goal of explosion protection is to effectively avoid at least one of these conditions and thereby exclude the possibility of an explosion.
There are various technical approaches ­ known as explosion protection types ­ to achieving this aim. Most of them are geared towards preventing combustible and oxidizing substances from coming into contact, avoiding the specific mixture required for explosion, or keeping any source of ignition out of the way (primary explosion protection). However, there are some application fields where this cannot always be guaranteed with the necessary reliability. In these cases, the explosion protection concept is based on limiting the potential explosion to a small space and preventing it from spreading to the surrounding areas (secondary explosion protection). This is the basis of the protection type "Flameproof Enclosure" or "Ex d". In order to keep extremely high explosion pressures of up to 15 bar completely inside the enclosure, both during and after the explosion, the standard materials used to produce enclosures have long been stainless steel, aluminium or ­ for small enclosures ­ plastic. In the case of larger metal enclosures, such as those used for low-voltage switches and control or power distributions systems, the walls are up to three centimetres thick ­ leading to enormous enclos ure weights and causing high costs for transport and installation. For the construction of more complex solutions, several enclosures may need to be connected in an explosion-protected and costly way.

ABOUT R. STAHL

13

Already some years ago, R. STAHL therefore began to look for an alternative enclosure technology which overcomes these disadvantages while guaranteeing the same uncompromising level of explosion protection safety. After more than eight years of intensive research and development work, we succeeded in writing the next chapter in the history of major explosion protection innovations: in 2017, we received approval from the independent test and certification bodies DEKRA EXAM GmbH (Bochum) and PTB (National Metrology Institute of Germany, Braunschweig) for our completely new type of enclosure technology EXpressure®. It offers users the same level of explosion protection as previous flameproof enclosure designs, but with the significant advantages of weight savings, space savings and larger enclosure shapes.

20%
SPACE SAVING

For applications in which the transport and installation of large, heavy parts has significant cost disadvantages, our EXpressure® enclosures are clearly superior ­ for example on ships and oil rigs, but also in the chemical and pharmaceutical industry.

50%
WEIGHT SAVING

>100%
LARGER

Comparison of the functional principles of conventional "Ex d" enclosure with EXpressure®: Left: Thick-walled enclosures keep the resulting explosion pressure completely within the enclosure. This requires high wall thicknesses. Right: The explosion pressure is already released during the explosion via a special lattice structure.

The benefits of EXpressure® are mainly based on its significantly thinner enclosure walls, which are just a few millimetres thick. This is made possible by the controlled release of explosion pressure over the course of the explosion inside the enclosure. The resulting maximum pressures are therefore within a range of just a few tenths of a bar ­ and thus up to a hundred times lower than in a conventional enclosure. At the same time, the ignition of an explosive atmosphere outside the enclosure is reliably prevented like it is with conventional solutions, by cooling the explosion gas to completely safe temperatures via lattices serving as heat exchangers.

The explosion pressure is already released during the explosion via a special lattice structure.

14

R. STAHL AR 2017

New LED luminaires with emergency lighting function: the products we de veloped in 2017 closed a gap in this field. We now also offer our most power ful product portfolio of LED lights with an emergency lighting function: these either have their own rechargeable batteries on board or can be connected to central emergency lighting systems. As a result, safety-critical lighting stays operational even during power failures.
LEADING LED LIGHTING TECHNOLOGY EXPANDED
Modern luminaires using light-emitting diodes (LEDs) have considerably improved the design possibilities for intelligent and efficient lighting solutions in recent years. Due to their numerous technical benefits, sales of LED-based luminaires have enjoyed double-digit annual growth rates, while sales of conventional luminaires have steadily declined. And progress in this field remains rapid. Also at R. STAHL: within just a few years, we have become the market leader in highly efficient LED lighting solutions for areas exposed to explosion hazards. And we are continuing to expand this strong position with further developments.
LED luminaires optimize power consumption and maintenance costs: whereas LED technology initially focused on reducing power consumption, numerous other requirements were soon added. Modern lighting solutions have to meet high demands, especially with regard to service life and switch cycle stability. This not only saves energy costs but also maintenance costs, as defective bulbs need to be exchanged much less frequently ­ which also reduces downtime. In terms of life span, we soon recognized the importance for LEDs of heat dissipation and optimized their enclosures and control electronics in order to maximize the service lives of LED luminaires used in areas exposed to explosion hazards.

ABOUT R. STAHL

15

Besides to economic aspects, additional technical requirements are driving the demand for inn ovations in the field of LED-based lighting solutions. These include the colour of light, whose effects are even used in wildlife conservation: white light, which inherently also contains blue, attracts turtles in industrial plants along the Australian coast. This may lead to dangerous situations if the animals wander into areas which not only endanger their own lives but also the safety of the plant as a whole. For such application areas, R. STAHL has developed LED luminaires with a yellow colour that provide sufficient lighting for the plant personnel, but have no blue component so that turtles are not attracted.
R. STAHL's solution expertise not only includes a complete lighting portfolio, but also tailored lighting installations and customized planning offers, as well as powerful software for customer in-house planning.

UP TO
40%
LOWER ENERGY CONSUMPTION

ALREADY
50%
SHARE OF OUR LIGHTING SALES AFTER 6 YEARS

UP TO
70%
LONGER LIFE SPAN

Details of the new LED linear lumi naire 6009. The explosion protection begins with the encapsulation of the LEDs (highlighted in yellow in the dia gram) in a polycarbonate jacket (high lighted in grey in the diagram). This effectively prevents any explosive atmosphere which may be inside the luminaire from coming into contact with the electric arc created if an LED burns out. Other proactive safety features include current limiters and shutdown devices to prevent uncon trolled conditions within the lumi naire in the event of a fault.

16

R. STAHL AR 2017

R. STAHL'S AUTOMATION TECHNOLOGY: EXPLOSION PROTECTION IN INDUSTRY 4.0
Advances in digital technology over the past few decades have fundamentally changed our lives: data and information have never been captured, processed and distributed as quickly as they are today. And this trend is set to continue. At the same time, automation and networking ­ and thus the smart control of industrial processes ­ are becoming increasingly important. Similar to the changes brought about by the in vention of the steam engine, mass manufacturing or computer technology, dramatic progress is expected in all areas of society. Experts believe that the current fourth industrial revolution, or "Industry 4.0", will change entire industries and become a central lever for future competitiveness.
From the "Digital Oil Field" to working groups on "Modular Automation" ­ the optimization of processes via connections to the "Industrial Internet of Things" (IIoT) and the productive use of "Big Data" is becoming increasingly important for all areas of industry.
R. STAHL plays a leading role in shaping this trend ­ with its innovative, efficient interfaces and system solutions for use in process automation and network technology for Ex areas. In 2017, we strengthen ed our portfolio with the addition of further new products. The main focus was on the development of network components for wireless, wired and optical data transmission. With our Ethernet switches, media converters, terminals and access points, we now supply all components needed to set up complete digital IP-based infrastructures in Ex areas.
In addition, we expanded our market-leading remote I/O system with new communication modules and power supplies offering further value-adding features. Remote I/O systems are located at the very beginning of the digital data stream ­ they convert measurement and control signals from the process plant into digital data, which is then fed via plant-wide networks to complex control systems which manage the processes and analyze the process data.
The "9442" CPU modules and "9445" power modules we developed in 2017 are not only much smaller and capable of being used in even more extreme temperature ranges than their predecessors, they are also the first to provide all common communication protocols used in process automation in a single device.

ABOUT R. STAHL

17

Explosion-protected plant control solution taylor-made with key components from R. STAHL.

In addition, the new modules are equipped with preventive diagnostics to capture the stress on the devices throughout their entire life span. This means that possible outages can be flagged up early on, before they actually occur. The captured diagnostic data can be integrated into plant asset management systems which enable the planned and timely replacement of devices. This significantly reduces expensive downtime due to sudden, unplanned device failures ­ thus helping our customers to optimize their processes and costs.

TO
-40­75°C
EXPANDED TEMPERATURE RANGE

BY
360°
ROTATABLE MOUNTING

UP TO
100%
PROTOCOL SUPPORT IN THE DEVICE

18

R. STAHL AR 2017

THE R. STAHL SHARE
Record stock market levels around the world Strong global economic growth and rising company profits led to new highs on the international stock markets in 2017. Although markets were still cautious in the early part of the year amid uncertainty about the political course in the USA and parliamentary elections in Europe, fundamental data began to dominate sentiment as the year progressed. The European economy in particular displayed remarkably dynamic growth over the course of the year, contrary to initial expectations. Buoyed by these positive economic conditions and persistently low interest rates in the eurozone, the DAX passed the 13,000 mark for the first time on 12 October ­ despite strong appreciation of the euro since the beginning of the year. The SDAX also mirrored this trend with growth of around 28% over the year and an all-time high of 12,142 on 3 November.
New records were also set on the US stock exchanges. The Dow Jones already passed the 20,000 mark for the first time in late January and reached its year-high of 24,876 on 18 December. In addition to the robust economic trend, this surge was driven by expectations of an economic policy under President Trump which put US interests first. This sentiment was not even dampened by the initially restrictive monetary policy pursued by the US Federal Reserve.
The R. STAHL share started the year at a price of  28.50. Although its relative performance largely mirrored the SDAX in the first quarter, it began to lag behind increasingly as the year progressed. However, the share soon recovered from its year-low of  28.40 on 25 April and made up lost ground on the SDAX almost completely, reaching a year-high of  33.50 on 26 July. As a result of the downgraded full-year sales and earnings guidance on 9 November, the share price fell strongly, but was able to defend the  30.00 line. The R. STAHL share closed the year at  30.19 with growth over the year of 5.9%. During the same period, the SDAX grew by 24.9%.
Founding families hold majority of R. STAHL shares More than 50% of shares in R. STAHL AG are held by shareholders from the extended circle of the founding families Stahl and Zaiser. Over 10% of share capital is held by RAG-Stiftung Beteiligungsgesellschaft mbH and a further 10% or so by Baden-Württembergische Versorgungsanstalt für Ärzte, Zahnärzte und Tierärzte. In sum, institutional investors with voting rights subject to mandatory reporting requirements of 3% or more held around 26% of share capital at year-end.
Regular dialogue with our shareholders is very important to us. For this reason, the Executive Board attended several capital market conferences in 2017 and held discussions with individual investors. We publish additional information as interim, halfyearly and annual reports on our website. In addition, we give all interested investors access to our conference calls, which are held regularly by the Executive Board. Further detailed information, also on the R. STAHL share, can be found on our website www.r-stahl.com in the section Corporate/Investor Relations.

THE R. STAHL SHARE

19

PERFORMANCE OF THE R. STAHL SHARE VS. SDAX 20171)

130

120 110

100

90

%

01/01/2017

¤ 28.50 9,519 points

 R. STAHL  SDAX 

31/12/2017
¤ 30.19 11,887 points

Key figures of the R. STAHL share2)

Number of shares (in thousands) Market capitalization on 31 December ( million) Year-low (25 April 2017/7 June 2016) Year-high (26 July 2017/4 January 2016) Year-end price (31 December) Average daily trading volume (number of shares) Earnings per share Dividend per share Dividend yield at year-end (%)

2017
6,440 194.4 28.40 33.50 30.19 1,201 -3.28
­3) n/a

2016
6,440 183.5 27.00 33.60 28.50 1,304 0.64 0.60
2.1

Security ID ISIN Stock market ID Trading segment Indices
Stock markets

A1PHBB DE000A1PHBB5 RSL2 (Bloomberg), RSL2.DE (Reuters) Regulated market/Prime Standard CDAX, Classic All Share, DAXplus Family, DAXsector All Industrial, DAXsector Industrial, DAXsubsector All Industrial Machinery, DAXsubsector Industrial Machinery, Prime All Share XETRA, Frankfurt, Stuttgart, Düsseldorf, Munich, Berlin-Bremen, Hamburg

1) Basis: closing prices of XETRA trading platform. 2) All stock exchange figures are based on the XETRA trading platform. 3) Proposal to the Annual General Meeting

20

R. STAHL AR 2017

CONSOLIDATED FINAN CIAL INFORMATION
pursuant to Section 315a HGB in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards
21 Group Management Report 21 Basic Principles of the Group 27 Economic Report 32 Financial Position and Performance 40 Declaration on Company Management 41 Reporting Pursuant to Sections 289a (1) and 315a (1) HGB 42 Subsequent Events 43 Risk Report 51 Opportunity and Forecast Report 56 Consolidated Financial Statements 56 Consolidated Income Statement 57 Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income 58 Consolidated Balance Sheet 60 Consolidated Cash Flow Statement 62 Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity 64 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 132 Responsibility Statement 133 Audit Opinion 140 List of Shareholdings 142 Financial Statements of R. Stahl Aktiengesellschaft

GROUP MANAGEMENT REPORT Basic Principles of the Group

21

GROUP MANAGEMENT REPORT

BASIC PRINCIPLES OF THE GROUP
BUSINESS MODEL
Standards and regulations for explosion protection We encounter combustible gases, liquids and solids in many areas of our daily lives and working activities: as fuel for vehicles, as energy sources to generate electricity and heating, as raw materials in the chemical industry. These substances all require careful handling in order to minimize the dangers they present to humans and the environment. One particular danger is when combustible substances mix with specific ratios of oxygen in the air, the so-called explosion limits. Any ignition of such mixtures does not lead to burning, but to an immediate explosion ­ with potentially grave personal injuries and damage to property. In particular, the risk posed by combustible dusts has long been underestimated ­ hardly anyone assumes that, for example, meal dust used in the food industry or sawdust accumulating in wood processing companies can actually explode. However, when mixed with oxygen in a suitable ratio, the danger posed by such dusts is in no way inferior to that of liquid fuels such as petrol or combustible gases such as natural gas. Just how impressive such dust explosions can be is illustrated by the film industry, which uses them in a controlled manner for their pyrotechnic effects.
Due to the serious consequences that insufficient explosion protection can have, the technical requirements for the handling of combustible materials are highly regulated. However, these regulations differ greatly from region to region. For example, the member states of the European Union are governed by the guidelines 2014/34/EU and 1999/92/EC (ATEX directives), whereas the dominant regulation for the construction of electrical systems ­ including explosion-protected equipment ­ in North America is the National Electrical Code (NEC). The two standards differ considerably in their technical details; one reason for this is that the NEC system was originally geared towards the construction of water and gas pipelines. Further national regulations increase the variety of applicable standards and guidelines additionally. With the aim of facilitating the free movement of goods worldwide, the International Electrotechnical Commission (IEC) ­ which is responsible for global standardization in the field of electrical engineering ­ is therefore working on internationally valid approval conditions for electrical equipment in the field of explosion protection. And is enjoying considerable success in these efforts: the IEC 60079 standards and related compliance assessment system IECEx based on its work, which is technically very similar to the EU's ATEX directives, have established themselves as the increasingly accepted standard with global validity. For some years now, the US Coast Guard ­ responsible for US offshore installations ­ has also accepted IECEx-certified products for offshore facilities.
R. STAHL is one of the world's leading suppliers of explosion protection products and solutions based on the relevant IEC and European standards. As the technology leader, we actively shape their ongoing development and thus contribute to the global harmonization and improvement of safety standards. One of our core competencies is the certification of components and systems, which is so important in explosion protection.

22

R. STAHL AR 2017

Market with high entry barriers
Unfortunately, the importance of the highest possible safety standards and uncompromising reliability in explosion protection becomes particularly evident when they are not adopted. A single spark on an oil rig or in a petrochemical facility is enough to cause explosions with fatal consequences. There is therefore a strong demand throughout society for safe, environmentally friendly and sustainable industrial processes. This is leading to increasing requirements for all areas of safety technology around the world, especially in the field of explosion protection.
On the one hand, this offers further growth potential for R. STAHL ­ and a further increase in the importance of the IECEx certification system around the world. On the other hand, these growing requirements also represent significant entry barriers for new potential market players, as the expertise and reputation of suppliers of safety-critical explosion protection products and systems play a major role for existing and potential customers: anyone seeking to establish themselves in this market must first build up trust in their expertise and product reliability over many years. In the case of large-scale projects, where the costs for explosion protection are generally relatively small in relation to total cost, clients therefore prefer internationally renowned and experienced suppliers with a solid track record of their overall systems expertise. At the same time, complex certification regulations present a further hurdle for new suppliers. The significant bureaucratic effort required to prove compliance with various requirements and standards in explosion protection therefore promotes a high level of customer loyalty and retention.
R. STAHL ­ explosion protection products and solutions offering utmost quality and safety
Our electrotechnical products and complex systems are designed to protect people, machines and the environment from the dangers of undesired explosion events with the highest possible degree of reliability. They are mainly used in the oil and gas industry, as well as in the chemical and pharmaceutical industry. On the basis of the products and services we offer, we are the clear market leader in Europe and rank second worldwide. Our solutions cover the entire value chain in explosion protection: individual components such as switches and signalling devices for simple applications, to control boxes and system controls for the distribution of electrical energy, to complex systems for large-scale projects in the field of oil and gas production or the (petro-) chemical industry, for example. We are the global market leader for lighting solutions in areas exposed to explosion hazards ­ from hand-held spotlights to dedicated helideck lighting systems for oil rigs. In addition, we offer a strong portfolio of automation solutions for controlling and monitoring technical facilities, including the market-leading remote I/O system, IS1+, as well as operating units and camera systems. Moreover, our expertise in the systems business ­ one-stop solutions for complex individual problems and customer requirements ­ is unique throughout the world. A major pillar here is our engineering and consulting expertise, which we are continually enhancing with further services. All of our products and services meet the highest safety standards, reflecting almost 100 years of experience in the field of explosion protection.

GROUP MANAGEMENT REPORT Basic Principles of the Group

23

Global sales organization and production facilities of the R. STAHL Group
The parent company of the R. STAHL Group is R. Stahl Aktiengesellschaft in Waldenburg, Germany (in the following R. STAHL AG), which sets the strategic alignment of the Group's subsidiaries and performs corporate management functions. It also acts as a service provider within the Group and advises the subsidiaries. An overview of the Group's various locations can be found at the end of this Annual Report.
R. STAHL AG is subject to German law and governed by the two-tier system of Executive Board and Supervisory Board. Sole member of the Executive Board is Dr. Mathias Hallmann. The Supervisory Board of R. STAHL AG has nine members, three of which are employee representatives in accordance with the German One-Third Participation Act. The tasks of the Supervisory Board include appointing and dismissing members of the Executive Board, monitoring and advising the Executive Board, and adopting the annual financial statements. Detailed information on corporate governance and the cooperation between Executive Board and Supervisory Board are provided in this Annual Report in the Report of the Supervisory Board and on our website www.r-stahl.com under the section Corporate/Investor Relations/Corporate Governance.
At the end of 2017, R. STAHL's 29 subsidiaries were active in 24 countries on all continents with a further 50-plus representative offices around the world and seven production sites with different core competencies. Lighting and signalling devices are produced mainly in Weimar, Germany, and Chennai, India, while automation technology products are developed and manufactured in Cologne and our main base in Waldenburg. Most of the components for installation, such as switches, terminal boxes and connectors, are also produced in Waldenburg. Customized equipment and more complex explosion protection systems are produced in Waldenburg, as well as by the subsidiaries Electromach B. V. (Hengelo, the Netherlands), R. STAHL TRANBERG AS (Stavanger, Norway) and R. STAHL Inc. (Houston, USA). A particular area of expertise of the Hengelo facility is also the production of large container solutions, while in Stavanger the main focus is on products for shipbuilding and the oil and gas industry.
Skilled and motivated staff
Skilled and motivated employees are a major success factor for a globally operating, leading technology company like R. STAHL. In the competition for top-performing specialists, we take a variety of approaches to ensure we remain an attractive employer for our existing employees and successfully attract new staff. This starts with our efforts to provide schoolchildren and school leavers with initial orientation on possible future careers. In the past financial year, for example, we played a leading role in organizing a career information day at our Waldenburg site, together with 15 other employers offering apprenticeships in the region, which was attended by more than 200 young people. Our apprenticeship programme is also highly acclaimed: in 2016, our site in Waldenburg received the DUALIS seal of the Heilbronn-Franconian Chamber of Commerce (IHK) for a further five years. One of the reasons is that we attach great importance to in-depth, comprehensive and best-in-class quality in our vocational training. For example, we also offer staff the possibility to spend time at our international subsidiaries. We also offer special support for women interested in choosing technology-oriented careers. To ensure employees are given the best possible conditions for achieving their personal career goals, we offer extensive training opportunities and flexible working time models for a healthy work-life balance. These offerings are rounded off by numerous sports and healthcare programmes.
As of 31 December 2017, the R. STAHL Group employed 1,763 people (31 December 2016: 1,788). In addition, there were 80 apprentices and students (31 December 2016: 89) and 30 employees completed their apprenticeship or dual study course in the reporting period. The decrease in employees with unlimited contracts was mainly at our American and Asian sites due to the adverse market environment.

24

R. STAHL AR 2017

OBJECTIVES AND STRATEGIES We have set ourselves the goal of achieving sustainable and profitable growth, thereby steadily raising our company value. To this end, we continue to develop our existing product and service portfolio in line with the needs of our customers. We strive to generate earnings with strong products and services in all our business segments and client industries, regardless of the trend in individual markets. Our focus is on an attractive product portfolio, a diversified customer base and competitive cost structures.
The past few years have shown that our existing corporate structures and processes were insufficiently capable of securing our profitability under adverse market conditions. Our top priority at present is therefore to restore profitability. We intend to achieve this with a number of measures aimed at realigning the Group's activities, focusing on three core areas:
1. Creation of a global corporate organization with uniform group-wide processes 2. Optimization of the R. STAHL product portfolio 3. Harmonization of our global IT systems
Aimed at significantly reducing complexity while at the same time raising the efficiency of our processes, these measures are to be largely completed by the end of 2019. In this way, we can create the necessary conditions and scope to fully exploit the opportunities for sustainable and profitable growth arising in our markets:
Leverage strong market position in the oil and gas sector For suppliers of explosion protection products, the oil and gas sector is by far the largest and most important market. Demand for fossil fuels and raw materials will continue to grow in future. We aim to leverage our strong standing in this sector, especially in the systems business and the handling of large-scale projects, in order to benefit more than average from the emerging recovery in this sector. Our regional focus will be on Russia, the Middle East and Africa.
Drive diversification of customer base The huge importance of the oil and gas sector for explosion protection involves both opportunities and risks. Changes in supply and demand can significantly impact price trends in both directions. The resulting volatility in sales and earnings presents a considerable challenge for suppliers ­ including R. STAHL. In order to reduce the influence of the oil and gas industry on R. STAHL's economic development, we want to expand our business in industrial sectors outside the oil and gas sector. Our focus is mainly on the chemical and pharmaceutical industries, but also on the areas of food production and general plant construction.
Develop product portfolio along customers' needs Technical progress also brings changes in the regulatory requirements for explosion protection products. As a leading supplier in this field, we jointly shape the ongoing development of our markets and provide the necessary cutting-edge products and solutions. In line with our strategic objective of maintaining innovation leadership in explosion protection, we channel a significant proportion of our resources into developing new products that provide a high degree of added value to our customers.
At the same time, we have set ourselves the goal of expanding our range of training courses and support during the commissioning process with new safety-relevant services and planning support. In this way, we can offer our customers solutions for the systematic maintenance of operational safety and the safety management of their plants and processes.

GROUP MANAGEMENT REPORT Basic Principles of the Group

25

MANAGEMENT SYSTEM
We manage the R. STAHL Group with the aid of selected performance indicators. The Executive Board bases its decisions and measures for steering the Group on both financial and non-financial indicators. On the basis of past values and budget figures, as well as any resulting deviations in actual and targeted figures, we determine the extent to which our objectives have been achieved and which measures can be derived from them.
Financial and non-financial indicators Our business success in financial terms is mainly reflected in our earning power ­ our financial management system is therefore guided by the financial performance indicator EBITDA pre exceptionals. In addition, we use other measures which serve as indicators of anticipated capacity utilization and the expected financial trend: these include sales, order intake and backlog, as well as the development of working capital.
The key earnings indicator EBITDA pre exceptionals is calculated from earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amort ization (EBITDA), without consideration of exceptional items. Such exceptional items include all effects on earnings which are not regular components of our business model, such as restructuring charges, non-scheduled depreciation and amortization, charges for design and implementation of IT-projects, M&A costs, as well as profit and loss from the disposal of non-current assets no longer required for business operations. As part of the annual planning process, we set targets for EBITDA pre exceptionals that are also an important basis for measuring the variable income components of our employees. Each of our Group's companies submits a monthly income statement and balance sheet, which we use to prepare the Group's consolidated figures and steer the overall performance of the Group.
We believe that sustainable and profitable growth also requires the consideration of non-financial performance indicators. Our non-financial Group statement, which we published in April 2018 under https://r-stahl.com/en/global/corporate/corporateresponsibility/, describes the indicators used by the Group.
Planning process In the final quarter of each reporting year, we prepare a plan for the next three years based on the Group's strategic objectives, which is subsequently submitted to the Supervisory Board. The main component of this planning is an estimation of the expected development of each of our subsidiaries, which also includes general economic and sector-specific forecasts. This planning process is coordinated by our Group Controlling division, which consolidates the budget figures on Group level and analyzes any deviations from these figures on a monthly basis. The results of this analysis are then discussed with the Executive Board. For its assessment of these findings and the measures to be derived from them, the Executive Board also includes a review of the current and future development of order intake.

26

R. STAHL AR 2017

RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT
Our technological expertise is a major cornerstone of our market-leading position in explosion protection ­ and the basis for both our continuous product enhancements and the development of new safety solutions. In order to translate the latest technological findings into marketable products as quickly as possible, we work together with leading universities in the core technology fields of our business, especially in the field of electrical engineering and materials research.
In view of the central importance of innovation for our strategic alignment, we continued to drive the further development of our product portfolio in 2017 with new, value-adding solutions ­ despite the persistently adverse market conditions. Our R&D activi ties focused on the further expansion of our product range in the field of enclosure systems, LED luminaires and automation.
We achieved a major breakthrough with the development of a completely new enclosure technology for explosion protection, EXpressure®. After passing the approval tests of PTB (Germany's national metrology institute) and DEKRA EXAM GmbH, the certificates for the first model sizes provide both evidence of unrestricted explosion protection as well as the necessary documents for market launch. The first field tests of EXpressure® enclosures with selected customers were started during the reporting period. The market roll-out and presentation to industry experts at trade fairs is planned for the first half of 2018. During the development of EXpressure®, we continuously secured our findings with the aid of patents.
We expanded our range of LED linear luminaires with versions that feature innovative emergency lighting functions, thereby closing an important gap in our portfolio. We now offer luminaires for all application areas in areas exposed to explosion hazards.
We are actively driving the topic of "Industry 4.0" and the integration of electronic components in networked structures with our new and improved products in the field of automation. In the reporting year, we developed new remote I/O systems, including new processor units and power supplies for the Ex Zone 2 which can now also be used in an extended temperature range of -40 to +75 degrees Celsius. For the connection of the individual system components with each other, we also rolled out cable and fibre optic-based, as well as wireless, network technology components. In addition, we added new isolators to our portfolio: with a width of just 12.5 mm, they require 30% less space than their predecessors but, as usual, are fully compatible with the previous systems.
Our expenses for research and development in the reporting period amounted to  17.5 million (2016:  16.6 million) and thus represented 6.5% of sales (2016: 5.8% of sales). 31.0% of development costs were capitalized in the reporting period (2016: 28.3%), and capitalized development costs were depreciated by  3.3 million (2016:  3.3 million).

GROUP MANAGEMENT REPORT Basic Principles of the Group

27

 Economic Report

ECONOMIC REPORT
GENERAL CONDITIONS
Macroeconomic conditions Increasingly robust growth of global economy, strong decline in US dollar Following a slight slowdown in the previous year, global economic growth picked up pace again in 2017. In its assessment of January 2018, the International Monetary Fund (IMF) puts the year-on-year increase in global gross domestic product at 3.7% (2016: 3.2%). With year-on-year growth of 4.7%, the strongest increase in 2017 was recorded in the emerging markets ­ led by the Asian nations with growth of 6.5%. Whereas Asia's largest economy, China, posted a further slight increase to 6.8% compared to the previous year (2016: 6.7%), the rate of growth in India slowed to 6.7% (2016: 7.1%). However, the IMF calculates that both Russia and Brazil ­ whose economies had shrunk in the previous year ­ returned to positive growth in the reporting year, with increases of 1.8% and 1.1%, respectively.
Robust growth of 2.3% is assumed for the USA ­ and for the entire group of industrialized nations. According to IMF estimates, the eurozone as a whole grew by 2.4% (2016: 1.8%), albeit with significant differences between the major economies. Whereas the Italian economy brought up the rear with growth of 1.6%, Spain posted an increase of 3.1%. Growth in Germany is thought to have reached 2.5% (2016: 1.9%). The IMF believes that the UK economy is suffering increasingly from unresolved problems associated with its exit from the European Union, resulting in a further slowdown of economic growth to 1.7% (2016: 1.9%). With growth of 1.0%, the Swiss economy posted its lowest rate of the last five years (2016: 1.4%).
Given the initial forecasts at the beginning of 2017, the development of the euro against the US dollar ­ the world's leading currency ­ was surprising. An expected rise in US interest rates had driven the exchange rate up to 1.0341 US$/ as of 3 January, and market observers were already predicting the imminent achievement of parity (an exchange rate of one euro for one US dollar). In March, however, the trend began to move in the opposite direction. The US dollar fell against the euro to 1.2093 US$/ as of 8 September, and thus returned to its level of January 2015. The main reasons for this unexpected change were thought to be the uncertainty surrounding US economic policy, which had weakened the dollar on the one hand. On the other hand, worries about a potential collapse of the eurozone at the beginning of the year had subsided over the course of the year, leading to greater political stability in the eurozone and thus a strengthening of the euro.
Sector-specific conditions Oil price recovered from low levels of previous year, but still comparatively low While the price of crude oil was still at its lowest level since September 2003 at the beginning of the previous year, the recovery that began in the first quarter of 2016 continued in the course of 2017 ­ albeit at a low level. Following a sideways trend in Brent crude oil prices at around the US$ 55 per barrel mark in the period up to March, an initial decline to around US$ 45 per barrel by mid-2017 was followed by an increase to around US$ 65 per barrel by year-end. The annual average oil price of US$ 54.74 per barrel in 2017 was 21% higher than in the previous year (2016: US$ 45.26 per barrel).

28

R. STAHL AR 2017

In its monthly report on the oil market of November 2017, the Organization of the Petroleum Exporting Countries (OPEC) noted that global crude oil stockpiling had increased rapidly from 2014 to February 2016 and reached a five-year high in the OPEC countries. At the end of 2016, OPEC and certain non-OPEC oil producing countries had therefore signed a Declaration of Cooperation with the aim of reducing their high inventories and returning to sustainable stability of the oil market. As OPEC noted in its monthly report on the oil market of February 2018, the increase in global demand in 2017 of 1.6 million barrels a day was well above the expansion of global production of just 0.8 million barrels a day. Although the non-OPEC countries had increased daily production by 1.0 million barrels, the OPEC countries countered with production cuts of around 0.2 million barrels per day. The resulting significant reduction in inventories here led to rising oil prices on the world market. OPEC has announced its intention to continue this stabilization of the oil market in the current year.
Crude oil production costs continue to decline ­ supplier industry still under pressure In response to the accelerated price decline in early 2016, the oil production and processing industry continued to adapt its business and production processes to the changed crude oil price situation during the reporting period. According to an analysis of the consultancy firm Rystad Energy in February 2017, the cost of producing crude oil from shale in the USA was more than halved to less than US$ 30 per barrel between 2012 and 2016.
Similarly, oil producers in the European North Sea region reduced their production costs from over US$ 80 per barrel to less than US$ 35 a barrel in the period 2013 to 2017. In addition to efficiency gains, these savings were achieved in part by lengthening maintenance intervals and delaying new investments. This in turn has led to a significant fall in sales for suppliers to this sector as a result of reduced volumes and increased price pressure. In a report published in September 2017, Rystad Energy predicted a return to increased investment in the oil production industry in the low single-digit range for 2017, following double-digit cuts in the last two years. However, most suppliers were unable to benefit from this recovery in the reporting period, as it will only be reflected in rising orders and sales after a certain time delay. As oil and gas are more or less in direct competition as fossil fuels and raw materials, the trend for the gas production and processing industry was largely identical.
Robust sales growth for chemical and pharmaceutical industry According to data for 2017 published by the German chemical industry association (VCI) in February 2018, German chemical and pharmaceutical producers increased output by 3.8% compared to the previous year. At 6.2%, growth was more than twice as high for pharmaceutical than for chemical products, whose output rose by 2.5%. The largest contribution to the strong growth in chemical products came from sales of detergents and toiletries, which grew by 4.7%. According to VCI estimates, global production in the chemical and pharmaceutical industry grew by 3.9% in 2017. We estimate that global sales of explosion-protected equipment in the chemical industry were around US$ 0.9 billion and in the pharmaceutical industry around US$ 0.7 billion in 2017.
Growth in order intake of German electrical industry reaches double-digit figures in some cases As a supplier of electrical and electronic safety technology for Ex areas, the economic data collected by the German Electrical and Electronic Manufacturers' Association (ZVEI) is the most important sector indicator for R. STAHL. According to the ZVEI report of February 2018, order intake in Germany rose by 9.7% in 2017. The 8.5% increase in domestic demand was exceeded even by 10.6% growth in foreign orders. The 10.5% rise in orders from customers in the eurozone was comparable to that of non-EU countries, which increased by 10.7%. Growth in sales was slightly slower, but still climbed 7.2% to a record  191.2 billion in 2017. With growth of 8.8% to  99.7 billion, exports fared better than domestic sales, which rose by 5.3% to  91.5 billion. Adjusted for price changes, output of the German electrical industry rose by 4.7%.

GROUP MANAGEMENT REPORT Economic Report

29

BUSINESS DEVELOPMENT
Disappointing business development despite signs of recovery in demand 2017 was a disappointing financial year for R. STAHL: there were decreases in both sales and earnings. Despite signs of a slight recovery as the year progressed, with an increase in order intake of 0.4% to  284.1 million (2016:  282.9 million) and significant growth in the order backlog of 14.5% to  92.3 million at year-end (2016:  80.7 million), sales fell by 6.3% year on year to  268.5 million (2016:  286.6 million). There are two main reasons for this trend: firstly, order backlog at the beginning of the year was comparatively low at  80.7 million. Secondly, the lag between order intake and sales in the capital goods sector during changes in economic trends is not uncommon as large orders, especially in plant construction, are always awarded long before the goods are delivered and revenue can be recognized. In the reporting period, however, this problem was compounded by the fact that the average period between contract award and order delivery was much longer than in the previous years. This was largely due to delays in the final technical clarifications needed for production launch, especially in the systems business. The decline in sales had a significant impact on earnings: at  -6.7 million, there was also a decline in earnings before interest and taxes (EBIT) pre exceptionals (2016:  7.4 million).
Target achievement 2017 Following the strong decline in business in our previous financial year, we initially anticipated a slight recovery in demand and sales at the beginning of 2017, as both the macroeconomic and sector-specific forecasts indicated economic growth. With this in mind, we forecast order intake for the reporting period in the range of  295 million to  305 million in April. Due to our low order backlog position, we initially anticipated a weak first half-year for sales, followed by a stronger second-half as we expected order intake to pick up over the course of the year. The full-year sales guidance issued in April was therefore in the range of  285 million to  295 million with EBIT pre exceptionals of between  3.5 million and  7.5 million.
Although our assessment of a recovery in demand and rising orders was confirmed in the following months, sales recognition became increasingly delayed. As a result, we were able to confirm our guidance for order intake on publication of our half-yearly financial report in August, but had to downgrade sales guidance to a range of  270 million to  280 million and EBIT pre exceptionals to a range of  -4 million to  0 million. In addition to weak demand, the sales trend was also affected by unfavourable exchange rate effects among our major foreign currencies.
On publication of our interim report for the third quarter in November, order intake guidance had to be reduced slightly to between  290 million and  300 million as it became apparent that part of the expected orders for the reporting period would not be received until the following year. The adjustment to sales guidance was more pronounced. Technical clarifications required for certain large-scale projects had resulted in further delays and production plans had to be pushed back to the following year. Against this backdrop, we downgraded our sales guidance in November to a range between  262 million and  267 million with EBIT pre exceptionals of between  -8 million and  -4 million for the reporting period. Although order intake of  284.1 million at year-end fell slightly short of expectations, sales of  268.5 million were slightly above the expected range. EBIT pre exceptionals of  -6.7 million was within the guidance range.

30

R. STAHL AR 2017

 million

Fiscal Year 2016

Guidance April 2017

Guidance August 2017

Guidance November 2017

Order intake Sales EBIT pre exceptionals1) ROCE (in %)

282.9

295 to 305

286.6

285 to 295

7.4

3.5 to 7.5

4.1 slight to noticeable decline

295 to 305 270 to 280
-4 to 0 ­

290 to 300 262 to 267
-8 to -4 ­

1) E xceptionals: restructuring charges, non-scheduled depreciation and amortization, charges for design and implementation of IT-projects, M&A costs as well as profit and loss from the disposal of non-current assets no longer required for business operations

Fiscal Year 2017
284.1 268.5
-6.7 -5.8

HIGHLIGHTS 2017
In the year under review, we achieved a number of important strategic goals. The main focus was on the expansion of our range of value-adding solutions for our customers.
Cooperation agreed with AGU for expansion of business with services Holistic solutions have long been a strength of R. STAHL ­ and one of the key factors which have helped us quickly achieve market leadership in the systems business. In future, we not only want to provide our customers with market-leading devices and systems, but increasingly also offer them a wider range of services.
In 2017, we took an important strategic step towards expanding our service offerings. Functional and legal requirements, cost pressure and the prevention of danger in explosion-protected plants ("Ex plants") represent growing organizational and technical challenges for plant operators. At the same time, new technological concepts demand rapidly available information about technical systems and system parts at the installation site via mobile devices, such as tablets and smartphones. Our cooperation agreement with AGU Planungsgesellschaft für Automatisierungs-, Gebäude- und Umwelttechnik mbH, Leverkusen, Germany, which we signed in June 2017, has expanded our range of services to include innovative industrial software solutions for the holistic inspection and maintenance support of Ex plants as well as plant safety. The move pools the software and solution expertise of AGU with R. STAHL's market-leading position in plant safety and explosion protection.
AGU's own globally unique software solution, PEC, offers technical plant operators completely new possibilities to comply with legal requirements in the three central inspection areas: explosion protection, functional safety, and operational safety and quality. PEC replaces the often heterogeneous data storage solutions of companies, thus ensuring the quality and reliability of the data. PEC combines all relevant requirements in a single system that provides data and process interfaces to the industry-standard ERP, documentation, CAE and engineering systems. In this way, PEC connects the hitherto isolated and heterogeneous world of plant audits with the networked enterprise environment ­ an essential factor for meeting and ensuring plant requirements for which compliance with the highest safety standards has top priority. With the aid of the coordinated modules PEC-EX, PEC-FS and PEC-SQ, all relevant tests ­ such as those according to German Health and Safety at Work Regulations (BetrSichV), IEC 60079-17, IEC 61508, IEC 61511 or VDE ­ can be completed in a carefully planned, paperless and resource-saving manner. During the development of the system, great importance was already attached to a simple, practical and easy-to-learn operating concept. PEC thus offers plant operators unique possibilities to monitor the status of their operations and successfully manage the necessary audits.

GROUP MANAGEMENT REPORT Economic Report

31

As part of our cooperation with AGU, we market the software solution PEC via R. STAHL's sales organization and can thus quickly expand its market penetration. We also provide various services connected with the implementation and use of the database, such as the migration of the customer's existing machine data to the PEC database. In addition, we see the possibility of swifter and more targeted provision of maintenance-relevant products for our customers so they can further enhance the operational safety of their equipment. In 2017, we created the necessary organizational structures for the expansion of our service business and the marketing of PEC.
New products to extend our technological lead in explosion protection Innovations play a key role in R. STAHL's strategic alignment: with new products, we help our customers operate their processes and systems even more safely and efficiently. At the same time, we are extending our technological lead and strengthening our market position, competitiveness and growth opportunities over the long term. In the reporting period, we once again developed numerous innovative new products, the most important of which are described more closely in the front section of this report in the chapter Research and Development of the section Basic principles of the Group.

32

R. STAHL AR 2017

FINANCIAL POSITION AND PERFORMANCE
EARNINGS POSITION
Slight year-on-year increase in order intake, double-digit growth in orders from Germany At  284.1 million, we achieved a slight year-on-year increase in order intake of 0.4% in 2017 (2016:  282.9 million). A strong performance in the first three quarters of the year, in which orders rose by 3.2%, was dampened by a comparatively weak final quarter.
ORDER INTAKE BY QUARTER ( MILLION)

67.5 65.3 79.3 70.8
2016 282.9

61.7 Q4 70.1 Q3 76.5 Q2 75.8 Q1
2017 284.1

From a regional perspective, there were significant differences in the development of order intake: whereas demand in Germany improved strongly, orders in Asia and the Central region declined. Order intake in the Americas remained at the low prior-year level.
Due to targeted sales initiatives and resulting major orders with general contractors for the construction of chemical plants, order intake in Germany rose by 13.1% to  69.6 million (2016:  61.5 million). Final orders for a newly constructed liquid gas plant in eastern Europe also contributed to to this trend.
In the Central region ­ comprising Africa and Europe without Germany ­ order intake of  123.4 million was 2.8% below the prior-year figure (2016:  126.8 million). This was largely due to weak demand in northern Europe, which was only partially offset by projects in the Middle East.
At  34.3 million, orders received in the Americas were unchanged from the previous year (2016:  34.3 million) and driven by the oil and gas sector as well as the chemical and pharmaceutical industry.
The strongest percentage decline was in the region Asia, where orders fell by 5.5% to  56.8 million (2016:  60.2 million). Although the number of enquiries increased once again, the order situation remained sluggish ­ especially in our project business.
At year-end 2017, the order backlog of  92.3 million was 14.5% up on the previous year (2016:  80.7 million).

GROUP MANAGEMENT REPORT Financial Position and Performance

33

ORDER INTAKE BY REGION ( MILLION)

60.2
34.3 126.8

56.8 Asia/Pacific
34.3 Americas 123.4 Central region

61.5
2016 282.9

69.6 Germany
2017 284.1

Sales trend down, Central region and Americas weak Compared to the previous year, sales fell by 6.3% to  268.5 million (2016:  286.6 million). As with order intake, there were differences in the regional trends: in Germany and Asia, sales were largely on a par with the previous year, while sales in the Central region and the Americas fell sharply. In addition to falling volumes and pressure on prices, this trend was exacerbated by adverse exchange rate fluctuations. Sales in all quarters failed to reach the corresponding prior-year figures.
SALES BY QUARTER ( MILLION)

73.3 70.8 70.8 71.7
2016 286.6

70.2 Q4 66.0 Q3 66.8 Q2 65.5 Q1
2017 268.5

In Germany, there was a moderate year-on-year decline in sales of 0.7% to  60.9 million in 2017 (2016:  61.3 million). This significantly weaker trend compared to the double-digit growth in order intake illustrates the longer lead times of orders received in the reporting period, many of which will be delivered in 2018 only.
Sales in the Central region fell by 8.5% to  120.7 million (2016:  131.9 million), due in particular to the very strong previous year: deliveries in 2016 for our biggest-ever project order to equip a gas production and processing plant in northern Russia had led to high sales. As there were no deliveries of this scale in the reporting period, sales were down on the previous year.

34

R. STAHL AR 2017

As in 2016, we suffered the strongest percentage decline in sales of 19.1% to  29.0 million in the Americas region (2016:  35.8 million). This was once again due to weak order intake in the preceding period ­ above all in our project business and with companies serving the oil production industry. Further contributing factors included delays in the technical clarification of orders. In the reporting period, Asia was the only region to report slight growth. Compared to the previous year, we raised sales by 0.6% to  57.9 million (2016:  57.6 million). The strong order backlog position at the beginning of the year was processed and brought to delivery according to plan.
SALES BY REGION ( MILLION)

57.6
35.8 131.9

57.9 Asia/Pacific
29.0 Americas 120.7 Central region

61.3 2016 286.6

60.9 Germany 2017 268.5

Low sales weigh heavily on earnings The weak sales trend in 2017 had a significant impact on earnings: at  -10.7 million, earnings before interest and taxes (EBIT) were around  20 million below the prior-year figure (2016:  8.8 million). In addition to the fall in sales, this was also due to exceptionals of  -4.0 million, compared to a positive contribution from exceptionals of  1.4 million in the previous year.
With a decline of 5.2%, total operating performance fared slightly better than sales. Other operating income fell by 37.9% to  8.0 million (2016:  12.9 million), mostly due to lower positive exceptionals in the reporting period. In the previous year, exceptionals from the sale of a plot of land in Waldenburg had generated profit of  2.3 million.
With a decrease of 1.0% to  100.1 million (2016:  101.1 million), material expenses fell much more slowly than sales in the reporting period. This trend mainly reflects detrimental changes in the product mix and increased pressure on prices. Compared to the previous year, personnel expenses rose by 2.4% to  121.1 million (2016:  118.3 million). Depreciation and amortization decreased by 3.1% to  13.0 million (2016:  13.4 million), mainly due to reduced capital expenditure in the last two years. There was a 3.0% decline in other operating expenses to  54.0 million (2016:  55.6 million), resulting largely from the reduced use of temporary staff at the Waldenburg site.

GROUP MANAGEMENT REPORT Financial Position and Performance

35

The following table presents an overview of exceptionals and a reconciliation of EBIT to EBIT pre exceptionals, as well as EBITDA to EBITDA pre exceptionals, for the reporting period and the previous year:

 million

2017

2016

Change included in income statement under

EBIT Exceptionals1)
Restructuring charges Severance pay Goodwill impairment2) Other
M&A costs Disposal of non-current assets no longer required for business operations EBIT pre exceptionals EBITDA Exceptionals2) EBITDA pre exceptionals2)

-10.7

8.8

-19.5

-4.0

1.4

-5.4

-3.5

-0.3

-3.2

-2.2

-0.3

-1.9

Personnel costs

-0.5

0

-0.5 Depreciation and amortization

-0.8

0

-0.8 Other operating expenses

-0.5

-0.6

0.1 Other operating expenses

0

2.3

-2.3

Other operating income

-6.7

7.4

-14.0

2.3

22.2

-19.9

-3.5

1.4

-4.9

5.8

20.7

-15.0

1) E xceptionals: restructuring charges, non-scheduled depreciation and amortization, charges for design and implementation of IT-projects, M&A costs as well as profit and loss from the disposal of non-current assets no longer required for business operations
2) Goodwill impairment of  -0.5 million disclosed as an exceptional is not to be considered in the reconciliation of EBITDA to EBITDA pre exceptionals.

Financial result significantly improved, net profit burdened by one-off value adjustments to tax balance sheet items
There was a significant improvement in the financial result of 34.6% to  -1.9 million compared to the previous year (2016:  -3.0 million). This trend was influenced by the first full-year inclusion of income from the investments made in ZAVOD Goreltex and Esaco Pty. Ltd. in the second half of 2016. In total, earnings before taxes (EBT) amounted to  -12.6 million (2016:  5.8 million). The unexpectedly weak net profit of  -21.2 million (2016:  4.2 million) includes adjustments to the recoverability of deferred taxes on loss carryforwards which led to an additional burden of around  11 million. In sum, this resulted in earnings per share of  -3.28 for 2017 (2016:  0.64).

36

R. STAHL AR 2017

FINANCIAL POSITION
Principles and objectives of financial management The aim and task of our financial management is to secure the sound financial position of the R. STAHL Group and provide sufficient funds for the Group's companies in order to carry out their business operations. Moreover, we ensure that the funds required for investment projects are available. To this end, we have established monthly rolling liquidity planning. This includes the funds required for activities of our individual subsidiaries, which we cover by means of internal Group loans or external bank loans. As part of our cash management, we manage the Group's credit, interest rate and currency risks. We hedge against such risks by using standard derivative financial instruments based exclusively on our underlying core business.
Financial analysis The Group's funding requirements are managed centrally from our headquarters in Waldenburg. There is a cash pooling system for R. STAHL AG and the main German subsidiaries to balance out financial requirements: surplus liquidity of individual Group companies is used to cover the funding requirements of other subsidiaries. This reduces our borrowing needs and thus our interest expenses. If external funds are necessary, foreign subsidiaries finance themselves via R. STAHL AG or local banks. The parent company provides guarantees for these credit lines.
Our funding requirements are covered by a syndicated loan agreement as well as bilateral loan agreements. The syndicated loan agreement concluded in September 2015 has a term of five years comprising a cash credit line of  95 million with an expansion option of  25 million for acquisitions. Additional agreements on this loan were made with the respective banks in December 2017. Detailed disclosures on these agreements are presented in the risk report section of this Group Management Report. There are bilateral loan agreements in the form of cash lines totalling  12.1 million and guarantee lines totalling  4.8 million. In addition, there are several bilateral loans with a value of  15.4 million as of the end of the reporting period.
Cash flow statement As a result of the negative earnings trend, there was a year-on-year decline in cash flow of 94.6% to  0.9 million in 2017 (2016:  16.2 million). By contrast, we raised cash flow from operating activities by 81.4% to  19.7 million (2016:  10.9 million) due to a strong year-on-year improvement in working capital of  24.2 million to  18.9 million. This resulted from a reduction in receivables and increased trade payables as well as from lower inventories due to the fall in sales. Despite a 16.6% decrease in capital expenditure to  -10.4 million (2016:  -12.5 million), there was an overall increase in cash flow from investing activities of 2.9% to  -11.5 million (2016:  -11.2 million) due to the final payment for the investment in ZAVOD Goreltex made in the first quarter. Free cash flow improved strongly year on year to  8.2 million in the reporting period (2016:  -0.3 million).
At the Annual General Meeting 2017, R. STAHL's shareholders approved a dividend payment of  0.60 per voting share. This corresponds to a total cash outflow of  3.9 million. In addition, we reduced net financial liabilities by  3.8 million. There was a corresponding decline in cash flow from financing activities to  -7.8 million (2016:  -2.0 million). At the end of the reporting period, R. STAHL had cash and cash equivalents of  16.1 million (2016:  16.2 million).

GROUP MANAGEMENT REPORT Financial Position and Performance

37

RECONCILIATION OF CASH AND CASH EQUIVALENTS AT THE BEGINNING AND END OF THE PERIOD ( MILLION)

18.3 16.2 16.2 0.9

18.9

19.8

10.9 8.2

-0.3 -5.3
-11.2 -11.5

-2.0 -7.8

16.2 16.1

0.2 -0.5

2016 2017

Cash and cash equiva lents at the beginning of the period

Cash flow

Change in working capital

Cash flow from operating activities

Cash flow from investing activities

Free cash flow

Cash flow from financing activities

Foreign exchange and valu ation-related changes

Cash and cash equiva lents at the end of the period

Rating As in the previous years, we did not commission any credit ratings from external rating agencies in the reporting period.
ASSET POSITION As of 31 December 2017, R. STAHL's balance sheet total was  29.0 million down on the previous year at  249.6 million (31 December 2016:  278.6 million). The reduced total is mainly due to the strong improvement in working capital, an adjustment to the value of deferred taxes and the depreciation of non-current assets, which was reflected on the liabilities side by a decrease in equity and the reduction of financial liabilities. Net financial liabilities (without pension obligations) decreased to  18.1 million (31 December 2016:  21.8 million).
Development of assets Compared to the end of the previous year, non-current assets declined to  127.3 million as of the end of the reporting period (31 December 2016:  139.6 million). This was mainly the result of adjustments to the value of deferred tax assets totalling  7.1 million, as well as regular depreciation of property, plant & equipment amounting to  7.7 million. There was a slight increase in intangible assets of  1.4 million. At the end of 2017, non-current assets accounted for 51.0% of the balance sheet total (31 December 2016: 50.1%).
The year-on-year decline in current assets to  122.3 million (31 December 2016:  139.0 million) as of 31 December 2017 was due in particular to a reduction in inventories of  5.4 million and a decrease in trade receivables of  10.2 million. At the end of the reporting period, current assets therefore accounted for 49.0% of the balance sheet total (31 December 2016: 49.9%).

38

R. STAHL AR 2017

BALANCE SHEET STRUCTURE (% OF BALANCE SHEET TOTAL)

50.1%

51.0%

34.0%

27.7%

49.9%

49.0%

40.5% 25.5%

45.0% 27.4%

2016

2017

2016

2017

ASSETS
Non-current assets Current assets

EQUITY AND LIABILITIES
Equity Non-current liabilities Current liabilities

Development of liabilities Due to the net loss, shareholders' equity of the R. STAHL Group fell to  69.1 million as of 31 December 2017 (31 December 2016:  94.8 million). At the end of the reporting period, the equity ratio amounted to 27.7% (31 December 2016: 34.0%).
At  112.2 million, non-current liabilities were on a par with the previous year (31 December 2016:  112.9 million) and accounted for 45.0% of the balance sheet total (31 December 2016: 40.5%). The decline in pension provisions of  2.9 million resulting from an increased interest rate was opposed by an increase in non-current financial liabilities of  2.7 million.
There was a slight decrease in current liabilities, which fell to  68.3 million (31 December 2016:  71.0 million). As a result, they accounted for 27.4% of the balance sheet total (31 December 2016: 25.5%). The main drivers were a  6.5 million reduction in current financial liabilities, which were opposed by a  4.8 million increase in trade payables.

GROUP MANAGEMENT REPORT Financial Position and Performance

39

SUSTAINABILITY
Responsible and sustainable company management, in the sense of transparent and best-practice corporate governance, requires integrity and legally compliant behaviour from all our employees. It is a mandatory prerequisite to ensure long-term and sustainable corporate success in real life.
R. STAHL fullfils its corporate responsibility by means of a long-term commitment to improving the quality of life of people around the world. Our objective is to create sustainable value for all our stakeholders and to make active contributions to the environmental and social development of society as a whole. For us, this also includes an ongoing examination of our actions and their impact on society. The high sustainability standards which listed companies domiciled in Germany must meet are already set by the respective legal regulations, and in particular by the German Corporate Governance Code. In addition, we have developed further group-wide guidelines, including a Code of Conduct which is binding for all employees, and we ensure adherence with these guidelines by means of our group-wide compliance management.
In line with its profit-oriented business activities, the R. STAHL Group is managed primarily according to financial targets, which may also be supplemented by non-financial objectives. In this way, we take account of our corporate responsibility, which we interpret in the joint context of our economic, ecological and social actions (CSR ­ Corporate Social Responsibility). Responsible cooperation with our stakeholders ­ above all our customers, suppliers, employees and investors ­ and ecological awareness are given high priority in our organization and our processes. As entrepreneurial success is inextricably linked with the commitment of creative and motivated employees, our HR strategy attaches great importance to attractive terms of employment with healthy and safe working conditions, fair compensation, targeted training offerings and equal opportunities. Our customers rely on the outstanding and top-ranking quality of our products, which are renowned for their uncompromising safety and reliability, as well as for their excellent workmanship and durability. We aim to continuously earn this trust in future with the technical excellence and sustainable added value of our products. We therefore not only place high demands on ourselves, but also on our suppliers. In addition to complying with all legal regulations, as well as work-related and environmental standards, we set ourselves the target of achieving the high quality standards of our products with the efficient use of resources.
With the introduction of the German CSR Directive Implementation Act on 11 April 2017, and in accordance with Section 315b HGB, R. STAHL is required to include a non-financial Group statement in its Group Management Report for the first time as of the financial year 2017. Pursuant to Section 315c in conjunction with Section 289c HGB, the company must provide details on the five aspects Environmental Matters, Employee Matters, Social Matters, Respect of Human Rights, and Anti-Corruption and Bribery Matters. These aspects are fundamental elements of our sustainability-relevant activities and we have already reported on them for many years in our past Group Management Reports. For the preparation of a non-financial Group statement, R. STAHL is utilizing the option under Section 315b (3) HGB of alternatively publishing a separate consolidated non-financial report for fiscal year 2017, outside of its Group Management Report. The non-financial Group statement for the reporting year 2017 was published in April 2018 on our website www.r-stahl.com under https://r-stahl.com/en/global/corporate/corporate-responsibility/.

40

R. STAHL AR 2017

EXECUTIVE BOARD'S OVERALL ASSESSMENT OF THE ECONOMIC SITUATION 2017 was a very difficult year for R. STAHL. Sales and earnings were down once again, whereby the weak first half of the year resulted mainly from the low order backlog position at the beginning of the year. Although stronger order intake in the first six months raised expectations of rising sales in the second half of 2017, delays in technical clarification meant that part of these sales was postponed to the following year. As a result, we had to downgrade our guidance three times during the reporting period. At  268.5 million, sales in 2017 were slightly above our most recently published guidance, while order intake of  284.1 million was slightly below it.
There were strong differences in order intake and sales in terms of both volumes and regional distribution in 2017: whereas strong demand from the chemical industry led to double-digit order growth in Germany, weak project business resulted in downward trends in Asia and the Central region in particular. In terms of sales, the weak order backlog at the beginning of the year was felt above all in the Americas region, which suffered double-digit losses. In the Central region, we were unable to match the high level of the previous year, when we benefited from deliveries for a major project: the sales decline here was in the high single-digit range. The regions Germany and Asia were on a par with the previous year.
At  -6.7 million, earnings before interest and taxes (EBIT) pre exceptionals were within our most recently adjusted guidance corridor. Targeted management of our working capital helped counteract the negative earnings trend and led to a significant improvement in free cash flow to  8.2 million.
In the short and medium term, we expect the slow recovery of our main sales markets to continue. Irrespective of this trend, however, the decline in sales and earnings over the last few years has underlined the need to make fundamental structural adjustments to our processes and organizational structure in order to achieve a sustainable and significant improvement in R. STAHL's profitability. To this end, we have developed a package of measures which we have already begun to implement in 2018 and that we intend to have largely completed over the next two years.
DECLARATION ON COMPANY MANAGEMENT
The declaration on company management which all listed stock companies in Germany are required to submit pursuant to Sections 289f and 315d HGB is publicly available on our website www.r-stahl.com under Corporate/Investor Relations/Corporate Governance.

GROUP MANAGEMENT REPORT Financial Position and Performance

41

 Declaration on Company Management

 Reporting Pursuant to Sections 289a (1) and 315a (1) HGB

REPORTING PURSUANT TO SECTIONS 289A (1) AND 315A (1) HGB
Capital structure On 31 December 2017, the subscribed capital of R. STAHL AG amounted to  16,500,000.00, consisting of 6,440,000 no-par value registered shares. Theoretically, therefore, one share corresponds to  2.56 of the capital stock.
Members of the Stahl and Zaiser families have pooled substantial portions of the voting shares in a consortium agreement with which they commit themselves to casting their votes or having their votes cast according to the resolutions of the consortium. With a notification according to Section 21 (1) German Securities Trade Act (WpHG) dated 10 July 2006, the members of the consortium stated that they held more than 25% of the voting rights in R. STAHL AG. According to this notification, the total number of voting rights attributable to the individual members of the consortium according to Sections 21, 22 WpHG amounts to a value between 36.02% and 38.35% of the voting shares. The total number of voting rights attributable to the consortium may have changed in the meantime, without the requirement of a new notification pursuant to WpHG.
With a notification according to Section 21 (1) WpHG dated 18 August 2015, RAG-Stiftung Beteiligungsgesellschaft informed us that its share of voting rights in R. STAHL AG had exceeded the 10% threshold on 17 August 2015.
Shareholder rights and obligations Every shareholder has economic and administrative rights.
According to Section 58 (4) German Stock Corporation Act (AktG), economic rights are the right to participate in the profits and, according to Section 271 AktG, participation in liquidation proceeds, as well as, according to Section 186 AktG, a subscription right to new shares in the case of a capital increase.
An administrative right is the right to take part in the Annual General Meeting and the right to talk, to submit questions and applications and to exercise the voting rights.
Every no-par value share grants one voting right at the Annual General Meeting. The Annual General Meeting elects the members of the Supervisory Board representing the investors as well as the auditor, it decides on the approval of the actions of the Executive Board and Supervisory Board, on amendments to the Articles of Association and corporate actions, on authorization to acquire treasury shares and, if required, on special audits, on a premature dismissal of Supervisory Board members and on the dissolution of the company.
Composition of the Supervisory Board The Supervisory Board has nine members, six of whom are to be elected by the Annual General Meeting and three according to the German One-Third Participation Act. Resolutions of the Supervisory Board are passed with a simple majority of the votes cast, if no other majorities are compulsorily prescribed by law. If the election outcome is a tie, a new debate is only held if the majority of the Supervisory Board so decides. Otherwise, voting has to be repeated immediately. Should another tie occur in this new voting on the same issue, the Chairman of the Supervisory Board has two votes according to Section 12 (6) of the Articles of Association.

42

R. STAHL AR 2017

Statutory regulations and provisions in the Articles of Association on the appointment and dismissal of members of the Executive Board and on the amendment of the Articles The appointment and dismissal of Executive Board members are governed by Sections 84 and 85 AktG. This specifies that members of the Executive Board are to be appointed by the Supervisory Board for a maximum of five years. Reappointment for another five years is possible.
Additionally, Section 6 of the Articles governs that the Executive Board comprises one or more persons. The Supervisory Board decides on the number of Executive Board members, appointment and revocation of an appointment and the service contracts. The Supervisory Board is entitled to appoint a member of the Executive Board as chairman as well as to appoint Executive Board deputy members.
Powers of the Executive Board members, especially in regard to the possibility of issuing or buying back shares In the reporting period, there was no authorization for authorized capital ­ and thus to acquire or sell treasury shares.
Significant agreements which take effect in the event of a change of control following a takeover bid R. STAHL AG has not made any significant agreements which take effect in the event of a change of control due to a takeover bid. No compensation payments have been granted to the Executive Board members and employees in the event of a takeover bid.
Remuneration system for the Supervisory Board and Executive Board The main features of the remuneration system for the Supervisory Board and Executive Board are disclosed in the notes to the consolidated financial statements under "Executive bodies of R. STAHL AG" and are a constituent part of the Group Management Report.
SUBSEQUENT EVENTS
On 9 February 2018, Bernd Marx, member of the Executive Board of R. STAHL AG and Chief Financial Officer, and the Supervisory Board agreed to terminate his service agreement as of 30 June 2018. On the same day, Bernd Marx stepped down from his position on the Executive Board. Until a successor is appointed, Dr. Mathias Hallmann, member of the Executive Board of R. STAHL AG and CEO, will assume the responsibilities of the CFO.
In March 2018, additional agreements were made with the respective banks concerning the syndicated loan agreement concluded in September 2015. Detailed disclosures on these agreements are presented in the risk report section of the Group Management Report. In the course of these agreements, adjustments were made to the interest and guarantee conditions.
A resolution to close R. STAHL Nissl GmbH, Vienna, was adopted on 26 April 2018.

GROUP MANAGEMENT REPORT Reporting Pursuant to Sections 289a (1) and 315a (1) HGB

43

 Subsequent Events

 Risk Report

RISK REPORT
This report considers risks as internal and external events or developments that may adversely affect the achievement of objectives and budgeted figures.
Description of risk management system The risk management system (RMS) included in the operational and organizational structure of the R. STAHL Group is an integral part of our business processes and corporate decisions for all companies and central functions. It includes the entirety of the installed IT systems, processes, activities, instructions and rules of conduct that are implemented in all our companies world-wide as applicable standards and it is subject to a constant process of improvement and further development. Part of the risk management system especially is a group-wide risk reporting on the basis of the law on control and transparency in businesses (KonTraG), a uniform planning and controlling process and the internal monitoring system consisting of the internal controlling system with guidelines that are applicable across the Group and internal auditing.
Furthermore, compliance management supplements the risk management system. The entirety of the implemented systems makes it possible for the Group's management to identify risks at an early stage to be able to take countermeasures in time. The effectiveness and efficiency of the risk management system is also continuously checked and enhanced and also examined by the auditor in accordance with statutory requirements.
Risk reporting/early warning system Existing risk reporting is based on a risk catalogue divided into eight main risk categories: macro environment/country risks, market/competition, strategy, supporting processes/IT, performance-related risks, personnel, financial risks and compliance.
The risk owners in the subsidiaries and the managers of the corporate functions are included in this early warning system and report risks once a quarter. The risk management process is supported by an IT tool.
The risk management officer prepares a risk report for each company which describes, besides the risks themselves, also the potential risk value, its probability of occurrence and the action plan to avoid or reduce the risk.
Risk assessment is conducted for a one-year planning period. Reporting in the management report also refers to one year.
Risk assessment As part of the risk reporting process, the gross and net risk of the respective reporting units is stated. The gross risk describes the maximum loss potential without consideration of hedging and risk reduction measures. The residual risk after countermea sures is the net risk. To determine which risks pose a threat to the company's continued existence, they are classified according to their estimated probability of occurrence and the extent of their damage. The scales used to measure these two indicators at divisional and individual company level are shown in the tables below.

44

R. STAHL AR 2017

Probability of occurrence
0 to 10% 11 to 20% 21 to 50% 51 to 90% 91 to 100%

Description
Very unlikely Unlikely Possible Likely Very likely

According to this classification, a very unlikely risk is defined as an event that occurs only in exceptional circumstances. A very likely risk is an event whose occurrence can almost certainly be expected within a specified period.

Extent of damage Insignificant Low Medium High

Definition of effects
Insignificant negative impact on operations, financial position and performance and cash flows
Low negative impact on operations, financial position and performance and cash flows
Some negative impact on operations, financial position and performance and cash flows
Significant negative impact on operations, financial position and performance and cash flows

According to their estimated probability of occurrence and their possible impact on operations, financial position and performance and cash flows, net risks are aggregated at Group level and classified as "high", "medium" or "low". This classification is based on the following value intervals for net expected damage (net risk x probability of occurrence):
·· Low <  1.5 million ·· Medium  1.5 million to  5.0 million ·· High >  5.0 million

GROUP MANAGEMENT REPORT Risk Report

45

The following table shows the classification based on the individual risk areas.

Risk area
Macro environment/country risks Market/competition Supporting processes Strategy Performance-related risks Personnel Financial risks Compliance

Probability of occurrence
Possible Possible Possible Unlikely Unlikely Likely Possible Unlikely

Net expected damage
High Medium Medium Medium Medium Medium High Medium

Significant risks to the company and in particular those which pose a threat to the company's continued existence are reported immediately to the Executive Board and Group management. The reporting units are obliged to inform the Executive Board without delay about time-critical or significant risks. The quarterly evaluation of risks serves as a basis for management to react swiftly to critical situations and take the appropriate countermeasures. A summary of all risks of the Group companies ­ in which all reported and assessed risks are aggregated ­ is regularly prepared in order to determine the overall risk for the Group. Regular reporting also provides continuous information to the Supervisory Board and its Audit Committee about the current risk situation of the R. STAHL Group and its development over time. As part of its monitoring of the Executive Board, the Supervisory Board examines the effectiveness of the risk management system.
Controlling Group Controlling staff are the contacts for our subsidiaries in Germany and abroad. The Group Controlling department provides the IT systems needed to collect and evaluate business data. The financial position and performance and cash flows of the companies are analyzed during monthly reporting, whereby a special focus is placed on the comparison of planned vs. actual figures. Once a month, Controlling prepares a forecast review for this purpose. This ensures a constant flow of information to the Executive Board on current budget deviations and any resulting risks.
Internal monitoring system A further component of the R. STAHL Group's risk management system is the internal control system which includes all basic principles, procedures and measures that have been introduced by the Executive Board to ensure
·· the effectiveness and efficiency of business operations, ·· the correctness and reliability of internal and external reporting, and ·· compliance with group-wide guidelines and standards, as well as the relevant statutory regulations.
The internal audit department regularly checks compliance with these objectives.

46

R. STAHL AR 2017

Internal control system based on the consolidated accounting process A key element of the internal control system with regard to the consolidated accounting process is the IFRS accounting guideline which applies throughout the Group and describes the standard accounting and measurement principles for all companies included in the consolidated financial statements. The preparation of the consolidated financial statements is supported by standardized reporting and consolidation software. All companies belonging to the consolidated Group report in the same way to the parent company.
Further key instruments for controlling the accounting process are:
·· the group-wide standards applicable for financial and administrative areas, ·· the clear separation of functions and assignment of responsibilities, ·· the use of uniform ERP systems and standard software, ·· detailed authorization schemes.
These measures and processes are constantly monitored by the staff responsible for these tasks in the Group companies and by the Group's internal audit department.
Internal audit The internal audit department provides independent and objective auditing and advisory services aimed at creating added value and improving business processes. It serves the organization's objectives by evaluating the effectiveness and efficiency of the internal management and monitoring processes with a systematic and targeted approach and thus helps to continuously improve them. The department reports directly to the CEO of R. STAHL AG. Audits are held on the basis of an annual risk-oriented audit plan.
Compliance Management, Code of Conduct (CoC) In order to avoid violations of anti-corruption, anti-trust or data protection laws and prevent business crimes, we have introduced the corresponding regulations as part of our existing compliance management. Our compliance organization reports directly to the Executive Board and the Compliance Officer is integrated into business processes as well as reporting and controlling. Compliance is part of our company culture and is a self-evident component of our daily activities.
GROUP'S RISK POSITION
Macro environment and country risks Due to the international alignment of our business activities, risks may arise as a result of political and economic instability in individual regions or countries. This may affect the sales and earnings position of the R. STAHL Group.
In particular, the situation in the Middle East, Russia and Ukraine, as well as the planned economic restructuring and realignment in the USA and UK, may pose risks for individual subsidiaries. Due to our international diversification, we are able to respond flexibly and locally to regional market developments and thus offset adverse developments. Against the backdrop of challenging economic and political conditions, we also pay attention to our cost structures in order to ensure the long-term competitiveness of the R. STAHL Group.

GROUP MANAGEMENT REPORT Risk Report

47

Finally, the international alignment of our business activities in different jurisdictions also represents a legal risk. As part of their business activities, R. STAHL AG and its subsidiaries are involved in a few pending court proceedings as defendants or adver saries. Negative rulings at the expense of the respective company cannot be ruled out in individual cases. The companies of R. STAHL AG defend themselves in these proceedings in the actual and legally required manner. A reliable forecast of the results of such proceedings is not possible. At present, however, we do not expect any material adverse effects on our financial position and performance as well as cash flow.
Market and competition With its range of attractive products and services, R. STAHL operates in dynamic markets. Our business depends heavily on the investment climate in our client sectors. To counter the increasing competition also from new entrants in the components business, we seek to consolidate our market position by continuously expanding our technological leadership, by driving our horizontal and regional diversification, and by developing products which our clients appreciate due to their efficiency-enhancing and cost-saving characteristics.
Although the entry barriers are higher in our systems business and the risk of competition correspondingly lower, the possibility of new competitors appearing on the market cannot be generally excluded. Existing competitors may also gain a market advantage by forging alliances. We respond to market challenges with our excellent know-how and many years of experience.
In order to save costs and thus at least partially cushion the effects of lower oil prices, many energy companies are increasing the price pressure on their suppliers. This stricter pricing policy represents a risk for our business, in particular with regard to reaching our profit targets.
The international alignment of R. STAHL also entails the risk that customers may prefer regional suppliers because they are better acquainted with their products, have greater confidence in their product characteristics, or are encouraged to do so for political reasons. As R. STAHL aims to widen its customer base as part of its business strategy, the establishment of brand awareness and reputation is critical. We therefore employ an appropriate number of highly qualified sales experts, are represented at trade fairs all over the world, and also offer our own seminars to train customers in dealing with our products.
Strategic risks The tapping of new markets and sectors, as well as the expansion of existing sales areas ­ also via acquisitions ­ may involve risks which cannot be completely assessed in advance. We analyze the risk potential of individual markets and industry sectors in different regions very carefully and take it into consideration for risk assessment. We treat the risks in connection with the company's further development with the requisite care.
In addition, there are procurement risks. Depending on the market situation, purchase prices may fluctuate and affect our cost structures. There is also the fundamental risk of a temporary unavailability of raw materials. We counter these risks with our strict cost management approach and international procurement. Nevertheless, we currently foresee bottlenecks in the availability of certain electronic components and plastics used in our production processes. Irrespective of this, falling demand among our suppliers may also raise the general risk of their insolvency and thus increase our procurement risk. We minimize this risk by actively monitoring the financial data of our main suppliers and by observing price behaviour and delivery service. In addition, we reduce our reliance on individual suppliers by using second source releases. We continue to assess the risk of product and brand piracy as minor. Continuous improvement of our core products and production technologies, our specialist knowledge and our experience reduce the risk that R. STAHL products can be replicated in comparable quality. In the field of explosion protection, quality and certification reliability are among the most important purchase criteria.

48

R. STAHL AR 2017

Risks from supporting processes The field of explosion protection is primarily about the safety of man, machine and the environment ­ the quality of our products therefore has top priority. Product defects do not necessarily lead to life-threatening situations but they can significantly damage our reputation. Strict quality management with a continuous improvement process plays a central role in minimizing product quality risks. End-to-end quality control of every manufactured component and every system solution is essential for most of our products. In addition, bought-in components and their suppliers are also subject to strict quality requirements and are carefully checked. Although these controls and quality checks involve additional time and expense, these high quality standards as well as our expertise in explosion protection represent competitive advantages and have a positive effect on sales and the image of our products.
In view of the growing competitive pressure in all sectors of the electronics industry, delivery times and reliability are becoming ever more important for our dealings with customers. Excessive delivery times or non-compliance with delivery dates pose general risks for customer loyalty and thus our further business trend. Following various measures to optimize logistics, manufacturing and handling processes in the past years, we systematically implemented further improvements in our delivery reliability in 2017.
Risks in connection with information technologies In international trade and industrial production, the digitization of processes is steadily increasing. This also involves an increased risk of attacks in the field of cyber crime. We are working hard on our IT security in order to minimize the risk of external as well as internal threats. The corresponding measures include the shortening of restore times in order to be able to return quickly to normal operations in the event of such an attack. In addition, we constantly check the role concepts of our ERP software and adapt administrative authorizations according to the need-to-know principle.
Despite the growing risk of cybercrime attacks around the world, R. STAHL has so far been able to avoid damaging security incidents. Thanks to our comprehensive IT security and business continuity concept, supported by clear guidelines in the field of payment and financial processes, all attempted attacks have been discovered or averted so far. The effects of the vulnerabilities in microprocessors, which became known at the beginning of 2018, can be controlled by our active IT security management. Security updates can be distributed in a timely and largely automated manner to the affected systems without impeding the IT-supported business processes. In 2017, external auditors once again confirmed our high safety standards.
In addition to information security, R. STAHL attaches great importance to data privacy. We give our employees around the world corresponding training on recruitment as well as event-driven, e.g. in the case of any changes to regulatory requirements. Personal data from the EU are stored exclusively on servers in the EU. There have been no violations of the German Federal Data Protection Act (BDSG) to date.
The enforcement of the EU's General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR) on 25 May 2018 will harmonize the collection, processing and use of personal data throughout Europe. R. STAHL already installed a project team at an early stage, which analyzes and evaluates the extended requirements of the GDPR and derives the necessary measures for implementation. The protection of personal data has always been one of the principles of R. STAHL's business policy and we therefore face the GDPR's enforcement with confidence.

GROUP MANAGEMENT REPORT Risk Report

49

Performance-related risks R. STAHL's international production sites enable it to meet the growing requirements of international customers regarding the availability of local contact partners and correspondingly shorter delivery times. Although this partial decentralization of our production involves an increased risk of fluctuating capacity utilization at our main base in Waldenburg, we expect that this international alignment will enable us to grow more strongly in the medium term and thus positively influence our overall business. In order to counter the risk of low capacity utilization ­ and the resulting squeeze on margins ­ we have also introduced lean and flexible processing and production processes.
Personnel risks The expertise and dedication of R. STAHL's employees are a key prerequisite for economic success. The increasing shortage of skilled workers and fierce competition on the job market may lead to risks in the recruitment of skilled employees and the longterm retention of staff at our company.
In order to counteract these risks and ensure the sustainable management of our human resources, we attach particular importance to the field of vocational education and training. With a clear focus on technical skills, R. STAHL offers apprenticeships in eleven professions which fill the gaps created by the shortage of skilled workers and competition on the job market.
Risks may also arise due to the fluctuation of employees in key positions. We mitigate these risks with our personnel development measures aimed at keeping top performers at the company.
Financial risks In the course of our business activities, currency, interest rate, credit and liquidity risks may arise, which we counter by using customary financial instruments.
As exchange rate trends are generally marked by high volatility, due to the large number of factors influencing them, it is generally difficult to make reliable forecasts. We therefore employ a number of measures to counter currency risks that may result from unpredictable changes in the exchange rates of major currencies. Our long-term, strategic approach above all involves maintaining production capacities in currency areas of importance for us, such as the USA. Changes in our sales trend due to adverse currency developments are thus offset by the corresponding cost advantages (natural hedge), making earnings less susceptible to currency fluctuations. Existing and planned foreign currency volumes are hedged opportunistically with forward exchange transactions. Of particular importance to us is the development of the US dollar ­ which accounts for the major share of our foreign currency volume and also influences the development of other currencies.
As a basic principle, we borrow capital at matching maturities to finance our business activities. If necessary, we hedge any risk arising from varying interest rates via derivative financial instruments. Our real estate is regularly financed at fixed rates of interest. Generally, the duration of currency and interest hedges is aligned with our underlying core busines. The operational framework, the persons responsible, financial reporting and the control mechanisms for financial instruments are determined uniformly throughout the Group.
In September 2015, R. STAHL AG signed a syndicated loan agreement with a term of five years to secure the Group's funding. It comprises a cash credit line of  95 million, with an expansion option of  25 million for acquisitions. The agreement contains standard provisions regarding the maintenance of the Group's financial strength (financial covenants). Non-compliance with these covenants may result in an adjustment of the contract terms or premature termination by the banks involved.
Following indications that R. STAHL would not be able to comply with these financial covenants in view of the expected annual result as of 31 December 2017, the banking syndicate accepted an application from R. STAHL in December 2017 to temporarily reformulate the financial covenants. The company complied to the financial covenants that were reformulated temporarily for 31 December 2017.

50

R. STAHL AR 2017

Moreover, the banks involved also agreed in March 2018 to renounce their termination rights until 31 July 2018.
This supplementary agreement to the syndicated loan agreement included a commitment from R. STAHL not to use  30 million of the available lines until 30 September 2018. In addition, R. STAHL was obliged to prepare a detailed plan of measures regarding the targeted improvements in earnings until 31 May 2018. These measures are primarily aimed at optimizing the supply chain (cleaning of product portfolio, optimization of prodcution (lean), procurement), as well as the sales structures and processes (e. g. standardization). Moreover, as agreed with the banking syndicate, R. STAHL's financial planning was subjected to an Independent Business Review (IBR) conducted by Ernst & Young GmbH Wirtschaftsprüfungsgesellschaft. The IBR includes an explanation of the measures in detail as well as an assessment of the future earnings situation as a result of these measures. The results of the IBR, whose content is in line with the requirements of the banks involved, were provided to them in a timely mannner until 31 May 2018. The IBR would be used as a basis for a renegotiation of contract terms. In sum, the IBR confirms the objective restructuring ability of R. STAHL if the defined and already started measures are consequently implemented. Should the syndicated loan agreement not be continued, this would represent a high risk with regard to our risk classification, which may endanger the company as a going concern.
We limit the risk of insolvency among our customers by means of targeted monitoring of receivables and outstanding amounts and payment behaviour. If necessary, value adjustments are made.
A detailed description of the hedging instruments held at the end of the reporting period and further information on the risks in regard to currency, interest rates, credit and liquidity are included in the notes to the consolidated financial statements under the items "Derivative financial instruments" and "Financial risk management".
Compliance risks As a listed public limited company based in Germany, R. STAHL is subject to German legislation on corporate governance and the requirements of other legal systems. The regulatory environment has intensified significantly in recent years ­ especially due to more rigorous application of existing laws and the expansion and tightening of criminal offences. Examples include anti-corruption laws in Germany, the USA (Foreign Corrupt Practices Act) and the UK (Bribery Act). All these regulations are very complex. Any non-compliance with relevant laws and regulations or any accusation of violation brought against our company, whether justified or not, may have a significant negative impact on our reputation, and thus also on R. STAHL's share price and business activities.
It is difficult to make an accurate assessment of these risks due to the large number of relevant legal and regulatory requirements, as well as the wide variety of potential infringements. We constantly monitor the current legal requirements and new developments in the field of compliance which arise in our industry or the economy. In an international context, we are supported in part by specialized local law firms, and in part by local cooperation partners of renowned German law firms or the local offices of international law firms. Based on this information and other available sources, we continuously update our compliance rules. In order to ensure as effectively as possible that our employees know and comply with our Code of Conduct, we inform our managers once a year about our anti-corruption guidelines as well as their obligation to train their employees in these matters. In the case of new employees, the receipt and acceptance of our Code of Conduct is part of the onboarding process. The Group Compliance Officer coordinates all activities in this area. Despite the existing compliance rules and the internal control systems already in place, the possibility that individuals may intentionally circumvent our control mechanisms for their personal gain cannot be ruled out. Although we regard the occurrence of this risk as unlikely, it might negatively impact the reputation of our company, our business, and our financial position and performance.

GROUP MANAGEMENT REPORT Risk Report

51

 Opportunity and Forecast Report

OVERALL STATEMENT ON THE RISK SITUATION The Executive Board and Supervisory Board of R. STAHL regard the risk management system as being suitable for the detection, quantification and analysis of existing risks in order to manage them in a suitable manner. After careful consideration of the overall risk assessment, those responsible have come to the conclusion that at the time of preparing this Group Management Report, the existing risks are limited both individually and cumulatively with the exception of the situation described in the financial risks section.
OPPORTUNITY AND FORECAST REPORT
OPPORTUNITIES In order to identify and exploit opportunities, we continuously monitor developments in our markets. By maintaining a dialogue with our customers, suppliers and partners, we also receive valuable information at an early stage regarding sector trends and the rising demands which customers place on our products. The resulting opportunities and potential are used to derive the R. STAHL Group's strategic alignment as well as the allocation of the company's resources. Opportunities are assessed separately to the risk management process.
Long-term opportunities Global population growth and mankind's rising needs for energy offer long-term growth opportunities for R. STAHL. In addition to the ongoing industrial development in the emerging countries in particular, the improvement of living conditions in developing countries is a main factor driving the growing demand for energy. Since coal as an energy source is becoming less and less socially acceptable in western industrial nations, power supplies are increasingly reliant on natural gas power plants or oil-fired plants. We also regard the politically motivated demand for greater use of renewable energies as an opportunity. In order to ensure stable energy supplies via these volatile sources, efficient technical possibilities must be created that can store weather-depen dent and daytime-dependent electrical energy from wind and solar power for longer periods. One of the most promising opportunities for the future is the conversion and storage of electrical energy in the form of hydrogen, methane or methanol and their re-conversion into electricity as required. As all these carrying materials are highly explosive, this may lead to a corresponding need for explosion protection solutions, not only for their production but also for transportation and re-conversion. In order to avoid the dependencies of pipeline transportation by land, shipping by means of LNG tankers is becoming increasingly important and R. STAHL offers a wide range of explosion-protected equipment for such vessels.
In addition to the rising demand for energy, global population growth also leads to greater demand for products from all other areas of life, such as food, housing, clothing and mobility. This will benefit both the food industry and the chemical industry, for whose production facilities R. STAHL offers tailored explosion protection solutions. An even greater increase in demand is expected for pharmaceutical products, as not only the world's population is growing but also their life expectancy and health awareness.
Finally, the political and societal will to establish and implement sufficiently high safety standards in the process industry is leading to growing demand for explosion protection solutions around the world.

52

R. STAHL AR 2017

Medium-term opportunities In the medium term, R. STAHL sees opportunities from the expansion of its market position and the tapping of new markets. Our continuous and targeted research and development work, which has enabled us to establish market-leading positions in numerous product areas, will continue to play a key role.
Due to the increasing safety requirements for operators of technical equipment, we also see the opportunity to generate growth with our range of holistic and tailored system solutions. R. STAHL is already a global leader in this field. We plan to take a similar direction with the expansion of our offerings to include services that our customers are requesting as a result of increasing regulation and their own limited capacities. In addition, opportunities will arise as our customers focus increasingly on their core business and thus seek to outsource engineering and maintenance functions. Training courses and services that facilitate the safety management of processing plants also offer attractive growth opportunities for us.
In terms of regional expansion, the ongoing opening of further markets for the explosion protection standard IECEx ­ which is becoming increasingly popular also for international projects ­ offers additional growth potential. Important regional target markets for us include Eastern Europe and sub-Saharan Africa. We have established improved access to these countries with the company investments made in 2016.
We see opportunities to increase our productivity and profitability in the medium term by optimizing our internal structures and processes. These include, in particular, the measures to raise efficiency described in the front section of this Annual Report.
Short-term opportunities We see short-term opportunities from rising global investment in facilities for the production and processing of oil and gas and their downstream products. We regard the enormous demand potential for automation solutions, which we believe is largely independent of economic influences, as being a short- to medium-term opportunity.
In pursuing our opportunities, we always take account of our financial possibilities. Unfavourable economic conditions may mean that we cannot take full advantage of existing opportunities, or only with a certain delay. Detailed information on this and other risks can be found in the Risk Report.

GROUP MANAGEMENT REPORT Opportunity and Forecast Report

53

OUTLOOK FOR 2018
As a globally aligned specialist supplier in the electronics industry, our products and solutions are manufactured and marketed world-wide. Our business therefore depends on global economic trends as well as the development of certain major foreign currencies, particularly the US dollar. In addition to the oil and gas industry, the most important sectors for our business include the chemical and pharmaceutical industry.
Further global economic growth predicted In its outlook of January 2018, the International Monetary Fund (IMF) forecast a further increase in global economic growth to 3.9% for the current year. This forecast reflects both the current strong momentum in global growth and the significant cut in the US corporate tax rate at the beginning of the year, which the IMF believes should result in a further increase in economic growth to 2.7% in the USA. A slight decline to 2.2% is expected for the eurozone, due in part to a moderate slowdown in growth momentum in Germany to 2.3%. The IMF expects the emerging economies to achieve the strongest growth rate with an overall 4.9%, led by India (+7.4%) and China (+6.6%).
US dollar exchange rate and oil price expected to remain at current levels in 2018 With regard to the development of the US dollar, most market experts expect a persistently low rate of between 1.15 and 1.25 US$/ ­ despite several interest rate hikes expected by the US Federal Reserve in the reporting year. The reasons for this trend include solid economic growth in the eurozone as well as its continued strengthening as a political community.
With regard to oil market developments, OPEC's monthly market report of February 2018 predicts a sustained increase in global demand for the current year. With expected growth of 1.6 million barrels a day, the rate of increase is on a par with the previous year. According to the report, OPEC aims to continue its strategy of stabilizing and raising oil prices in 2017 by avoiding oversupply and adjusting its own production volumes to those of non-OPEC countries. Against this backdrop, an expected annual average oil price of around US$ 60 per barrel for 2018 seems plausible, and is also shared by the IMF. This trend is likely to prompt a continuation of the recovery in capital spending on new and existing oil and gas production and processing facilities started in the reporting period, with a resulting increase in demand for explosion protection solutions.
Growth momentum in the chemical, pharmaceutical and electronics industries set to continue In its forecast for the current year published in December 2017, the German chemical industry association (VCI) estimates that production of chemical and pharmaceutical products will grow by 3.3%. The main drivers will be India with growth of 7.0% and China with 5.5%. Growth of 2.0% is predicted for both Germany and the USA.
For the electronics industry in Germany, the Electrical and Electronic Manufacturers' Association (ZVEI) forecasts an increase in price-adjusted output of 3% for the year in its economic barometer of February 2018. At the beginning of the year, capacity utilization rose further to reach an average of 89.0%, while the order backlog range increased from 2.7 to 3.1 production months.

54

R. STAHL AR 2017

Increases in order intake and sales expected for 2018 Against the backdrop of robust macroeconomic and sector-specific growth forecasts, we also anticipate increasing demand for our products and solutions in 2018. A growing number of orders are expected from both the oil and gas sector, and the chemical and pharmaceutical industries. Rising production volumes in these sectors are likely to prompt both increased maintenance spending and investment in the construction of new facilities. We expect this to translate into growing demand for our components and systems, as well as an increase in project orders.
In principle, the increased proportion of projects in our business raises the volatility of our order and sales trend. Moreover, it should be noted that demand for explosion protection products generally lags behind any rise in demand from our client industries. Nevertheless, we assume that the expected increase in order intake in 2018 will also benefit our sales trend. The solid order backlog of  92.3 million as of 31 December 2017 ­ well above the level at the beginning of 2017 (1 January 2017:  80.7 million) ­ provides a firm foundation for this expected growth.
The restructuring of our sales organization in April is also expected to have a first positive impact on sales in 2018. By establishing clear regional responsibilities in our new globally aligned corporate sales organization, we aim to exploit the specific opportunities in our markets more efficiently. Similar objectives are being pursued with the realignment of our marketing organ ization, which will be organized by product class and also work with global responsibility in future. Above all, we expect increasing orders and sales from our range of automation solutions and from the further expansion of our LED lighting business. By 2019 at the latest, our new EXpressure® enclosure types are also expected to make a contribution to sales growth.
Earnings situation will benefit from more buoyant demand The anticipated growth in order intake and sales is expected to have a positive impact on earnings. We therefore expect growth in the medium to high double-digit percentage range for EBITDA pre exceptionals in 2018 ­ based on a level of  5.8 million in 2017. The exceptionals planned for the current year are mainly in connection with the efficiency enhancement measures already initiated or still to be introduced.
Financial and asset position to remain stable At the end of the reporting period on 31 December 2017, the equity ratio of the R. STAHL Group amounted to 27.7%. Based on the expected earnings trend, we anticipate a slightly reduced but consistently solid level of equity in 2018. Strong fluctuations in the interest rate used to calculate pensions ­ which in the past had led to increased volatility in the valuation of pension obligations with an impact on equity ­ are not expected in the current year.
In 2018, the development of our free cash flow will be influenced on the one hand by an expected improvement in earnings and on the other hand by the cash impact of planned exceptionals. Irrespective of this trend, we will continue to drive the measures introduced in the previous year to improve working capital, although we anticipate certain opposing effects from the expansion of business and the associated increase in inventories and trade receivables. We do not therefore expect to reach the high level of the previous year and anticipate a year-on-year decline in cash flow from operating activities in the current year.
Capex on a par with previous year, no significant effects from financing activities Capital expenditure in 2018 will be on a par with the previous year. As no significant inflows or outflows of funds are planned for equity or external liabilities in the current year, we assume that our net indebtedness at year-end will be largely unchanged from the previous year.

GROUP MANAGEMENT REPORT Opportunity and Forecast Report

55

OVERALL ASSESSMENT: SIGNIFICANT IMPROVEMENT IN EARNINGS We started our financial year 2018 with a solid order backlog. The positive outlook for the global economy and our main sales markets and sectors make us confident that demand for explosion protection products will also pick up in 2018. With regard to external factors with a direct or indirect impact on our business, especially oil prices and exchange rates, we do not expect any developments that will significantly influence our earnings.
For 2018, we expect a year-on-year increase in EBITDA pre exceptionals in the mid to high double-digit percentage range.
In 2017, we developed a package of measures for the Group as a whole ­ as described in the financial risk section of the "Risk report" ­ with the objective of significantly enhancing the efficiency of our organization and processes. We aim to have completed the implementation of these measures by the end of 2019. The resulting efficiency gains will also reduce our cost structures and lead to a further improvement in earnings from 2019 onwards.
Waldenburg, 31 May 2018 R. Stahl Aktiengesellschaft
Dr. Mathias Hallmann CEO

56

R. STAHL AR 2017

CONSOLIDATED INCOME STATEMENT R. STAHL GROUP

NOTE  000
6 Sales Change in finished and unfinished products
7 Other own work capitalized Total operating performance
8 Other operating income 9 Cost of materials 10 Personnel costs 12 Depreciation and amortization 13 Other operating expenses
Earnings before financial result and income taxes (EBIT) 4, 14 Result from companies consolidated using the equity method 15 Investment result 16 Interest and similar income 16 Interest and similar expenses
Financial result Earnings before income taxes 17 Income taxes Net profit/loss thereof attributable to other shareholders thereof attributable to shareholders of R. STAHL AG 18 Earnings per share ()

2017
268,462 -3,498 4,501
269,465 8,026
-100,116 -121,112 -12,972 -53,979 -10,688
977 17 238 -3,179 -1,947 -12,635 -8,542 -21,177 -41 -21,136 -3.28

2016
286,609 -6,124 3,820
284,305 12,923 -101,136 -118,288 -13,381 -55,647 8,776
103 25 260 -3,365 -2,977 5,799 -1,576 4,223 87 4,136 0.64

CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Consolidated Income Statement R. STAHL Group

57

 Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income R. STAHL Group

CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF COMPREHENSIVE INCOME R. STAHL GROUP

 000
Net profit/loss Gains/losses from currency translations of foreign subsidiaries, recognized in equity Deferred taxes on gains/losses from currency translations Currency translation differences after taxes Gains/losses from the subsequent measurement of cash flow hedges, recognized in equity Recognized in profit or loss Deferred taxes on cash flow hedges Cash flow hedges after taxes Other comprehensive income with reclassification to profit for the period Gains/losses from the subsequent measurement of pension obligations, recognized in equity Deferred taxes from pension obligations Other comprehensive income without reclassification to profit for the period Other comprehensive income (valuation differences recognized directly in equity) thereof attributable to other shareholders thereof attributable to shareholders of R. STAHL AG Total comprehensive income after taxes thereof attributable to other shareholders thereof attributable to shareholders of R. STAHL AG

2017
-21,177 -2,406
0 -2,406
59 -20 -12 27 -2,379
2,741 -930 1,811
-568 -3
-565 -21,745
-44 -21,701

2016
4,223 1,118
0 1,118 -324
287 13 -24 1,094
-10,609 3,311 -7,298
-6,204 52
-6,256 -1,981
139 -2,120

58

R. STAHL AR 2017

CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEET R. STAHL GROUP

NOTE  000
ASSETS 20 Intangible assets 21 Property, plant & equipment 4, 22 Investments in associated companies 22 Other financial assets 22 Other assets 22 Real estate held as financial investments 17 Deferred taxes
Non-current assets
23 Inventories and prepayments made 24 Trade receivables 24 Income tax claims 24, 25 Other receivables and other assets 26 Cash and cash equivalents
Current assets

31 Dec. 2017 31 Dec. 2016

41,796 57,203 7,750
50 1,206 7,383 11,905 127,293
45,501 49,961 3,166 7,568 16,085 122,281

40,397 62,371 7,097
110 1,293 7,666 20,714 139,648
50,883 60,190 3,084 8,642 16,168 138,967

Total assets

249,574

278,615

CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Consolidated Balance Sheet R. STAHL Group

59

Note  000
EQUITY AND LIABILITIES 27 Subscribed capital 27 Capital reserves 27 Retained earnings 27 Accumulated other comprehensive income 27 Deduction for treasury stock
Equity attributable to shareholders of R. STAHL AG 27 Non-controlling interests
Equity
28 Pension provisions 29 Other provisions 30 Interest-bearing financial liabilities 31 Other liabilities 17 Deferred taxes
Non-current liabilities
28, 29 Provisions 31 Trade payables 30 Interest-bearing financial liabilities 31 Deferred liabilities 31 Income tax liabilities 31 Other liabilities Current liabilities Total equity and liabilities

31 Dec. 2017 31 Dec. 2016

16,500 13,457 69,449 -30,440
0 68,966
86 69,052
93,736 1,850 13,095
353 3,208 112,242
6,061 18,212 21,073 11,135
609 11,190 68,280 249,574

16,500 13,457 94,449 -29,875
0 94,531
234 94,765
96,683 1,926 10,370
454 3,463 112,896
6,298 13,403 27,616 11,609 1,159 10,869 70,954 278,615

60

R. STAHL AR 2017

CONSOLIDATED CASH FLOW STATEMENT R. STAHL GROUP

 000
Net profit/loss Depreciation and amortization Changes in long-term provisions Changes in deferred taxes Equity valuation Other income and expenses without cash flow impact Result from the disposal of non-current assets Cash flow Changes in short-term provisions Changes in inventories, trade receivables and other non-capex or non-financial assets Changes in trade payables and other non-capex or non-financial liabilities Changes in working capital Cash flow from operating activities Cash outflow for capex on intangible assets Cash inflow from disposals of non-current intangible assets Cash outflow for capex on property, plant & equipment Cash inflow from disposals of property, plant & equipment and real estate held as a financial investment Cash outflow for capex on non-current financial assets Cash inflow from disposals of non-current financial assets Increase (+)/decrease (-) in current financial assets Cash outflow for the purchase of shares in associated companies Cash flow from investing activities Free cash flow

2017
-21,177 12,972
13 7,510 -586 1,996
139 867 -221 12,173 6,927 18,879 19,746 -7,117
0 -3,308
94 0 58 0 -1,274 -11,547 8,199

2016
4,223 13,381
551 -12 -103 457 -2,334 16,163 -882 4,174 -8,569 -5,277 10,886 -6,182 1,313 -6,314
5,526 -1 19
206 -5,786 -11,219
-333

CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Consolidated Cash Flow Statement R. STAHL Group

61

 000
Distribution to shareholders (dividend) Distribution to/contribution from minority shareholders Cash inflow from interest-bearing financial debt Cash outflow for repayment of interest-bearing financial debt Cash flow from financing activities Changes in cash and cash equivalents Foreign exchange and valuation-related changes in cash and cash equivalents Cash and cash equivalents at the beginning of the period Cash and cash equivalents at the end of the period

2017
-3,864 -104 4,704
-8,495 -7,759
440 -523 16,168 16,085

The cash flow statement is explained in the notes to the consolidated financial statements on page 128.

2016
-3,864 -405 9,179
-6,920 -2,010 -2,343
168 18,343 16,168

62

R. STAHL AR 2017

CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF CHANGES IN EQUITY R. STAHL GROUP

 000 1 January 2016 Net profit/loss Accumulated other comprehensive income Total comprehensive income Dividend distribution Changes in minority interests 31 December 2016
1 January 2017 Net profit/loss Accumulated other comprehensive income Total comprehensive income Dividend distribution Changes in minority interests 31 December 2017

Equity attributable

Subscribed capital

Accumulated Capital reserves Retained earnings Currency translation

16,500
16,500 16,500
16,500

13,457
13,457 13,457
13,457

94,394 4,136
0 4,136 -3,864 -217 94,449
94,449 -21,136
0 -21,136 -3,864
0 69,449

-1,404 1,066 1,066
-338 -338 -2,403 -2,403
-2,741

CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity R. STAHL Group

63

to shareholders

other comprehensive income

Unrealized gains/ Gains/losses from Total accumulated

losses from pension obligations other comprehensive

cash flow hedges

income

-9

-22,206

-23,619

-24

-7,298

-6,256

-24

-7,298

-6,256

-33

-29,504

-29,875

-33

-29,504

-29,875

27

1,811

-565

27

1,811

-565

-6

-27,693

-30,440

Non-controlling interests
Total

100,732

283

4,136

87

-6,256

52

-2,120

139

-3,864

-105

-217

-83

94,531

234

94,531

234

-21,136

-41

-565

-3

-21,701

-44

-3,864

-104

0

0

68,966

86

Equity
Total
101,015 4,223 -6,204 -1,981 -3,969 -300 94,765
94,765 -21,177
-568 -21,745 -3,968
0 69,052

64

R. STAHL AR 2017

NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
PRINCIPLES AND METHODS OF CONSOLIDATED ACCOUNTING
1. BASIS OF PREPARATION The consolidated financial statements of R. Stahl Aktiengesellschaft (District Court of Stuttgart, HRB 581087), hereinafter also called R. STAHL AG, as at 31 December 2017 have been prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS), as applicable in the European Union (EU), and the commercial law regulations pursuant to Section 315a (1) HGB. The binding interpretations for the current year of the International Financial Reporting Interpretations Committee (IFRIC) were observed.
The financial year corresponds to the calendar year. Assets and liabilities are reported in the balance sheet in line with their maturities. The Group classifies assets and liabilities as current if it expects to realize or settle them within twelve months of the reporting date. The consolidated income statement is prepared using the "nature of costs method". To improve the readability of the consolidated financial statements, we have summarized individual items of the consolidated income statement and consolidated balance sheet. These items are explained separately in the notes to the consolidated financial statements. Necessary additional disclosures on individual items are also made in the notes to the consolidated financial statements.
The Group's functional currency is the euro. All amounts are shown rounded to multiples of thousands of euros ( 000) unless clearly identified otherwise.
R. STAHL AG electronically submits its consolidated financial statements to the operator of the German electronic Federal Gazette.
Going concern During the preparation of these consolidated financial statements, the Executive Board of R. STAHL AG assumed the company's continued status as a going concern in view of the background described below.
R. STAHL AG and its subsidiaries had sufficient liquidity at all times during the reporting year 2017. In September 2015, R. STAHL AG signed a syndicated loan agreement with a term of five years to secure the Group's funding. It comprises a cash credit line of  95 million, with an expansion option of  25 million for acquisitions. The agreement contains standard provisions regarding the maintenance of the Group's financial strength (financial covenants). Non-compliance with these covenants may result in an adjustment of the contract terms or premature termination by the banks involved.
Following indications that R. STAHL would not be able to comply with these financial covenants in view of the expected annual result as of 31 December 2017, the banking syndicate accepted an application from R. STAHL in December 2017 to temporarily reformulate the financial covenants. The company complied to the financial covenants that were reformulated temporarily for 31 December 2017.
Moreover, the banks involved also agreed in March 2018 to renounce their termination rights until 31 July 2018.

NOTES Principles and Methods of Consolidated Accounting

65

This supplementary agreement to the syndicated loan agreement included a commitment from R. STAHL not to use  30 million of the available lines until 30 September 2018. In addition, R. STAHL was obliged to prepare a detailed plan of measures regarding the targeted improvements in earnings until 31 May 2018. These measures are primarily aimed at optimizing the supply chain (cleaning of product portfolio, optimization of prodcution (lean), procurement), as well as the sales structures and processes (e. g. standardization). Moreover, as agreed with the banking syndicate, R. STAHL's financial planning was subjected to an Independent Business Review (IBR) conducted by Ernst & Young GmbH Wirtschaftsprüfungsgesellschaft. The IBR includes an explanation of the measures in detail as well as an assessment of the future earnings situation as a result of these measures. The results of the IBR, whose content is in line with the requirements of the banks involved, were provided to them in a timely mannner until 31 May 2018. The IBR will be used as a basis for a renegotiation of contract terms. In sum, the IBR confirms the objective restructuring ability of R. STAHL if the defined and already started measures are consequently implemented. Should the syndicated loan agreement not be continued, this would represent a high risk with regard to our risk classification, which may endanger the company as a going concern.
On the basis of the current facts and discussions held so far, the Executive Board believes it is certain that the syndicated loan agreement will be continued, thereby also securing the funding of the R. STAHL Group and the separate company R. STAHL AG beyond 31 July 2018 and thus permitting the preparation of the consolidated and financial statements as of 31 December 2017 under the assumption of a continuation of business actitities.
Impact of new or revised standards The accounting and valuation methods that have been applied basically correspond to the methods that were applied last year with the following exceptions, which result from new or revised standards.
The following new regulations were mandatory for the first time in the financial year 2017:

Standard/ Interpretation
Amendments to IAS 12
Amendments to IAS 7 AIP (2014­2016)

Mandatory as of

Recognition of Deferred Tax Assets for Unrealised Losses
Statement of Cash Flows ­ Disclosure Initiative
IFRS 12: Disclosure of Interests in Other Entities ­ Relationship of Regulations in IFRS 12 and IFRS 5

01/01/2017
01/01/2017 01/01/2017

Status
Revised Revised Revised

The new mandatory regulations to be applied in the EU for the first time as of 1 January 2017 had no significant impact on the consolidated financial statements.
New or revised standards that have not been applied The IASB and IFRS Interpretations Committee have adopted the following standards, interpretations and revisions which were not yet mandatory on 31 December 2016 and in some cases have not yet been endorsed by the EU. Early application of these new provisions is not intended. With the exception of IFRS 16, these amendments are not expected to have any significant impact on the consolidated financial statements of R. STAHL AG.

66

R. STAHL AR 2017

Standard/ Interpretation
IFRS 9

Financial Instruments

Mandatory as of1)
01/01/2018

IFRS 15

Revenue from Contracts with Customers

01/01/2018

Amendments to IAS 15
IFRS 16

Clarification of IFRS 15 Revenue from Contracts with Customers
Leases

01/01/2018 01/01/2019

Amendments to IFRS 2

Clarification of Classification and Measurement of Share-based Payment Transactions

Amendments to IAS 40

Classification of Property under Development

Amendments to IFRS 4

Applying IFRS 9 and IFRS 4 Insurance Contracts

AIP (2014­2016) Amendments to IFRS 1 and IAS 28

Amendments to Sale or Contribution of Assets between an IFRS 10/ IAS 28 Investor and its Associate or Joint Venture

Amendments to IFRS 9

Clarification of IFRS 9 Financial Instruments ­ Termination Agreement with Negative Compensation

IFRIC 22

Foreign Currency Transactions and Advance Consideration

IFRIC 23

Uncertainty over Income Tax Treatments

IFRS 17

Insurance Contracts

Amendments to IAS 28

Investments in Associates and Joint Ventures

AIP (2015­2017) Amendments to IFRS 1 and IAS 28, amendments to IFRS 3, IFRS 11, IAS 12 and IAS 23

Amendments to IAS 19

Plan Amendment, Curtailment or Settlement

1) Effective date for R. STAHL AG 2) As of 31 December 2017

01/01/2018 01/01/2018 01/01/2018 01/01/2018 Postponed 01/01/2019
01/01/2018 01/01/2019 01/01/2021 01/01/2019 01/01/2019 01/01/2019

Endorsed by EU Commission2)
Yes
Yes
Yes
Yes
No

Expected impact
See explanations
See explanations
See explanations
See explanations
None

No

None

Yes

None

Yes

None

No

None

No

None

No

None

No

None

No

None

No

None

No

None

No

None

NOTES Principles and Methods of Consolidated Accounting

67

IFRS 9, Financial Instruments In July 2014, the IASB completed its project to replace IAS 39, "Financial Instruments: Recognition and Measurement" by publishing the final version of IFRS 9: Financial Instruments. IFRS 9 introduces a single approach for the classification and measurement of financial assets.
Subsequent measurement of financial assets is based in future on three categories with different value scales and different recognition of changes in value. Categorization depends both on the contractual cash flows of the instrument and the business model in which the instrument is held. In the case of financial liabilities, the existing categorization regulations were largely adopted in IFRS 9.
In future, impairments are to be recognized for financial assets not measured at fair value through profit or loss in the amount of the expected losses. The impairment approach generally adopts a three-stage model to calculate impairment losses. For certain financial instruments, such as trade receivables, a simplified approach with a two-stage model is used to assess impairment losses.
IFRS 9 also includes new regulations regarding the application of hedge accounting to better reflect an entity's risk management activities especially with regard to managing non-financial risks.
Moreover, IFRS 9 contains additional disclosure requirements.
Changes in comparison to IFRS 7 "Financial Instruments: Disclosures" result mainly from the provisions on impairment.
In future, expected losses on trade receivables at R. STAHL will mainly be calculated on the basis of internal or external customer ratings and the associated probability of default.
With regard to new hedge accounting regulations, R. STAHL assumes that, in principle, all existing hedge accounting relationships can be continued under IFRS 9.
IFRS 9 is mandatory no later than the first business year beginning on or after 1 January 2018. Earlier adoption is possible. The company will apply IFRS 9 for the first time for the financial year beginning on 1 January 2018. In accordance with the transitional regulations, R. STAHL will not adjust the prior-year figures and disclose transitional effects cumulatively in revenue reserves. An examination of the effects from application of IFRS 9 on the consolidated financial statements indicates no significant impact on the financial position and performance.
IFRS 15, Revenue from Contracts with Customers The new standard on revenue recognition replaces IAS 18 "Revenue" and IAS 11 "Construction Contracts", as well as the related interpretations. IFRS 15 establishes a comprehensive framework for determining, whether, how much, and when revenue is recognized. IFRS 15 must be applied for all contracts with customers.
The core principle of IFRS 15 is that a company should recognize revenue when goods have been delivered or services rendered. Within the scope of this standard, this core principle is implemented in a five-step model. The relevant contracts with the customer and the included performance obligations must first be identified. Revenue is then recognized in the amount of the expected consideration for each separate performance obligation, either at a particular point in time or over a period. IFRS 15 also includes detailed application guidance on a number of individual topics (e.g. contract modifications, sale with a right of return, handling of contract costs, extension options, licence revenue, principal-agent relationships, bill-and-hold arrangements, consignment agreements etc.). Moreover, the scope of the disclosures has been expanded. The new disclosure regulations are aimed at disclosing information on the nature, the amount, the timing and the uncertainty of revenue from customer contracts, including the resulting cash flows. In addition, the IASB published clarifications on IFRS 15 on 12 April 2016. The amendments address the identification of performance obligations, principal-agent considerations and licences with the aim of providing transitional regulations for modified and concluded agreements.

68

R. STAHL AR 2017

IFRS 15 must be applied for all business years beginning on or after 1 January 2018. Earlier adoption is possible. With regard to the comparative periods, there is an option to apply the standard retrospectively in accordance with IAS 8 or to adopt a modified approach, whereby the prior-year figures are not adjusted, but the cumulative effect of first-time application of IFRS 15 is recognized as an adjustment in retained earnings as of the date of initial application. It is planned to adopt the modified retrospective approach on first-time application.
The application of IFRS 15 is not expected to have any significant impact on the financial position and performance of the Group. The low impact of IFRS 15 is due to the fact that the contracts with customers usually only result in a performance obligation which is fulfilled at a certain point in time. However, the calculation of effects for the comparative period 2017 has not yet been finalized at the time of publishing the consolidated financial statements.
IFRS 16, Leasing Under IFRS 16, the previous distinction between operating and finance leases is eliminated for the lessee. Instead, IFRS 16 introduces a standard accounting model that requires lessees to recognize a right of use to an asset and a lease liability. For all leases, the lessee now accounts for the right of use of an asset and for a lease liability. As a result, previously unrecognized leases will have to be recognized in the balance sheet ­ largely in line with current accounting for finance leases. The right of use is amortized over the contract term according to the provisions for intangible assets. The lease liability is carried in accordance with the provisions for financial instruments under IAS 39 and in future IFRS 9. In the income statement, a separate disclosure is made for amortization of the asset and interest on the liability. Simplified accounting is possible for short-term leases of up to twelve months and low-value leased assets. Disclosures in the notes will be more detailed and enable the addressee to assess the amount, time and uncertainties associated with leases. By contrast, the provisions in the new standard concerning the lessor are similar to those in the previous regulations of IAS 17. As in the past, leases are classified either as finance or operating leases.
The new standard must be applied for all business years beginning on or after 1 January 2019. R. STAHL will not apply IFRS 16 prematurely. R. STAHL has begun to assess the possible effects on the consolidated financial statements. The company plans to make use of the practical expedients and to recognize the adjustments resulting from the transition by applying the modified retrospective method as a cumulative effect in other revenue reserves.

2. COMPANY DATA Name and legal structure:R. Stahl Aktiengesellschaft (parent company and senior Group entity)

Registered office:

Waldenburg (Germany)

Address:

Am Bahnhof 30, 74638 Waldenburg, Germany

Business and measuring, main activities: Supplier of explosion-protected devices and systems for controlling and operating

3. RELEASE DATE FOR PUBLICATION OF FINANCIAL STATEMENTS The Executive Board of R. STAHL AG released the 2017 consolidated financial statements and 2017 Group Management Report for forwarding to the Supervisory Board on 31 May 2018. It was presented to the Supervisory Board at its meeting on 7 June 2018.

NOTES Principles and Methods of Consolidated Accounting

69

4. CONSOLIDATION PRINCIPLES
Scope of consolidation In addition to R. STAHL AG, the consolidated financial statements include 34 (2016: 34) domestic and foreign subsidiaries over which R. STAHL AG can exercise a direct or indirect controlling influence. A controlling influence is defined as being when R. STAHL AG has power over the subsidiary due to voting rights or other rights, may participate in positive or negative returns of the subsidiary and can affect these returns through its decisions.
Associated companies are included in the consolidated financial statements using the equity method. Companies are deemed to be associated if significant influence can be exerted on their business and financial policy but they are not subsidiaries. There is generally an equity stake of between 20% and 50%. The result from companies consolidated using the equity method is disclosed as part of the financial result.
In the previous year, ZAVOD Goreltex Company Limited, Saint Petersburg, Russia, and ESACO Proprietary Ltd., Edenvale, South Africa, were consolidated as associated companies using the equity method for the first time. For reasons of materiality, certain companies are not consolidated in the consolidated financial statements using the equity method.
ZAVOD Goreltex Company Limited is a supplier of Ex products in Russia. In addition to its own products, the company markets R. STAHL's products on the Russian market. ESACO Proprietary Ltd. markets R. STAHL products in the South African region.
Financial information on ZAVOD Goreltex, Saint Petersburg, Russia:

 000
Non-current assets Current assets Balance sheet total Equity Non-current liabilities Current liabilities Sales1) Result for the year1)
1) Previous year: generated as of the acquisition date

2017
9,409 18,556 27,965 23,624
157 4,184 33,758 3,860

2016
5,622 19,838 25,460 21,683
191 3,586 3,863
413

70

R. STAHL AR 2017

Financial information on ESACO Pty. Ltd., Edenvale, South Africa:

 000
Non-current assets Current assets Balance sheet total Equity Non-current liabilities Current liabilities Sales1) Result for the year1)
1) Previous year: generated as of the acquisition date

2017
41 1,081 1,122
971 5
146 2,060
34

2016
48 1,284 1,332
965 10 357 286 19

Breakdown of domestic and foreign consolidated companies:

Number of fully consolidated companies Number of companies consolidated using the equity method Number of non-consolidated companies

Domestic 31/12/2017
9
0 1

Foreign 31/12/2017
26
2 2

Total 31/12/2017
35
2 3

Total 31/12/2016
35
2 3

E.M. Stahl B.V., Hengelo, the Netherlands, and R. Stahl LLP., Atyrau, Kazakhstan, were not included in the consolidated financial statements due to their minor relevance for the Group.
The list of shareholdings is an integral component of these notes to the consolidated financial statements.
Non-consolidated structured companies R. STAHL AG is a limited partner of Abraxas Grundstücksverwaltungsgesellschaft mbH & Co. Vermietungs KG, Mainz, (hereinafter also called Abraxas), with an equity interest of 49.58% (nominal  25,564.59). As the other limited partner, DAL Beteiligungsgesellschaft mbH, Mainz, holds an equity interest of 50.42% (nominal  26,000.00). The management and representation of Abraxas is the responsibility of the general partner Abraxas Grundstücksverwaltungsgesellschaft mbH, Mainz, which holds no equity interests. R. STAHL AG participates in the profit and loss of Abraxas according to its share of the capital. Its liability is limited to its capital contribution.

NOTES Principles and Methods of Consolidated Accounting

71

In notarized deeds dated 5 December 2000, R. STAHL AG and Abraxas concluded a property leasing transaction consisting of a building lease, real estate lease and purchase option agreement for the ground lease to the property entered in the land register of Waldenburg, District Court of Heilbronn ­ Sheet 2025 ­ district of Waldenburg plot 2006/14. There followed various contractual arrangements of a notarized and privately documented nature, which are noted in the last notarized collective certificate dated 27 March 2015. The owner of the ground lease site is R. STAHL AG. The ground lease has a term of 60 years, the ground rent amounts to approx.  112 thousand p.a. and is charged as an ancillary rental cost to R. STAHL AG. The lessor took on the planning and construction of an administration building and logistics building with an initial investment volume of  28.4 million. In the financial year 2013, the logistics building was extended by R. STAHL AG as the general contractor with an investment volume of approx.  3.1 million and in the financial year 2014 the administration building was extended with the addition of a company restaurant and a newly built development centre involving an investment volume of approx.  10.7 million.
Abraxas grants R. STAHL AG, as lessee, the right to use the administration and logistics building. The leasing relationship is to be classified as an operating lease. Under the terms of the lease, R. STAHL AG is obliged to conduct maintenance but has been granted the right to sublet. On expiry of the lease (30 September 2023), R. STAHL AG has the option to purchase the property at fair value.
Abraxas has forfeited its future lease receivables and only the amount of the remaining residual values, secured by mortgages, is financed by debt.
As of 31 December, the following balances refer to the R. STAHL Group's arrangements with Abraxas.

Carrying amounts in  000
Other financial assets Shares held by R. STAHL AG in Abraxas Maximum loss risk

2017

2016

26

26

26

26

All in all, R. STAHL AG has no control over the relevant activities of the property leasing company. There is no consolidation obligation pursuant to IFRS 10.
Translation of foreign currency items The cost of assets acquired in foreign currencies and revenue from sales in foreign currencies are determined using the exchange rates valid on the date of the transactions. Monetary items (cash and cash equivalents, receivables and liabilities) in foreign currencies are valued at the exchange rates on the balance sheet date. Changes in assets and liabilities arising from foreign currency translation are recognized in the income statement, and disclosed under other operating expenses or income, other financial result, and in the case of available-for-sale financial assets, in other comprehensive income.

72

R. STAHL AR 2017

Translation of foreign currency financial statements The translation of foreign currency financial statements depends on the functional currency of the consolidated companies. For companies whose functional currency is not the euro but their local currency, translation into the reporting currency is based on the "modified closing rate method": balance sheet items are translated into euro using closing rates on the balance sheet date, equity is translated at historical rates, and expenses and income are translated at the annual average rates. The difference between equity of the companies translated at historical rates at the time of acquisition or retention and equity translated at closing rates on the balance sheet date is disclosed separately as "translation adjustments" in other comprehensive income.
The underlying exchange rates for currency translation with material impact on the consolidated financial statements have changed relative to the euro () as follows:


US dollar British pound Norwegian kroner Indian rupee Russian rouble

Year-end rate

31/12/2017 31/12/2016

1.19930 0.88723 9.84030 76.60550 69.39200

1.05410 0.85618 9.08630 71.59350 64.30000

Average exchange rate

2017

2016

1.12968 0.87668 9.32704 73.53242 65.93825

1.10690 0.81948 9.29060 74.37871 74.14457

Consolidation principles Capital consolidation is conducted at the acquisition date according to the purchase method (IFRS 3). First, all assets, liabilities and additional intangible assets to be capitalized are measured at fair value. The acquisition cost of the investments is then netted with the proportional share of acquired and restated equity. The resulting positive differences are capitalized as goodwill. Negative differences are reviewed once more and then recognized directly in the income statement.
Changes in the parent company's shareholding in a subsidiary that do not lead to a loss of control are accounted for as an equity transaction. Differences from such transactions have to be set off against equity. A subsidiary is deconsolidated at the time the parent company loses control of the subsidiary.
Shares in a subsidiary's equity that are not allocable to the parent company are stated as "non-controlling interests".
Intra-group relationships, as well as intra-group results from deliveries and services among consolidated companies, are fully eliminated in the consolidation process.
The consolidation principles have remained unchanged compared to last year.

NOTES Principles and Methods of Consolidated Accounting

73

5. ACCOUNTING AND VALUATION METHODS
Uniform Group methods The annual financial statements of the consolidated companies have been prepared according to uniform accounting and valuation principles.
To this end, we have adjusted the financial statements prepared according to country-specific standards to the uniform Group accounting and valuation principles of R. STAHL AG in the case of any deviation from IFRS.
The reporting date for the separate financial statements of the consolidated companies is the same as the date of the consolidated financial statements, as at 31 December, except for the financial statements of R. STAHL PRIVATE LIMITED, Chennai (India). The balance sheet date for the separate financial statements in India is 31 March, insofar, interim financial statements have been prepared for the reporting date of the consolidated financial statements.
Estimates and assumptions Preparing consolidated financial statements according to IFRS requires estimates and assumptions that affect the amount and recognition of stated assets, debts, income, expense, and contingent liabilities. The respective assumptions and estimates are based on premises which represent the most recent knowledge. The estimates and the underlying assumptions are examined on an ongoing basis. Actual developments may result in amounts differing from these estimates. Such differences, if impacting on the accounting, are recognized in the period of change where the change affects this period only. If changes in estimates affect both the current period and future periods, these are recognized accordingly in the periods in question. Such estimates and assumptions mainly pertain to the following assets and liabilities:
Impairment of goodwill The R. STAHL Group examines at least once a year if goodwill is impaired. This requires an estimation of the value in use of the cash-generating units to which goodwill is allocated. Management has to estimate the expected future cash flows of the cash-generating units and furthermore select a suitable discount factor to determine the cash value of these cash flows. On 31 December 2017, the carrying values of goodwill amount to  11.1 million (2016:  12.1 million). For further information please refer to section 20.
Capitalized development costs Development costs are capitalized according to the accounting and valuation methods presented in this section. In order to determine the amounts to be capitalized, management has to make assumptions about the amount of the expected future cash flows from assets, the interest rates to be applied and the period of time for the influx of expected future cash flows that the assets generate. On 31 December 2017, the carrying value of capitalized development costs amounts to  26.2 million (2016:  24.6 million).
Provisions for pension obligations Expenses for defined benefit plans are determined using actuarial calculations based on assumptions with regard to discount factors, expected income from plan assets, future wage and salary increases, mortality and future pension increases. The applied discount factors are based on the yield of first-class, fixed-interest bearing company bonds. The expected long-term interest of the fund assets is determined on the basis of historical long-term yields and the structure of the portfolio. Pursuant to the longterm orientation of these plans, those assumptions are subject to essential uncertainties. The impact of changes in parameters applied as of the balance sheet date on the present value of the DBO is presented in section 28. Any discrepancy between the parameters assumed and the actual conditions on the balance sheet date has no impact on consolidated net profit, as gains and losses resulting from the discrepancies based on the remeasurement of the net defined benefit liability are recognized directly in equity. On 31 December 2017, provisions for pension obligations amount to  96.9 million (2016:  99.8 million). For further information please refer to section 28.

74

R. STAHL AR 2017

Deferred taxes The carrying value of deferred tax assets as of 31 December 2017 amounts to  11.9 million (2016:  20.7 million). Determination of future tax advantages reflected in the balance sheet are based on assumptions and estimates on the development of tax income and tax legislation in those countries where Group companies are located.
Further assumptions Furthermore, estimates and assumptions are used for purchase price allocations, the determination of economic lifetimes of intangible and tangible assets, accounting and valuation of inventories, receivables, provisions and the assessment of legal risks. Individual actual values may deviate from the estimates and assumptions. Pursuant to IAS 8, changes will be recognized through profit and loss at the time of gaining better knowledge.
Recognition of sales Revenue from product sales is recognized according to IAS 18 (Revenue) criteria at the time of ownership or liability transfer to the customer, purchase price agreement, or when the purchase price can be determined and its payment can be reasonably assumed. To the extent that business transactions have been agreed to only be effective upon customer approval, the respective sales will only be realized upon receipt of the corresponding approval notice or expiration of the approval period.
Sales from service transactions are recognized at the time the service is rendered if the income amount can be reliably estimated and the inflow of the economic benefit from the transaction is reasonably probable.
Sales are recognized net of cash and price discounts, customer bonuses and rebates.
Research and development expenses Research costs may not be capitalized under IAS 38.42 et seq. and are immediately expensed. Development costs are capitalized if the capitalization criteria pursuant to IAS 38 are met. Development expenses are stated at cost less accumulated depreciation and impairments. The respective depreciation and amortization uses the straight-line method.
Earnings per share Earnings per share are calculated according to IAS 33 (Earnings per Share).
Basic earnings per share are calculated by dividing consolidated earnings after taxes, attributable to the shareholders of R. STAHL AG, by the average number of common shares outstanding during the financial year.
As we have no potential common shares and no option or subscription rights outstanding, we did not have to calculate diluted earnings per share in 2016 nor in 2017.

NOTES Principles and Methods of Consolidated Accounting

75

Goodwill Goodwill is not amortized but is tested for impairment once a year by means of an impairment test. This test is also conducted if events or circumstances occur that indicate that the carrying amount may not be recoverable. Goodwill is recognized at cost less accumulated impairment losses.
Development costs Development costs are capitalized at manufacturing cost according to the criteria set forth in IAS 38 to the extent that the expense can be unambiguously allocated and both technical feasibility and marketing are assured. Furthermore, it has to be reasonably probable that development activities will generate future economic benefit. Capitalized development costs comprise all directly allocable costs and appropriate shares of development-related overhead. Capitalized development costs are amortized using the straight-line method from production start over the expected product life cycle of usually five to seven years. Capitalized development projects are subjected to annual impairment tests.
Other intangible assets Intangible assets with definite useful lives are recognized at cost less straight-line amortization over their contractual or estimated useful life. The useful lives are between 3 and 10 years.
Property, plant & equipment Property, plant & equipment is recognized at cost less cumulative scheduled depreciation and writedowns over the projected useful life.
Financial expenses are not recognized as part of acquisition or manufacturing cost for reasons of materiality.
Property, plant & equipment is depreciated using the straight-line method.
Valuation is based on the following group-wide useful lives:

in years
Buildings Technical equipment and machinery Other plants, operating, and office equipment

15 to 50 years 8 to 20 years 3 to 15 years

76

R. STAHL AR 2017

Impairment of property, plant & equipment and other intangible assets The company tests for impairment of property, plant & equipment and of intangible assets (including capitalized development costs and goodwill) if events or changed circumstances indicate that it may not be possible to recover the carrying amount of an asset. This involves comparing the carrying amounts with the recoverable value. The recoverable value is defined as the higher value of sales price minus disposal costs and value in use of the asset. Value in use is the capital value of future cash flows to be expected from the continued use of an asset and its sale at the end of its service live. The recoverable value of an asset is determined individually and, should that not be possible, for the cash-generating unit it has been allocated to. Basic assumptions have to be made to determine the expected cash flows of each cash-generating unit. This includes making assumptions for financial plans and the interest rates used for discounting cash flows.
Leasing The R. STAHL Group primarily leases buildings and land. IAS 17 (Leases) defines parameters by which to judge risks and opportunities of the leasing partners, and whether the economic ownership of the leasing object rests with the lessee (finance leases) or the lessor (operating leases). The R. STAHL Group only has operating leases. The pertinent payments are spread using the straight-line method over the term of the lease agreement.
Financial instruments A financial instrument is based on a contract that gives rise to a financial asset of one entity and a financial liability or equity instrument of another entity.
The first-time recognition of financial instruments occurs at fair value. Ancillary acquisition costs are included unless the financial instrument is measured at fair value in subsequent periods. Financial instruments are recognized for the first time on the settlement date.
After initial recognition, available for sale and held for trading financial assets are stated at fair value. If no market values can be determined, the fair values of available for sale financial assets are calculated using appropriate valuation methods, such as discounted cash flow models, taking into account market data available on the balance sheet date.
Loans granted by the company and receivables not held for trading (loans and receivables), held-to-maturity financial investments, and all financial assets with set maturities, but for which there are no regular price quotes in active markets so that their fair values cannot be reasonably determined, are recognized at amortized cost using the effective interest rate method. Financial assets without set maturities are recognized at historical costs.
Unless measured at fair value through profit or loss, financial liabilities are recognized at amortized cost using the effective interest rate method where applicable.
Pursuant to IAS 39, it must be regularly determined whether there are objective, reasonable impairment indications for financial assets or asset portfolios. In case of impairment, the respective impairment loss is to be recognized through profit and loss.
Profits and losses from available for sale financial assets are booked directly under equity until the financial asset has been divested or the impairment recognized. In case of impairment, IAS 39 requires removing the cumulative net loss from equity and expensing it.
Equity interests are recognized at quoted prices or fair value. If neither one of these are available or cannot be reliably determined, they are stated at historical costs.
Securities and loans stated under non-current assets are accounted for depending on their respective allocable financial asset category. These items do not include financial assets held for trading.

NOTES Principles and Methods of Consolidated Accounting

77

Real estate held as a financial investment Real estate held as a financial investment is stated as an asset if it is probable that the company will incur future economic benefit from such real estate held as a financial investment, and the acquisition or manufacturing costs can be reliably valued. Real estate held as a financial investment is valued using the purchase cost method.
Deferred tax assets and liabilities Deferred tax assets and liabilities are formed pursuant to IAS 12 (Income Taxes) using the balance-sheet-based liability method for all temporary differences between tax and commercial balance sheet values as well as for earnings-impacting consolidation measures. Moreover, deferred tax assets are formed for future asset gains from tax loss carryforwards. Deferred tax assets for all deductible temporary differences and tax loss carryforwards may, however, only be formed to the extent of likely future taxable income available for offsetting such temporary differences or as yet unused tax loss carryforwards. Tax deferrals are determined pursuant to IAS 12 based on the respective countries' effective or already resolved to become effective income tax rates at the time of income realization.
Deferred tax assets are netted against deferred tax liabilities if there is an enforceable right to offset these balance sheet items. This is usually the case for identical tax subjects, tax types and due dates. Deferred tax assets and liabilities are not discounted pursuant to IAS 12.
Inventories Raw materials and supplies, as well as merchandise, are recognized at the lower of average cost or net realizable value.
Unfinished and finished goods are recognized at the lower of manufacturing cost and net realizable value. The item encompasses all costs directly allocable to the manufacturing process and appropriate shares of production-related overhead. The latter includes production-related depreciation and amortization, prorated administrative expense, and prorated social insurance costs (total production-related cost approach). Manufacturing costs are determined on a normal capacity utilization basis.
Financing costs are not included in acquisition or manufacturing cost.
As soon as the reasons for inventory impairment cease to exist and thus net realizable value increases, the resulting value adjustment is recognized as a reduction in cost of materials.

78

R. STAHL AR 2017

Receivables and other assets Receivables and other assets, excluding derivative financial instruments and current-asset securities, are loans granted by the Group and receivables not held for trading. These items are recognized at cost. Non- or low-interest-bearing receivables with maturities in excess of one year are discounted.
Appropriate allowances are recognized to take account of all identifiable risks.
Derivative financial instruments and hedge accounting The R. STAHL Group only uses derivative financial instruments to hedge currency, interest rate and fair value risks from operating activities, and to reduce the resulting financing risks. According to IAS 39, all derivative financial instruments, such as interest rate and currency swaps as well as currency futures, are to be recognized at fair value independently of the purpose and intent of entering into such contracts.
The prerequisite for hedge accounting is that the definite hedging relation between underlying transaction and hedging instrument is documented and the effectiveness is proven. The R. STAHL Group principally documents all relations between hedges and related underlying transactions in compliance with IAS 39. Underlying transactions are related to hedges.
The R. STAHL Group uses derivative financial instruments for hedging of planned foreign currency payments and to limit interest payable for existing procurement of outside capital (cash flow hedge).
In the case of cash flow hedging, market value changes of that part of the hedging instrument classified as effective are first disclosed directly in equity as part of the overall result not affecting net income, taking deferred taxes into account, until the assured future cash flow eventuates. The transfer to the income statement coincides with the effect on net profit of the hedged underlying transaction. The part of the market value changes not covered by the underlying transaction is recognized directly in profit or loss.
Hedging the fair value of recognized assets or recognized liabilities is a fair value hedge. In the reporting period, the R. STAHL Group did not use fair value hedges.
Changes in the fair value of derivative financial instruments that do not fulfil the prerequisites for being accounted as hedges according to IAS 39 are recognized directly in the income statement.
The market values of derivative financial instruments are shown under "Other financial assets" or "Other financial liabilities". According to the settlement date, short-term and long-term derivatives are classified as current or non-current.
Provisions for pensions and similar obligations Provisions for pensions and similar obligations comprise the R. STAHL Group's pension obligations from defined benefit pension schemes.
In the case of defined benefit pension schemes (such as direct commitments (direct pension obligations in the form of pension provisions) and support funds (indirect pension obligations)), the actuarial valuation of the pension provisions is based on the projected unit credit method prescribed by IAS 19 (Employee Benefits). This approach not only considers pensions and unit credits known on the balance sheet date but also forecast future pension and salary increases. The calculation follows the actuarial tables including biometric calculation principles.
In Germany, the age of employees at the end of the agreed partial retirement period was set as the end financing age for employees in partial retirement programmes. In the case of other staff without individual contractual provisions regulating the retirement age, the earliest possible retirement age of 64 was applied. This corresponds to the average retirement age in the past and coming years within the company.

NOTES Principles and Methods of Consolidated Accounting

79

Actuarial gains and losses arising from changes in actuarial assumptions, or differences between previous actuarial assumptions and actual developments, are recognized directly in equity (Accumulated other comprehensive income) at the time of creation and under consideration of deferred taxes. Actuarial gains and losses recognized in the equity item "Accumulated other comprehensive income" and the respective deferred taxes are not reversed through profit or loss in subsequent periods. The actuarial gains and losses recognized in the reporting period and the respective deferred taxes are disclosed separately in the statement of comprehensive income.
The expense of funding pension obligations is recognized under personnel expenses while the interest portion of pension obligations is stated in the interest result.
The amount to be recognized as a liability from defined benefit pension plans is to be subtracted from the plan asset at fair value as at the balance sheet date.
In the case of defined contribution plans, the respective companies do not incur further obligations beyond making contributions to special purpose funds.
Discount factors for determining the present value of defined benefit pension obligations are established on the basis of yields achieved on the balance sheet date with high-quality, fixed interest-bearing company bonds in the respective market.
Other provisions Other provisions pursuant to IAS 37 (Provisions, Contingent Liabilities and Contingent Assets) have been included to the extent that they represent a present obligation based on past events and the amount required is both probable and can be reliably estimated. The event probability has to be greater than 50%. Provisions are only made for legal or factual obligations to third parties. The provision carried is the best estimated value on the reporting date for the service to be rendered to meet the current commitment. The valuation of other provisions ­ particularly for warranties and expected losses from pending transactions ­ also includes all cost components that are also capitalized in inventories (production-related total costs).
Restructuring provisions have been made to the extent that they meet the criteria of IAS 37 in conjunction with IAS 19.
Non-current provisions with residual maturities of more than one year are discounted if the interest effect is material.
Liabilities Liabilities are first recognized at historical costs corresponding to the fair value of the goods or services received including transaction costs.
With the exception of derivative financial instruments, liabilities are subsequently recognized at amortized cost.
The R. STAHL Group has no liabilities held for trading. The exception are derivatives not included in hedge accounting.

80

R. STAHL AR 2017

Contingent liabilities Contingent liabilities are possible obligations based on past events that have yet to be validated by one or more uncertain future events outside the R. STAHL Group's power of influence. Moreover, present obligations may be deemed contingent liabilities if the probability of cash outflows is not high enough to justify the formation of a provision and/or the obligation amount cannot be reliably estimated. The recognized contingent liability amounts correspond to the legal liability volume existing at the end of the reporting period.
Cash flow statement The cash flow statement shows the cash inflows and outflows of the R. STAHL Group in the reporting period.
In accordance with IAS 7 (Statement of Cash Flows), we distinguish between cash flows from operating, investing and financing activities.
The effects of acquisitions, divestments, and other changes in the scope of consolidation are presented separately pursuant to IAS 7.39 and classified as investing activities.
Cash and cash equivalents shown in the cash flow statement comprise cash on hand, cheques, and credit balances with banks. The item also includes securities with original maturities of up to three months. Liquid funds are unrestricted cash. Cash and cash equivalents as recognized in the balance sheet correspond to liquid funds. For details on the composition of cash and cash equivalents, please refer to the explanations on "Cash and cash equivalents".
Segment reporting According to IFRS 8, companies must disclose individual financial data on business segments. IFRS 8 adopts the so-called "management approach", according to which segment reporting only discloses financial information used by the company's decision-makers for internal control of the company. The internal reporting and organizational structure is decisive here as well as such financial values as are used for decision-making in regard to the allocation of resources and evaluation of profitability.

NOTES Principles and Methods of Consolidated Accounting

81

 Notes to the Consolidated Income Statement

NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED INCOME STATEMENT
6 Sales A breakdown of sales by region is shown below:
 000 Breakdown by region Central region (Europe, Africa)
thereof Germany Americas Asia/Pacific Total

2017
181,604 60,928 28,973 57,885 268,462

2016
193,250 61,340 35,812 57,547 286,609

7 Other own work capitalized Other own work capitalized results in particular from capitalizing development costs pursuant to IAS 38. In the reporting period, this came to  3,840 thousand (2016:  3,336 thousand). In the reporting period, total expenses of  17,525 thousand (2016:  16,563 thousand) were recognized for research and de velopment.
8 Other operating income Other operating income includes the following items:

 000
Income from asset disposals Income from the reversal of provisions Income from the reversal of valuation allowances Income from the market valuation of derivatives Gains from currency translation Other income Total

2017
11 627 1,198 876 3,786 1,528 8,026

2016
2,486 1,473
0 0 4,545 4,419 12,923

82

R. STAHL AR 2017

9 Cost of materials The cost of materials comprises the following items:
 000 Expense for raw materials and supplies Services received Total

2017
-94,443 -5,673 -100,116

2016
-95,433 -5,703 -101,136

10 Personnel costs Personnel costs consist of the following:
 000 Wages and salaries Social insurance contributions, as well as pension and support expense thereof for pensions Total

2017
-100,678 -20,434 -3,092 - 121,112

2016
-98,307 -19,981 -2,654 -118,288

11 Annual average number of staff
The average number of employees and trainees of consolidated companies in the year under review as compared to the previous year was as follows:

Number
Employees Trainees Total

2017
1,776 73
1,849

2016
1,824 90
1,914

The average number of employees does not include employees of associated companies carried in the consolidated financial statements using the equity method.
12 Depreciation and amortization Depreciation and amortization of intangible assets and property, plant & equipment amounts to  12,972 thousand (2016:  13,381 thousand).

NOTES Notes to the Consolidated Income Statement

83

13 Other operating expenses Other operating expenses mainly comprise the following items:
 000
Services Rental expense for premises Legal, consulting, licensing and inventor fees Maintenance costs Travel and entertainment expenses General transport costs Losses from currency translation Other taxes Expenses from market valuation of derivatives Other Total

2017
-8,173 -6,750 -5,069 -4,239 -4,047 -3,073 -4,963
-715 0
-16,950 -53,979

2016
-9,591 -6,903 -4,845 -4,032 -3,911 -3,506 -4,695
-589 -545 -17,030 -55,647

14 Result from companies consolidated using the equity method The result from companies consolidated using the equity method includes an amount of  965 thousand from ZAVOD Goreltex, Saint Petersburg, Russia, and  12 thousand from ESACO Pty. Ltd., Edenvale, South Africa.
15 Investment result The investment result amounted to  17 thousand (2016:  25 thousand).
16 Interest result The interest result comprises the following items:

 000
Interest and similar income Interest and similar expense Total

2017
238 -3,179 -2,941

2016
260 -3,365 -3,105

The interest result includes the net interest portion from the allocation to pension provisions in the amount of  -1,851 thousand (2016:  -2,115 thousand).

84

R. STAHL AR 2017

17 Income taxes This item shows the following current and deferred tax assets and liabilities, which comprise the following:

 000
Current taxes Deferred taxes Total

2017
-1,032 -7,510 -8,542

2016
-1,588 12
-1,576

For domestic Group companies, current taxes comprise corporation tax including the solidarity surcharge and trade tax, while for foreign Group companies it comprises comparable income-dependent taxes. Taxes are calculated according to the respective tax regulations of the various companies.
In the year under review, we claimed previously unused tax loss carryforwards resulting in tax credits of  0 thousand (2016:  0 thousand) hat we netted against income tax liabilities.
Deferred taxes are calculated on the basis of applicable tax rates in effect or known to become effective in the respective countries at the time these taxes fall due. In Germany, corporate tax rate is 15.0% with a solidarity surcharge of 5.5%. In addition to corporate tax, a trade income tax is payable on profits made in Germany. This varies depending on the communities in which the company is located. With an average trade tax collection rate of 390.5%, the total tax rate for the Group's domestic companies amounts to 29.5% (2016: 29.5%). The profits earned by the Group's foreign companies are taxed at the rates applicable in the respective country of their registered office. These are also used to determine deferred taxes, provided that future tax rate adjustments have not yet been resolved. The tax rates for our foreign activities range from 0.0% to 34.0% (2016: 0.0% and 34.0%).
Deferred tax assets on tax loss carryforwards of  15,073 thousand (2016:  11,240 thousand) were written down by  14,627 thousand (2016:  3,666 thousand) as we do not know exactly the amounts to which they may be realized given the information available at this time. Total writedowns include  9,964 thousand corporate tax (2016:  3,363 thousand) and  4,663 thousand trade tax (2016:  303 thousand).
Cumulated corporate tax loss carryforwards as yet unused amount to  55,271 thousand (2016:  40,191 thousand), while cumulated trade tax loss carryforwards as yet unused amount to  33,979 thousand (2016:  23,331 thousand). The loss carryforwards are not limited in time. Tax losses cannot be offset with taxable income of other Group companies.
Both in the reporting period and the previous year, there were no deferred tax assets or deferred tax liabilities due to acquisitions carried without effect on profit or loss.
From the current perspective, the retained earnings of subsidiaries are mainly to be invested for an indefinite period. In accor dance with IAS 12, no deferred tax liabilities are recognized for retained earnings of subsidiaries.

NOTES Notes to the Consolidated Income Statement

85

Accumulated deferred tax assets and liabilities as at 31 December 2017 were as follows:

 000
Deferred tax assets, gross Tax loss carryforwards Intangible assets Property, plant & equipment Other financial assets Inventories Receivables and other assets Cash and cash equivalents Equity Long-term provisions Other short-term liabilities and debts Short-term provisions Net of value adjustments Total deferred tax assets, gross Less netting Total deferred tax assets acc. to balance sheet

31/12/2017

31/12/2016

15,073 47 159 1
2,753 447 1 165
14,401 359
1,376 -14,627 20,155 -8,250 11,905

11,240 49 153 1
3,159 218 0 128
15,471 752
1,576 -3,666 29,081 -8,367 20,714

86

R. STAHL AR 2017

 000
Deferred tax liabilities, gross Intangible assets Property, plant & equipment Other financial assets Investment property Inventories Receivables and other assets Prepaid expenses Long-term provisions Short-term interest-bearing financial debts Other short-term liabilities and debts Total deferred tax liabilities, gross Less netting Total deferred tax liabilities acc. to balance sheet Net balance of deferred taxes

31/12/2017

31/12/2016

7,352 2,391
205 406 187 525
4 173 114 101 11,458 -8,250 3,208 8,697

6,778 2,812
220 418 247 950
0 178 156 71 11,830 -8,367 3,463 17,251

Deferred tax assets of  11,905 thousand (2016:  20,714 thousand) include  8,904 thousand (2016:  17,898 thousand) for companies with a negative result in the reporting period or in the previous year. The recognition of the respective deferred tax assets is based on the positive future results of planning and the reverse effect of temporary differences.
The following table shows the reconciliation of the expected tax expense for the respective financial year and the corresponding reported tax expense. The expected tax expense has been calculated by multiplying pre-tax earnings by the applicable total tax rate of 29.0% (2016: 29.0%). Pre-tax earnings amount to  -12,109 thousand (2016:  5,799 thousand).

 000
Expected tax expense Taxation differences between domestic and foreign operations Non-tax-deductible expenses Tax-free income Changes in write-downs on deferred tax assets Utilization of tax loss carryforwards Taxes for prior years Other Effective income taxes Tax expense shown in the consolidated income statement

2017
3,664 -361 -441 423 -10,961
0 121 -987 -8,542 -8,542

2016
-1,682 671 -268 -7 -175 0 -23 -92
-1,576 -1,576

NOTES Notes to the Consolidated Income Statement

87

A total of  -942 thousand of deferred taxes was recognized in the balance sheet decreasing equity (2016:  3,324 thousand increasing equity) without influence on the income statement.
Tax effects on income and expense recognized in other comprehensive income are as follows:

 000

Earnings before income taxes

2017 Income taxes

Earnings after Earnings before income taxes income taxes

2016 Income taxes

Earnings after income taxes

Currency translation differences
Cash flow hedges
Pension obligations
Income and expense recognized directly in equity

-2,406 39
2,741
374

0

-2,406

1,118

-12

27

-37

-930

1,811

-10,609

-942

-568

-9,528

0 13 3,311
3,324

1,118 -24
-7,298
-6,204

18 Earnings per share
 000 Net profit for the year without non-controlling interests Number of shares (weighted average) Earnings per share in 

2017
-21,136 6,440,000
-3.28

2016
4,136 6,440,000
0.64

Undiluted or basic earnings per share shown above are calculated according to IAS 33 by dividing consolidated net profit attribut able to ordinary shareholders of R. STAHL AG by the average number of shares outstanding in the financial year.
So-called potential shares can dilute earnings per share. As we have no potential common shares and no options or subscription rights outstanding, there was no need to calculate diluted earnings per share in 2016 or 2017.
19 Appropriation of profit/equity The annual financial statements as at 31 December 2017 of R. STAHL AG show a balance sheet loss. In accordance with legal regulations, no resolution on the appropriation of profit must therefore be adopted.
In the financial year 2017, a dividend of  0.60 (2016:  0.60) per dividend-entitled share was distributed to shareholders.
The dividend payout in the financial year 2016 was made in accordance with the profit distribution resolution adopted under Agenda Item 2 of the Annual General Meeting of 3 June 2016.

88

R. STAHL AR 2017

Legal challenges against the resolutions adopted under Agenda Items 2 to 5 of the Annual General Meeting of 3 June 2016 were filed at the District Court of Stuttgart. These lawsuits were dismissed in the first instance. The Higher Regional Court of Stuttgart indicated to those who subsequently appealed the decision that the chances of such an appeal succeeding are not promising. The further progress of this case remains to be seen.
After the Annual General Meeting rejected a corresponding proposed resolution as part of a request for supplements under Agenda Item 6, an application was also made at the District Court of Stuttgart for the court appointment of a special auditor for various topics. The District Court of Stuttgart rejected the application as unfounded and also rejected the resulting appeal filed against it. The case has been referred to the Higher Regional Court of Stuttgart.

NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEET

NON-CURRENT ASSETS
20 Intangible assets As of 31 December 2017, the development was as follows:

 000
Acquisition costs 1 January 2017 Currency differences Additions Disposals Reclassifications 31 December 2017
Cumulative amortization and impairment 1 January 2017 Currency differences Additions Disposals Additions 31 December 2017 Carrying amounts 31 December 2017

Industrial property rights and similar
rights
24,298 -159 1,010 -48 1,004
26,105
22,731 -145 1,131 -48 0
23,669
2,436

Goodwill
12,287 -444 0 -526 0
11,317
231 -18 526 -526
0 213
11,104

Development costs
39,025 -67
5,438 0
-520 43,876
14,418 -49
3,262 0 0
17,631
26,245

Other
11,153 -571 669 -46 -484
10,721
8,986 -550 320 -46
0 8,710
2,011

Total
86,763 -1,241 7,117
-620 0
92,019
46,366 -762 5,239 -620 0
50,223
41,796

NOTES Notes to the Consolidated Income Statement

89

 Notes to the Consolidated Balance Sheet

As of 31 December 2016, the development was as follows:

 000
Acquisition costs 1 January 2016 Currency differences Additions Disposals Additions 31 December 2016
Cumulative amortization and impairment 1 January 2016 Currency differences Additions Disposals Additions 31 December 2016 Carrying amounts 31 December 2016

Industrial property rights and similar
rights
25,954 133 547
-2,336 0
24,298
22,451 112
1,718 -1,550
0 22,731
1,567

Goodwill
11,879 408 0 0 0
12,287
219 12 0 0 0 231
12,056

Development costs
34,520 43
4,690 -228
0 39,025
11,314 28
3,279 -203
0 14,418
24,607

Other
10,181 452 944 -424 0
11,153
7,951 415 621 -1 0
8,986
2,167

Total
82,534 1,036 6,181 -2,988
0 86,763
41,935 567
5,618 -1,754
0 46,366
40,397

The item Other intangible assets includes prepayments of  1.6 million (2016:  1.5 million).
Intangible assets mainly comprise IT software, capitalized development costs for various development projects, and goodwill. Impairment of goodwill is checked by calculating the realizable value of cash-generating units based on their value in use. This calculation uses cash flow projections based on management-approved, three-year financial plans. The cash flow projections are discounted at pre-tax interest rates of 7.70­18.16% (2016: 7.69­11.82%).
Goodwill of  11.1 million (2016:  12.1 million) was allocated to the following cash-generating units:
R. STAHL HMI Systems GmbH (Germany)  4.6 million (2016:  4.6 million), R. Stahl Schaltgeräte GmbH (Germany)  1.1 million (2016:  1.1 million), R. STAHL Nissl GmbH (Austria)  0.0 million (2016:  0.5 million), sub-group (Norway)  4.0 million (2016:  4.4 million), OOO R. Stahl (Russia)  0.5 million (2016:  0.5 million) and R. STAHL LTD. (Canada)  0.9 million (2016:  1.0 million).

90

R. STAHL AR 2017

Changes to goodwill are due in particular to the revaluation of the Norwegian krone on the balance sheet date and the writedown on goodwill of R. STAHL Nissl GmbH, Vienna, amounting to  0.5 million.
Impairment tests according to the discounted cash flow method of the cash-generating units led to fair values above the carrying amounts. With the exception of the Austrian company, no amortization was required.
Cash flows after a period of three years are fixed for another two years. The cash flows are then extrapolated unaltered with a growth rate of 1%.
Planned sales and gross profit margins: The average annual growth in external sales (compound annual growth rate) in the detailed planning period for the cash-generating units is between -6.8% and 11.1% (weighted 4.0%), depending on the market position and region. Gross profit margins are calculated as part of the bottom-up planning of Group companies using average gross profit margins achieved in the directly preceding year and are possibly raised under consideration of expected increases in efficiency.
Price increase in material and personnel costs: The forecast price indices are used to determine the price increase in material and personnel costs. Salary increases are considered for the respective planning period according to country.
Capital costs: Capital costs are calculated from the weighted average cost of equity and external capital before taxes. The beta factor for the calculation of equity costs is determined from capital market data and the capital structure of companies comparable to R. STAHL. Borrowing costs are calculated on the basis of quasi-safe government bonds and an additional mark-up, derived from the rating of comparable companies.
Sensitivity analyses showed that from the current perspective, there is no requirement for impairment of goodwill even if we assumed that planned EBIT as of plan year 2018 would fall by 10% or that capital costs would rise by another 0.5%-points. Changes outside this range are regarded as unlikely.

NOTES Notes to the Consolidated Balance Sheet

91

21 Property, plant & equipment As of 31 December 2017, the development was as follows:

 000
Acquisition costs 1 January 2017 Currency differences Additions Disposals Reclassifications 31 December 2017
Cumulative depreciation and impairment 1 January 2017 Currency differences Additions Disposals Reclassifications 31 December 2017 Carrying amounts 31 December 2017

Properties, property-like rights
and buildings

Technical Other plant as well Prepayments made

equipment and as operating and and plant under

machinery office equipment

construction

48,981

34,451

52,328

432

-505

-644

-357

-1

57

749

2,182

316

-5

-572

-1,574

0

7

21

128

-156

48,535

34,005

52,707

591

11,235

23,995

38,591

0

-57

-390

-268

0

1,186

2,191

4,069

0

-4

-576

-1,337

0

0

0

0

0

12,360

25,220

41,055

0

36,175

8,785

11,652

591

Total
136,192 -1,507 3,304 -2,151 0
135,838
73,821 -715 7,446
-1,917 0
78,635
57,203

92

R. STAHL AR 2017

As of 31 December 2016, the development was as follows:

 000
Acquisition costs 1 January 2016 Currency differences Additions Disposals Reclassifications 31 December 2016
Cumulative depreciation and impairment 1 January 2016 Currency differences Additions Disposals Reclassifications 31 December 2016 Carrying amounts 31 December 2016

Properties, property-like rights
and buildings

Technical Other plant as well Prepayments made

equipment and as operating and and plant under

machinery office equipment

construction

50,907 87 673
-3,055 369
48,981

31,919 254
2,689 -555 144 34,451

52,212 92
2,708 -3,224
540 52,328

1,369 -3
244 -125 -1,053 432

10,346

22,167

37,254

0

18

175

72

0

1,136

2,112

4,229

0

-265

-459

-2,964

0

0

0

0

0

11,235

23,995

38,591

0

37,746

10,456

13,737

432

Total
136,407 430
6,314 -6,959
0 136,192
69,767 265
7,477 -3,688
0 73,821
62,371

No revaluations were made in the financial year or the previous year.
With regard to property, plant & equipment, collateral has been provided for liabilities amounting to  11,814 thousand (2016:  10,794 thousand). At the end of the reporting period, order commitments for property, plant & equipment amounted to  1,271 thousand (2016:  974 thousand).

NOTES Notes to the Consolidated Balance Sheet

93

22 Other non-current assets
Shares in associated companies In 2016, R. STAHL AG acquired a 25% stake in the Russian company ZAVOD Goreltex Co. Ltd., Saint Petersburg, Russia, and a 35% stake in the South African company ESACO (Pty.) LTD, Edenvale, South Africa. Of the total increase in the carrying amount of shares in associated companies as at 31 December 2017 amounting to  653 thousand, ZAVOD Goreltex Co. Ltd. accounted for  641 thousand and ESACO (Pty.) LTD for  12 thousand. Additions of  66 thousand are included for ZAVOD Goreltex Co. Ltd. as a result of a capital increase.
Other financial assets Other financial assets totalling  50 thousand (2016:  110 thousand) comprise other equity interests and securities.
Other non-current assets Other non-current assets comprise receivables and other assets as well as deferred items totalling  1,206 thousand (2016:  1,293 thousand). Total other non-current assets comprise a restricted amount of  1,050 thousand (2016:  1,098 thousand) which serves as collateral for obligations arising from partial retirement contracts.
Real estate held as a financial investment Real estate held as a financial investment refers to two properties with buildings and improvements.
As of 31 December 2017, the development was as follows:

 000
Acquisition costs 1 January 2017 Additions Disposals Reclassifications 31 December 2017
Cumulative depreciation and impairment 1 January 2017 Additions Disposals Reclassifications 31 December 2017 Carrying amounts 31 December 2017

Total
13,928 4 0 0
13,932
6,262 287 0 0
6,549 7,383

94

R. STAHL AR 2017

As of 31 December 2016, the development was as follows:

 000
Acquisition costs 1 January 2016 Additions Disposals Reclassifications 31 December 2016
Cumulative depreciation and impairment 1 January 2016 Additions Disposals Reclassifications 31 December 2016 Carrying amounts 31 December 2016

Total
13,928 0 0 0
13,928
5,976 286 0 0
6,262 7,666

The R. STAHL Group differentiates between real estate used by third parties and property it uses mostly itself. Real estate is used overwhelmingly by third parties if it is rented in excess of 90% by non-Group companies.
After selling the Material Handling division in 2005, the respective buildings were let to the buyer. Since self-use ceased to apply after the divestment, the properties were reclassified from non-current assets to real estate held as a financial investment.
The R. STAHL Group measures this real estate held as a financial investment using the acquisition cost model.
The buildings and improvements are depreciated in scheduled amounts over economic useful lives for buildings of 33 and 50 years using the straight-line method.
The fair value of real estate amounted to  11.1 million as of 31 December 2017 (2016:  11.1 million) and is allocated to the fair value hierarchy Level 3. An external assessor was used to determine values. Values were determined in October 2014 on the basis of discounted cash flow calculations. Fair value amounts were determined using the capitalized earnings of real estate based on standard market rents. Furthermore, adequate management costs (loss of rent risk, maintenance and administrative costs) and other value-influencing factors were considered. Property yields of 7.0% and 7.5% as well as an adequate remaining life expect ancy were used for the calculation. There are no indications of any changes in the value of land.
Rental income from "Real estate held as a financial investment" recognized in the income statement and all received in the reporting period amounts to  1,298 thousand (2016:  1,296 thousand). Expenses directly allocable to these properties of  588 thousand (2015:  581 thousand) were incurred. Rental income in 2018 is expected to amount to  1,263 thousand.

NOTES Notes to the Consolidated Balance Sheet

95

CURRENT ASSETS
23 Inventories and prepayments made Inventories comprise the following:

 000
Raw materials and supplies Unfinished goods and unfinished services Finished goods and merchandise Prepayments made Total

31/12/2017
19,543 8,574 17,196
188 45,501

31/12/2016
21,419 9,452 19,729
283 50,883

In the reporting period, scheduled inventory impairments for slow-moving products of  12,429 thousand (2016:  12,229 thousand) were made, of which  1,306 thousand was recognized in the income statement in the current period. With regard to inventories, collateral of  5,287 thousand (2016:  6,740 thousand) has been provided for liabilities.
24 Receivables and other assets Receivables and other assets consist of the following items:

 000
Trade receivables Income tax claims Other receivables Other financial assets Total

31/12/2017

Total

Thereof due

within one year

49,961 3,166 5,736
649 59,512

49,961 3,166 4,542
649 58,318

31/12/2016

Total

Thereof due

within one year

60,190 3,084 7,144
479 70,897

60,190 3,084 5,864
479 69,617

Of the capitalized total,  58,318 thousand (2016:  69,617 thousand) is due within one year, the remainder totalling  1,194 thousand (2016:  1,280 thousand) is disclosed under other non-current assets. Bad debt allowances of  3,028 thousand (2016:  2,911 thousand) were recognized on trade receivables. Other current financial assets include derivative financial instruments of  514 thousand (2016:  339 thousand).

96

R. STAHL AR 2017

At the end of 2016, two Group companies entered into a factoring agreement according to which the factoring company is obliged to purchase trade receivables with a monthly revolving nominal volume of  25 million for receivables denominated in euro and  5 million for receivables denominated in USD or GBP. The agreement can be terminated by both contractual partners with a notice period of six months for the first time on 30 November 2019. Thereafter, termination is only possible on 30 November of each year with a six-month notice period. The relevant risk for risk assessment with regard to receivables sold is mainly the credit risk. The maximum loss is limited to the variable purchase price discount or security retention, which is retained by the factoring company when the receivables are sold and is reimbursed in the amount of the non-consumed proportion. The remaining credit risk-related payment defaults represent the majority of all risks and opportunities associated with the receivables and are borne by the factoring company. The maximum loss risk for R. STAHL from the receivables sold on 31 December 2017 (nominal value  10,469 thousand) amounts to  1,658 thousand. The fair value of the expected reimbursement of the variable purchase price discount was capitalized in other receivables and other assets during the derecognition period. As of 31 December 2017, the carrying and fair value of the company's entire ongoing factoring activities amounted to  1,658 thousand. The residual maturity of the corresponding other receivables and other assets is less than one year.
25 Prepaid expenses
Of total prepaid expenses,  2,377 thousand (2016:  2,300 thousand) are due within one year;  12 thousand (2016:  13 thousand) qualify as long-term and are disclosed under other non-current assets.
26 Cash and cash equivalents
Cash and cash equivalents changed year-on-year as follows:

 000
Cash on hand Cheques Credit balances with banks, payable on demand Credit balances with banks, originally payable at 3 months' notice Total

31/12/2017
32 81 15,721 251 16,085

31/12/2016
31 86 15,876 175 16,168

27 Equity The consolidated statement of changes in equity shows the development of the R. STAHL Group's consolidated equity.
Subscribed capital The subscribed capital of R. Stahl Aktiengesellschaft amounting to  16,500,000.00 is divided into 6,440,000 no-par registered shares, each with a prorated notional share of capital of  2.56. The shares are fully paid.

NOTES Notes to the Consolidated Balance Sheet

97

Capital reserves This item mostly comprises shareholders' paid-up premiums net of transaction costs incurred. R. STAHL AG's consolidated financial statements under German Commercial Code (HGB) rules still openly netted goodwill from capital consolidations against capital reserves until 31 December 2003. When a subsequent write-back of capital reserves rendered the offsetting impossible, the respective amount was netted against profit carryforwards. For all differences that arose from business combinations prior to the opening IFRS balance sheet date on 1 January 2004, HGB accounting was maintained. In connection with the sale of all treasury shares, an amount of  12,963 thousand was credited to capital reserves in the financial year 2015. Transaction costs of  440 thousand recognized directly in equity and deferred taxes of  128 thousand were already deducted from the amount of  12,963 thousand.
Revenue reserves Revenue reserves comprise the retained earnings of consolidated companies from before 1 January 2004, insofar as they were not used for dividend payments. Moreover, value differences from all business combinations made prior to 1 January 2004 were offset against revenue reserves. From preparation of the opening IFRS balance sheet, the item also includes negative differences from business combinations (formerly shown as a separate item under equity in the HGB financial statements up to 31 December 2003) and currency translation differences reclassified as of 1 January 2004. Furthermore, the item includes all remaining adjustments without impact on profit or loss recognized in the opening IFRS balance sheet on initial adoption of IFRS as of 1 January 2004 as well as equity generated since 1 January 2004 less dividends to shareholders.
The shareholders have a claim to the balance sheet profit of R. STAHL AG unless such distribution to shareholders is excluded by law or the company's articles, by a resolution adopted by the Annual General Meeting or due to transfer to revenue reserves.
Accumulated other comprehensive income This position comprises differences from currency translation of the financial statements of foreign subsidiaries from 1 January 2004 forward, changes in unrealized gains and losses from cash flow hedges, as well as actuarial gains/losses from pension obligations. For detailed information, please refer to the consolidated statement of changes in equity.
Non-controlling interests Non-controlling interests relate to external shareholders of OOO R. Stahl, Moscow (Russia).
Additional disclosures on capital management The R. STAHL Group's capital management aims to ensure the company's continued existence, realize an adequate return on equity, secure the servicing of financial liabilities and maintain an acceptable capital structure.
The capital structure may change as a result of dividend distributions, the purchase of treasury shares, the issue of new shares, and the borrowing or repayment of debt, depending on requirements.
These objectives are monitored with the aid of key performance indicators (KPIs), such as the return on sales and equity ratio.
The pre-tax operating return on sales amounted to -4.7% (2016: 2.0%).

98

R. STAHL AR 2017

Equity net of non-controlling interests and interest-bearing debt changed from the previous year as follows:

 000
Equity net of non-controlling interests Long-term interest-bearing loans Short-term interest-bearing loans Interest-bearing debt Total capital Equity ratio for capital management (%)

31/12/2017
68,966 13,095 21,073 34,168 103,134
66.9

31/12/2016
94,531 10,370 27,616 37,986 132,517
71.3

At the end of the reporting period 2017, the equity ratio for capital management decreased to 66.9%. The decrease in equity of  25,565 thousand is mainly due to the negative result for the year. Long-term loans rose by  2,725 thousand and short-term loans fell by  6,543 thousand.

PROVISIONS
28 Pension provisions Provisions for pensions and similar obligations include the following items:

 000
Long-term pension provisions Short-term pension provisions Total

31/12/2017
93,736 3,201 96,937

31/12/2016
96,683 3,114 99,797

Pension provisions are accrued for obligations from pension commitments (unit credits) and on-going payments to entitled current and former employees of R. STAHL Group companies and their survivors. Depending on legal, economic and tax regulations of the respective countries, pension plans take different forms that are typically based on service duration and remuneration of the respective individuals.
Company pension schemes distinguish between defined benefit and defined contribution plans.
In the case of defined contribution plans, the respective company does not commit to any further obligations beyond making contributions to a special-purpose fund. In the reporting period, employer pension contributions for domestic employees amounted to around  5.0 million (2016:  5.2 million). In addition, the company concluded individual defined contribution plans. The annual contribution amounted to  261 thousand in 2017 (2016:  261 thousand).

NOTES Notes to the Consolidated Balance Sheet

99

For defined benefit pension plans, the company is obliged to make payments to current and former employees as agreed. Such pension plans may be financed via provisions or funds.
The R. STAHL Group mostly finances its pension commitments by forming corresponding provisions. In Germany, there are defined benefit pension schemes for the Executive Board, management and employees. There are individual contractual arrangements concerning pension, disability and widow's, widower's and orphan's pensions for (former) Executive Board members and (former) executives. Pension schemes for entitled employees provide for the granting of old-age and disability pensions, as well as widow's, widower's and orphan's pensions, after a certain vesting period. The pension amount depends on the respective salary and service years.
In Norway and Switzerland, there are defined benefit pension obligations for employees and managers that are financed by employee and employer contributions to pension funds. The contributions depend on salary and age.
We calculated our 2017 pension obligations based on the 2005 G actuarial tables of Prof. Dr. Klaus Heubeck. The pension obligation amount (defined benefit obligation = DBO) was determined using actuarial methods including estimates for relevant impact factors. In addition to life expectancy assumptions, the following actuarial projections were also made:

%
Interest rate Salary trend Pension trend

Germany

Abroad

2017

2016

2017

2016

1.93

1.72

0.60­2.40

0.60­2.60

3.00

3.00

1.50­2.50

1.50­2.50

1.75

1.75

0.00

0.00

The salary trend encompasses anticipated future salary increases that are estimated on an annual basis depending on inflation and service duration.
Increases and decreases in the present value of defined benefit obligations can result in actuarial gains or losses due to, amongst other factors, changes in calculation parameters and estimates of the pension obligations' risk development. These are recognized in equity in the period of their creation after consideration of deferred taxes.

100

R. STAHL AR 2017

Sensitivity analyses Changes of 0.25%-points to the above mentioned assumptions used to calculate the DBO as at 31 December 2017 would increase or decrease the DBO as follows:

 000
Interest rate Salary trend Pension trend

Increase
-4,345 +1,169 +3,369

Decrease
+4,639 -1,113 -3,144

To determine the sensitivity of longevity, it was assumed that the life expectancy for all beneficiaries increased by one year. The DBO as at 31 December 2017 would increase by  4,474 thousand with a life expectancy of one more year.
Changes of 0.25%points to the above mentioned assumptions used to calculate the DBO as at 31 December 2016 would increase or decrease the DBO as follows:

 000
Interest rate Salary trend Pension trend

Increase
-4,523 +1,243 +3,419

Decrease
+4,838 -1,188 -3,125

To determine the sensitivity of longevity, it was assumed that the life expectancy for all beneficiaries increased by one year. The DBO as at 31 December 2016 would increase by  4,665 thousand with a life expectancy of one more year.
Sensitivity analyses consider changes to one assumption, whereby all other assumptions remain unchanged from their original calculation.
The following defined benefit pension plans are recognized in the balance sheet:

 000
Present values of fund-financed pension claims Fund assets at market values Financial status (net) Present values of provision-based pension claims Balance sheet value as at 31 December

31/12/2017
10,466 -8,882 1,584 95,354 96,938

31/12/2016
8,574 -7,687
887 98,910 99,797

The revaluation of a disability pensioner of R. STAHL Schweiz AG led to an increase in the present value of fund-financed pension claims and of fund assets at market values of  1,820 thousand each without affecting income.
Of total pension provisions amounting to  96,938 thousand (2016:  99,797 thousand), domestic Group companies account for  95,354 thousand (2016:  98,910 thousand). Foreign companies account for fund assets of  8,882 thousand (2016:  7,687 thousand).

NOTES Notes to the Consolidated Balance Sheet

101

The projected benefit obligations developed as follows:

 000
Projected benefit obligations on 1 January + Current service cost + Interest expense +/-Actuarial gains (-) and losses (+) from changes in demographic assumptions +/-Actuarial gains (-) and losses (+) from changes in financial assumptions +/-Actuarial gains (-) and losses (+) from changes based on experience adjustments - Benefits paid +/- Past service cost +/- Changes in exchange rate +/- Other = Projected benefit obligations on 31 December

2017
107,484 +1,947 +1,851
-15 -2,844
-691 -2,926
0 -807 +1,821 105,820

2016
96,090 +1,853 +2,269
-10 +11,115
-747 -2,815
0 +371 -642 107,484

Due to a change in legislation in Norway, the projected benefit obligations in Norway declined in the previous year. The effect amounting to  597 thousand is disclosed in the development of projected benefit obligations 2016 under "Other".
The present value of defined benefit pension obligations is divided between the following members of the plan:

 000
Beneficiaries in active employment Beneficiaries no longer with the company Pensioners Projected benefit obligations on 31 December

2017
51,861 6,846 47,113 105,820

2016
54,928 5,387 47,169 107,484

The defined benefit pension obligations have the following maturities:
 000 Due in the financial year 2018 Due in the financial years 2019­2022 Due in the financial years 2023­2027

3,202 13,669 19,017

102

R. STAHL AR 2017

From the current perspective, the average weighted term over which the defined benefit pension obligation will exist amounts to 18 years for the R. STAHL Group.
In the previous year, defined benefit pension obligations had the following maturities:

 000
Due in the financial year 2017 Due in the financial years 2018­2021 Due in the financial years 2022­2026

3,114 13,315 18,573

Reconciliation to the fair value of fund assets was as follows:

 000
Fund assets on 1 January + Expected income from fund assets + Employer's pension contributions +Employee's pension contributions - Administrative expenses +/-Pension payments made and refunds - Income from fund assets without interest +/- Other +/- Foreign exchange rate changes = Fund assets on 31 December

2017
7,687 151 631 52 0
1,764 -35 -675 -693
8,882

2016
7,430 154 402 50 0 -52 -38 -602
+343 7,687

Expected income from fund assets is considered when calculating the fair value of fund assets as at the balance sheet date. This expected income is based on historic and future average earnings expectations of the respective investment categories. In the following financial year, employer contributions to fund assets of  627 thousand (2016:  456 thousand) are expected.
Due to a change in legislation in Norway, fund assets in Norway declined in the previous year. The effect amounting to  -558 thousand is disclosed in the development of fair value of fund assets 2016 under "Other".

NOTES Notes to the Consolidated Balance Sheet

103

The breakdown of fund assets according to categories is as follows:

 000
Quoted market price in an active market Shares Fixed interest-bearing securities Real estate Investment fund Other Total quoted market price in an active market

31/12/2017

31/12/2016

0 0 0 0 5,307 5,307

492 0
436 4,888
74 5,890

No quoted market price in an active market Shares Fixed interest-bearing securities Real estate Investment fund Other Total no quoted market price in an active market Total

0 0 0 0 3,575 3,575 8,882

0 0 0 0 1,797 1,797 7,687

The item "Other ­ quoted market price in an active market" includes the investments of the Norwegian companies R. STAHL NORGE AS and R. STAHL TRANBERG AS (formerly TRANBERG AS) under pension fund. In the previous year, a breakdown of the fair value of fund assets according to categories was made based on the investment of the pension fund. As the plan assets of these companies consist exclusively of fund shares of the insurance companies, the carrying amount was changed compared to the previous year and no further breakdown was made.
The item "Others ­ no quoted market price in an active market" includes the investment of R. STAHL Schweiz AG in a collective foundation. The revaluation of a disability pensioner of R. STAHL Schweiz AG led to an increase in the present value of fund-financed pension claims and of fund assets at market values of  1,820 thousand each without affecting income.

104

R. STAHL AR 2017

In the reporting period, the following balance resulted from amounts recognized in profit or loss for pension obligations:

 000
Current service cost +/- Past service cost + Net interest expense +/- Other amounts = Balance of amounts recognized in profit or loss for pension obligations

2017
1,947 74
1,681 20
3,722

2016
1,853 0
2,115 -250 3,718

Net interest expense consists of the interest expense from the defined benefit obligation and the expected income from plan assets. In the reporting period, the following balance resulted from amounts recognized in equity for pension obligations:

 000
+/-Actuarial gains (-) and losses (+) from changing demographic assumptions +/-Actuarial gains (-) and losses (+) from changing financial assumptions +/-Actuarial gains (-) and losses (+) from changes based on experience adjustments + Income from plan assets without interest +/- Other = Balance of amounts recognized in equity for pension obligations

2017
-15 -2,845
-691 600 +41 -2,910

2016
-10 +11,115
-747 210 +41 +10,609

Pension provisions have changed as follows:

 000
Pension provisions as of 1 January +/-Amounts recognized in profit or loss for pension obligations +/-Amounts recognized in equity for pension obligations - Pension payments made - Employer contributions +/- Currency changes = Pension provisions as of 31 Decemberr

2017
99,797 +3,722 -2,910 -2,927
-630 -113 96,938

2016
88,660 +3,718 +10,609 -2,815
-402 +27 99,797

NOTES Notes to the Consolidated Balance Sheet

105

The risks associated with defined benefit pension obligations refer firstly to the actuarial risks, such as longevity, and secondly to the financial risks, such as market price risks which influence the interest rate used. There are also inflation risks which may impact the salary or pension trend. We do not intend to hedge these risks.
29 Other provisions Other provisions comprise the following items:

 000
Personnel provisions Warranty obligations Other provisions Total

31/12/2017

Total

Thereof due

within one year

2,645 1,248
817 4,710

990 1,248
622 2,860

31/12/2016

Total

Thereof due

within one year

2,728 1,364 1,018 5,110

802 1,364 1,018 3,184

Of the total amount expensed,  2,860 thousand (2016:  3,184 thousand) is due within one year. The remainder of  1,850 thousand (2016:  1,926 thousand) pertains to personnel provisions (partial retirement and anniversary obligations) and is recognized in non-current debt as Other long-term provisions.
Short-term provisions disclosed in the balance sheet comprise the following items:

 000
Short-term pension provisions Other short-term provisions Total

31/12/2017
3,201 2,860 6,061

31/12/2016
3,114 3,184 6,298

106

R. STAHL AR 2017

Other short- and long-term provisions developed as follows:

 000
Personnel provisions Warranty obligations Other Total

01/01/2017
2,728 1,364 1,018 5,110

Currency change
-12 0
-15 -27

Addition
+784 +813 +844 +2,441

Interest expense
+24 0 0
+24

Usage

Reversal 31/12/2017

-879

0

-639

-290

-693

-337

-2,211

-627

2,645 1,248
817 4,710

 000
Personnel provisions Warranty obligations Other Total

01/01/2016
2,670 1,145 2,113 5,928

Currency change
+5 0
+8 +13

Addition
+982 +1,171
+859 +3,012

Interest expense
+31 0 0
+31

Usage

Reversal 31/12/2016

-863 -463 -1,075 -2,401

-97 -489 -887 -1,473

2,728 1,364 1,018 5,110

LIABILITIES
30 Interest-bearing financial liabilities Interest-bearing financial liabilities include amounts due to banks of  34,168 thousand (2016:  37,986 thousand). Of the expensed total,  21,073 thousand (2016:  27,616 thousand) is due within one year and the remaining  13,095 thousand (2016:  10,370 thousand) is disclosed as "Interest-bearing loans" under non-current liabilities. As at 31 December 2017, interest-bearing liabilities had the following maturities:

 000
Maturities of interest-bearing liabilities Up to one year One to five years More than five years = Short- and long-term interest-bearing liabilities

31/12/2017

31/12/2016

21,073 10,675 2,420 34,168

27,616 6,607 3,763 37,986

NOTES Notes to the Consolidated Balance Sheet

107

Liabilities to banks with residual maturities of more than one year amount to  13,095 thousand (2016:  10,370 thousand) and pertain to five loans (2016: six) with the following features:

Loan 1 Loan 2 Loan 3 Loan 4 Loan 5 Loan 6 Loan 7 Total

31/12/2017  000
0 5,000
300 0
800 3,498 3,498 13,095

31/12/2016  000
250 0
700 281 977 4,081 4,081 10,370

Maturity
01/04/2018 30/10/2022 01/07/2019 30/09/2018 30/06/2023 30/12/2024 30/12/2024

Interest rate %
3.40 1.90 1.90 1.95 2.00 1.25 1.25

31 Other liabilities The other liabilities position comprises the following items:

 000
Prepayments received Trade payables Income tax liabilities Other liabilities Deferred liabilities Other financial liabilities Total

31/12/2017

Total

Thereof due

within one year

4,411 18,212
609 7,003 11,135
129 41,499

4,411 18,212
609 6,650 11,135
129 41,146

31/12/2016

Total

Thereof due

within one year

2,514 13,403 1,159 7,941 11,609
869 37,495

2,514 13,403 1,159 7,487 11,609
869 37,041

Of the expensed total,  41,146 thousand (2016:  37,041 thousand) is due within one year and the remaining  353 thousand (2016:  454 thousand) is disclosed under "Other non-current liabilities".
On 31 December 2017, current other financial liabilities contain market values of derivative financial instruments amounting to  100 thousand (2016:  840 thousand).

108

R. STAHL AR 2017

Deferred liabilities break down as follows:
 000 Employer's liability insurance premiums Bonuses Holiday entitlement Time unit credits Missing supplier invoices Other deferred liabilities Total

31/12/2017

Total

Thereof due

within one year

512 4,351 1,468 1,768
805 2,231 11,135

512 4,351 1,468 1,768
805 2,231 11,135

31/12/2016

Total

Thereof due

within one year

496 4,437 1,737 1,432 1,138 2,369 11,609

496 4,437 1,737 1,432 1,138 2,369 11,609

32 Contingent liabilities and other financial obligations
Contingent liabilities No provisions were formed for the following contingent liabilities stated at nominal value as the probability of their occurrence is regarded as low:

 000
Sureties Guarantees Other obligations Total

31/12/2017
380 606 1,353 2,339

31/12/2016
1,609 609
1,284 3,502

Other financial obligations In addition to liabilities, provisions and contingent liabilities, there are also "Other financial obligations" pertaining especially to rental and lease agreements for land, buildings, and other tangible assets. The respective contractual rental and leasing obligations have the following terms:

 000
Up to one year More than one up to five years More than five years Total

31/12/2017
7,216 17,005 2,455 26,676

31/12/2016
6,748 19,405 6,031 32,184

In the reporting period, rental expenses for business premises as well as rent for office and operating equipment disclosed in the income statement amounted to  9,758 thousand (2016:  9,458 thousand).

NOTES Notes to the Consolidated Balance Sheet

109

33 Derivative financial instruments
As a global player, the R. STAHL Group conducts its business transactions in a number of foreign currencies. The R. STAHL Group strives to limit the foreign exchange risk inherent in the underlying transactions. To hedge foreign exchange risk from bank account balances, receivables, liabilities, debt, pending transactions, and anticipated transactions, we use derivative financial instruments. We only use derivative financial instruments to hedge underlying existing, pending, and planned transactions.
Currency risks are mainly due to exchange rate fluctuations of the Australian dollar, the British pound, the Canadian dollar, the Russian rouble, the Swedish krona, the Swiss franc and the US dollar, for bank balances, receivables, liabilities, and debts as well as from pending transactions and anticipated cash flows.
To hedge currency risks, derivative financial instruments for the currencies Australian dollar, British pound, Canadian dollar, Russian rouble, Swedish krona, Swiss franc and US dollar were held in the form of forward foreign exchange contracts on 31 December 2017.
The maturities of these currency derivatives are usually pegged to cash flows in the respective current and subsequent financial years. If necessary, they can be prolonged correspondingly to ensure the best possible coverage of forecast cash flows until their actual occurrence.
The R. STAHL Group borrows capital to finance investments and to cover short-term liquidity requirements. The objective is to limit the interest payable for these loans. For the limitation and hedging of risks arising from fluctuations in general market interest rates, the Group principally uses derivative financial instruments. We only use derivative financial instruments to hedge existing borrowing.
Interest-rate risks mainly result from varying market interest rates.
For the interest-rate risks, one payer swap for fixing interest expenses on existing borrowing was held as of 31 December 2017.
Conditions, the persons responsible, financial reporting, and control mechanisms for financial instruments are defined uniformly throughout the Group. Part of this is a clear separation of functions between trade and settlement.
R. STAHL AG and R. Stahl Schaltgeräte GmbH in particular enter into the respective contracts with banks of outstanding credit rating.
If the prerequisites for hedge accounting according to IAS 39 are fulfilled, changes in the fair value of derivative financial instruments, deemed effective, are initially recognized directly in equity, taking deferred taxes into account. Otherwise, changes in the market value of derivative financial instruments in the reporting period are recognized in the income statement.
Derivative financial instruments are fully recognized as assets or liabilities under "Other financial assets" or "Other financial liabilities" at their corresponding market values.

110

R. STAHL AR 2017

We held the following derivative financial instruments at the end of the reporting period:

 000
Positive market values Currency derivatives, qualified as cash flow hedges Currency derivatives without hedging relationship Total

Nominal volume 31/12/2017 31/12/2016

Market value 31/12/2017 31/12/2016

2,436

3,786

9

206

15,604

7,625

505

133

18,040

11,411

514

339

Negative market values Currency derivatives, qualified as cash flow hedges Currency derivatives without hedging relationship Interest rate derivatives, qualified as cash flow hedges Total

2,142

3,991

-16

-206

2,861

12,099

- 84

-627

250

750

0

-7

5,254

16,840

-100

-840

Market values correspond to fictitious gains and losses if the derivative financial instrument positions had been closed out on the balance sheet date. The market values are calculated using standard valuation models.
R. STAHL AG concludes derivative transactions in accordance with the German Master Agreement for Financial Futures. However, these agreements do not meet the criteria for offsetting in the consolidated balance sheet pursuant to IAS 32.42, as it only grants the right to offset in the case of future events, such as the failure or insolvency of R. STAHL AG or the counterparties.
The following table sets out the carrying amounts of the recognized derivative financial instruments which are subject to the described agreement and shows the potential financial impact of offsetting in accordance with the existing global netting agreements.

 000
31/12/2017 Other financial assets (derivatives) Other financial liabilities (derivatives) 31/12/2016 Other financial assets (derivatives) Other financial liabilities (derivatives)

Gross and net amounts of financial instruments in
the consolidated balance sheet

Amounts from global netting agreements

514

-30

100

-30

339

-171

840

-171

Net amounts
484 70 168 669

NOTES Notes to the Consolidated Balance Sheet

111

34 Management of financial risks
Principles of risk management The R. STAHL Group's assets, liabilities and planned transactions are subject to exchange rate and interest rate risks as well as default and liquidity risks.
The aim of risk management is to limit these risks by means of ongoing operating and finance-oriented activities.
Depending on the assessment of the respective risk, derivative financial instruments are used to hedge existing underlying transactions, pending transactions, or planned transactions.
Risk categories according to IFRS 7 Default risk (credit risk) The operating activities of the R. STAHL Group are subject to the risk of debtor default.
Outstanding accounts from operating activities are constantly monitored on a local basis. Specific valuation allowances are recognized to take account of the default risk.
The maximum default risk is mostly defined by the carrying values of financial assets as recognized in the balance sheet, including derivative financial instruments with positive market values.
Apart from the factoring agreements described in receivables and other assets, there were no material agreements (e.g. offsetting agreements) that would lower the maximum default risk at the end of the reporting period.
The following table illustrates the credit quality of financial assets:

 000 Trade receivables

Gross carrying amount 31/12/2017
52,990
(63,101)

Neither overdue nor value-adjusted

Overdue but not value-adjusted

33,318 (31,167)

16,643 (29,023)

Value adjustments
3,029 (2,911)

The figures in brackets represent the 2016 values.
The R. STAHL Group regularly monitors its trading partners and debtors. All receivables that are neither overdue nor valueadjusted are allocable to customers with good credit ratings.

112

R. STAHL AR 2017

The following table provides a maturity analysis of gross carrying amounts for financial assets that are overdue but not valueadjusted:

 000 Trade receivables

Overdue but not value-adjusted
31/12/2017
16,643
(29,023)

Up to 30 days overdue
6,667 (10,355)

30 to 90 days More than 90 days

overdue

overdue

5,951 (10,735)

4,025 (7,933)

The figures in brackets represent the 2016 values.
The majority of financial assets that are overdue but have not been value-adjusted have been overdue for a short time ­ mostly as a result of customers' invoice processing and payment procedures. It was necessary to change contract terms to avoid financial instruments falling overdue.
Allowances for trade receivables developed as follows:

 000
1 January Currency differences Utilization Reversal Addition 31 December

2017
2,911 -115 -436 -1,198 +1,867 3,029

2016
4,111 130 -620
-1,952 +1,242
2,911

NOTES Notes to the Consolidated Balance Sheet

113

Liquidity risk To ensure that the R. STAHL Group is always able to pay its bills and has the necessary financial flexibility for business oper ations, the liquidity trend is regularly monitored.
The following table provides a breakdown of financial liabilities (undiscounted cash flows) with residual contract maturities:

 000 (previous year values) Interest-bearing loans
Trade liabilities
Derivative financial instruments Forward exchange transactions - without hedging relationship
- with hedging relationship
Interest rate derivatives - with hedging relationship

Carrying amount 31/12/2017
(31/12/2016)
34,168
(37,986)
18,212
(13,403)

Cash flows 2018
(2017) 21,483 (28,650) 18,212 (13,403)

Cash flows 2019­2022
(2018­2021) 11,334 (6,971) 0 (0)

Cash flows as of 2023
(as of 2022) 2,454
(3,839) 0
(0)

84

84

(627)

(627)

16

16

(206)

(206)

0 (7) 52,480 (52,229)

0 (2) 39,795 (42,888)

0 (0)
0 (0)
0 (0) 11,334 (6,971)

0 (0)
0 (0)
0 (0) 2,454 (3,839)

The figures in brackets represent the values as at 31 December 2016.
The liquidity risk can be rated as being rather low. In September 2015, R. STAHL AG signed a syndicated loan agreement with a term of five years comprising a cash credit line of  95 million with an expansion option of  25 million for acquisitions. The agreement contains standard provisions regarding the maintenance of the Group's financial strength (financial covenants). Non-compliance with these covenants may result in termination of the agreement by the participating banks. During the reporting period, R. STAHL recognized the risks which might arise from non-compliance with the financial covenants. The respective details are provided in the risk report section of the Group Management Report.

114

R. STAHL AR 2017

Market price risks The R. STAHL Group is subject to market price risks in the form of currency risks, interest rate risks, and other price risks.
Currency risks The R. STAHL Group's exposure to currency risks primarily arises from operating activities. We hedge foreign exchange rate risks if these materially impact Ggroup cash flows.
Our foreign exchange rate risks in operating activities mainly stem from forecast transactions denominated in currencies other than the Group's functional currency. Such forecast transactions in particular pertain to sales denominated in Australian dollar, the British pound, the Canadian dollar, the Russian rouble, the Swedish krona, the Swiss franc and the US dollar.
The R. STAHL Group principally uses foreign exchange futures to hedge foreign exchange rate risks.
Interest rate risks The R. STAHL Group is exposed to customary interest risks. Negative effects from varying interest rates present only minor risks. Where necessary, the Group uses hedging instruments such as interest rate swaps.
Price risks IFRS 7 requires disclosures on the effects of hypothetical changes in other price risk variables for financial instruments in the presentation of market price risks. The main risk variables in this regard are stock market prices and indices.
As at 31 December 2017 and 31 December 2016, the R. STAHL Group had no material financial instruments in its portfolio that are subject to other price risks.
Sensitivity analyses Pursuant to IFRS 7, the R. STAHL Group prepares sensitivity analyses for market price risks to determine the effects on earnings and equity of hypothetical changes in relevant risk variables. We determine periodic effects by calculating hypothetical changes in risk variables on our portfolio of financial instruments back to the balance sheet date. In this process, we assume that the portfolio on the balance sheet date is representative for the year as a whole.
Our sensitivity analyses for foreign exchange rate developments are based on the following assumptions:
·· Material originated financial instruments (securities, receivables, liquidity, and debt) are either denominated directly in our
functional currency or have been transposed into functional currency by means of derivatives. Changes in foreign exchange rates thus have no effect on our earnings or equity.
·· Interest income and expense from or on financial instruments are likewise either directly recognized in functional currency
or have been transposed into functional currency by means of derivatives. Thus, there are also no effects on our earnings and equity from this side.
·· Foreign exchange rate-related changes in the fair values of currency derivatives that are neither in a hedging relation
pursuant to IAS 39 nor in a hedging relation with balance-sheet-impacting underlying transactions (natural hedges) may impact our currency translation income/expense and thus are included in our earnings-related sensitivity analysis.
·· Foreign exchange rate-related changes in the market values of currency derivatives that are in an effective cash flow
hedge relation for hedging payment fluctuations resulting from exchange rate movements pursuant to IAS 39 have an impact on the equity and are thus included in our equity-related sensitivity analysis.

NOTES Notes to the Consolidated Balance Sheet

115

If the euro had appreciated 10% relative to all currencies relevant to our operating activities as at 31 December 2017, earnings before income tax would have been higher by  1,639 thousand (31 December 2016:  1,585 thousand) and the direct unrealized profits from financial instruments would have been higher by  417 thousand (31 December 2016:  410 thousand).
If the euro had devalued 10% relative to all currencies relevant to our operating activities as at 31 December 2017, earnings before income tax would have been lower by  2,006 thousand (31 December 2016:  1,941 thousand) and the direct unrealized profits from financial instruments would have been lower by  509 thousand (31 December 2016:  502 thousand).
The interest rate sensitivity analyses are based on the following assumptions:
·· Changes in market interest rates of primary financial instruments with a fixed interest rate only have an effect on earnings
when they are calculated at their fair value. So all financial instruments carried at amortized cost, with a fixed interest rate, are not subject to interest-rate risk pursuant to IFRS 7.
·· Changes in market interest rates affect the interest income of the original financial instruments with a variable interest
rate, if the interest payment of these financial instruments is not intended as basic transaction within cash flow hedges against interest changes, and are thus included in the result-related sensitivity calculations.
·· Changes in market interest rates of interest derivatives that are intended as hedging instruments within a cash flow hedge
for hedging of interest-rate related payment fluctuations have an effect on the equity, and are thus included in the equity-related sensitivity analysis.
If the market interest rate level had been higher by 100 basis points on 31 December 2017, earnings before income taxes would have been lower by  117 thousand (31 December 2016:  28 thousand) and the direct unrealized gains from financial instruments would have been higher by  1 thousand (31 December 2016:  5 thousand).
If the market interest rate level had been lower by 100 basis points on 31 December 2017, earnings before income taxes would have been higher by  193 thousand (31 December 2016:  136 thousand) and the direct unrealized gains from financial instruments would have been lower by  0 thousand (31 December 2016:  5 thousand).

116

R. STAHL AR 2017

ADDITIONAL DISCLOSURES ON FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS STATED IN THE BALANCE SHEET
Carrying amount and fair value of financial instruments The following table shows a reconciliation of the book and fair values of balance sheet items to their individual categories:

 000
Non-current assets Shares in associated companies Other financial assets Other non-current assets

Balance sheet
amount as at
31/12/2017

Carrying amounts of financial instruments

Stated at

Stated at

fair value amortized cost

Not subject to IFRS 7

Carrying amounts of
others

7,750

0

0

7,750

0

50

0

5

45

0

1,206

0

0

152

1,054

Fair value
7,750 5
1,206

Current assets Trade receivables Other receivables and other assets Cash and cash equivalents

49,961 7,569 16,085

0

49,961

514

2,676

0

16,085

0

0

49,961

0

4,379

7,569

0

0

16,085

Non-current liabilities Interest-bearing loans Other liabilities

13,095 353

0

13,095

0

0

0

0

13,095

0

353

353

NOTES Notes to the Consolidated Balance Sheet

117

 000
Current liabilities Trade payables Interest-bearing loans Other liabilities

Balance sheet
amount as at
31/12/2017

Carrying amounts of financial instruments

Stated at

Stated at

fair value amortized cost

Not subject to IFRS 7

Carrying amounts of
others

18,212 21,073 11,190

0

18,212

0

21,073

100

1,050

0

0

0

0

0

10,040

Thereof aggregated acc. to IAS 39

Loans and receivables

68,727

0

68,727

0

0

At fair value through profit or loss

514

514

0

0

0

Available for sale

0

0

0

0

0

Liabilities measured at amortized cost

53,430

0

53,430

0

0

Liabilities at fair value through profit or loss

100

100

0

0

0

Fair value
18,212 21,073 11,190
68,727 514 0
53,430 100

118

R. STAHL AR 2017

In the previous year, the reconciliation table showing the book and fair values of balance sheet items to their individual categories was as follows:

 000
Non-current assets Shares in associated companies Other financial assets Other non-current assets

Balance sheet
amount as at
31/12/2016

Carrying amounts of financial instruments

Stated at

Stated at

fair value amortized cost

Not subject to IFRS 7

Carrying amounts of
others

7,097 110
1,293

0

0

7,097

0

0

5

105

0

0

31

1,235

27

Fair value
7,097 110
1,293

Current assets Trade receivables Other receivables and other assets Cash and cash equivalents

60,190 9,483 16,168

0

60,190

339

2,771

0

16,168

0

0

60,190

0

6,373

9,483

0

0

16,168

Non-current liabilities Interest-bearing loans Other liabilities

10,370 454

0

10,370

0

0

0

0

10,370

0

454

454

NOTES Notes to the Consolidated Balance Sheet

119

 000
Current liabilities Trade payables Interest-bearing loans Other liabilities

Balance

Carrying amounts of financial instruments

Carrying

Fair

sheet

amounts of

value

amount

others

as at

31/12/2016

Stated at

Stated at

fair value amortized cost

Not subject to IFRS 7

13,403 27,616 9,662

0

13,403

0

27,616

840

2,287

0

0

13,403

0

0

27,616

0

6,535

9,662

Thereof aggregated acc. to IAS 39

Loans and receivables

79,165

0

79,165

0

0

79,165

At fair value through profit or loss

133

133

0

0

0

133

Available for sale

0

0

0

0

0

0

Liabilities measured at amortized cost

53,676

0

53,676

0

0

53,676

Liabilities at fair value through profit or loss

627

627

0

0

0

627

The historical cost approach is used for preparing the consolidated financial statements. Accounting for derivative financial instruments is the exception to this rule, as these must be accounted for at fair value. The positive fair values of the derivative financial instruments at the end of the reporting period amounted to  514 thousand (2016:  339 thousand). Negative fair values of  -100 thousand (2016:  -840 thousand) were recognized.
The carrying amounts of cash and cash equivalents, as well as current account loans closely approximate their fair value given the short maturity of these financial instruments. The carrying values of receivables and liabilities are based on historical costs, subject to usual trade credit terms, and also closely approximate their fair value.
The fair value of non-current liabilities is based on currently available interest rates for borrowing with the same maturity and credit rating profiles. The fair value of external liabilities is currently about the same as the carrying amounts.

120

R. STAHL AR 2017

In order to present the reliability of the valuation of financial instruments at fair value in a comparable manner, IFRS introduced a fair-value-hierarchy with the following three steps:
·· Valuation on the basis of exchange price or market price for identical assets or liabilities (Level 1) ·· Valuation on the basis of exchange price or market price for similar instruments or on the basis of assessment models that
are based on market observable input parameters (Level 2)
·· Valuation on the basis of assessment models with significant input parameters that are not observable on the market
(Level 3)
The derivative financial instruments measured at fair value of the R. STAHL Group are rated exclusively according to the fair value hierarchy Level 2.
In the financial year 2017, there were no reclassifications between different fair value hierarchies.
The following total proceeds and total expenses arose from valuation at fair value of the derivative financial instruments of Level 2 held on 31 December 2017:

 000
Recognized in the income statement Derivatives
Recognized in equity Derivatives in a hedging relationship

2017

2016

+876

-545

+39

-37

There was no ineffectiveness that would have to be recognized in the income statement. The net result according to valuation categories is as follows:

 000 Loans and receivables
Assets and liabilities at fair value through profit or loss
Liabilities measured at amortized cost
2017 2016

From interest
77 (93)
0 (0)
-812 (-722)
-735 (-629)

From subsequent measurement

Fair value

Currency translation

Value adjustment

0

-20

-669

(0)

(-29)

(710)

876

0

0

(-545)

(0)

(0)

0 (0) 876 (-545)

82

0

(51)

(0)

62

-669

(22)

(710)

Other

Net result

23

-589

(72)

(846)

0

876

(0)

(-545)

0

-730

(0)

(-671)

23

- 443

(72)

(-370)

The figures for the financial year 2016 are shown in brackets.

NOTES Notes to the Consolidated Balance Sheet

121

 Other Disclosures

OTHER DISCLOSURES
35 Executive bodies of R. STAHL AG
Members of the Supervisory Board
·· Heiko Stallbörger, engineering graduate, Stuttgart
Chair Freelance engineering consultant
·· Heike Dannenbauer, M.A., Empfingen
Deputy Chair Stage manager of Apollo Theater Produktionsgesellschaft mbH, Stuttgart
·· Klaus Erker, Dörzbach1)
Chair of the Site Works Council Waldenburg Deputy Chair of Group Works Council R. Stahl Schaltgeräte GmbH, Waldenburg
·· Heinz Grund, Braunsbach1)
Planner/Production Planning R. Stahl Schaltgeräte GmbH, Waldenburg
·· Waltraud Hertreiter, Neubeuern
Independent financial advisor (as defined by Section 100 (5) AktG)/freelance consultant Chair of Supervisory Board of Hoftex Group AG, Hof Chair of Advisory Board of Südbayerisches Portland-Zementwerk Gebr. Wiesböck & Co. GmbH, Rohrdorf Member of Supervisory Board of ERWO Holding AG, Schwaig
·· Peter Leischner, business graduate, Frankfurt am Main
Company officer, director, Head of Treasury Management of Gutmark, Radtke & Company AG, Frankfurt am Main
·· Rudolf Meier, engineering graduate, Nuremberg
Former Head of Production Machinery, Factory Automation of Siemens AG, Munich
·· Nikolaus Simeonidis, Bretzfeld1)
Deputy Chair of the Site Works Council Waldenburg Chair of Group Works Council R. Stahl Schaltgeräte GmbH, Waldenburg
·· Jürgen Wild, Vaucresson, France
Chairman of the Management Board of RAG-Stiftung Beteiligungsgesellschaft mbH, Essen Member of Supervisory Board of SAG Group GmbH, Langen (until March 2017) Member of Supervisory Board of SolarWorld AG, Bonn (until September 2017)
1) Staff representative

122

R. STAHL AR 2017

Members of the Executive Board
·· Dr. Mathias Hallmann, Karlsruhe (since 1 October 2017)
CEO (as of 1 January 2018)
·· Martin Schomaker, Murr (until 31 December 2017)
CEO responsible for Sales/Marketing, Operations, Quality Management, Product Management, Human Resources, Internal Audit and Risk Management
·· Bernd Marx, Brühl (until 9 February 2018)
responsible for Controlling, Finance, IT, Legal and Compliance, Investor Relations and M&A
Compensation report
Total Executive Board compensation The compensation system for Executive Board members in office during the financial year 2017 is regulated in their respective service agreements. In addition to compensation, the Executive Board members receive (or received) variable, performance-based compensation comprising both a short-term and a long-term component.
The short-term component is limited to  231 thousand per year for Mr Schomaker, to  312 thousand for Dr. Hallmann and to  165 thousand for Mr Marx. The basis for assessment is a percentage of the adjusted annual result. Upon completion of the financial year, the Supervisory Board assesses the performance of each Executive Board member and sets a factor for each member of the Executive Board within a defined range. This factor is multiplied with the basis for assessment and can therefore move up or down.
The long-term component is limited to  143 thousand per year for both Mr Martin Schomaker and Mr Bernd Marx, and to  186 thousand for Dr. Mathias Hallmann. In the case of Dr. Hallmann, the Supervisory Board sets additional non-earnings-related (longterm) targets for the long-term component. Depending on the degree of achievement, the Supervisory Board can also adjust the resulting calculated amount for Dr. Hallmann by setting the respective factor.
In addition, the members of the Executive Board receive (or received) benefits in kind. These mostly comprise expenses for company cars.

NOTES Other Disclosures

123

Total compensation of Martin Schomaker Mr Schomaker received the following total compensation for the financial year:

 000

2017

Fixed compensation Severance pay Long-term variable compensation1) Short-term variable compensation1) Pension contribution2) Compensation in kind Total

350.0 350.0
0.0 0.0 170.0 43.4 913.4

1) Payment in the following financial year 2) Defined contribution pension scheme under which not the later payments are guaranteed but the contribution amounts

2016
340.0 ­
52.4 0.0 170.0 43.4 605.8

2015
340.0 ­
116.3 0.0
170.0 39.0 665.3

At its meeting of 25 February 2016, the Supervisory Board appointed Mr Schomaker as a member of the Executive Board and CEO for a further three years with effect from 1 January 2017. The resulting prolonged service agreement with Mr Schomaker included an increase in annual fixed compensation from  340 thousand to  350 thousand. The variable compensation model was also adjusted to bring it in line with the structure of the model already agreed with Mr Marx. In the financial year 2017, there was no entitlement to the payment of long-term or short-term variable compensation.
In the course of the prolongation of his service agreement, the target pension from the existing individual commitment was fixed at  9.93 thousand per month. Since leaving the company on 1 January 2018, Mr Schomaker has started drawing this pension. At the end of the reporting period, the present value of pension provisions pursuant to IFRS for Mr Schomaker amounted to  3,174 thousand (2016:  3,276.8 thousand). In the reporting period, no personnel expenses but interest expenses of  55.4 thousand were recognized in profit or loss. The underlying interest rate for fiscal year 2017 was 1.93%.
In the course of the prolongation of Mr Schomaker's service agreement with effect from 1 January 2017, the defined contribution benefit in favour of Mr Schomaker, which existed as of 1 January 2015 on the basis of a resolution of the Supervisory Board on 21 May 2015, was continued at the existing amount of  170 thousand per year. This annual contribution was an additional salary component. Due to Mr Schomaker's departure from the company as of 31 December 2017, it was due for payment for the last time during the reporting period.
In connection with Mr Schomaker's departure from the company as of 31 December 2017, the company concluded a termination agreement with him on 25 August 2017. It stipulates that the previous mutual rights and obligations should be continued until the date of departure. This meant that Mr Schomaker still received the contractual compensation due to him in full in the financial year 2017. As compensation for the premature departure of Mr Schomaker as a member of the Executive Board and the resulting loss of future income, the termination agreement included a severance payment of  350.0 thousand due as of 31 December 2017.
In the financial year 2017, Mr Schomaker received benefits in kind of  43.4 thousand.

124

R. STAHL AR 2017

Total compensation of Dr. Mathias Hallmann Dr. Hallmann received the following total compensation for the financial year 2017 as of his appointment as member of the Ex ecutive Board on 1 October 2017:

 000
Fixed compensation Long-term variable compensation1) Short-term variable compensation1) Subsidy2) Compensation in kind Total
1) P ayment in the following financial year 2) Subsidy for health, long-term care and pension insurance in the amount which the employer would incur if Dr. Hallmann had the status of an employee

2017
100.0 0.0 0.0 2.8 6.3
109.1

With a resolution of the Supervisory Board adopted on 25 August 2017, Dr. Hallmann was appointed initially as a member of the Executive Board with effect from 1 October 2017 and as CEO with effect from 1 January 2018.
The service agreement concluded with Dr. Hallmann at this time stipulates annual fixed compensation of  400 thousand, which was paid on a pro rata basis for the financial year 2017 as of October 2017. Variable compensation comprises a short-term and a long-term element as well as the same system last agreed with the other members of the Executive Board. Pursuant to the contractual regulations, Dr. Hallmann had no claim to variable compensation for the period from 1 October 2017 to 31 December 2017.
The company grants Dr. Hallmann a subsidy for his health, long-term care and pension insurance in the amount which the employer would incur if Dr. Hallmann had the status of an employee. In the reporting period, this subsidy amounted to  0.93 thousand per month. The company has no further commitments for the retirement pension and/or invalidity pension of Dr. Hallmann.
Dr. Hallmann received benefits in kind of  6.3 thousand. In addition to costs for a rented car, this amount includes costs for overnight stays in Waldenburg which the company granted for the first three months of his engagement.

NOTES Other Disclosures

125

Total compensation of Bernd Marx Mr Marx received the following total compensation for the financial year:

 000

2017

Fixed compensation Long-term variable compensation1) Short-term variable compensation1) Pension contribution2) Compensation in kind Summe

250.0 0.0 0.0 91.0 14.6
355.6

1) Payment in the following financial year 2) Defined contribution pension scheme under which not the later payments are guaranteed but the contribution amounts

2016
250.0 39.0 14.8 91.0 14.6 409.4

2015
220.0 69.8
­ 65.0 14.1 368.9

At its meeting of 21 May 2015, the Supervisory Board had decided to extend the service agreement of Mr Marx by a further five years for the period from 1 January 2016 to 31 December 2020. One component of this extension was an increase in fixed annual remuneration to  250.0 thousand as well as an adjustment of the defined contribution pension plan, each with effect from 1 January 2016. In addition, long-term variable compensation, which was previously only based on the long-term development of the Group, was supplemented by a short-term Group development component based on the Group's development during the reporting period. In the financial year 2017, there was no entitlement to the payment of long-term or short-term variable compensation.
With regard to the defined contribution pension plan, the company entered into a reinsurance policy in the form of a defined contribution plan with a pension fund for Mr Marx. The annual contribution amounts to  91.0 thousand and is an additional compensation component of Mr Marx. As part of the individual commitment, Bernd Marx would have received a gross monthly pension of  3.3 thousand on leaving the company's Executive Board after attaining the age of 65. After stepping down from his seat on the Executive Board with immediate effect on 9 February 2018 and the termination of his service agreement with effect from 30 June 2018, the amount of his monthly pension is based on the fixed entitlement earned as of 31 December 2018. At the end of the reporting period, the present value of pension obligations pursuant to IFRS for Mr Marx amounted to  495 thousand (2016:  481.7 thousand). In the reporting period, a regular amount of  32 thousand personnel expenses and  8.3 thousand interest expenses were recognized in profit or loss. The underlying interest rate for fiscal year 2017 was 1.93%.
In addition, Mr Marx received compensation in kind of  14.6 thousand.

126

R. STAHL AR 2017

Total compensation of the Supervisory Board The Annual General Meeting resolved at its meeting on 22 June 2007 to raise the fixed annual compensation for each Supervisory Board member to  18,000.00 and the compensation for Supervisory Board members' committee membership to  3,650.00 with effect from 1 July 2007. Since 1 July 2007, committee chairs have received twice the compensation of other committee members for their committee activities and the Supervisory Board Chair receives twice the amount of the compensation due according to the above formula.
The variable part of the Supervisory Board members' compensation depends on the dividend distributed in the respective fiscal period. For each full per cent dividend distributed in excess of 20% of share capital, Supervisory Board members receive  800.00. With a resolution of the Annual General Meeting of 27 June 2008, it was decided that effective 1 July 2008 this additional compensation should be limited to a maximum of twice the fixed annual compensation for a member of the Supervisory Board, or the fixed annual compensation for the Supervisory Board Chair, and twice the fixed annual compensation for committee members or the committee chair.
In the year under review, the Supervisory Board received fixed compensation totalling  227.5 thousand (2016:  253 thousand), and variable compensation of  24 thousand (2016:  24 thousand).

Supervisory Board  000
Heiko Stallbörger Heike Dannenbauer Klaus Erker Heinz Grund Waltraud Hertreiter Peter Leischner Rudolf Meier Nikolaus Simeonidis Jürgen Wild Total

Fixed compensation

Committee compensation

Variable compensation

36.0

21.9

4.8

18.0

3.7

2.4

18.0

3.7

2.4

18.0

3.7

2.4

18.0

7.3

2.4

18.0

3.7

2.4

18.0

3.7

2.4

18.0

0.0

2.4

18.0

0.0

2.4

180.0

47.5

24.0

Total
62.7 24.1 24.1 24.1 27.7 24.1 24.1 20.4 20.4 251.5

R. STAHL AG does not have any stock option plans or similar securities-based incentive systems for members of the Executive Board or Supervisory Board.
Total compensation of former Executive Board members and former Managing Directors Former members of the Executive Board, as well as former Managing Directors, and their survivors received a total of  287.5 thousand (2016:  280 thousand) in the financial year 2017.
As at 31 December 2017, the present value of pension obligations for former members of the Executive Board, as well as former Managing Directors, and their survivors amounted to  4,422 thousand (2016:  4,578 thousand).
Shares in R. STAHL AG held by members of the Executive Board and Supervisory Board At the end of the reporting period, Executive Board members held 16,760 company shares and Supervisory Board members held 138,958 shares.

NOTES Other Disclosures

127

36 Related party disclosures
Pursuant to IAS 24 (Related Party Disclosures), legal or natural persons exerting a controlling influence on the R. STAHL Group or vice versa have to be disclosed unless they are being consolidated in the financial statements of the R. STAHL Group. A controlling influence is deemed to exist if a shareholder holds more than half of the voting rights in R. STAHL AG or has the option pursuant to the Articles of Association or contractual provisions to control the financial or business policy of the R. STAHL Group's management.
Moreover, the disclosure requirement according to IAS 24 also pertains to transactions with associated enterprises and transactions with related natural persons that have a substantial influence on the financial and business policy of the R. STAHL Group including close relatives or intermediary companies. A substantial influence on the financial and business policy of the R. STAHL Group is deemed to exist for individual R. STAHL AG shareholding of 20% or more and persons holding a position on the Executive or Supervisory Boards of R. STAHL AG or another key management position.
In fiscal year 2017, the disclosure requirements of IAS 24 only affected the R. STAHL Group in respect to business relations with members of the Executive Board and members of the Supervisory Board. Total compensation of the Supervisory Board amounted to  490 thousand in the reporting period (2016:  509 thousand). These amounts include the statutory compensation amounts for worker representatives. Please refer to section 35 "Executive bodies of R. STAHL AG, subsection Compensation Report".
No significant reportable transactions were carried out with TRANBERG SYSTEMS A/S, Vejle (Denmark) and the companies ZAVOD Goreltex, Saint Petersburg (Russia), and ESACO Pty. Ltd., Edenvale (South Africa) in 2017. As of 31 December 2016, R. STAHL Group still held 48% of shares in TRANBERG SYSTEMS A/S. These shares were sold in the financial year 2017.
Disclosures pursuant to Section 160 (1), subsec. 8 German Stock Corporation Act (AktG) were made.
DECLARATION PURSUANT TO SECTION 161 OF THE GERMAN STOCK CORPORATION ACT CONCERNING COMPLIANCE WITH THE CORPORATE GOVERNANCE CODE We complied with the Code of Conduct recommended by the German Government Commission on the German Corporate Gover nance Code in the past fiscal year with a few exceptions in individual items. We will continue to comply with the majority of its recommendations in future. We have made a corresponding declaration of compliance which is accessible to the public on our website www.r-stahl.com in the section Corporate/Investor Relations/Corporate Governance/Corporate Governance Declaration.

128

R. STAHL AR 2017

NOTES TO THE CASH FLOW STATEMENT
The cash flow statement shows the R. STAHL Group's flow of funds as it developed over the year under review. The cash flows are classified according to their nature as cash flows from operating, investing, and financing activities. Using the indirect method, the relevant changes in balance sheet items are adjusted for consolidation effects. This approach causes differences in the changes of the respective balance sheet items as shown in the published consolidated balance sheet. The flow of funds from operating activities includes the following items:

 000
Interest received Interest paid Dividends received Income tax refunds/credits Income tax payments

2017
239 -812 407 3,084 -4,914

2016
260 -721
25 1,618 -4,534

NOTES TO SEGMENT REPORTING
Pursuant to IFRS 8, external segment reporting is based on the intra-group organization and management structures, as well as internal financial reporting to key decision-makers. In the R. STAHL Group, the Executive Board is responsible for assessing and controlling business success and is regarded as the top management body pursuant to IFRS 8.
The Group develops, manufactures, assembles, and distributes devices and systems for measuring, controlling, distribution of energy, securing, and lighting in potentially explosive environments. R. STAHL AG serves as the holding company for the different subsidiaries. The subsidiaries submit a monthly income statement and balance sheet. Monthly consolidated financial statements are then created at Group level which are used to steer the Group's overall development.
The key performance indicator for the R. STAHL Group is earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization (EBITDA) pre exceptionals. Internal reporting corresponds to external IFRS reporting. As a result, no reconciliation is required. Furthermore, the Executive Board regularly monitors the following financial and economic parameters: sales, order intake and order backlog, as well as earnings before taxes (EBT).

NOTES Notes to the Cash Flow Statement

129

 Notes to Segment Reporting

As a whole, the Group is managed according to the following parameters:
 000
Order backlog Order intake Sales Total operating performance Other operating income Material costs Personnel costs Depreciation and amortization of tangible and intangible assets Other operating expenses Earnings before financial result and income taxes Interest income Interest expenses Other financial result Financial result Earnings before income taxes Segment assets Segment liabilities Annual average number of employees
Associated companies Share in associated companies Result from associated companies
Non-current assets Carrying amounts of non-current assets Additions to non-current assets

2017
92,337 284,098 268,462 269,465
8,026 -100,116 -121,112 -12,972 -53,979 -10,688
238 -3,179
994 -1,947 -12,635 234,503 176,705 1,776

2016
80,674 282,868 286,609 284,305 12,923 -101,136 -118,288 -13,381 -55,647
8,776 260
-3,365 128
-2,977 5,799 254,818 179,228 1,824

7,750 977

7,097 103

106,382 10,425

110,434 12,496

130

R. STAHL AR 2017

The following table provides a breakdown by region:  000 Sales from sales to external customers Carrying amounts of non-current assets Additions to non-current assets

Central region
181,604 (193,250)
96,868 (99,046)
10,109 (12,120)

Americas
28,973 (35,812)
2,505 (3,552)
0 (29)

Asia/ Pacific
57,885 (57,547)
7,009 (7,836)
316 (347)

Total
268,462 (286,609)
106,382 (110,434)
10,425 (12,496)

The figures in brackets refer to the prior-year values for 2016. The regional breakdown shows sales on the basis of customer locations. Assets of the R. STAHL Group are assigned according to the location of the respective subsidiary that carries this asset in the balance sheet. Pursuant to IFRS 8.33, assets comprise all non-current Group assets with the exception of financial instruments, deferred tax assets, post-service benefits and rights from insurance agreements.
Segment assets correspond to total assets less deferred tax assets and income tax claims. Segment liabilities correspond to total liabilities less deferred tax liabilities, income tax payables, and provisions for taxation.
In the reporting period and in the previous year, no individual external customer accounted for more than 10% of total sales.

NOTES Notes to Segment Reporting  Additional Notes and Disclosure Requirements
 Other Notes and Disclosures

131

ADDITIONAL NOTES AND DISCLOSURE REQUIREMENTS
The following table shows fees paid to the auditor of the consolidated financial statements for services to the parent company and its subsidiaries.

 000
Financial statement audits of which relating to other periods
Other certification and valuation services Tax consultancy services Other services Total

2017

2016

305

280

45

0

0

0

0

0

0

44

305

327

R. Stahl Schaltgeräte GmbH, Waldenburg, and R. STAHL HMI Systems GmbH, Cologne, fulfilled the requirements of Section 264 (3) HGB and have thus made use of the exemption clause with regard to the preparation of notes to the annual financial statements and a management report as well as the disclosure of their annual financial statements for fiscal year 2017. With reference to Section 264 (3) HGB, use is made of the exemption clause with regard to the preparation of notes and the disclosure of annual financial statements for fiscal year 2017 of the companies GGF ­ Gesellschaft für Grundstücksvermietung und Finanzierungsvermittlung mbH, Waldenburg, R. Stahl Services GmbH, Waldenburg, R. STAHL LECTIO GmbH, Waldenburg, R. STAHL SUPERA GmbH, Waldenburg, R. Stahl Beteiligungsgesellschaft mbH, Waldenburg, and R. STAHL Camera Systems GmbH, Cologne. The necessary prerequisites pursuant to Section 264 (3) HGB are fulfilled.

OTHER NOTES AND DISCLOSURES
EVENTS SUBSEQUENT TO THE BALANCE SHEET DATE On 9 February 2018, Bernd Marx, member of the Executive Board of R. STAHL AG and Chief Financial Officer, and the Supervisory Board agreed to terminate his service agreement as of 30 June 2018. On the same day, Bernd Marx stepped down from his position on the Executive Board. Until a successor is appointed, Dr. Mathias Hallmann, member of the Executive Board of R. STAHL AG and CEO, will assume the responsibilities of the CFO.
In March 2018, additional agreements were made with the respective banks concerning the syndicated loan agreement concluded in September 2015. Detailed disclosures on these agreements are presented in note 1, basis of preparation, subsection going concern as well as in the risk report section of the Group Management Report. In the course of these agreements, adjustments were made to the interest and guarantee conditions.
A resolution to close R. STAHL Nissl GmbH, Vienna, was adopted on 26 April 2018.
Waldenburg, 31 May 2018 R. Stahl Aktiengesellschaft
Dr. Mathias Hallmann CEO

132

R. STAHL AR 2017

RESPONSIBILITY STATEMENT
I attest ­ to the best of my knowledge ­ that the consolidated financial statements according to applicable accounting stan dards present a true and fair view of the Group's asset, financial, and income position and that the Group Management Report accurately presents the Group's business development including economic results, state of affairs, material risks and opportunities and probable development going forward. Waldenburg, 31 May 2018 R. Stahl Aktiengesellschaft
Dr. Mathias Hallmann CEO

FURTHER DISCLOSURES Responsibility Statement

133

 Audit Opinion

REPRODUCTION OF THE AUDIT OPINION
We have issued the following unqualified audit opinion, signed in Stuttgart on 4 June 2018, on the consolidated financial statements and group management report of R. Stahl Aktiengesellschaft, Waldenburg, Germany, for the fiscal year from 1 January 2017 to 31 December 2017 in the versions attached to this report as Annex I (Consolidated Financial Statements) and II (Group Management Report):
,,Audit opinion of the independent auditor To R. Stahl Aktiengesellschaft, Waldenburg
REPORT ON THE AUDIT OF THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND THE GROUP MANAGEMENT REPORT
AUDIT OPINIONS We have audited the consolidated financial statements of R. Stahl Aktiengesellschaft, Waldenburg, Germany and its subsidiaries (the Group) ­ consisting of the consolidated balance sheet as at 31 December 2017, the consolidated income statement, the consolidated statement of comprehensive income, the consolidated statement of changes in equity and the consolidated statement of cash flows for the fiscal year from 1 January 2017 to 31 December 2017, as well as the notes to the consolidated financial statements, including a summary of significant accounting methods. In addition, we also audited the group management report of R. Stahl Aktiengesellschaft for the fiscal year from 1 January 2017 to 31 December 2017. In our opinion, on the basis of the knowledge obtained in the audit,
·· the attached consolidated financial statements comply in all material respects with those IFRSs adopted by the EU and
the additional requirements of German law pursuant to Section 315e (1) of the German Commercial Code (HGB) and, in compliance with these requirements, give a true and fair view of the assets, liabilities and financial position of the Group as at 31 December 2017 and of its financial performance for the fiscal year from 1 January 2017 to 31 December 2017, and
·· the accompanying group management report as a whole provides an appropriate view of the Group`s position. In all
material respects, this group management report is consistent with the consolidated financial statements, complies with the German legal requirements and appropriately presents the opportunities and risks of future development.
Pursuant to Section 322 (3) Sentence 1 HGB, we declare that our audit has not led to any reservations relating to the legal compliance of the consolidated financial statements and of the group management report.

134

R. STAHL AR 2017

BASIS FOR THE AUDIT OPINIONS We conducted our audit of the consolidated financial statements and of the group management report in accordance with Section 317 HGB and the EU Audit Regulation (No. 537/2014, hereinafter referred to as "EU Audit Regulation") and in compliance with German generally accepted accounting standards established by the German Institute of Certified Public Accountants (Institut der Wirtschaftsprüfer, IDW). Our responsibilities under those requirements and principles are further described in the "Auditor's responsibilities for the audit of the consolidated financial statements and of the group management report" section of our audit opinion. In accordance with the requirements of European law and German commercial and professional law, we are independent of the group entities and have fulfilled our other German professional responsibilities in accordance with these requirements.
In addition, and in accordance with Article 10 (2) f) of the EU Audit Regulation, we declare that we have not provided non-audit services prohibited under Article 5 (1) of the EU Audit Regulation.
We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our audit opinions on the consolidated financial statements and on the group management report.
MATERIAL UNCERTAINTY IN CONNECTION WITH THE COMPANY'S ABILITY TO CONTINUE AS A GOING CONCERN We refer to the details provided in the section "Accounting and Valuation Methods", subsection "Going Concern" of the notes, and the section "Risk Report ­ Group's Risk Position", subsection "Financial Risks" of the management report, in which the legal representatives explain events and circumstances which refer to the existence of a material uncertainty that may cast significant doubt on the Group's ability to continue as a going concern and constitute a risk which jeopardizes the existence of the Group as a going concern within the meaning of Section 322 (2) Sentence 3 HGB.
Our audit opinions on the consolidated financial statements and group management report have not been modified with respect to this matter.
KEY AUDIT MATTERS IN THE AUDIT OF THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Key audit matters are those matters which, in our professional judgment, were of most significance in our audit of the consolidated financial statements for the fiscal year from 1 January 2017 to 31 December 2017. These matters were addressed in the context of our audit of the consolidated financial statements as a whole, and in forming our auditor's opinion thereon; we do not provide a separate audit opinion on these matters.
We identified the following as key audit matters:
1. Impairment of goodwill
2. Deferred taxes on loss carryforwards

FURTHER DISCLOSURES Audit Opinion

135

IMPAIRMENT OF GOODWILL
Description of issue Goodwill of EUR 11.1 million, corresponding to 4.4% of the consolidated balance sheet total, is disclosed in the consolidated financial statements of R. Stahl Aktiengesellschaft under the balance sheet item "Intangible Assets". Goodwill was allocated to cash-generating units.
The Company tests its cash-generating units (CGU) with goodwill for impairment at least once a year, and additionally if there is any indication of impairment, by means of a so-called impairment test. The basis for measurement is a valuation model using the so-called discounted cash flow method. If the carrying amount of a cash-generating unit exceeds the recoverable amount, an impairment loss is recognized in the amount of the difference.
An assessment of the recoverability of goodwill is complex and requires the legal representatives to make numerous estimates and discretionary decisions, in particular with regard to the amount of future cash flows, the growth rate used for forecasting cash flows beyond the detailed planning period, and the discount rate to be used. Due to the significant uncertainties associated with measurement, the impairment test for goodwill required our special attention and was therefore identified as a key audit matter.
The disclosures of R. Stahl Aktiengesellschaft regarding goodwill impairment are included in sections (5) Accounting and Valu ation Methods and (20) Intangible Assets of the notes on the consolidated financial statements.
Auditor's response In the course of our audit, we assessed the appropriateness of the key assumptions and discretionary parameters, as well as the calculation methods used in the impairment tests. We have gained an understanding of the planning system and planning process, as well as the significant assumptions made by the legal representatives during planning. We checked the forecast of future cash flows in the detailed planning period with the planning approved by the Supervisory Board and reviewed the com pany's planning accuracy on the basis of an analysis of actual and planned deviations in the past and in the current fiscal year. We checked the underlying assumptions for the planning and the growth rates assumed in forecasting the cash flows beyond the detailed planning period by comparing them with past developments and current industry-specific market expectations. In the case of significant goodwill whose CGUs showed a low degree of planning accuracy, the assumed revenue growth and expected cost structures in particular were critically examined with regard to accuracy. As even small changes in the discount rate used can have a significant effect on the calculated size of the recoverable amount of the respective CGU, we checked the discount rate with our measurement specialists, who assessed the appropriateness of the parameters used, including market risk premiums and beta factors, with the aid of market data. Our audit also included the sensitivity analyses used by R. Stahl Aktien gesellschaft, especially with regard to the effect of possible changes in the cost of capital, the assumed revenue growth rates and the expected cost structures.

136

R. STAHL AR 2017

RECOGNITION AND RECOVERABILITY OF DEFERRED TAX ASSETS ON LOSS CARRYFORWARDS
Description of issue Deferred tax assets of EUR 11.9 million, of which EUR 0.4 million (prior year: EUR 7.6 million) for loss carryforwards, are disclosed in the consolidated financial statements of R. Stahl Aktiengesellschaft. The carrying amount for deferred tax assets on loss carryforwards was reduced by EUR 7.2 million in the reporting period and deferred taxes on loss carryforwards of EUR 3.8 million were not recognized. In accordance with IAS 12.34, a deferred tax asset for loss carryforwards may only be recognized to the extent to which it is probable that future taxable profit will be available. This assessment requires taxable income planning for future taxation periods, which in turn is based on reliable corporate planning. The assessment of whether future taxable earnings can be generated despite the existence of past losses is heavily discretionary. The auditing of deferred tax assets on loss carry forwards was therefore of particular importance and thus identified as a key audit matter.
The disclosures of R. Stahl Aktiengesellschaft regarding deferred taxes are included in sections [5] Accounting and Valuation Methods and [17] Income Taxes of the notes on the consolidated financial statements.
Auditor's response We have assessed the recognition and recoverability of deferred tax assets on loss carryforwards based on corporate planning and the related taxable profit planning of the respective companies or domestic fiscal unity. In doing so, we critically assessed the appropriateness of the assumptions made by the legal representatives and the planning system ­ especially for those companies with a history of losses ­ and compared company planning with the group planning approved by the Supervisory Board. Together with our tax specialists, we checked the derivation of taxable earnings planning included in corporate planning and assessed the underlying tax issues.
OTHER INFORMATION The legal representatives are responsible for the other information. The other information comprises:
·· the separately published non-financial statement referred to in the section "Sustainability" of the group management
report
·· the separately published "Declaration on Company Management" referred to in the section "Declaration on Company
Management" of the group management report
·· the other parts of the group management report, with the exception of the audited consolidated financial statements and
group management report, as well as our audit opinion
Our audit opinions on the consolidated financial statements and the group management report do not cover the other information and we do not therefore express an opinion or any other form of audit conclusion on this information.
In connection with our audit of the consolidated financial statements, our responsibility is to read the other information and, in doing so, to consider whether the other information
·· is materially inconsistent with the consolidated financial statements, the group management report or our knowledge
obtained during the audit, or
·· otherwise appears to be materially misstated.

FURTHER DISCLOSURES Audit Opinion

137

RESPONSIBILITY OF THE LEGAL REPRESENTATIVES AND THE SUPERVISORY BOARD FOR THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND THE GROUP MANAGEMENT REPORT The legal representatives are responsible for the preparation of consolidated financial statements which comply, in all material respects, with those IFRSs adopted by the EU and the additional requirements of German law pursuant to Section 315e (1) HGB, and that the consolidated financial statements, in compliance with these requirements, give a true and fair view of the financial position and performance of the Group. In addition, the legal representatives are responsible for such internal controls as they have deemed necessary to enable the preparation of consolidated financial statements which are free from ­ intentional or unintentional ­ material misstatement.
In preparing the consolidated financial statements, the legal representatives are responsible for assessing the Group's ability to continue as a going concern. They also have the responsibility to disclose, if applicable, matters related to continuing as a going concern. In addition, they are responsible for financial reporting based on the going concern basis of accounting unless actual or legal circumstances require otherwise.
Moreover, the legal representatives are responsible for the preparation of the group management report which, as a whole, provides an accurate picture of the Group's position and is, in all material respects, consistent with the consolidated financial statements, complies with German legal requirements and appropriately presents the opportunities and risks of future development. In addition, the legal representatives are responsible for such arrangements and measures (systems) which they deem necessary to enable the preparation of a group management report in accordance with the applicable German legal requirements, and to enable the provision of sufficient appropriate evidence for the assertions in the group management report.
The Supervisory Board is responsible for monitoring the Group's accounting process for the preparation of the consolidated financial statements and the group management report.
RESPONSIBILITY OF THE AUDITOR FOR THE AUDITING OF THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND THE GROUP MANAGEMENT REPORT Our objective is to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the consolidated financial statements as a whole are free from ­ intentional or unintentional ­ material misstatement, and whether the group management report as a whole provides an accur ate picture of the Group's position and, in all material respects, is consistent with the consolidated financial statements and the knowledge obtained during the audit, complies with the German legal requirements and appropriately presents the opportun ities and risks of future development, as well as to issue an audit opinion which includes our opinions on the consolidated financial statements and on the group management report.
Reasonable assurance is a high level of assurance but no guarantee that an audit conducted in accordance with Section 317 HGB and the EU Audit Regulation and pursuant to German generally accepted accounting standards as established by the German Institute of Certified Public Accountants (IDW) will always detect a material misstatement. Misstatements can arise from fraud or error and are deemed material if, individually or as a whole, they could reasonably be expected to influence the economic decisions of users taken on the basis of these consolidated financial statements and this group management report.

138

R. STAHL AR 2017

We exercise due discretion and maintain a critical attitude throughout the audit. We also
·· identify and assess the risks of ­ intentional or unintentional ­ material misstatement of the consolidated financial state-
ments and the group management report, plan and perform audit procedures as a response to these risks, and obtain audit evidence which is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our audit opinions. The risk of not detecting a material misstatement resulting from fraud is higher than for one resulting from error, as fraud may involve collusion, forgery, intentional omissions, misrepresentations, or the overriding of internal controls;
·· obtain an understanding of the internal control system of relevance to the audit of the consolidated financial statements
and of the relevant provisions and measures for the auditing of the group management report in order to plan audit proced ures which are appropriate for the circumstances, but not with the aim of expressing an audit opinion on the effectiveness of these systems;
·· evaluate the appropriateness of the accounting policies used by the legal representatives and the reasonableness of
estimates made by the legal representatives and the related disclosures;
·· make conclusions about the appropriateness of the going concern basis of accounting used by the legal representatives
and, based on the audit evidence obtained, about whether a material uncertainty exists related to events or conditions which may cast significant doubt on the Group's ability to continue as a going concern. If we conclude that a material uncertainty exists, we are required to draw attention in the auditor's opinion to the related disclosures in the consolidated financial statements and in the group management report or, if such disclosures are not appropriate, to modify our respect ive audit opinion. Our conclusions are based on the audit evidence obtained up to the date of our auditor's opinion. However, future events or conditions may cause the Group to cease to continue as a going concern;
·· evaluate the overall presentation, structure and content of the consolidated financial statements, including the disclosures,
and whether the consolidated financial statements present the underlying transactions and events in such a way that the consolidated financial statements give a true and fair picture of the Group's financial position and performance in compliance with those IFRSs adopted by the EU and the additional requirements of German law pursuant to Section 315e (1) HGB;
·· obtain sufficient appropriate audit evidence regarding the accounting information of the entities or business activities
within the Group to express audit opinions on the consolidated financial statements and on the group management report. We are responsible for the direction, supervision and performance of the group audit. We bear sole responsibility for our audit opinions;
·· assess the consistency of the group management report with the consolidated financial statements, its compliance with
the legal provisions and the view it gives of the Group's position;
·· perform procedures on the prospective information presented by the legal representatives in the group management
report. In particular, we obtain sufficient appropriate audit evidence to evaluate the underlying significant assumptions used by the legal representatives for forward-looking statements and evaluate the proper derivation of the forward-looking statements from these assumptions. We do not express a separate opinion on the forward-looking statements nor on the assumptions used as a basis. There is a substantial unavoidable risk that future events will differ materially from the forward-looking statements.

FURTHER DISCLOSURES Audit Opinion

139

We discuss with those charged with governance, among other matters, the planned scope and timing of the audit and significant audit findings, including any deficiencies in the internal control system which we identify during our audit. We issue a statement to those charged with governance that we have complied with the relevant independence requirements, and discuss with them all relationships and other matters which may reasonably be assumed to have a bearing on our independence and the safeguards put in place. Of the matters discussed with those charged with governance, we determine which matters were of most significance for the audit of the consolidated financial statements of the current period and are therefore the key audit matters. We describe these matters in our audit opinion unless laws or other regulations preclude public disclosure of the matter.
OTHER LEGAL AND REGULATORY REQUIREMENTS
FURTHER DISCLOSURES PURSUANT TO ARTICLE 10 EU AUDIT REGULATION We were elected as group auditor by the Annual General Meeting of 2 June 2017. We were hired by the Supervisory Board on 2 October 2017. We have been the group auditor of R. Stahl Aktiengesellschaft without interruption since the fiscal year 2017. We declare that the opinions expressed in this audit opinion are consistent with the additional report to the Audit Committee pursuant to Article 11 of the EU Audit Regulation (audit report).
RESPONSIBLE AUDITOR The German Public Auditor responsible for the audit is Markus Will."

140

R. STAHL AR 2017

LIST OF SHAREHOLDINGS

Name and registered offices of the company
Domestic companies R. STAHL Beteiligungsgesellschaft mbH, Waldenburg R. STAHL Camera Systems GmbH, Cologne GGF ­ Gesellschaft für Grundstücksvermietung und Finanzierungsvermittlung mbH, Waldenburg R. STAHL HMI Systems GmbH, Cologne R. STAHL Schaltgeräte GmbH, Waldenburg R. STAHL Services GmbH, Waldenburg Abraxas Grundstücksverwaltungsgesellschaft mbH & Co. Vermietungs KG, Mainz R. STAHL LECTIO GmbH, Waldenburg R. STAHL SUPERA GmbH, Waldenburg
Foreign companies R. STAHL MIDDLE EAST FZE, Dubai (United Arab Emirates) R. STAHL Nissl GmbH, Wien (Austria) R. STAHL AUSTRALIA PTY LTD, Wollongong (Australia) Stahl N.V., Dendermonde (Belgium) STAHL EQUIPAMENTOS INDUSTRIAIS LTDA, Sa~o Paulo (Brazil) R. STAHL do Brasil Ltda, Sa~o Paulo (Brazil) R. STAHL, LTD., Edmonton (Canada) R. STAHL Schweiz AG, Magden (Switzerland) R. STAHL (HONGKONG) CO., LIMITED, Hong Kong (China) R. STAHL EX-PROOF (SHANGHAI) CO., LTD., Shanghai (China) R. STAHL France S.A.S., Avignon (France) R. STAHL Limited, Birmingham (Great Britain)

Consolidation status
F; c F; c
F; c F; c F; c F; c I; n.c. F; c F; c

Capital stake in %
100.00 100.00
100.00 100.00 100.00 100.00 49.58 100.00 100.00

F; c

100.00

F; c

100.00

F; c

100.00

F; c

100.00

F; c

100.00

F; c

100.00

F; c

100.00

F; c

100.00

F; c

100.00

F; c

100.00

F; c

100.00

F; c

100.00

FURTHER DISCLOSURES List of Shareholdings

141

Name and registered offices of the company
Foreign companies R. STAHL PRIVATE LIMITED, Chennai (India) R. STAHL S.r.l., Milan (Italy) R. STAHL Kabushiki Kaisha, Kawasaki (Japan) R. Stahl LLP., Atyrau (Kazakhstan) R. STAHL CO., LTD, Seoul (Korea) R. STAHL ENGINEERING & MANUFACTURING SDN. BHD., Selangor (Malaysia) E.M. Stahl B.V., Hengelo (Netherlands) Electromach B.V. Hengelo (Netherlands) R. STAHL NORGE AS, Oslo (Norway) TRANBERG AS, Stavanger (Norway) OOO R. STAHL, Moscow (Russia) ZAVOD Goreltex Co. Ltd., Saint Petersburg (Russia) R. STAHL Svenska Aktiebolag, Järfälla (Sweden) R. STAHL PTE LTD, Singapore (Singapore) INDUSTRIAS STAHL, S.A., Madrid (Spain) ESACO (Pty.) LTD, Edenvale (South Africa) R. STAHL, INC., Houston/Texas (USA)

Consolidation status
F; c F; c F; c I; n.c. F; c F; c I; n.c. F; c F; c F; c F; c A; c F; c F; c F; c A; c F; c

Capital stake in %
100.00 100.00 100.00 100.00 100.00 100.00 100.00 100.00 100.00 100.00 60.00 25.00 100.00 100.00 100.00 35.00 100.00

The companies are identified by their respective Group-relevant status as either fully consolidated enterprise (F), associated enterprise (A) or other investment (I) stating whether it is consolidated (c) or not consolidated (n.c.).

142

R. STAHL AR 2017

ANNUAL FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OF R. STAHL AKTIENGESELLSCHAFT
These complete financial statements of R. Stahl Aktiengesellschaft prepared pursuant to the rules and regulations of the German Commercial Code and Stock Corporation Act have been given approval without reservations by the appointed auditor BDO AG Wirtschaftsprüfungsgesellschaft, Hamburg, Germany, and will be published in the German electronic Federal Gazette. Interested shareholders may request copies of the parts of our annual financial statements not published here from the company.

FURTHER DISCLOSURES AG Accounts

143

INCOME STATEMENT
of R. Stahl Aktiengesellschaft, Waldenburg, for the period 1 January to 31 December 2017

 000 1. Sales 2. Other operating income
3. Cost of materials Cost of raw materials, consumables and supplies and for purchased goods
4. Personnel costs a) Wages and salaries b) Social insurance contributions and pension
5. Depreciation and amortization of intangible assets and property, plant & equipment 6. Other operating expenses
7. Investment income 8. Income from profit transfer agreements 9. Other interest and similar income 10. Depreciation on financial assets 11. Expenses from transfer of losses 12. Interest and similar income 13. Income taxes
14. Result after taxes 15. Other taxes 16. Net loss for the year (previous year: net profit for the year) 17. Profit carryforward 18. Balance sheet loss (previous year: balance sheet profit)

2017
9,326 1,341 10,667
0
5,224 1,529 6,753
306 13,829 -10,221 9,713
0 384 3,248 4,181 1,363 79 3,974 -8,995 35 -9,030 5,068 -3,962

2016
13,311 3,656 16,967
6
5,349 571
5,920 741
15,584 -5,283 9,157 5,888
594 0 0
1,291 93
14,255 8,972
40 8,932
0 8,932

144

R. STAHL AR 2017

BALANCE SHEET
of R. Stahl Aktiengesellschaft, Waldenburg, as of 31. December 2017
 000 ASSETS A. Non-current assets I. Intangible assets
1. Industrial property and similar rights, acquired for a consideration 2. Prepayments made
II. Property, plant and equipment 1. Properties and buildings, including buildings on third-party properties 2. Technical equipment and machinery 3. Other plant as well as operating and office equipment
III. Financial assets 1. Equity interests in affiliated companies 2. Loans to affiliated companies 3. Equity investments
B. Current assets I. Receivables and other assets
1. Trade receivables 2. Receivables from affiliated companies 3. Other assets 4. Prepayments made
II. Cash and cash equivalents C. Prepaid expenses and deferred income

31/12/2017

31/12/2016

779 1,236 2,015
1,890 12 39
1,941
67,050 6,030 7,086 80,166

0 1,438 1,438
2,040 14 30
2,084
71,574 3,842 5,811 81,228

35 12,899 1,273
24 14,231
300 187 98,840

62 19,495
536 0
20,093 303 351
105,498

FURTHER DISCLOSURES AG Accounts

145

 000 EQUITY & LIABILITIES A. Equity I. Issued capital
Subscribed capital
II. Capital reserves
III. Revenue reserves Other revenue reserves
IV. Balance sheet loss (previous year: balance sheet profit)
B. Provisions 1. Pension provisions 2. Other provisions
C. Liabilities 1. Liabilities to banks 2. Trade payables 3. Liabilities to affiliated companies 4. Other liabilities

31/12/2017

31/12/2016

16,500 18,666

16,500 18,666

18,447
-3,962 49,652
15,569 994
16,563
21,442 823
9,993 367
32,625 98,840

18,447
8,932 62,546
15,315 1,323 16,638
21,269 403
3,903 739
26,314 105,498

146

R. STAHL AR 2017

GLOSSARY

IMPORTANT FINANCIAL AND ECONOMIC TERMS

Cash flow Surplus of money that is generated from ordinary business activities, shows a company's financial power

Equity ratio Ratio between equity and total capital, gives information on the stability of a company

Compliance Generic term for measures to ensure abidance by law and intra company guidelines

Forward exchange transaction Obligation to buy or sell foreign currencies at a predetermined date and price

Corporate Governance Responsible company management and control of long-term value creation
Derivate, derivative financial instruments Financial instrument whose valuation depends on the price development of underlying transactions (base value)

Free float Number of shares owned by diverse shareholders
Goodwill Corresponds to the amount a potential buyer would be willing to pay for the company as a whole, exceeding the value of the individual assets, taking all debts into account

Directors' dealings Transactions of members of the Executive or Supervisory Board of a listed stock corporation and associated persons or companies with shares of their own company
Dividend yield This key figure shows the annual yield the shareh older gets for his stock investment through profit distribution, assessed at the year- end price
EBIT (Earnings Before Interest and Tax) Generally used for the assessment of the earnings situation of companies, especially in international comparison. EBIT margin is the relation between EBIT and sales

IAS (International Accounting Standards)/ IFRS (International Financial Reporting Standards) Internationally applicable standards for accounting to ensure international comparability of consolidated financial statements, and to fulfil the information requirements of investors and other users of financial statements through higher transparency
Market capitalization This means the market price of a listed company. It is calculated from the market value of the share multiplied by the number of shares.
P/B ratio (price-to-book ratio) Share price divided by book value per share

EBT (Earnings Before Tax) EBT margin is the relation between EBT and sales

P/E ratio (price-earnings ratio) Share price divided by earnings per share

ROCE (Return on Capital Employed) Measures the profitability of a company based on the amount of capital used

FURTHER DISCLOSURES Glossary

147

IMPORTANT COMPANY-RELEVANT TERMS

Automation This is a field that involves automatic control, monitoring and optimization of technical processes
Certification Measure, where a neutral body, accredited for this purpose, exam ines, evaluates and confirms in writing (certificate) that products, services, systems, processes, companies or persons correspond to certain acknowledged fixed criteria, stipulated in regulations or standards
Degree of protection On the one hand, degree of protection is the suitability of electrical equipment for different environmental conditions, on the other hand it is the protection of man against potential hazard when using this equipment
Downstream In the oil and gas industry, downstream refers to those stages of production in which the oil or gas is processed and delivered to the end customer, e.g. the refining process
EPC (Engineering, Procurement and Construction) Means the common form of project execution in plant construction and the corresponding forms of contract where the contractor is the general contractor. He commits himself to supplying a turnkey plant to the client
Explosion protection Special field that deals with the protection against the development of explosions and their effects. It is part of safety technology and serves as a prevention against damages caused by explosions

LED Light-emitting diode
LNG Liquefied natural gas
Midstream In the oil and gas industry, midstream refers to the storage and transport of crude oil and gas, for example via pipelines or tankers. Midstream is thus the link between the upstream and downstream segments
NEC National Electrical Code of the USA for certifying electrical installations
OEM (Original Equipment Manufacturer) Company which produces parts and equipment that may be mar keted by another manufacturer
Petrochemistry Production of chemical products from natural gas and suitable fractions of crude oil
Production costs Cost of producing oil; mostly stated in US dollars per barrel
Upstream In the oil and gas industry, upstream refers to those stages of production which involve the exploration and extraction of the oil or gas

HMI (Human Machine Interface) Equipment technology for operating and monitoring of processes

IECEx System of the International Electrotechnical Commission for certifying equipment used in an explosive atmosphere

148

R. STAHL AR 2017

LOCATIONS
EUROPE
Germany R. STAHL Aktiengesellschaft/ R. STAHL Schaltgeräte GmbH Waldenburg (Wurtt.) Phone: +49 7942 943 0 E-mail: info@stahl.de
R. STAHL HMI Systems GmbH Cologne Phone: +49 221 76 806 1000 E-mail: office@stahl-hmi.de
R. STAHL Camera Systems GmbH Cologne Phone: +49 221 76 806 1200 E-mail: office@stahl-camera.de
Belgium Stahl N.V. Dendermonde Phone: +32 52 21 13 51 E-mail: info@stahl.be
France R. STAHL France S.A.S. Avignon Phone: +33 4 32 40 46 46 E-mail: info@stahl.fr

Great Britain R. STAHL Limited Birmingham Phone: +44 121 767 64 00 E-mail: enquiries@rstahl.co.uk
Italy R. STAHL S.r.l. Milan Phone: +39 02 55 30 80 24 E-mail: info@stahl.it
Netherlands Electromach B.V. Hengelo Phone: +31 74 247 24 72 E-mail: info@electromach.nl
Norway R. STAHL TRANBERG AS Stavanger Phone: +47 51 57 89 00 E-mail: info@stahl-tranberg.com
Austria R. STAHL Nissl GmbH Vienna Phone: +43 1 616 39 29 0 E-mail: office@rstahl-nissl.at

Portugal INDUSTRIAS STAHL S.A. Sucursal em Portugal Porto Salvo ­ Oeiras Phone: +351 21 414 53 15 E-mail: stahl@stahl.pt
Russia OOO R. Stahl Moscow Phone: +7 495 615 04 73 E-mail: info@stahl.ru.com
Sweden R. Stahl Svenska Aktiebolag Järfälla Phone: +46 8 38 91 00 E-mail: info@rstahl.se
Switzerland R. STAHL Schweiz AG Magden Phone: +41 61 855 40 60 E-mail: info@stahl-schweiz.ch
Spain INDUSTRIAS STAHL S.A. Madrid Phone: +34 916 61 55 00 E-mail: stahl@stahl.es

FURTHER DISCLOSURES Locations

149

AMERICAS
Canada R. STAHL, LTD. Edmonton, Alberta Phone: +1 877 416 43 02 E-mail: sales@rstahl.com
USA R. STAHL, INC. Houston/Texas Phone: +1 800 782 43 57 E-mail: sales@rstahl.com

ASIA
China R. STAHL EX-PROOF (SHANGHAI) CO., LTD. Shanghai Phone: +86 21 64 85 00 11 E-mail: benjamin@rstahl.com.cn
India R. STAHL PRIVATE LIMITED Chennai Phone: +91 44 30 600 600 E-mail: sales@rstahl.net
Japan R. STAHL Kabushiki Kaisha Kawasaki Phone: +81 44 959 26 12 E-mail: sakae-nishimine@stahl.jp
Korea R. STAHL CO., LTD. Seoul Phone: +82 2 470 88 77 E-mail: info@stahl.co.kr

Malaysia R. STAHL ENGINEERING & MANUFACTURING SDN. BHD. Selangor Phone: +60 3 78 48 58 50 E-mail: sales@stahl.my
Singapore R. STAHL PTE LTD Singapore Phone: +65 62 71 95 95 E-mail: sales@rstahl.com.sg
United Arab Emirates R. STAHL MIDDLE EAST FZE Dubai Phone: +971 4 80 66 400 E-mail: info@stahl.ae
AUSTRALIA
R. STAHL AUSTRALIA PTY LTD Wollongong Phone: +61 2 42 54 47 77 E-mail: info@stahl.com.a

150

R. STAHL AR 2017

This report is available in German and English. Both versions can also be found online on our corporate website www.r-stahl.com in the section Corporate/Investor Relations/Financial Reports. It contains forward-looking statements based on assumptions and estimates of R. STAHL's management. Although we assume that the expectations of these forward-looking statements are realistic, we cannot guarantee that these expectations will prove to be correct. The assumptions may involve risks and uncertainties that could cause the actual results to differ materially from the forward-looking statements. Factors that may cause such discrepancies include: changes in the macroeconomic and business environment, exchange rate and interest rate fluctuations, the roll-out of competing products, a lack of acceptance of new products or services, and changes in business strategy. R. STAHL does not plan to update these forward-looking statements nor does it accept any obligation to do so.

FINANCIAL CALENDAR 2018
Interim statement as of 30 June 2018 9 August 2018 Annual General Meeting in Künzelsau 30 August 2018 Interim statement as of 30 September 2018 8 November 2018

IMPRINT
Publisher R. Stahl Aktiengesellschaft Am Bahnhof 30, 74638 Waldenburg (Wurtt.) Germany www.r-stahl.com
Contact Dr. Thomas Kornek Head of Investor Relations & Corporate Communications Phone: +49 7942 943 13 95 Fax: +49 7942 943 40 13 95 investornews@stahl.de

Concept and design Impacct Communication GmbH, Hamburg www.impacct.de
Print Zertani Die Druck GmbH, Bremen
Photography P. 1, 13: Scanner GmbH Künzelsau P. 5: Jürgen Altmann P. 14: Andy Green P. 17: Wolfram Schroll

ID-Nr. 267798 en-06/2018

R. Stahl Aktiengesellschaft Am Bahnhof 30 74638 Waldenburg (Wurtt.) Germany www.r-stahl.com

