rpsgroup.com

2019
REPORT AND ACCOUNTS

OUR PURPOSE

2

We create shared value by solving

problems that matter to a complex,

urbanising and resource-scarce world.

Our purpose reinforces our commitment to delivering client solutions to complex problems in a world that is rapidly changing. It is a bold affirmation of why RPS exists.
Intentionally created with our clients at the core, it is the driving force that connects and shapes a winning mindset, underpinned by our behaviours and reinforced through our actions.
It is the compass that keeps us in step with our people, our clients, our investors and our communities.

Our purpose gives us
· Meaning · Identity · Authenticity · Connectivity · Creativity · Energy · Inspiration
A strategy and business model built around purpose Page 10

Purpose led corporate responsibility Page 34

Report and Accounts 2019

Contents

CONTENTS

Our purpose
2019 at a glance
Performance headlines Financial headlines
Strategic report
Chairman's statement Business model Our promise RPS at a glance Macro drivers Chief Executive's statement Our global strategy People Brand Connectivity ­ data, digital and tech Segment highlights Our approach to responsible business Financial review Risk and risk management Corporate responsibility
Report of the directors
The Board
Corporate governance
Chairman's introduction Overview and compliance Response to the shareholder consultation Nomination committee report Audit committee report Remuneration committee report Remuneration at a glance Annual report on remuneration
Financial statements

2
4

4 4
7

8

10

12

14

16

18

21

22

26

28

32

34

37

3

42

46

49

50
57

58 60 67 68 70 74 77 78
93

Connected content ­ Jump to connected content by using the sign posts in the margins.
E.g. people p.22

Report and Accounts 2019

Headlines
2019 AT A GLANCE

Launched global performance and
development framework
Reward linked to global objectives, performance ratings and common KPIs
New behaviours embedded in how
we work
People
4

Launched a new global brand for RPS New website ­
53%
increase in site visits, 2 million page views
Brand

11%
increase in cross selling
Global ERP designed, built and piloted
Modern Workplace initiative launched
Connectivity

2019

612.6
Revenue (£m)
637.4

556.5
Fee income1 (£m)
574.2

37.3
PBTA1 (£m)
50.2

90%
Cash conversion (%)
94%

-4%

-3%

-26%

-4%

Variation % 2018

Report and Accounts 2019

Headlines

2019

21%
increase in profit
Expansion of renewables service offerings
Implemented succession planning initiatives and online training for the Global
Energy team

Acquisition of Corview and Reservoir Imaging Ltd
19%
organic fee growth in Republic of Ireland

American Council of Engineering award
Multiple Project Management achievement
awards, Australia
Floating LiDAR L-2 certification

Energy

Organic growth and selective acquisition

Awards/Recognition
5

4.8
Statutory profit before tax (£m)
41.0
-88%

12.31
Adjusted earnings per share (diluted)1 (p)
16.34
-25%

4.42
Total dividend per share (p)
9.88
-55%

(1) Alternative Performance Measures are used consistently throughout the Report and Accounts. These include PBTA, fee income, items prefaced "adjusted" such as adjusted EPS, segment profit, underlying profit, underlying operating profit, amounts labelled "at constant currency", EBITDAS, conversion of profit into cash, net bank borrowings and leverage. For further details of their purpose, definition and reconciliation for the equivalent statutory measures see note 3 to the consolidated financial statements.
Report and Accounts 2019

Variation % 2018

Ross Thompson
CEO Australia Asia Pacific
SYDNEY METRO
6
URBANISATION
A turn-up-and-go transformation of Sydney's urban rail network What we do RPS is supporting the development of Sydney Metro ­ a multi-phase project that will provide high frequency `turn up and go' transport options for Australia's largest city. Once complete, Sydney Metro will deliver 31 new rail stations between Sydney's northwest and southwest via the Central Business District. Making complex easy Working as a key partner to Sydney Metro, our team is helping to drive efficiencies for business case development, major package procurement and infrastructure delivery, while streamlining approvals and engaging with stakeholders to ensure delivered outcomes meet community need. We're also contributing to project delivery through surveying and spatial services, heritage and more. Result The first stage of Sydney Metro is now open to the public after more than eight years of tunnelling, track laying and station building. More than 11 million customer journeys were recorded on the Metro North West Line in its first five months of operations, with the network now carrying more than 75,000 people each weekday.
Report and Accounts 2019

STRATEGIC 7 REPORT

Strategic report
CHAIRMAN'S STATEMENT

I was appointed as Chairman in November 2016. The acquisitions whilst addressing the challenges of

previous Chairman had been on the Board for some underinvestment. This strategy was re-endorsed

20 years. My first task was to find a Chief Executive

again in 2018 and 2019.

to succeed Alan Hearne, who was retiring from the

Board after being in post for over 30 years. John

John and his executive team have worked hard

Douglas was appointed at the start of June 2017,

to progress the various initiatives: to re-organise

formally taking over from Alan in October of that

the business into more logical segments serving

year. John was familiar with the market and the sector defined market sectors; to make changes to the

having previously been Chief Executive of Coffey in

executive management team; to provide clarity

Australia. Each of the current non-executive directors and transparency around the services offered; to

was newly appointed shortly thereafter.

establish a culture of one RPS with a clear purpose

and expected behaviours; to develop and implement

Future proofing the business whilst building action plans around marketing, technology systems

on the RPS legacy

and human resources; and, to turn RPS from a

8

conglomerate of consulting businesses into one RPS

With the longevity of the previous leadership it was

with clear direction. This has been apparent from the

likely that changes would be required. Whilst Alan's

greater clarity and transparency of external reporting.

legacy of building a group of over 5,000 people with

revenue of over £500 million was recognised, the

We have invested significantly to achieve a new look

group John inherited was essentially a conglomeration RPS Group and we have made substantial progress

of acquired small businesses with little in the way of a

with brand, social media presence, communication and

cohesive purpose and lacking synergy benefits from

people management. We have also acquired Corview

integration. Some of the earlier and recently acquired

in Australia supplementing our Business Advisory

businesses proved to be fragile, past their peak and in

business there and, in the Energy business, Reservoir

decline with the performance deterioration offset by

Imaging, which adds to our technology capability.

later acquisitions. The lack of integration added to the

Both have been properly integrated with the existing

fragility. John set about addressing some of the inherent business. Internally and externally, the image of RPS

weaknesses in structure and market presence which

is now consistent and cohesive. HR practices are well

were already showing signs of impacting ongoing

along the road to where they should be and although

performance. The business was underinvested in

this has not yet translated into a significantly lower

technology systems, marketing and branding and

employee turnover statistic, colleagues are evaluated

human resources systems.

in a consistent way and reviewed routinely. Through

the employee engagement survey employees are

A clear strategy involving change

listened to and feedback acted upon.

and investment

Enacting change is challenging. It has been tougher

The newly appointed Board recognised the potential

and taken longer than we might have hoped to see

for the Group to grow into a substantial consulting

the benefits of the strategy, and the depth of the

business based on the attractiveness of the markets we underinvestment has made it harder. Whilst there

serve, our competitive positioning in those markets and has been some underlying top line growth we have

the quality and capabilities of our people. In 2017 the

seen margin erosion as a result of the higher level of

Board endorsed management's strategy to pursue an

investment and of carrying scarce but underutilised

organic growth strategy supported by highly targeted

resources during market weakness.

Report and Accounts 2019

"We have without doubt made significant progress towards a more integrated, cohesive and purposeful business that will respond positively to the investments made and the improvements in our markets as they occur"
Ken Lever Chairman

Strategic report

Market challenges
We are a consulting and services business and as such are subject to the variations in economic conditions in the markets we serve. 2019 brought its challenges in two of our important markets in Australia, defence and property. In the UK the uncertainty around Brexit has curtailed investment decisions on new projects. Our business is very much front-end in the project cycle in property, infrastructure and transport schemes and so this has taken its toll. We have also seen some market contraction in our UK Services business ahead of the introduction in the Water Industry of Asset Management Plan 7 applicable to the period 2020 to 2025.
During 2019 we made two downward adjustments to external profit expectations as the weakness in our end markets impacted financial performance. We also realigned the dividend to the lower level of profitability. This is an appropriate and prudent response to responsible cash management and capital allocation. These adjustments had an inevitable impact on the share price in an equity market which increasingly lacks liquidity and tends to over-react to the downside. The share price has only made slight progress since 31 December 2018 despite the investments in the business starting to enhance longer term intrinsic value. Our shareholders' disappointment with the progress of the share price is shared by the Board and executive management who are all invested in the business.
Bright spots
We have been particularly pleased with the performance of our newly formed global Energy segment which exceeded our internal expectations and showed year on year improvement in revenue, margin and profitability and is well positioned for future growth. The business is now more broadly based in the sector with a greater focus on renewable energy and with less dependence on oil and so less vulnerable to the cyclical downturns in the oil sector. We have also seen good performances in the Netherlands, Ireland and Northern Ireland.
Listening
I am a frequent visitor to our businesses. Recently I spent a week in our offices in Australia. I last visited the business there in 2017 prior to John's arrival at RPS. I was impressed by the improvement in the business since 2017. We clearly have a business in Australia which is now more holistic, benefits from the links with other

segments in the RPS Group, is better organised and has much greater clarity in terms of its market offering. The business is no doubt well positioned to take advantage of market improvements as they occur.
A great global team
Overall it has been a challenging time for RPS. However, the business remains inherently profitable and cash generative, albeit at lower levels than were planned. Given the challenges of the markets and the extensive changes and investment made, the performance in 2019 is a testimony to the hard work, ingenuity and tenacity of our people at all levels of our business. Wherever I go I see the high quality of our staff, the excellent quality of the work that we do and the very strong and established client relationships. Thank you to my Board colleagues, our executive management and everyone at all levels in the business for the time and energy invested to deliver a respectable performance in trying circumstances and to lay the foundations for future development.
Board changes
9
With the preliminary results announcement we advised the market of the departure of our Finance Director, Gary Young. Gary has been with RPS for some twenty years and has been a very loyal and devoted servant of the Board. With the significant changes to the Board in 2017 Gary remained the only continuity between the old and the new. The time is now right for Gary to make way for his successor, Judith Cottrell. Judith previously led the finance function of the European business of RPS and also had the CEO, Consulting UK and Ireland role for that business. Latterly, as Judith has prepared to take on the role of Finance Director, she has served as the Group Strategy Director. Judith will join the Board and Gary will step down at the Annual General Meeting.
The future
We have without doubt made significant progress towards a more integrated, cohesive and purposeful business that will respond positively to the investments made and the improvements in our markets as they occur. RPS is highly relevant for the future in a resource constrained world and we are committed to seeing the strengths in the business and the benefit of the investments show through in the future financial performance.
Report and Accounts 2019

Strategic report

BUSINESS MODEL
The RPS business model is a model with purpose. Our purpose defines the activities we engage in, the relationships we depend on and the outcomes we aim to achieve ­ not just in the short-term but in the best, longer-term, interests of our stakeholders.

Complexity drives demand
The demand for our services and people is underpinned by a need from clients to deliver solutions that position them to navigate the complexities they face. Whether through the impact of population growth or an increasingly multifaceted legislative and regulatory landscape.

licenses and access to software and applications; providing classroom, field based and on-line training services to clients; and laboratory testing services.
How we do it
RPS is a well-balanced, diversified business with a global presence.

drivers p.16 10

The drivers of our business
Our key themes of sustainability, urbanisation and natural resources generate demand for our services and skills. Whether it's the continuing need for sustainable development of land and buildings or the expanding need to provide adequate infrastructure such as airports, power stations, public transport and water treatment plants, professional services are needed to deliver these. The delivery of energy to market is also key in today's world, particularly the requirement to secure adequate supplies of energy and other natural resources alongside the need to manage environmental and health and safety risks, including climate change.
What we do

· In Energy we have a global business that is structured in step with global clients
· In Consulting UK & Ireland and Services UK & Netherlands we offer a broad range of connected services
· In Australia Asia Pacific we have an integrated business that provides key services to a broad range of clients
· In Norway we are focused on project and program management ­ expertise which is leveraged globally
· And in North America we have three business units providing services to niche, in demand, areas

Our business model is safe and robust. Primarily, RPS is a consultancy business that sells the expertise of our people without the risks associated with construction.
Across our six sectors and 12 services, we define, design and manage projects at each stage of an asset lifecycle ­ from the planning stages when a need is identified, through its useful life, to eventual disposal. We generate profit by selling our expertise at rates higher than the cost of employment, managing utilisation and controlling our overheads. RPS also generates revenue through data ­ selling

All our businesses have the following in common ­ dedicated teams of highly qualified professionals with deep expertise who know their specialism as well as anyone. Our people form teams that are pragmatic in their approach, absolutely focused on delivery and who have their client's goal at the heart of everything they do.
Our business units around the world are supported by a global network of functional support teams to ensure we have the right infrastructure and agility in place to respond to volatility and deliver for our clients.

Report and Accounts 2019

Strategic report

SEGMENTS

SECTORS

SERVICES

Consulting UK & Ireland Energy Services UK & Netherlands Australia Asia Pacific Norway North America

Property Energy

Water

Transport

Defence and government services

Resources

Project and program management Design and development Water services Exploration and development Environment Advisory and management consulting Planning and approvals Health, safety and risk Oceans and coastal Laboratories Training Communications, creative and digital

Overseeing the global direction of our business is a order book, our business is susceptible to changes

Group Leadership Team, made up of the Group CEO, in market conditions. Managing volatility is a key

Group Finance Director, six segment CEOs and the

component of our business model. Because of our

group leads for strategy, technology, people and

size and scale we are adept at managing our business

marketing. The leadership team reflects the natural to changes in market conditions.

organisation of RPS, and the individuals provide a

complementary blend of expertise, experience and We do this by:

local perspective. As a team the Group Leadership

Team formally interact on monthly calls and at

Staying close to clients to understand

quarterly forums. The Group Leadership Team also

our future work

11

work in partnerships to drive specific areas of work as required.

Matching capacity to markets while holding capability

Volatility comes with the territory

Managing cash tightly

RPS works on a range of project profiles from longterm to short-term client work, with most of the work undertaken with existing clients. We maintain six month order books but have good visibility for three months. Due to the relatively short term nature of our

Maintaining a disciplined balance sheet Staying agile enough to be responsive

Group Leadership Team

John Douglas
CEO

John Tompson
CEO Energy
Gary Young
Group Finance Director

John Chubb
CEO Consulting UK & IRE
Liza Kane
Group People Director

Paul Aitken
CEO Services UK & NL

Chantalle Meijer
Group Marketing Director

Halvard Kilde
CEO Norway
Kelly Olsen
Chief Information Officer

Doug Matthys
CEO North America
*Peter Fearn retired 2020
Judith Cottrell
Group Strategy Director

Ross Thompson
CEO Australia Asia Pacific

Report and Accounts 2019

Strategic report
OUR 12 PROMISE
We have deep expertise in things that matter. And we are easy to work with. Our clients trust us and we are respected for our creative thinking. Together we build strong relationships by repeatedly delivering on our promise.
Making complex easy
Report and Accounts 2019

Doug Matthys
CEO North America
ESG
13
SUSTAINABILIT Y
Translating purpose into plans, actions and accountabilities ­ what does this mean for businesses? Opportunity Ongoing impacts from climate change, modern slavery and other social and environmental issues keep the importance of demonstrating sustainability front and centre of most businesses ensuring corporate sustainability programs have flourished. Our strategic Environmental Social Governance advisory services can help increase valuation, lower risk and protect reputation. Making complex easy RPS is advising businesses on how to implement a sustainability strategy that is tailored for individual size and scale and the challenges and opportunities relevant to the sectors they operate in. Result As banks, equity partners and clients seek to insulate themselves against risk and leverage potential upsides, an increasing focus is placed upon demonstrable sustainability performance, with tangible evidence of this now forming a condition of investment or contract. A strong corporate sustainability performance inspires trust in investment and helps to win work.
Report and Accounts 2019

Strategic report
RPS AT A GLANCE
Founded in 1970, RPS is a leading global professional services firm of 14 5,000 people.
Operating in 125 countries, working across six continents we define, design and manage projects that create shared value to a complex, urbanising and resource-scarce world.
Report and Accounts 2019

5,000
employees
6
segments
6
sectors
12
service clusters

Strategic report

SIX SECTORS

Property
Residential Commercial and retail Leisure and tourism Industrial Health and healthcare Education

Resources Mining Waste

Defence and g overnment services
Defence Security and safety Information and telecommunications

Energy
Gas and oil Renewables Nuclear facilities Power and gas networks Storage

Transport

Roads

Rail

15

Aviation

Ports

Water
Water management Wastewater Flooding and drainage Groundwater

TWELVE SERVICE CLUSTERS
Project and program management Design and development Water services Environment Advisory andmanagement consulting Training Planning and approvals Health, safety and risk Oceans and coastal Laboratories Exploration and development Communications, creative and digital

Report and Accounts 2019

Strategic report

MACRO DRIVERS
Matching our expertise to growth markets where there is a demand for our services
Three macro growth markets have been intentionally defined where we have known client opportunities and where there is a demand for our services. These are Sustainability, Urbanisation and Natural Resources.

Sustainability

Rapidly changing demographics and technological

Creating shared value

developments have given rise to a way of living

RPS works with clients to identify and design

that brings a range of environmental issues and

innovative opportunities and solutions that

global challenges including resource scarcity,

embrace sustainability. We understand the

climate change, instability and conflicts,

implications of changing availability, prices and

inequality, achieving sustainable development,

risk, dependencies and vulnerability and the

and maintaining biodiversity and food security.

nature of evolving policy, regulation, investor

focus and emerging sustainability standards.

The opportunity ­ supporting our clients to

deliver their projects in a responsible way

Our design solutions recognise:

Our deep understanding of the environment and the impacts of a changing world puts us in a

· Environmental factors ­ natural resource use, efficiency and impacts

16

strong position to deliver high value sustainable

· Social factors ­ impact and engagement

client solutions in a responsible way.

· Governance factors ­ oversight and management

At RPS we have expertise in:
· Environmental, Social, and Governance · Climate and compliance · Consenting ­ net-zero carbon target by 2050
for UK clients

And we manage projects that:
· Build asset resilience · Are innovative and agile · Have client experiences at the core
Go to page 13 to view our ESG case study

PRE-ASSET EVALUATION

ASSET DEVELOPMENT

ASSET EXECUTION

OPERATION MAINTENANCE AND MANAGEMENT

LATE LIFE

ASSET LIFECYCLE ­ Offshore wind energy Report and Accounts 2019

Strategic report

Urbanisation

Natural resources

Global megatrends are rapidly changing demographic Countries and organisations globally are working

patterns and accelerating rates of urbanisation.

hard to develop responsible energy supplies

Most of the world's population live in urban areas,

using renewable resources that are derived from

and there is strong appetite for the development

sustainable sources such as wind and solar to ensure

of the infrastructure needed to support growing

a sustainable future for the generations to come.

communities. Striking a balance between social,

environmental and commercial needs is one of the

The opportunity ­ be on the front foot of a global,

biggest challenges in the design and development

and complex shift in resource consumption

of our built environment.

To work with clients to define, design and manage the

sustainable use of our natural resources to secure

The opportunity ­ building sustainable cities.

water, food and energy supplies and build asset

Balancing form and function

resilience across water networks.

· Regionalisation · Major cities · Urban design and development

To work with our clients to adapt to increased demands on natural resources to develop alternative, renewable energy supplies while managing existing

RPS ­ making complex easy to understand

and potentially finite resources.

Partnering with public and private sector clients

to define solutions to complex challenges around

Solving problems that matter

17

constrained resource capacity and financing

RPS defines and delivers pragmatic asset solutions

infrastructure delivery, project prioritisation and

that are commercially and technically viable, to

future-proofing built environments.

manage and secure future supplies.

Working with clients to make informed decisions that build sustainable futures for communities through:
· Designing new models planning approaches · Digital and technology ­ challenging traditional
ways of doing things
· Supporting clients to make better choices
Ensuring the optimal solution is delivered through careful management
· Enhancing the productivity, sustainability and liveability of cities
· Improving connectivity and delivering integrated infrastructure networks
· Stimulating enterprise and entrepreneurism
Go to page 6 to view our Sydney Metro case study

We work with our clients to optimise the performance of energy and water networks while ensuring the equitable distribution of vital natural resources through great design
· Resource definition and viability · High yield, low impact infrastructure · Asset survey, monitoring and management · Applying new technologies to reliably collect and
analyse data
RPS identifies ways for clients to manage assets and projects to deliver viable, sustainable outcomes
· Water management: building asset resilience, reducing leakage and preventing flooding and pollution, using data to maximise capital maintenance programmes
· Energy: applying existing expertise in gas and oil into renewables and leveraging our extensive renewables experience into new and emerging markets

Go to page 31 to view our Offshore wind case study

Report and Accounts 2019

Strategic report
CHIEF EXECUTIVE'S STATEMENT

Investing in a sustainable future

2019 was a critical year for the program, which

saw us deliver a global design on budget, complete

As CEO I want to ensure long-term success for RPS

global construction and go-live in the Netherlands

by investing in a purposeful, sustainable future that

and parts of our business in Australia

creates shared value for our stakeholders. We will do

this through creating economic value on a platform 4. W e consider the journey to revitalise our Energy

of strong relationships with our people, investors

business to be complete. The Energy sector at

and clients, positive social impact and effective

RPS is growing and a continued expansion of

succession planning.

renewables services offerings has also played a

larger part than this time last year

Two years into the job we have a global strategy

supported by investment, rebased the dividend, put 5. Improving organic growth remained a key focus

succession planning into practice, strengthened

and we saw growth in fees and profits in Energy,

leadership and created much greater transparency.

Ireland and the Netherlands in 2019. Acquisition

We are well underway in transforming our business

remained very selective as we invest and manage

18

from a conglomerate of small consulting firms to

the balance sheet. Our acquisition of Corview

a connected global firm that uses its combined

(Australia) and Reservoir Imaging Ltd (Energy) this

expertise to deliver professional services around

year reinforced our `density, not greater diversity'

the world.

strategy.

2019 ­ five clear strategic priorities

strategy p.21

2019 saw us continue to focus on the five strategic priorities we laid out in 2017 to create our platform for sustainable growth.

Going forward, investment in the business won't stop, but we have for the most part, completed the investment we outlined for our people and brand priorities. Growth and acquisitions are still important, but along with Energy, it's now a business as usual focus.

people p.22

1. O ur deliberate People plan is starting to show results

brand p.26

2. At the start of the year we delivered a bold, client driven brand, with measurable impact

3. Connectivity has been a significant focus this year

ERP p.29

· The reorganisation of our business is yielding results with greater cross selling across segments. We are also seeing higher levels of cross selling within segments.
· Our ERP program is a thoughtful four year plan to modernise the business by linking people through improved systems, while controlling risk. It represents the most significant proportion of our strategic investment and it's crucial we get it right.

Report and Accounts 2019

Our refreshed strategic priorities for 2020 have clients at the heart of our plan (see p.21). We will deliver organic growth by giving our clients repeated high value experiences that exceed expectations and consistently delivering on our promise of making complex easy. First-class customer experience combined with data insight will strengthen our relationships, create long-term loyalty, repeat work and reduced cost of sales.
Managing volatility
In our June trading update we talked about a disappointing set of half year results, largely due to softness in the Australian market and a weak first quarter in North America. But, despite a backdrop of volatile markets, we continued to make solid progress, throughout 2019, in achieving our strategic priorities.

"We are well underway in transforming our business from a conglomerate of small consulting firms to a connected global firm that uses its combined expertise to deliver professional services around the world."
John Douglas Chief Executive

Strategic report

As part of a disciplined approach to capital allocation, Trading performance and our markets

the dividend was rebased. RPS continues to be a

highly cash generative business, with strong market Notwithstanding a good performance from Energy,

positions in our segments and good underlying

2019 was a difficult year

fundamentals. The steps taken will support RPS'

growth in the medium to long term and improve shareholder returns in the future.

· The gas and oil industry continued to recover, especially marine exploration and development,

and our Energy business benefitted from

In the short term our specialist businesses have a

strong demand for our exploration and

three-month order book which we manage carefully.

development, oceans and coastal, and

This provides opportunities as well as challenges for RPS. training services. We also saw continued

expansion of our renewables offering.

Financial performance

Our results were in line with expectations. They

· Demand for our Consulting services in the Republic of Ireland and Northern Ireland was

reflect the significant investment made to progress

strong, leading to good fee growth. In the rest

19

our strategic priorities and the difficult market

of the United Kingdom, market conditions were

conditions and political uncertainty faced in some

affected by political uncertainty which impacted

of the key geographies where we operate.

clients' investment decisions, particularly in

our higher margin businesses. Despite these

Key financials

challenges, the segment performed credibly.

Revenue

£612.6m

Fee income £556.5m

PBTA

£37.3m

Adjusted EPS 12.31p

Total dividend per share
Statutory loss after tax
Statutory diluted EPS

4.42p (£1.2m) (0.54p)

· In our Services segment, the demand for our water services in England and Wales was adversely impacted, as expected, as the industry prepared for the new AMP regulatory cycle that will commence in April 2020. The Netherlands business performed well, growing both fees and profit, having benefitted from organic investments made in 2018.

Exceptional items
Exceptional items in 2019 resulted in costs totalling £23.4m. These included a goodwill impairment of £19.8m of our Australia Asia Pacific business and £3.6m of other exceptional items. These include the costs associated with our global rebrand, legal fees incurred for an investigation regarding the administration of some US government client work and change management and data migration costs associated with our ERP program.

· In Norway, teams in Oslo are benefitting from working as a fully integrated business and performance in the first half of the year was good. However, senior staff losses due to competitive pressures affected the second half of the year. We remain a leading project and program management services provider in a very attractive and stable economy and we are fighting hard to retain that position. The process to replace those staff who left us is almost complete.

Report and Accounts 2019

Strategic report

20 drivers p.16

· It was a difficult year for our North America segment. While our oceans and coastal business performed strongly, recruitment and retention challenges held us back in the rest of the business. Some management changes were made in 2020 following the retirement of Peter Fearn and a major strategic review of the segment is underway.
· In Australia a well-documented national property downturn and state and federal elections heavily impacted 2019 performance. We did start to see defence spending pick up in H2 and infrastructure spend in New South Wales picked up in Q4, although continues to be impacted by post government changes. The impact of the bushfires remains unquantified.
A sustainable business with significant upside
The oil price crash of 2013 exposed RPS dependence on profit generated by oil for the overall success of the Group. This led to an intense period of acquisitions from 2013­2017 to replace Energy profits and diversify the business. RPS then experienced the impact of the end of acquisition lock-in periods, organisational change, functional investment and some Energy recovery. This is now largely behind us. RPS is a sustainable business with significant upside to come.
· RPS is a tighter, better integrated group with acquisition risk dealt with
· Our turnaround investment has largely been made, is yielding some results with more benefit to come
· RPS is well balanced and well diversified · We have great thematics ­ sustainability,
urbanisation and natural resources

Group Finance Director succession
On 19 February 2020, we announced Gary Young, Group Finance Director, will be stepping down from the Board of Directors at the time of the Group's AGM on 30 April 2020 and will not offer himself for re-election.
Gary has been with RPS as Group Finance Director for 20 years and, during that time, has been instrumental to the success and growth of the business. Since my appointment two years ago, Gary has provided much needed continuity as the Board was refreshed. He has also been a trusted adviser to me over that time and identified his successor.
We are pleased to announce that Gary will be succeeded by Judith Cottrell. Judith has been with RPS for five years. In that time she has been CFO Europe, CEO Consulting UK and Ireland and Group Strategy Director. Having qualified as an accountant with KPMG, Judith held senior finance roles at AEA Plc and Ricardo Plc. Her knowledge of RPS gives her a perspective that is highly valued.
Group prospects
The future for RPS is about being at the forefront of changing market trends, identifying growth opportunities and delivering complex solutions in a way that is easy to understand and implement. 2020 will see a continuation of the focus on our people and investing in connectivity across the Group. Allowing us to build on the deep expertise that our clients have recognised and provide us with a stronger competitive edge in all the markets that we operate in.
As we enter 2020, trading conditions in our markets are generally satisfactory and we anticipate more stable results from our segments. We will continue to invest, especially to deliver better connectivity, but we will do so in a measured way. We remain focused on building a business that in due course is capable of delivering mid-single digit rates of organic growth and a double-digit operating margin. The Board remains confident in the medium term outlook for the Group and anticipates that the year ahead will be broadly in line with 2019 with growth accelerating in 2021.

Report and Accounts 2019

Strategic report

OUR GLOBAL STRATEGY

OUR PURPOSE Why we exist
We create shared value by solving problems that matter to a complex, urbanising and resource-scarce world

OUR PROMISE What we do Making complex easy

We solve problems that matter

OUR BEHAVIOURS How we do it

We are confidently We make it easy We are stronger

pragmatic

to connect

together

Absolute delivery

2019 ­ Strategic priorities ­ Laying the foundation for growth

PEOPLE

BRAND

ENERGY

ORGANIC GROWTH AND SELECTIVE ACQUISITION

CONNECTIVITY

Invest in people and reduce staff
turnover

Tell our story better

Revitalise the Energy business

Density not diversity

Exploit revenue synergies where they exist but not where
they don't

21

Progressing

Delivered

Delivered

Progressing

Progressing

2020 ­ Strategic priorities ­ Evolution not revolution
PEOPLE
Make RPS a great place to do great work

CLIENTS
Grow our business by delivering great work for our clients

CONNECTIVITY
Make it easy to work together

"In 2019 we ran a thoughtful and comprehensive strategy and planning process. We did this with management teams at a global and local level, and with the Board. The outcome was a recognition that we were ready to move our priorities on and that the time was right to put our clients at the heart of our strategy for 2020. We will achieve organic growth by delivering great work for our clients and our three priorities are designed to achieve this."

Judith Cottrell Group Strategy Director

Report and Accounts 2019

PEOPLE
Building on our foundations

Liza Kane Group People Director

"In 2018 we laid the foundations for a People strategy designed to attract and retain the best people. 2019 has seen a seismic shift in the experience we offer our employees at RPS. It was a year focused on realising the investment that has been made and starting the professionalisation of experience and services we provide for our people and offer the business."

We are STRONGER TOGETHER
We are CONFIDENTLY PRAGMATIC

Underpinning our people strategy is a desire to make Our culture ­ embedding a culture of high

all our current and future employees feel that RPS is performance to support our staff to succeed

a great place to do great work.

Because of the calibre of our people, we attract

complex projects. As a result, RPS is not short on

stimulating work. Stimulating work requires a

22

We inspire our people to deliver
our strategy

We create a high performance
culture and reward accordingly

working environment that allows our people to thrive and reach their full potential. For this to happen we

have encouraged local initiatives that are tailored to

the needs of our people on the ground to flourish.

This has been achieved by improving the flow of

Our organisational structure supports clients and growth

RPS a great place to do great work

We enable our employees to shine and build meaningful
careers

information employees receive, connecting pay to performance and supporting our people to recognise the work that counts to ensure we are all working on

what matters.

We attract and retain high calibre
talent and offer them flexibility

We create high performing
leadership teams

Our great place to do great work strategy inspires our people to be their best self and be part of a successful team in a results driven organisation that engages and retains talent.
To ensure we were working on the right things in the right way in 2019 and in recognition that the business was in different stages of evolution, we adopted the mantra of `think global, act local' as opposed to a `one size fits all' approach. This pragmatic mindset has meant we have been able to implement a wide range of initiatives this year.

At the start of the year, when we

We solve PROBLEMS THAT MATTER

launched our new

brand, we introduced

our behaviours that

underpin our new

Winning mindset

purpose and promise

and give us the framework to focus on absolute delivery in the

We make it EASY TO CONNECT

right way. Created by our people, our behaviours are

at the heart of our people strategy. The connection

was clearly felt ­ when we launched a behaviours

awareness program of voluntary learning, we saw an

immediate uptake of 85% in the weeks that followed.

Our behaviours have also strengthened recruitment

processes, performance management, business

strategy rationale and client pitches.

Report and Accounts 2019

Strategic report

Closely linked to behaviours has been our emphasis on leadership effectiveness across the organisation. As well as providing a quarterly CEO forum for our global senior leadership community, we established a global line manager community ­ a first for RPS. For the first time there has been targeted support for this group to help them be the best managers they can be.
Nurturing our talented people around the world
In 2019 we launched Progress@RPS ­ a global performance and development framework that puts our employees in the driving seat of their own growth at RPS. Based on the principle of more frequent and meaningful conversations, our people now have joint ownership, with their line manager, of their careers. This is backed up with a wealth of support for our people in achieving their ambitions and supporting RPS in recognising the value in the contribution our people make.
At a local level, businesses and teams implemented their own initiatives targeted to their people, in their business and in their operating environment. There was a groundswell of activity including graduate specific initiatives around connectivity to mental health campaigns including RU OK in Australia and a stress management workshop for colleagues in our Consulting business.
Enhancing our learning and development offering for our people is a key priority for 2020. In 2019 we articulated our vision and work is well underway to turning this into a reality next year.

GLOBAL MOBILITY OPPORTUNITIES FOR OUR BEST AND BRIGHTEST
CASE STUDY
Nathan Benfer
Principal Consultant, Energy
· Moved from Australia to UK · MetOcean to Energy · Deep expertise ­ MetOcean data · Transferable skills ­ marine and freshwater
environment projects, water movement and material/pollutant transport modelling

MAKING PROGRESS

STAFF
5,000
IN 2018 IMPROVED TO
80%

PERFORMANCE REVIEWS IN 2017
50%

IN 2019

ROSE TO

23

>95%

360's for line managers
Talent and succession planning and mid year
check in
Salary and promotion effective date shared
via TRS and line manager briefing

June - July Sept

April

ember - October
CHECK IN 4

December - Jan
CHECK IN 1

CHECK IN 3

CHECK IN 2

bruary - March

Fe

uary

January - February

Year end Performance Development Review, evaluating objectives and our behaviours
Peer calibration and promotion recommendations

Rating and promotion outcomes, objective setting, career discussion
and development plans
Report and Accounts 2019

Strategic report

THE FUTURE IS BRIGHT
CASE STUDY
Patrick Leahy
Project Manager, Project Management, Melbourne
International Project Management Association (IPMA) Young Project Manager of the Year 2019

A working environment that helps us deliver making complex easy for our people and our clients
RPS is a business full of deep expertise and fresh thinking and that is critical in our line of work. The diversity of our people contributes to the diversity of our thinking significantly. We saw more innovation than ever before coming to the surface in 2019. The setting up of global forums ­ whether centred on a specific expertise such as AI or an opportunity we want to leverage like offshore wind ­ considerably enriched the debate in 2019.

We acknowledge that for our business to grow; we

depend on diversity of talent and breath of thinking from a range of backgrounds. Our diversity of talent

RPS AEC GENDER INDEX LEADER

is what makes RPS a great place to do great work. We are delighted to be the 2019 AEC industry leaders in the gender index of larger firms, this represented in

BOARD
43% F 57% M

our Board, Group Leadership Team and our global Senior Leadership Group. In 2019 women currently make up 43% of our Board and 33% of our Group Leadership Team. Our intent is to have our Senior Leadership Group 40% female by 2025. This figure

24

currently stands at 33%.

GROUP LEADERSHIP
TEAM
33% F

Our new behaviours are central to creating an inclusive and diverse culture. Our global behaviours training, which is also a key component of

67% M

onboarding, talks about wanting our people to be respectful of each other, acknowledge diversity and

SENIOR LEADERSHIP
GROUP

recognise the potential and contribution of everyone. To foster this, we encourage our employees to bring out the best in one another and assume best intent.

33% F

A modern workplace and providing our people with

67% M
AMBITION 40% RATIO BY 2025

the tools and equipment to create the fresh thinking and deliver for our clients has made great strides this year. Working with our technology partners we have significantly upgraded and modernised key tools, with more to come in 2020.

AEC REPORT 2019

All this is set against an unrelenting focus on making RPS a safe place to work ­ whether in our premises

or on site with clients. We are very proud that our

safety statistics continue to be strong ­ this gives our people the confidence to focus on their work, thrive in their surroundings and be the best they can be.

Report and Accounts 2019

Strategic report

RPS Director confirmed as 100th President of the Institution of Structural Engineers
· Professional Reviewer of graduate engineers ­ Institution of Civil Engineers and Engineers Ireland
· Mentor for RPS' young engineers · Royal Academy of Engineering Visiting Professor at Queens University Belfast

Professor Don McQuillan

Transparency and clarity for our people when · Made improvements to our SIP scheme
it comes to reward

In support of RPS' commitment to be a more

· Introduced a new global performance rating scale which includes an assessment of behaviours

consistently results driven organisation, we

including Absolute Delivery which was defined by

introduced a number of improvements and initiatives

our Senior Leadership Group

to help our people make the connection between

their performance and RPS' success.

· The end of 2019 also saw the introduction of global SMART objectives linked to common KPI's that will

2019
PSIRNLHPTAASENRGRERNPOAUUTRIPOCPNHLAACLSE

· Introduced total reward statements for employees

be universally rolled out in 2020 for the first time With the introduction of our performance

management framework, greater rigour and

25

· Launched a new Annual Discretionary Bonus

transparency around Reward and the embedding of our new behaviours, we have laid strong foundations

Pleadsaetab,einacdlvuidseindgtshaaltayryoudrestatailtse, mwheincthcios nptearisnosnpael rtsooynoaul .

InternaEtmiopnlaolySeheabreooPkulrecthAaussetrPalalina 2019

Plan for our senior leaders, founded on the principles of aligned,

for 2020. Our people priorities will remain focused on making RPS a great place to do great work but will also be closely aligned to our clients and

rpsgroup.com

rpsgroup.com

targeted, competitive, connectivity imperatives. 2020 will see a focus on

trusted and responsive, Learning and Development ­ in relation to sales and

giving our people the ability to share in the success project management capabilities. We will continue

of RPS through profit, fees and lock up days and

to consolidate the investment in performance and

personal performance objectives

reward and our drive to modernise how we provide

our services will be at the forefront as we digitise the

assessment and development of our talent.

Maintaining momentum in 2020

Sales and RPS Academy
700+ employees to be enrolled

Consolidating investment in performance and reward

Opportunities, roles and skills aligned with strategy

Introduce IT enabled platform under the Progress banner

YSOTAUTRETMOETNATL REWARD

Report and Accounts 2019

Strategic report
BRAND
A change in mindset giving us clear strategic direction

Chantalle Meijer Group Marketing Director

"At the start of the year we reset ourselves with the launch of a new global brand for RPS. This important step in our evolution defined who we are, signified a change in mindset and set the framework for our strategic direction ­ our purpose, our promise and our behaviours."

A brand built on strong sense of PURPOSE

The character of RPS as defined by our people

Our purpose reflects our commitment to creating

The way we deliver our purpose and our promise is

shared value and reinforces our undertaking to

underpinned by five behaviours. Developed by our

challenge industry norms to solve problems that

people, these behaviours reinforce everything we do.

matter. Over the past year we've laid the foundations How we do things is the essence of our brand and

for a global corporate responsibility framework that gives the sense of what it is to like to work with RPS

26

looks at the services we offer, the environment

and for RPS. We know we are stronger together when

we create for our people and our impact on the

we develop integrated solutions for our clients. By

communities we serve. This work will continue

easily connecting our deep expertise, we can deliver

in 2020 and will underpin and continue to foster

new, innovative thinking for clients. This innovation,

a purposeful, responsible business culture that

coupled with a commitment to solve problems in a

empowers our people to live our purpose.

confident and pragmatic way, naturally delivers results.

A PROMISE that we repeatedly deliver

Bringing our brand to life

The articulation of our promise, making complex easy, provided much needed clarity in our markets that have been exposed to considerable political instability and uncertainty. The focus on making complex easy for our clients and repeatedly delivering on our promise has deepened relationships, created resilience and preserved client confidence.

Over the past year, we've invested in the way we express ourselves through our visual and our verbal identity ­ our brand personality. We've created comprehensive guidelines and writing principles designed to show empathy to our clients who are often time poor and overwhelmed by content. Repeatedly expressing ourselves in a way that consistently delivers high value client experiences at every interaction with our brand will deliver trust and loyalty.

"Overall, we thought you were a great fit for Clipper from a capability and cost perspective but also, we felt there was a pragmatic and collaborative approach demonstrated that would fit with our culture."
Nicholas Beadle, Clipper Logistics Plc

Report and Accounts 2019

Strategic report

In 2018, we partnered with a digital agency to design and build a fully responsive website to create high value client experiences and drive organic growth.
In January 2019 we launched our new global website. Geotargeting capability ensures a localised and targeted visitor experience and live chat is building demonstrable pipeline velocity and revenue conversations. Since launching the new site we've received positive feedback from clients, investors, our people and prospective new staff.

In 2019 we launched RPS' Templafy solution ­ automated templates making it easy for our people to consistently produce high quality, branded documents. The launch of Templafy was a signature digital transformation project.
Templafy has...
· Given us a global understanding of our regional document requirements
· Driven engagement in the brand through local ownership
· Given RPS better management of legal documents and disclaimers
· Met the complex design needs of a global business with an easily accessible repository of templates
· Improved work flow and considerably reduced time spent on preparing material

2020 will see us continue to leverage the investment by developing the skills of our users and refining our document library to provide support on a wider range of documents and applications.

· 2­3 clicks to reach an expert · Fully responsive · Designed for mobile-first · Targeted geolocation functionality · Scalable

27
"I am happy to say that the Canadian Team is fully embracing the Templafy Platform. Feedback from team members is positive and based on recognition of the

ease of creating consistent documents/

53%
increase in site visits
in 2019 compared
to 2018

Visitors spending
31.7%
more time on the site
compared to last year

reports. Based on the emphasis put on the rebranding effort over the last year, it is great to see a platform that helps support and enhance the RPS brand."

2m

3,000

Roger Edgecombe, Senior VP ­ Geoscience, RPS Canada

page views

web service enquiries

2020, the next chapter

We know our markets and we know our clients. We've recognised that social, technological, economic, political and environmental factors are impacting and influencing our clients' purchasing decisions. Targeting the right clients using data driven insights and developing optimised, connected client journeys across each stage of our sales cycle in markets where there is a demand for our services will further reinforce the ethos of our brand.

Report and Accounts 2019

Strategic report

CONNECTIVITY ­ DATA, DIGITAL AND TECH
Using data, digital and technology expertise to make complex easy

Kelly Olsen Chief Information Officer

"We have moved at pace to deliver digital initiatives designed to enable our teams to work smarter to enhance client engagement and delivery."

In 2018 RPS took a significant step away from being In 2019, we:

a conglomerate of small businesses to becoming a global business of inter-connected sectors and

· Built a global technology leadership team who have reset the provision of technology services

services. We recognised that by combining our deep

at RPS to provide both critical business support

expertise with data and digital technology capabilities

and client facing expertise

we held a unique and enviable position to repeatedly

28

deliver high value client experiences.

· A re better equipped to robustly handle cyber security threats to ensure the integrity of valuable

Our investment focused on:

data ­ both ours and of our clients, is protected

· Leveraging the power of data · Investing in digital solutions where they add
value and make complex easy

· Leveraged the cloud more than we have ever done before, completing technology optimisations that

· Creating modern technological capability to enable enhanced client experiences

will allow us to disrupt markets by executing large models in the cloud. We have also built a platform

· Cross selling our expertise and capability across the asset lifecycle

for modern provisioning, that means we can deploy new devices directly from the cloud

Tangible progress
In 2019 we invested in future proofing our technological capabilities, building our data capability and continued to deliver on our promise of making complex easy for our clients. We also made a significant move to de-risk the business by looking at the design of our own business critical systems and processes and how we can integrate them.
We are future proofing our technical capabilities to ensure we have the capability and expertise to embrace opportunities, are fit to face the challenges of a digital age and ready to respond to the pace of change.

RPS manages IT systems and security risk centrally ­ maximising reliability, resilience and disaster planning.
A dedicated Security team monitors activity, hardens systems and responds to events. Policies, procedures and security measures are regularly reviewed and enhanced. In 2019 additional automated technical and operational security measures were introduced, including:
· Cloud monitoring · Enhanced user authentication · Encryption · Security awareness training · Attack simulations

Report and Accounts 2019

We built our data capability
Advanced analytics and artificial Intelligence are helping us to improve operational efficiency and lift the quality of projects by supporting our decision making. By applying advanced analytics, we can pick up on patterns and relationships in our project data that are not immediately obvious to the human eye. Artificial intelligence is being applied to materially speed up and sometimes even eliminate whole elements of traditional project delivery, particularly routine and repetitive tasks.

Strategic report

ERP TIMELINE

2017 2018
2019
2020

S ingle, modernised and robust platform in country for North America and Norway
Announced strategic investment of £14m to connect our segments and business systems with a new ERP with a single common platform
Completed global design, built platform and went live in part of Australia and the Netherlands. Invoices out, suppliers paid, books closed for December
Australia ­ Phase 2 in H2 Assess timeline and prepare for UK and Ireland migration

As part of a strategy of promotion and best practice of these progressive technologies, we have created a Community of Practice to facilitate discussion, collaboration, and to share ideas and best practice between members.

reporting view for all RPS businesses worldwide. The platform provides the flexibility to grow with our business and integrates seamlessly with our existing Microsoft Office 365 ecosystem.

We continued to make complex easy

We launched a Modern Workplace initiative

for our clients

We also laid the foundations for our Modern

Our UK Services Water business is a great example

Workplace initiative that will see workplace

of how client facing teams have embraced digital,

technology across RPS upgraded in 2020 to bring

data and technology and put customer experience

us up to date with modern practice. The premise

at the heart of this strategy ­ being smarter with

of our Modern Workplace project is to create an

client data, leveraging potential of digital technology, environment that:

commercialising the untapped value of data and

· Ensures work and confidential data is better protected

29

using technology to support new ways of working

· Gives our people access to the tools, documents

that help us meet the complex needs of our clients.

and information they need to do their job,

And in other segments, highlights include:

anywhere, anytime

· Allows us to easily connect, meet, chat, share and work on projects together

· Surveying marine seismic data

· Is fully supported with training and support to help our people become expert users

· Collecting data from solar farms

· Sharing meteorological and oceanographical

Modern Workplace is central to us modernising,

information

having a platform fit forthe future and creating a real

· Using AI solutions to drive efficiency in water

step change in how we work at RPS.

treatment processes

We invested in business critical systems and processes
Enterprise Resource Planning (ERP) is a flagship project for RPS in support of our focus on aligning and connecting our segments. The nature of RPS' growth through acquisition led to a complex system of finance, operations and project management tools being used in silos in our offices around the world.
RPS is making a significant investment in a new global ERP system, Microsoft Dynamics 365, to upgrade and streamline the many systems and processes across RPS. In time this will provide one, easy access, real time finance system that ensures one financial

OPTIMISING CLOUD TECHNOLOGY TO DISRUPT THE MARKET
MetOcean business ­ Rhode Island, USA
· Develops industry leading process models to predict ocean chemical spills for search and rescue scenarios
· Used in North America, Australia and increasingly South East Asia
· RPS nearing completion on phase one optimisations that will reduce model run times from 10 days to less than eight hours
Report and Accounts 2019

Paul Aitken
CEO Services UK & Netherlands

Data, digital and tech ­ commercialising the opportunity
Our UK Services Water division creates shared value through the development and delivery of pragmatic asset management strategies. Using our deep expertise and digital technologies to interpret multiple sets of complex data, we deliver high value client and user experiences.

The complexity: Reduce

The complexity: Improve

leakage across the Welsh

the understanding of water

Water network by 7%

flow paths in the urban

The answer: Get available

environment at low cost

data to work harder to better

The answer: Automate

predict leakage

data collection for more

RPS solution: Apply our WaternetTM software

sophisticated analysis

to give better insight for repeatedly high

RPS solution: Design and build object

quality, timely decisions

detection software using AI to map and model

The outcome: Improved resilience and

entry points to urban drainage systems

sustainability through

The outcome:

· Lowered leakage ­ by 11 million litres per day

· Greater understanding of how and where flows enter urban drainage networks

· Reduced interruptions to supply · Minimised customer disruption
30

· Significantly improved modelling accuracy · Improved confidence in modelled flooding
and pollution reduction solutions

The complexity: Support Thames Water in optimising maintenance schedule to achieve critical leakage reduction KPIs
The answer: Design a platform to monitor their pressure management program ­ a critical element of water management RPS solution: Leverage our WaternetTM software to develop a platform that monitors the system, flags issues and identifies maintenance needs
The outcome:
· 24/7 monitoring · Automated maintenance activity reports · Reliable, integrated, alert system that
flags issues more quickly
· Better planned maintenance activity

The complexity: Support clients to exploit efficiency opportunities in a data-rich, digital water world
The answer: Use agile methodology to take a streamlined, more collaborative approach to problem solving
RPS solution: Bring the right people together ­ clients, technical experts and industry leaders ­ to discuss critical issues such as extreme water scarcity, substance extraction, in-pipe robots, community-based sensor technology and industry terrorism
The outcome:
· Greater creative thinking led to a wider range of opportunities /solutions being identified
· Follow on actions focused on detailed investigation of data were developed

Report and Accounts 2019

John Tompson
CEO Energy
OFFSHORE WIND
31
NATURAL RESOURCES
Offshore wind organic growth initiative ­ meeting the market demand for renewable energy Opportunity As the offshore wind industry has matured and costs have reduced, existing offshore wind markets have continued to expand, and new markets have continued to emerge globally. We will continue to take a pragmatic approach towards developing our Energy business into new sectors (such as offshore wind) to build resilience and expand our reach. Making complex easy
· Leveraging our global expertise and connecting services across segments, we are winning new work ­ such as unexploded ordnance and Floating LiDAR
· We have established cross segment working groups whose role it is to develop our strategy and coordinate our market approach
· We will exploit the deep expertise of our metocean and environmental consultancy to gain early market share and then sell wider services across the asset lifecycle Outcome
· We recognise there are growing opportunities in offshore wind and will leverage our brand reputation into new and emerging markets to achieve organic growth in our top line revenue Report and Accounts 2019

Strategic report
SEGMENT HIGHLIGHTS

John Chubb
CEO Consulting UK & Ireland
32
Doug Matthys
CEO North America
John Tompson
CEO Energy
Report and Accounts 2019

5% fee growth in a stagnating and uncertain market; collaborative working strengthens position for any market upturn.
Prospects, a group for our younger staff to shape the future, has been established across the Consulting business.

Westminster City Council
An initial win for Consulting's project management business for a mixed-use scheme in Pimlico, London expanded to include 13 RPS disciplines and 20 priced activities. The strength of this offering resulted in two further project wins from the client.

Won Texas Public Works Association project of the year, Environmental Category. ($2­5 million)
Launched professional excellence initiatives including learning and development program, mentorship program for young professionals, and staff incentive schemes.
Acquired Reservoir Imaging Limited, a leading seismic software company for £4m.
Implemented performance review processes, succession planning initiatives and on-line training for the Global Energy teams.

Offshore Wind Growth Initiative
In 2019 three segments set up a forum to bring together technical expertise to define and coordinate our approach to offshore wind market opportunities, making it easier to collaborate, position RPS in this market and drive organic growth.

Strategic report

Global measurement and assessment of factory premises to standardise metrics
Bringing specialist and local knowledge of a Dutch measurement and registration method, the Services team from the Netherlands worked with North American colleagues to perform the assessment on location at the ASML factory in San Diego.
Queensland Advancing Clean Energy School Program (ACES)
Using Norway's MyProjects software, RPS has helped shape the Queensland ACES program reducing operational costs and contributing to the state's 50 per cent by 2030 renewable target.

Paul Aitken
CEO Services UK & Netherlands
Halvard Kilde
CEO Norway
Ross Thompson
CEO Australia Asia Pacific

Improved Water Quality to customers of Scottish Water.
Piloted Project Management Academy training module in UK and Netherlands, delivered by Norway, ahead of global launch.

Appointed to provide strategic

and operational advice to New

Roads (Nye Veier) in its 56 billion

NOK planning and execution of

33

improved road building in Norway.

Developed in-house training module ­ RPS Academy ­ to provide project management training in Norway and other segments.

Following the acquisition of Corview, launched a new advisory division with leading offer to the market, focused on infrastructure advisory.
Embedded client engagement program to respond to market challenges and promote cross selling.
Report and Accounts 2019

Strategic report

OUR APPROACH TO RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS
Living our purpose

Our purpose of creating shared value underpins a responsible business culture that informs our interactions and decision making and is reinforced by our behaviours. We know this matters to our people, clients and the communities in which we work. Our corporate responsibility framework covers how we ensure good governance and the way we manage our environmental and social impacts. It applies to all elements of our business; our people, our clients, investors and the communities in which we work and live.

A snapshot of where we focused our energies in 2019
· Launch of a new brand and strategy ­ 2019 saw the launch of our new strategy, centred around our purpose, promise and behaviours
· A renewed attention on our approach to corporate responsibility ­ Developing a framework for being a responsible business that supports us in delivering our purpose

· Investing in our people ­ Our people are undeniably our greatest asset. This year's focus

has been investing in performance management,

Our approach enables our purpose and supports

career development and developing our

our business by:

behaviours. people p.22

34

· Making RPS an employer of choice that attracts and retains the best talent

· Delivering for our clients ­ We continued to provide our clients with best practice

environmental advice, driving sustainability

· Ensuring we provide the best services and advice to our clients

strategies and approaches and supporting robust environmental, social and governance

due diligence

· Reducing risk and building resilience in our business

· Investing in our future ­ Future-proofing our business processes to ensure we are best placed

· Increasing transparency

to work with our clients on complex issues

· Giving substance to our story so our employees, clients and investors have a deeper understanding of who we are, what we do and how we do it

Unlocking shared value, responsibly
Our potential to create shared value is unlocked when we align our approach across our people, the work we do with clients and how we interact with the communities in which we work. In 2019 we focused on two key themes; sustainable behaviours and investing in future generations.

We create shared value by solving problems that matter to a complex, urbanising and resource-scarce world.

Report and Accounts 2019

Our people

Our people want to know they are part of a business with purpose that delivers positive social and environmental impact. This is key to us attracting and retaining the best talent.
We are committed to investing and developing our next generation of talent, working towards creating a pipeline of future leaders and continuing to deliver the best work for our clients. You can read more about our key people achievements on page 22.

John Chubb
CEO Consulting UK & Ireland

The environment
A changing climate, together with the pressures of population growth and urbanisation, require that society and business work together to adapt. RPS has unrivalled global capabilities that enable our clients to take a balanced approach to deliver a sustainable future.

LIGHTENING OUR FOOTPRINT AND MAKING OUR MARK ON THE PLANET
In Newark, we marked our sixth successive year of certification to The Planet Mark by holding a sustainability and wellbeing awareness day.

We are fully committed to reducing our carbon footprint across our global operations and our `leading minds' are uniquely placed to work with our clients to guide them in the implementation

INVESTING IN FUTURE GENERATIONS

of sustainable business practices.

Amy Rogers

35

CASE STUDY

Environmental Scientist

Throughout our business our people are passionate

about promoting sustainable activities through

"I wanted to join RPS' graduate scheme because

the choices we make and the initiatives we invest

of the training and support on offer. The course

in towards reducing our carbon footprint. Our greenhouse gas reporting can be found on page 47.

content is varied and includes development in essential soft skills alongside technical areas."

Key work we have done this year includes:

· Introduction and increased use of video conferencing to reduce travel

· Our Newark, UK office marked its certification to The Planet Mark award for the sixth year in a row. Their joint efforts saw an 11.8% decrease in carbon footprint per employee

We support our clients to develop environmental and socially responsible solutions. This isn't new to us. RPS' roots are in environmental consultancy. We have always done this and will always continue to work this way.

TRANSFORMING DISUSED STEELWORKS INTO RECREATIONAL PARK FOR THE BENEFIT OF LOCAL RESIDENTS, WORKFORCE AND VISITORS
Considering the extensive contractual risks presented by the uniqueness of the site, characteristics of the waste material and location within Cork Harbour, this is a significant achievement showcasing excellence in Irish engineering and its positive impact on society.

Report and Accounts 2019

Strategic report

Our communities

Our impacts are not limited to the advice we give our clients or the environment we create for our employees. We also have a responsibility to the communities in which we work and operate. To live our purpose our work must create shared value; for our people, clients and importantly our communities.

· We are working with global charities to help communities mitigate the effects that they are feeling from resource scarcity. Our ongoing support of Tree Aid is a great example of this. At a local level our employees have taken part in a variety of local initiatives, including a river clean up as part of Keep Scotland Beautiful's Upstream Battle campaign

Bongo River Trees Project in Ghana

· Our work with communities also includes activities that focus on support to developing a diverse pipeline of future talent. One example of this is our work with Yalari in Australia, who focus on empowering indigenous children through education. We have provided financial support and volunteers for their fundraising events
36

Keep Scotland Beautiful

Looking to 2020

We have defined our behaviours to support our purpose. As we embed these throughout the organisation our 2020 global corporate responsibility approach will be structured as a three-year corporate responsibility plan that reflects our purpose, promise and behaviours and informs the way we develop our approach to managing environmental and social impacts.

Continue to provide the best practice environmental, social and governance advice to clients

Continue to support our people ­ great place to do great work

Support our communities ­ our work creates shared value

Focus on our environmental impact ­ manage and reduce our footprint

Report and Accounts 2019

Strategic report

FINANCIAL REVIEW
This has been a difficult trading year for the Group with challenges in a number of segments and necessary investment in strategic priorities impacting results. Our conversion of profit into cash was again good but net bank borrowings were higher at the year end partly due to increased capital investment during the year.

Performance summary

Gary Young Group Finance Director

The Group's key profit performance metrics for the year are summarised in the table below:

Key financial performance metrics Revenue Fee income1 Underlying operating profit1 Underlying operating profit margin1 PBTA1 Adjusted diluted earnings per share1

2019

2018

2018 (constant currency)

£612.6m £556.5m
£43.4m 7.8%
£37.3m 12.31p

£637.4m £574.2m £54.0m
9.4% £50.2m 16.34p

£634.3m

£571.4m

£53.8m

9.4%

£49.9m

16.24p

37

Statutory reporting Operating profit PBT Statutory diluted (loss)/earnings per share

£10.9m £4.8m (0.54)p

£44.9m £41.0m 13.23p

£44.7m £40.8m 13.16p

Trading performance
£m Energy Consulting UK & Ireland Services UK & Netherlands Norway North America AAP Total segment profit1 Unallocated expenses Underlying operating profit1

2019 11.1 15.1 10.8 6.0 3.4 6.4 52.7 (9.3) 43.4

2018 8.9 15.4
13.5 6.2 5.1 13.3 62.4 (8.4) 54.0

2018 (constant currency)
9.1 15.4 13.5 5.9 5.4 12.9 62.2 (8.4) 53.8

Note: 1. Alternative performance measures are used consistantly throughout the report and accounts. For further details of their purpose,
definition and reconciliation to the equivalent statutory measures see note 3 to the consolidated finacial statements.

Report and Accounts 2019

Strategic report

Notwithstanding a good performance from Energy, less certain than in previous impairment reviews.

2019 was a difficult year. Energy benefitted from

Consequently, this resulted in the impairment

improving market conditions and had a good year.

of goodwill.

The political uncertainty in the UK impacted on

Consulting UK and Ireland for much of the year,

We completed the global rebranding of RPS, which

although the uncertainty was significantly reduced introduced a new logo, colour scheme and a new

by the general election that took place in December. website for a total cost of £1.0m.

The performance of Services UK & Netherlands was

impacted, as anticipated, by the usual reduction in

Legal fees were incurred totalling £1.4m investigating

activity on the England and Wales water business

potential issues regarding the administration of

as the current AMP regulatory cycle entered its

US government contracts and/or projects. The

final year. Despite strong markets in North America investigation is ongoing and further exceptional costs

our performance was disappointing, largely due to

for legal fees will be incurred in 2020. This matter is

ongoing retention and recruitment challenges in

disclosed as a contingent liability in note 26.

the region and management has accordingly been

strengthened, as it was in Norway where we were

Our new ERP has been implemented in the

impacted by the loss of some senior staff during

Netherlands and part of Australia. The amount

the year. The results of Australia Asia Pacific were

expensed in 2019 in respect of change management

impacted by the hiatus caused by state and federal

and data migration was £1.2m (2018: £nil). Further

elections at the start of the year and a slow property exceptional cost of this nature will be incurred in 2020

38

market, although there was some improvement in

as the roll out of the ERP continues.

trading conditions in the latter part of the year. The

increase in unallocated costs reflects increased

We anticipate that total exceptional costs in 2020 will

investment in IT to improve the connectivity of our

be broadly similar to the amount incurred in 2019

various businesses.

excluding the goodwill impairment charge of £19.8m.

Net finance costs

Foreign exchange

Net finance costs were £6.1m (2018: £3.9m), which includes £1.9m in respect of IFRS 16 (2018: nil). Excluding lease obligations, the average total net borrowings in 2019 was £104.4m (2018: £87.2m). Interest expense includes imputed interest on deferred consideration of £0.2m in 2019 (2018: nil).
Exceptional items
Exceptional items in 2019 resulted in costs totalling £23.4m (2018: £nil).
These included a goodwill impairment charge of £19.8m relating to the impairment of our business in Australia Asia Pacific. Performance of this business was poor in the first half of 2019 and although it improved in the second half, was not as good as anticipated. The Board considered the risks faced by the Australian economy and concluded that the prospects for the business, particularly from historic acquisitions, are

Approximately 69% of underlying operating profit was derived from operations other than in UK, mainly in Australia, US, Norway, Netherlands, Ireland and Canada. The Group's consolidated results are therefore significantly exposed to the effect of exchange rates when translating the results of non-UK operations into sterling.
The profit in 2019 suffered marginally from exchange movements on the conversion of overseas results in comparison to 2018. PBTA in 2019 would have been £0.3m higher than reported had 2018 exchange rates been repeated in 2019. The PBTA in 2018 would have been £0.3m lower than reported if 2019 exchange

Report and Accounts 2019

Strategic report

rates have prevailed in 2018. Statutory profit before tax in 2018 would have been £0.2m lower than reported if 2019 exchange rates prevailed in 2018.

useful indication of performance and trends over time. Statutory diluted (loss) / earning per share was (0.54)p (2018: 13.23p).

Organic growth at constant currency

Dividends

The acquisition of Corview was completed in February The Board announced a change to its dividend

2019 and Reservoir Imaging Limited in September.

policy in the 2019 Interim Results announcement.

There were no acquisitions in 2018. Adjusting for the The policy was rebased such that full year dividends

impact of acquisitions and at constant currency the will equal, in total, 40% of the adjusted earnings for

organic fee decline in the year was 4% and operating the financial year. Accordingly, the total (paid and

profit decline was 21%.

proposed) dividend for the year amounts to £10.0m

(2018: £22.1m) equivalent to 4.42p per ordinary share

Tax

(2018: 9.88p). The proposed final dividend amounts

to £4.5m (2018: £14.4m), equivalent to 2.00p per

The effective tax rate for the year on adjusted profit share (2018: 5.08p) will be paid on 15 May 2020 to

before tax is 25.4 % (2018: 26.8%). The reduction is

shareholders on the register of members at the close

mainly due to prior year adjustments, proportionally of business on 24 April 2020 subject to approval at the

less profit from Australia, offset by an increase in

Annual General Meeting on 30 April 2020.

irrecoverable withholding tax suffered that mainly

arises in our Energy business.

Acquisitions

39

The statutory tax expense for the year was £6.1m (2018: £11.2m) on a profit before tax of £4.8m (2018: £41.0m). The effect of tax on the impairment of goodwill incurred in the year of £19.8m is nil.
Amortisation of intangible assets and transaction-related costs
Amortisation of intangible assets and transaction related costs totalled £9.1m (2018: £9.2m). Included in this total is amortisation of acquired intangibles £8.6m (2018: £9.1m), and acquisition related third party transaction costs of £0.5m (2018: £nil).
EPS
Adjusted diluted EPS was 12.31p (2018: 16.34p, 16.24p at constant currency), a decrease of 24% over last year at constant currency. The Board consider that adjusted EPS, which is statutory EPS excluding exceptional items and amortisation of intangible assets and transactionrelated costs and the tax thereon provides a more

In February we acquired the trade and assets of Corview an Australian transport advisory consultancy, for total fair value of consideration of AUD 29.2m (£17.3m). The amount paid on completion was AUD 17.6m (£9.8m) with the deferred consideration balance payable on the first second and third anniversaries of completion. We acquired AUD 2.1m (£1.2m) of cash at acquisition. Based upon provisional fair values of the acquired net assets, the fair value of intangible assets arising was £17.5m. This includes goodwill of £13.3m. It contributed £5.9m to AAP segment fee income and £0.8m to AAP segment profit since acquisition. The integration of Corview into the AAP segment has been substantially completed.
In September we acquired Reservoir Imaging Limited, a seismic software services consultancy, that strengthens our existing marine seismic capabilities in our Energy segment. The fair value of consideration was £4.0m of which £2.7m was paid at completion, with the deferred consideration payable on the first and second anniversaries of completion. Based upon provisional fair values of the acquired net assets, the fair value of intangible assets arising was £2.5m. This includes goodwill of £1.5m. It contributed £0.6m

Report and Accounts 2019

Strategic report

to Energy segment fee income and £0.1m to Energy segment profit since acquisition. The integration of Reservoir Imaging Limited into Energy is progressing well.

roll out the system to the rest of Australia during 2020. Deferred consideration outstanding at the year end was £8.7m (31 December 2018: £0.3m).

Intangible assets

Our leverage (being net bank debt plus deferred

consideration expressed as a percentage of adjusted

The net book value of intangible assets at the year EBITDA) at the year end was 2.0x (31 December 2018:

end was £378.7m (31 December 2018: £385.7m)

1.3x) which is at the high end of our desired operating

which largely comprises goodwill. The increase

range of 1.0x to 2.0x. We expect this will reduce during

during the year is attributable to intangible assets

2020. The bank covenant limit that applies to all our

recognised through the acquisition of Corview and facilities is 3.0x.

Reservoir Imaging Limited, investment in the new

ERP, less amortisation, impairment and the effect of Bank facilities

foreign exchange movements.

The Group's main banking facility was refinanced in

Borrowings and Cash flow

July with Lloyds, HSBC and NatWest. The facility is a

committed multi-currency revolving credit facility

Net bank borrowings at the year end were £94.1m

totalling £100m which expires in July 2022, that may

(31 December 2018: £73.9m). Net cash from operating be extended to July 2024 with the banks' agreement.

40

activities was £37.6m (2018: £44.5m). Our conversion The facility includes an accordion feature whereby

of profit into operating cash was again good at 90%

the Company may request an additional facility up

(2018: 94%). It would have been better but for delays to £60m although this is uncommitted and requires

in invoicing in the Netherlands and Australia arising

lender approval.

from the implementation of the new ERP there in

November. Lock up days* at the end of December 2019 The amount drawn under the facility at the year end

were 69 days compared to 65 days at the end of 2018, was £55.4m resulting in headroom of £44.6m. The

the increase due to the impact of the ERP. We expect margin payable on the drawn funds is variable and

to reduce lock up during 2020. Our focus on improving is set for the following six months dependent on the

collections is demonstrated by average lock up days

leverage of the Group at 31 December and 30 June.

for the year that were 69 days for 2019 compared to

The loans drawn at the year end have tenors of up

71 days for 2018.

to 1 month.

Net cash used in investing activities was £30.9m (2018: £13.4m), the increase due to higher acquisition expenditure of £10.1m (2018: £1.8m) and higher net capital expenditure of £20.8m (2018: £11.7m). The amount paid in respect of dividends was £16.9m (2018: £22.1m) reflecting the rebased dividend policy.

In 2014 the Group issued seven year US private placement notes of $34.1m and £30.0m that

Included within capital expenditure was £7.8m (2018: £2.2m) invested in our new ERP system. We have completed the global design phase and implemented in the Netherlands and in part of Australia. We plan to
*(Being a calculation of the number of days taken between undertaking work for clients, through billing to the collection of cash).

Report and Accounts 2019

are repayable in September 2021. They are nonamortising and carry fixed interest of 3.84% pa and 3.98% pa respectively. These notes represent the Group's core debt.
Capital structure
As at 31 December 2019 the Group had shareholders' funds of £368.3m (31 December 2018: £377.6m). The company had shareholders' funds of £249.1m (2018: £270.6m) and 227.1m fully paid ordinary shares in issue at 31 December 2019 (31 December 2018: 226.1m).
Basis of preparation and new accounting standards
The financial statements have been prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS) adopted by the EU and International Financial Reporting Standards Interpretations Committee (IFRS IFRIC) interpretations issued and effective at the time of preparing the financial statements. The Group's significant accounting policies are detailed in note 1 to the accounts on pages 102 and 103. The Group adopted IFRS 16 "Leases" for the first time in 2019. The impact of the adoption of this new standard is disclosed in note 32 to the consolidated financial statements. Bank covenant compliance is calculated using accounting standard IAS 17, that is pre the application of IFRS 16.

Strategic report 41

Report and Accounts 2019

Strategic report

RISK AND RISK MANAGEMENT

Risk management

regular meetings. A structured reporting framework

is in place to support this activity. This rates and

The nature of the activities that the Group undertakes analyses key risks to provide clear understanding

and its business model are described on page 10.

and enable identification of mitigating actions.

This gives rise to a range of risks consistent with a

commercial organisation of this type, the principal

Against the background of reporting from this level,

of which are itemised and explained below. This

the Group Leadership Team oversees the operational

explanation encompasses the nature of each risk,

management of the key risks to which the Group as

the steps taken to mitigate them and changes in

a whole is exposed. Reporting to the Group Board

the magnitude of such risks during the year.

incorporates the principal risks to which the Group is

exposed and the specific manifestation of those risks

There are two principal components to the Group's

from time to time. In considering and challenging

system of risk management. The Group's formal

this information the Group Board undertakes robust

system of Risk Management and Internal Control

assessment of the principal risks facing the Group

and its principal components described on page

including those that would threaten its business

66. Through the adoption of appropriate controls

model, future performance, solvency or liquidity.

and related audit this seeks to mitigate financial and Management prepares for the Group Board an Annual

commercial risks which are inherent in the Group's

Review of Risk Management and Internal Control.

operating processes. Given the nature of the Group's This process is integral to consideration of the Group's

42

activities, however, the effective management

Long Term Viability Statement which is shown below.

of risk also requires collective responsibility and

engagement across the business. The management Principal risks

of risk is not therefore separated from the business

and is treated as an integral part of the Group's

The principal risks to which the Group is exposed as

culture and the way it operates. Our operational

well as the measures taken to achieve their mitigation

Boards accordingly consider the risks to which

and in each case any change that has happened in the

their component businesses are exposed and their

year are detailed in the table below.

mitigation on an ongoing basis and at each of their

RISK Political events

EXPOSURE
The changes and uncertainties arising from political events may have an impact upon the markets in which we operate and the plans of our clients. This may cause the cancellation, postponement or downsizing of projects, or present further opportunities for the business.

MITIGATION

CHANGE IN THE YEAR

The substantial majority of the Group's services are provided in relatively stable and predictable liberal democracies. In addition the factors serving to mitigate economic risks also operate in this area whereby the wide range of markets and geographies in which we operate serves to reduce the impact of political change in any particular region. As far as is practicable, risks in this area are monitored and plans adjusted accordingly.

Overall risk remained unchanged during the year. Despite the results of the General Election and the forthcoming exit from the EU, the political uncertainty relating to the terms of the UK's departure from the European Union remains unclear. General elections in Australia, the Netherlands and Canada have provided a degree of political stability in the coming years.

Report and Accounts 2019

Strategic report

RISK
Recruitment and retention of staff

EXPOSURE
The Group's ability to manage and service its clients is dependent upon the skills of well-qualified and professional employees. A failure to recruit and retain employees of appropriate calibre will therefore affect our ability to meet client expectations and develop the business. Linked to this a failure to adequately consider management succession may lead to discontinuity in operations.

MITIGATION
The Group retains the key strategic priority of being recognised by its people as being a great place to do great work. This entails the development of an appropriate culture and related management systems. The ongoing work in this area is fully described on pages 22 to 25. The successful completion of which will serve to substantially mitigate overall risk in this area.

CHANGE IN THE YEAR
A focused effort on development of leadership succession and bench strength has occurred specifically in our Global Energy business. Vacancies across Segment leadership teams has provided an opportunity to build bench strength specifically in our Consulting UK/Ireland and Services UK/NL business. The competition for talent in a number of the Group's markets has remained intense. Initiatives taken to mitigate risks in this area will therefore be of continuing importance.

Business

The Group will look for

The Group's strategy will in

There was no change in overall

acquisitions

acquisitions that are

general dictate that acquisitions risk in the year. The Group

complementary to the markets are only made in market areas

retains considerable acquisition

that we operate in and add value with which senior management experience and as activity in this

to our business proposition. They are familiar. Detailed commercial, area resumes, risks are unlikely

will continue to be an important financial and legal due diligence to change materially.

element in support of our

is undertaken prior to completing

strategy. A failure to understand any acquisition and clear

the market conditions affecting corporate integration plans

an acquired business, to identify are agreed.

acquired liabilities, or to retain

and motivate key employees

within an acquired business can

all result in a business failing to

deliver anticipated profit and

43

cash flow.

Health and safety

The Group has a legal and moral obligation to ensure the safety of its employees and others whom its activities may affect. A failure to discharge these obligations could expose individuals to risk of injury or other harm as well as leaving the Group liable to related damages, regulatory penalty and reputational harm.

Detailed health and safety policies and procedures are in place throughout the Group and focus on the differing and
emerging risks within the Group's various businesses. A structured reporting process is in place to ensure that any incidents are identified and appropriate action taken to investigate and mitigate future risk. The Group's approach to health and safety is described more fully in the Corporate Social Responsibility report on page 46.

There was no overall change during the year. The scope of the Group's activities and the risks they present has not changed in any significant way.

Regulatory and compliance

The Group is subject to a range of legal, taxation and regulatory
requirements at corporate level and within each of the jurisdictions within which it operates and does business. A failure to comply with these obligations could give rise to financial penalty, regulatory intervention and reputational damage.

Whilst the Group is subject to the corporate law and regulation
affecting most groups of its size and complexity, the activities that the Group undertakes are, in general, not subject to industry specific regulation. Overseas projects that may carry elevated risk are scrutinised on a case by case basis. The Group has appropriate internal controls to support regulatory compliance and employs suitably qualified professionals to monitor and manage regulation within its various jurisdictions.

Whilst the detail of applicable law and regulation will continue to evolve there have been no changes anticipated within the Group's current jurisdictions which are likely to have any material effect upon overall risks in this area. The range of jurisdictions in which project work is undertaken may change, although will remain subject to scrutiny as highlighted above.

Report and Accounts 2019

Strategic report

RISK Service failures

EXPOSURE
A failure to deliver our services in accordance with contractual obligations may lead to compensatory claims against the Group and damage to reputation as well as possible loss of future work.

MITIGATION

CHANGE IN THE YEAR

The Group operates quality control systems many of which are externally certified and which are designed to mitigate the risk of failures. In addition the Group operates contract management systems to ensure that contractual risks are identified, risk assessed and as far as practicable mitigated. The Group maintains professional indemnity insurance throughout the large majority of its businesses at a level commensurate with risks. Subject to applicable policy limits and excesses this will indemnify the Group against claims in the large majority of situations.

There was no overall change in the year. The nature of the Group's activities and the environments in which they are conducted have not changed materially.

Financial risks An inability to secure adequate During the year the Group

Following the refinancing of

funding for the Group will limit successfully refinanced its

the multi-currency facility and

the ability to invest in growth.

multi-currency revolving credit introduction of the accordion

In addition, a failure to manage facility for £100m and arranged facility, the Group has an

risks related to foreign exchange, an uncommitted accordion

adequate committed facility

interest rates, credit and liquidity facility of £60m both of which

until 2022 and will continue

could lead to a significant

have a three-year term to 2022, to manage financial risks on a

deterioration in the Group's

with the possibility of extending prudent basis.

financial position and its ability for another two years. This is

to win work.

provided by Nat West, Lloyds

and HSBC. The Group has also

issued seven-year US private

44

placement notes of US$34m and

£30m repayable in 2021 under

a facility provided by Prudential

Management Inc. Funding and

investment requirements are

monitored by the Group Finance

function which also oversees the

management of financial risks

on a prudent basis and as more

fully described in note 30 to the

consolidated financial statements.

Information technology and security risks

A prolonged lack of availability of critical IT systems could cause significant discontinuity in operations. A cyber-related attack on our systems could lead to infection by viruses, loss of personal and commercially sensitive data, theft or fraud. Phishing and business email compromise attacks on individuals could lead to diversion of payments, exposure of critical business systems or release of data. Any of the above attack vectors could lead to operational disruption, affecting our ability to deliver client services, leading to financial loss and reputational damage.

The Group continues to manage its IT systems on a centralised basis with annual planning which incorporates measures designed to maximise reliability and resilience as well as disaster planning. Systems are reviewed and upgraded on a rolling basis. The Group employs a Security team that monitors activity, hardens systems and responds to security events. Policies, procedures and security measures are reviewed and enhanced on a regular basis. The roll-out of additional automated technical and operational security measures has commenced during the year including: cloud monitoring, vulnerability management, enhanced user authentication, device hardening, encryption, security awareness training and attack simulations.

As system resilience improves, the focus of cyber-attacks has shifted from systems towards individuals, who are targeted through social engineering techniques. The ongoing program of training, systems development and monitoring should serve to improve the resilience of end-users and systems. There was no overall change in the year. The ongoing programme of systems development should serve to improve the resilience and reliability of systems.
Notwithstanding additional measures highlighted above the level of threat from cyber-attacks of an increasingly sophisticated nature is unlikely to diminish.

Report and Accounts 2019

Strategic report

Going concern

Long term viability

The Group has a diverse range of businesses in a

In accordance with the requirements of the UK

spread of geographies which serve to limit the overall Governance Code the Board has assessed the long-

impact of adverse conditions in any particular market. term viability of the Group. This was done over a three

It continues to enjoy strong cash flow and operates year period to March 2023 taking account of the

well within the financial covenants applying to its

principal risks as well as the Group's current position,

main bank facility.

its strategy and the Board's risk appetite. A three year

period was chosen as it is supported by the detailed

The Directors have reviewed the latest budgets

strategic review work undertaken, giving greater

and forecasts and considered the activities and

certainty over the forecasting assumptions used.

performance of the Group together with factors

which could potentially affect future developments. The Board considered cash flow models over

Based on this assessment the Directors have a

that period based upon a range of assumptions

reasonable expectation that the Group has adequate relating to trading performance, working capital

resources to continue in operational existence for a management, exchange rates and other outflows

period of at least 12 months from the date of approval including those associated with the principal risks

of the financial statements. Accordingly, the financial the Group faces. This modelling included severe

statements have been prepared on the going

but reasonable scenarios of selected principal risks

concern basis.

to analyse the cash and borrowing levels, leverage

and headroom under the Group's facilities and

the potential for and effectiveness of mitigating

actions. Various scenarios were modelled, some

of which took account of the impact of multiple

risks occurring and these included the impact of a

downturn in one or more markets, a strengthening

of sterling versus all other major currencies in which

45

we operate, a deterioration in working capital and

a significant uninsured claim against the Group.

The Directors have also made key assumptions in the modelling of the long-term funding for the Group. The Group's loan notes are repayable in September 2021 and we have a reasonable expectation of being able to refinance them on similar terms. The revolving credit facility was successfully refinanced during 2019 on a three year term with the possibility of extending for a further two years and extension has been assumed in the modelling.

Based on this assessment, the Directors have a reasonable expectation that the Group will continue in operation and be able to meet its liabilities as they fall due over the period to March 2023.

Report and Accounts 2019

Strategic report

CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY

Our approach to responsibility ensures good

These incorporate the following:

governance and management of our environmental

and social impacts applies to all elements of our business; our people, our clients, investors and the

· Compliance with all relevant national and regional legislation as a minimum standard

communities in which we work.

On pages 34­36 of this report we have given

· Compliance with relevant codes of practice and other requirements such as those specified by

examples of the work we are doing across the

regulators and our clients

business to deliver our purpose. We provide

information on the development, performance and the impact of our activity across environmental and

· Employment of practical energy efficiency and waste minimisation measures

social matters, our employees, human rights and

business ethics.

· Policies in relation to the purchase and use of vehicles to minimise environmental impact

People

· Provision of an inter-office IT network together

Recruitment, retention and motivation of employees

with communications and video conferencing

is of vital importance for a professional services

technology in order to reduce business travel

organisation and is identified as one of the Group's

principal risks. They are our greatest asset and have A number of the Group's operating businesses have

46

been a focus of 2019.

achieved ISO 14001, the internationally recognised

environmental management system standard.

A full report in relation to this area is presented on

pages 22 to 25.

During 2019 many of our offices continued to recycle

waste paper, spent toner and ink cartridges, obsolete

Environmental management

computer hardware, printers and mobile phones.

RPS' roots are in environmental consultancy and we have always been mindful of our responsibility to the environment in which we work. The Group's greatest contribution to the environment is through its own expertise and many of the projects we work on. We advise international bodies, governments, local authorities and companies on the improvement of environmental performance.
Projects include the development of strategies to reduce carbon emissions and the adaptation of buildings and infrastructure to anticipate climate change as well as the preparation of Environmental Impact Assessments across several sectors. Our direct impact on the environment is comparatively modest however policies and standards are in place which aim to minimise this impact wherever possible.

We are a participating member of the Carbon Disclosure Project to which we provide data on an annual basis.
Greenhouse gas reporting
For the reporting year 1 January 2019­31 December 2019, we have used the GHG Protocol Corporate Accounting and Reporting Standard (revised edition) and emission factors from the 2019 UK Government's Conversion Factors for Company Reporting and the International Energy Agency CO2 Emissions from Fuel Combustion, OECD/IEA, Paris, 2019 for consumption in our international offices. Greenhouse gas emissions are reported using the following parameters to determine what is included within the reporting boundaries in terms of RPS' energy consumption.

Report and Accounts 2019

Strategic report

· Scope 1 ­ direct emissions includes any gas data and fuel use for company owned vehicles. Fugitive emissions from air conditioning are included where it is RPS' responsibility within the tenanted buildings.
· Scope 2 ­ indirect energy emissions includes purchased electricity throughout the company operations.

Community Involvement
We have a clear responsibility to the communities in which we work, this is key to delivering our purpose to create shared value. Our people work in their local communities every day and we are always mindful of the impact our work has. In addition to this, our people take part in a range of activities to support local communities, organisations and charities.

Greenhouse gas emissions (tCO2e)

As a Group, we continued to support Tree Aid. Since

are set out in the table below.

2006, we have provided £1.1 million of funding

Scope 1: Direct emissions

2018 10,466

2019 which has been used across projects in Ghana, Mali and Ethiopia. We are currently supporting a project
9,074 in Ethiopia focusing on healthy ecosystems and

Scope 2: Indirect emissions

3,539

2,843

sustainable livelihoods, donating over £380,000 across five years.

Total

14,005

11,917

Health and safety

The decrease of 13% in Scope 1 is largely attributed

to a restructuring of the RPS water business and

We have a moral and legal responsibility to safeguard

47

a consequent halving of the van fleet but also

our employees and others affected by our operations

the use of 100% electric cars in our Netherlands

and services. Health and safety is also recognised as

car fleet. The decrease of 20% in Scope 2

one of the Group's principal risks.

emissions is principally attributable to the ongoing

decarbonisation of the grid but also rationalisation

The Group sets an overall policy for the management

of our London based offices through the opening

of health and safety and the Group People Director

of the new Farringdon office which consolidated

retains general oversight in this area. The Chief

three offices into one more efficient building.

Executive takes a direct interest in health and safety

and discusses performance on a regular basis with

Overall per capita performance shows an

business segments. He also reports to the Board on

8% decrease year on year of 2.34 tCO2e

overall performance and any more serious incidents

for 2019 against 2.52 tCO2e for 2018.

that arise. Operational responsibility lies within the

Group's operating businesses which are closest

The Group has set a target to reduce per capita

to, and best positioned to manage their risks.

office energy consumption by 2.5% on a five-year

The nature of these risks is dependent on the

rolling average basis. Using this approach, the

activities of particular businesses and health and

five-year rolling average up to 2018, was 3.26 MWh

safety systems vary accordingly to ensure that key

per capita which decreased to 3.24 MWh per capita

areas are addressed. All have in common clear

up to 2019. This equates to a decrease of 0.5%

policies and procedures and appropriate risk

which is below our target. Going forward for 2020,

assessment techniques backed by training and

we will be reviewing our strategy and approach

clear communication.

to our carbon and energy management. This will

include defining targets and identifying efficiencies

and opportunities such as expanding the use of

electric cars within the company car fleet.

Report and Accounts 2019

Strategic report

Training is focused not only on specific hazards but

We have policies and procedures that support our

also the wider obligations of management. These

people and provide us with a framework to ensure they

activities are overseen by appropriately qualified

act in a consistent way with our behaviours. Employees

and experienced health and safety advisers and

are required to be sympathetic to the cultures of and

systems are subject to regular audit, both internally comply with the laws and regulations of the countries

and by external agencies. Where accidents, near-

in which they operate, as well as giving due regard

misses or dangerous occurrences occur these are

to the safety and wellbeing of all project personnel

investigated in order that they are fully understood, and relevant local communities. All RPS employees

and appropriate action can be taken to minimise risk are expected to avoid any personal or professional

of occurrence.

interests that could conflict with their responsibilities

to the Group and, should such a situation arise, are

Health and safety performance is monitored at

expected to report it promptly. The Group has a clearly

business and segment level. This incorporates

stated zero tolerance policy in relation to acts of

analysis of incidents, dangerous occurrences and

bribery and corruption and supports the UN Global

near-misses in order that appropriate remedial action Compact and the UN Convention on Anti-Corruption.

can be taken where required. As noted above, the

No incident of bribery or corruption has been identified

Group Board receives and reviews a regular report

within the Group's operations.

which incorporates these elements and any emerging

issues. Any material issues or concerns identified at In the coming year we are reviewing our Code of

Group level are considered by the Chief Executive

Conduct and associated policies and will be rolling out

and the Group People Director.

an independent whistleblowing line. These will further

strengthen our approach to responsible business.

OHSAS 18001 is an internationally recognised standard The Group supports the Universal Declaration

for health and safety management that is aligned with of Human Rights and the International Labour

the ISO 9000 (Quality Management) and ISO 14001

Organisation's Declaration on Fundamental Principles

(Environmental Management) standards. 61% (2017: and Rights at Work. The Group understands its

48

66%) of employees across the Group work in offices

responsibility to respect the human rights of the

that now have third party accreditation to the OHSAS communities and workforces with whom it interacts,

18001 standard. This slight reduction is due to changes and employees are expected to conduct themselves

in staff numbers across multiple offices.

in a commensurate manner.

The reportable accident rate in the year was 1.2 accidents per 1,000 employees (2018: 0.8). We've looked into the increase in injuries in 2019. We are reviewing the trends along with the segment CEOs and putting in improvement plans to reduce minor injuries within the business. Accidents that do occur most commonly relate to field staff and involve manual handling activities, slips and falls.

Reportable accident rates
Group Reportable injuries Reportable injuries incident rate per 1,000 employees
Business relationships

2019 7
1.2

2018 5
0.8

In 2019 we launched our behaviours and embedded them across the Group with over 75% of employees completing the online training. Our behaviours are at the core of how we do business. Sitting alongside our approach to corporate responsibility, they ensure we conduct business in a transparent and fair way with a focus on delivering our purpose of creating shared value.

We support the objectives of the UK Modern Slavery Act and will not tolerate modern slavery or human trafficking within its own supply chain. During the year, the Group conducted a further review of its supply chain and published its second modern slavery statement. As far as is reasonably ascertainable none of the Group's activities have directly or indirectly given rise to the abuse of human rights. We support the introduction of the Australian Federal Government's Modern Slavery Act and will review our Group position in line with its guidance.
Cyber and data security
Throughout 2019 we have strengthened our approach with new automatic technical and security measures. More information on our approach can be found on page 28.
Signed on behalf of the Board
David Gormley Company Secretary 19 February 2020

Report and Accounts 2019

Directors Report
REPORT OF 49 THE DIRECTORS

Report of the Directors
THE BOARD

50

Report of the Directors
The Directors present their report together with the audited financial statements of RPS Group Plc and its subsidiary undertakings (the `Group') for the year ended 31 December 2019. Certain matters that would otherwise be disclosed in the Report of Directors are reported elsewhere in the Annual Report and Accounts. The Report of Directors should therefore be read in conjunction with the Strategic Report on pages 7 to 48, the Corporate Governance Report on pages 57 to 92 and other parts of the Report and Accounts as referred to below.
Directors
The Directors of the Company as at 31 December 2019 were those listed on pages 52 to 53. The changes to the Board that occurred in the year are as detailed on page 68. The Directors' interests in the share capital of the Company are as shown in the Annual Report on Remuneration on page 78.

None of the Directors was materially interested in any significant contract to which the Company or any of its subsidiaries were party to during the year.
Results and dividend
The Consolidated Income Statement is set out on page 103 and shows the profit for the year. The Directors recommend a final dividend of 2.00p (2018: 5.08p) per share which, subject to approval at the Annual General Meeting to be held on 30 April 2020, will be paid to shareholders on 15 May 2020. This together with the interim dividend of 2.42p (2018: 4.80p) per share paid on 11 October 2019 gives a total dividend of 4.42p (2018: 9.88p) per share for the year ended 31 December 2019.

Report and Accounts 2019

Report of the Directors

The Board: (left to right) Ken Lever, Liz Peace, Gary Young, John Douglas, Catherine Glickman, David Gormley, Allison Bainbridge, Michael McKelvy

51

Strategic report
The Group's Strategic Report can be found on pages 7 to 48. This report is required to contain a fair review of the Company's business and a description of the principal risks and uncertainties that it faces. The Strategic Report contains certain forward looking statements with respect to the financial condition, results of operations and businesses of RPS as well as likely future developments. These statements involve risk and uncertainty as they relate to events and depend upon circumstances that may occur in the future. There are a number of factors that could cause actual results or developments to differ materially from those expressed or implied by these forward looking statements. Nothing in the Strategic Report should be construed as a profit forecast.
Financial key performance indicators can be found on page 4. The Directors review performance using these Alternative Performance Measures (APMs) as defined in note 3 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. The APMs used exclude certain items that the Board believes distort the trading performance of the Group. These items are either acquisition and disposal related or non-cash items. The Board does not at

present use non-financial key performance indicators to assess the Group as a whole, although parts of the Group do use such indicators from time to time.
Consistent with its size and complexity, the Group has a large number of contractual relationships with clients and suppliers. In the Directors' view, however, there is no single contract or client relationship, which is essential to the Group's business. The Group's subsidiary undertakings are listed in note 6 to the Parent Company Financial Statements. The Group develops and delivers innovative technical solutions to its clients, the costs of which are expensed to the Consolidated Income Statement.
The Group obtains enhanced tax relief for these costs in the United Kingdom and has adopted the RDEC (Research and Development Expenditure Credit) regime.

Report and Accounts 2019

Report of the Directors
THE BOARD

Ken Lever Non-Executive Chairman

Gary Young Finance Director

Ken Lever joined the Board in November 2016 as

Gary Young graduated from Southampton University

Group Chairman. Ken is a chartered accountant and in 1982 and qualified as a chartered accountant in

his previous experience includes spells as Finance

1986 with Price Waterhouse. Before joining RPS he

Director of Alfred McAlpine plc, Albright and Wilson

held a number of Finance Director roles including

plc and Tomkins plc. Prior to that he was a partner

positions within Rutland Trust Plc and AT&T Capital.

at Arthur Andersen. He was Chief Executive of

He joined RPS in September 2000 and was appointed

Xchanging plc between 2010 and 2015. Ken is

to the Board in November of that year.

currently Chairman of Biffa plc and holds

non-executive positions at Blue Prism Group plc,

Gresham House Strategic plc and Vertu Motors plc.

Ken is Chairman of the Nomination Committee.

Liz Peace

52

Independent Non-Executive

John Douglas Chief Executive
John Douglas joined the Board on 1 June 2017 and assumed the role of Chief Executive with effect from 1 September 2017. John was previously Chief Executive of Coffey International Limited, a business listed on the Australian Stock Exchange which operated in markets similar to RPS. Prior to that he worked with Boral, an International Building Material Group, latterly as Divisional Managing Director. John had previously worked as a consultant with Boston Consulting Group as well as for a number of engineering companies. John is a civil engineer from Adelaide University and has a MBA from London Business School.

Liz Peace was appointed to the Board in July 2017. Liz was Chief Executive of the British Property Federation for thirteen years until her retirement in 2014. She was awarded a CBE in 2008 for services to the property industry. Liz now has a portfolio career with a range of non-executive, advisory and charity roles, at Howard de Walden Estates, RDI REIT, Holtby Turner, the Churches Conservation Trust and Whiteley Homes Trust. She is Chairman of the Architectural Heritage Fund and Centre for London and President of the Property Litigation Association. She is also a member of the Mayor of London's Homes for Londoners Board. In 2017 Liz was appointed Chairman of the Old Oak and Park Royal Development Corporation (OPDC) and in 2018 she was appointed Chairman of the shadow Sponsor Board for the Palace of Westminster Restoration and Renewal Programme. Liz was appointed Senior Independent Director in May 2019 and is a member of the Audit, Remuneration and Nominations Committees.

Report and Accounts 2019

Report of the Directors

Allison Bainbridge Independent Non-Executive

Catherine Glickman Independent Non-Executive

Allison was appointed to the Board on 1 June 2017

Catherine was appointed to the Board on 2 August

and is serving an initial three-year term. She is

2018 and is Chairman of the Remuneration

the Group Finance Director of Vp plc, a quoted

Committee. Catherine has extensive senior level

specialist in the equipment rental business

executive experience in public companies, most

serving international markets including rail, water,

recently as Group HR Director at the FTSE 250

construction, civil engineering, house building and

animal genetics company, Genus plc, where she led

oil and gas. Prior to that she was Finance Director

an agenda on talent and leadership development

at Yorkshire Water and Kelda Group, having initially

to support growth plans. Catherine retired from

trained and qualified as a chartered accountant with

this position in 2017. Prior to her time at Genus,

Price Waterhouse. Allison graduated in economics

Catherine worked for over twenty years at Tesco plc

from Birmingham University and went on to take

where she held various senior positions including

an MA in economics at Leeds University. Allison is

latterly as Group HR Director. Catherine is currently

Chairman of the Audit Committee and a member of

a non-executive director of Renishaw plc and

53

the Nomination and Remuneration Committees.

TheWorks.co.uk plc where in each case she is Chair

of the Remuneration Committee. Catherine is also a

member of the Audit and Nominations Committee.

Michael McKelvy Independent Non-Executive
Michael was appointed to the Board on 1 May 2018. US-based, Michael is a member of the Nomination and Remuneration Committees. Michael is CEO of construction firm Gilbane and has held Presidential roles with CH2M. He is a chartered architect and has extensive senior level experience of construction, infrastructure and natural resource markets.

David Gormley Company Secretary
David has over 20 years' senior experience as a company secretary, starting his career with Guinness Plc, before working in roles as company secretary continental Europe in Belgium for the Albert Fisher Group Plc, then Group Company Secretary for Sky Plc. He has since worked with UK insurance firms Brit and Hiscox and infrastructure developer John Laing.

Report and Accounts 2019

Report of the Directors

Corporate governance

Going concern

The Directors' report on Corporate Governance can be found on pages 55 to 90 and incorporates other parts of the Report and Accounts as detailed therein.
Employees
The Group's policies in relation to employees are disclosed on pages 22 to 25.
Corporate responsibility

The Group's business activities, a review of the 2019 results together with factors likely to affect its future development and prospects are set out on pages 7 to 48. Note 20 to the Consolidated Financial Statements sets out the borrowings of the Group and considers liquidity risk, whilst note 30 describes the Group's approach to capital management, and financial risk management in general. The going concern statement together with the viability statement is set out in the Strategic Report on page 45.

The Group's Corporate Responsibility statement is

Directors' responsibilities statement

included on pages 46 to 48.

The Directors are responsible for preparing the

This includes disclosures concerning Greenhouse

Annual Report and the financial statements in

Gas emissions as required pursuant to part 7 of The accordance with applicable law and regulations. Each

Companies Act (Strategic Report and Directors'

of the persons who is a Director at the time of this

Report) Regulations 2013. The Group made no

report confirms that, so far as they are aware, there is

contribution to political organisations during

no relevant audit information of which the Company's

the year.

auditor is unaware and that they have taken all the

steps necessary to make themselves aware of any

Substantial shareholdings

relevant audit information and to establish that the

Company's auditor is aware of that information.

The Company is aware of the following interests

54

in excess of 3% of the ordinary share capital of the

This confirmation is given and should be interpreted

Company as at 18 February 2020.

in accordance with the provisions of s.418 of the

Companies Act 2006.

Shareholder Aberforth Partners (i) UBS Asset Management (ii) Artemis Investment Managemnet Montanaro Asset Management BMO Global Asset Management Chelverton Asset Management Unicorn Asset Management Dimensional Fund Advisors Blackrock NBIM

Total holding % of ISC 29,244,784 12.87% 17,029,807 7.49% 16,008,701 7.05% 12,000,000 5.28% 9,504,218 4.18% 9,326,785 4.10% 9,000,000 3.96% 8,697,890 3.83% 8,431,960 3.71% 7,578,668 3.33%

The Directors are required by Company law to prepare financial statements for each financial year, and prepare the Group financial statements in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRSs) as adopted by the European Union and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation. The Directors have elected to prepare the parent company financial statements in accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice (United Kingdom Accounting Standards and applicable law) including FRS102 "The Financial Reporting Standard Applicable in the UK and Republic of Ireland." Under company law the Directors must not approve the accounts unless they are satisfied that they give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the company and of the profit or loss of the company for that period.

Vanguard Group

7,392,897 3.25%

Coloumbia Threadneedle Investments

7,201,049 3.17%

(i) T he Wellcome Trust Ltd as Trustee of the Wellcome Trust holds 6,908,549 (3.13%) shares included within the shares held by Aberforth Partners.
(ii)Tameside MBC re Greater Manchester Pension Fund holds 13,798,887 (6.08%) shares included within the shares held by UBS Asset Management

Report and Accounts 2019

Report of the Directors

Group Financial Statements

The Directors are responsible for the maintenance

and integrity of the corporate and financial

In preparing the Group Financial Statements,

information included on the Company's website.

International Accounting Standard 1 requires

Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the

that Directors:

preparation and dissemination of financial statements

may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.

· Properly select and apply accounting policies;

Responsibilities pursuant to DTR4

· Present information, including accounting policies,

in a manner that provides relevant, reliable,

We confirm that to the best of our knowledge:

comparable and understandable information;

· Provide additional disclosures when compliance with the specific requirements in IFRSs are

· The financial statements, prepared in accordance with the relevant financial reporting framework, give a true and fair view of the assets, liabilities,

insufficient to enable users to understand the

financial position and profit or loss of the Company

impact of particular transactions, other events and

and the undertakings included in the consolidation

conditions on the entity's financial position and

taken as a whole;

financial performance; and

· Make an assessment of the Company's ability to continue as a going concern.

· The strategic report includes a fair review of the development and performance of the business and the position of the Company and the undertakings

included in the consolidation taken as a whole,

Parent Company Financial Statements

together with a description of the principal risks

and uncertainties that they face; and

In preparing the Parent Company financial

statements, the Directors are required to:

· The Annual Report and financial statements, taken

as a whole, are fair, balanced and understandable

55

· Select suitable accounting policies and then apply them consistently;

and provide the information necessary for shareholders to assess the Company's performance,

business model and strategy.

· Make judgements and accounting estimates that are reasonable and prudent;

Financial instruments

· State whether applicable UK Accounting Standards have been followed, subject to any material departures disclosed and explained in the financial statements; and
· Prepare the financial statements on the going concern basis unless it is inappropriate to presume that the Company will continue in business.
The Directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting records that are sufficient to show and explain the Company's transactions, and disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the Company and enable them to ensure that the financial statements comply with the Companies Act 2006. They are responsible for safeguarding the assets of the Company and taking all reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of fraud or other irregularities.

Details on the use of financial instruments and financial risk are included in note 30 to the Consolidated Financial Statements.
Post balance sheet events
There are no significant post balance sheet events requiring adjustments to the year end results or disclosure.
Takeover directive
The following additional information is provided for shareholders pursuant to the requirements of the Takeover Directive.

Report and Accounts 2019

Report of the Directors

Share capital

Change of control

As at 31 December 2019 the Company's issued share The Company's debt facilities include provisions that

capital consisted of 227,139,412 ordinary shares of 3p take effect on a change of control and provide that

each. Substantial shareholder interests of which the the Company may be unable to draw down any further

Company is aware are shown on page 54.

amounts and/or that such facilities may be cancelled,

thus restricting the Company's ability to operate.

Shareholder rights and restrictions

Listing rule 9.8.4c

At a general meeting of the Company every holder

of ordinary shares present in person is entitled to

Pursuant to listing rule 9.8.4c the Company is required

vote on a show of hands and on a poll every member to disclose that an arrangement is in place whereby

present in person or by proxy and entitled to vote

the trustee of the Company's employee benefit trust

has one vote for every ordinary share held. Holders

has agreed to waive present and future dividend

of ordinary shares may receive interim dividends

rights in respect of certain shares that it holds. There

approved by the Directors and dividends declared

are no other matters requiring disclosure required

in general meetings. On liquidation and subject to a pursuant to this listing rule.

special resolution, the liquidator may divide among

members in specie the whole or any part of the

Directors' indemnities

assets of the Company. There are no shares in issue

that carry special rights with regard to control of the Directors and Officers of the Company benefit from

Company and there are no restrictions on the transfer Directors' and Officers' liability insurance cover

of ordinary shares in the Company other than those in respect of legal actions brought against them.

that may be imposed by law or regulation from time to In addition Directors are indemnified under the

time. The Company's Articles of Association may be Company's articles of association to the maximum

amended by special resolution at a General Meeting extent permitted by law, such indemnities being

56

of the shareholders.

qualifying third party indemnities.

Directors

Annual General Meeting

Directors are appointed by ordinary resolution at a General Meeting of the shareholders. Whilst the Board can appoint a Director any Director appointed in that manner must be elected by an ordinary resolution at the next General Meeting. Under the Articles of Association any Director who has held office for more than three years since their last appointment must offer themselves for re-election at the next Annual General Meeting. It is the Company's policy, however, that all Directors should stand for annual re-election. The Directors have power to manage the Company's business subject to the provision of the Company's Articles of Association, law and applicable regulations. The Directors have power to issue and buy back shares in the Company pursuant to the terms and limitations of resolutions passed by shareholders at each Annual General Meeting of the Company. No such power was exercised during the year under review. Directors' interests in the share capital of the Company are shown in the table on page 81.

The Annual General Meeting will be held on 30 April 2020. The Notice of Annual General Meeting circulated with this Report and Accounts contains a full explanation of the business to be conducted at that meeting. This includes a resolution to re-appoint Deloitte LLP as the Company's Auditor.
Signed on behalf of the Board
David Gormley Company Secretary 19 February 2020
Registered Office: 20 Western Avenue Milton Park Abingdon Oxfordshire OX14 4SH Registered in England No. 02087786

Report and Accounts 2019

CORPORATE 57 GOVERNANCE

Corporate Governance

CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
Chairman's Introduction

Governance and culture

Annual Corporate Governance Report that follows

together with the reports from each of our principal

The Group's strategic priorities and progress against committee chairs explain how, in a practical sense,

them is set out on page 21. Whist achieving these

the provisions of the Code have been applied

objectives is key to the Group's future, the Board

throughout this period.

also believes that maintaining high standards of

governance is an important ingredient to drive

The Board continues to operate within the framework

success. Whilst the formal rules that apply to RPS as a of a Board Charter which clarifies the respective roles

listed Group are important in maintaining standards of the Chairman, Chief Executive and Non-Executive

in this area, good governance is also about culture,

Directors as well as incorporating a schedule of

behaviours and how we do business. The Board is

matters reserved for Board approval and the terms

therefore committed to ensuring that the Group's

of reference of the Board Committees.

values and standards are set at the top and embedded

throughout the Group. The work to define purpose, Whilst in a people business, risk management

promise and behaviours is described elsewhere in the and internal control needs to remain an integral

Annual Report and are an important component in

part of our culture the Group's formal systems of

this process.

risk management and internal control continue

to develop as outlined in the Annual Corporate

58

At the start of 2019 we launched our new brand

Governance Report below.

and introduced our behaviours that underpin our

purpose and promise and give us the framework to

Leadership and performance

focus on absolute delivery. Created by our people our

behaviours are at the heart of our people strategy

The further changes that have occurred at Board

discussed in the people section of this report. The

level during the year are detailed in the Annual

launch of our new global brand was an important step Report of the Nomination Committee. The Board

in our evolution and defined who we are, signifying a as now constituted incorporates a strong and

change in mindset and further setting the framework appropriate balance of skills and experience and

for our strategic direction.

having undergone a number of changes in recent

years I expect it to be stable in membership for

Framework and compliance

the foreseeable future. The Board is, I believe, well

equipped to provide an appropriate balance of

During the year under review the Group was subject leadership and oversight as the Group pursues its

to the revised UK Corporate Governance Code which strategic objectives and is working well with executive

was published in July 2018 (the `Code'). During the

management to offer support and robust challenge

year the Group has moved to be fully compliant

as appropriate. The Board's agenda will continue to

with the Code and considers that apart from

balance oversight and governance of the business

Whistleblowing remaining under the remit of the

with the ability to debate and examine forward

Audit Committee was fully compliant in all other areas looking strategy including changes to the business

of the Code at the end of the year. The areas where

environment and the markets in which we operate.

we have moved towards compliance are discussed in During the year the Board again undertook a two day

more detail within the Corporate Governance Report review of strategy with the Group Leadership Team.

on page 60. The Code contains broad provisions

together with more specific provisions which set

The review of effectiveness, which I led towards the

out standards of good practice in relation to Board

end of the year, and which was then considered by

leadership and effectiveness, accountability and

the Board, is described in the Annual Governance

remuneration and relations with shareholders. The

Report. As the Board has now been working as a

Report and Accounts 2019

Corporate Governance

cohesive unit for just over two years, under its current membership, it found that there were no specific areas for improvement but did note that unscheduled calls between the Board that happen between meetings worked well. The exercise continued to confirm my view that the Board is discharging its duties described to good effect. Whilst we had previously contemplated undertaking an external review of performance, we concluded that against the backdrop of further changes in Board membership such an exercise would be premature. We will look to conduct an externally facilitated review during 2020.
Workforce and shareholder engagement

During 2018 steps were taken to improve the Group's engagement with the investment community. The Chief Executive Officer and Finance Director meet regularly with the Company's shareholders both through individual engagement with our largest shareholders and through investment presentations and investor roadshows. During the year I met with a number of our major shareholders, who noting the difficult year that the Group has experienced, remain fully supportive of the strategy that is being implemented by the Chief Executive Officer and his leadership team. Liz Peace, who was appointed as the Senior Independent Director, has also met with some of the Group's shareholders.

Notwithstanding the formal framework within which In December 2019 we renewed the Remuneration

the Board operates, it is important that it remains

Policy of the Group for another three years, following

connected with and understands the wider business. extensive consultation with our shareholders led

The Board receives regular presentations from

by Catherine Glickman, Chair of the Remuneration

business and functional areas within the Group and Committee, I am happy to note that we received a

has commenced a programme of holding Board

vote of 87.15% in favour of the Remuneration Policy.

meetings at operating business locations, a practice

that it intends to develop further during 2020.

2019 AGM

The two day strategy review mentioned above was

undertaken in conjunction with the Group Leadership At the Annual General Meeting held in May 2019

Team and provided an excellent opportunity for the the Company received a vote of 22% against my

Board to gain greater insight into the challenges

reappointment as Chairman of the Group. Although

59

facing our business.

this is disappointing from a personal level, this was

due to concerns raised about the number of Board

The Board are encouraged to visit the offices of the

positions that I hold. This is covered more fully in

Company and meet and hear from our people about the report from the Senior Independent Director

their expectations and experience of working for

on page 67.

RPS. During the year we also appointed Catherine

Glickman as the Non-Executive Director responsible The year ahead

for workforce engagement and Catherine has visited

a number of offices during the year meeting with staff We will continue to focus on governance as an

and holding various Q&A sessions on these visits.

important element in the achievement of our

strategic priorities and key to this is our focus on

our behaviours and culture as key elements in

driving good governance.

"It is clear to me, from the conversations I have had at all levels in the organisation, that the changes occurring in the organisation are significant and that everyone is focused on creating a single RPS that addresses the challenges of our clients in a consistent way so that complex is made easy."

Ken Lever Chairman
19 February 2020

Report and Accounts 2019

Corporate Governance

CORPORATE GOVERNANCE

Overview and compliance

Executive Director Pension Contribution Rates: As

part of the review of the Remuneration Policy the

The Chairman's statement on pages 58 to 59

Remuneration Committee reviewed the pension

incorporates comments relating to the governance rates of the current Executive Directors, and has

of the Group; and provides a backdrop to this

implemented a policy for all new Executive Director

detailed report.

appointees to pay a pension contribution in line

with the wider workforce. There is no change to the

The Board operates within the framework of a

current pension contributions of Executive Directors

charter incorporating the key aspects of the

already employed at such level by the Company.

Group's governance arrangements. This includes

This is explained more fully in the Remuneration

the definition of roles, responsibilities and authorities Committee report on pages 74 to 92.

as applicable to the Board, its Committees and its

individual Directors.

This report and the following report of the Committee

Chairs describe the structures, processes and events

Throughout the year the Board has focused firmly

through which compliance was achieved in 2019.

on progressing to a target of full compliance with the

provisions of the Corporate Governance Code 2019 Board structure

(the `Code'). There are specific instances where it has

not achieved full compliance in the last year:

At the date of this report the Board comprised two

Executive Directors, four Non-Executive Directors and

60

Whistleblowing Policy: The Company's Whistleblowing the Chairman. During the year Robert Miller-Bakewell

Policy allows for employees to raise any matters

rotated off the Board at the Annual General Meeting

of concern securely, and is overseen by the Audit

having served over nine years as a Non-Executive

Committee. The Board reviewed the current structure Director of the Company. Robert has been replaced in

of the Company's whistleblowing arrangements

his role of Senior Independent Director by Liz Peace.

resulting that in the first instance the Whistleblowing With the announcement of our preliminary results we

policy should remain under the remit of the Audit

also announced that Gary Young will be retiring from

Committee, but with the addition that any incidents the Board after 20 years with the Company and will be

reported through the policy be reported to the Board succeeded by Judith Cottrell. Gary will retire from the

together with recommendations for follow up actions Board at the 2020 Annual General Meeting, at which

or processes to be instigated.

time it is proposed that Judith will be elected to the

Board by the shareholders.

As all Board members attend meetings of the Audit

Committee either as a member or an invitee, it is to The Board Charter referred to above incorporates

be expected that the Board will be aware at all times descriptions of the distinct roles of the Chairman

of any incidents that arise in this area.

and Chief Executive.

Post-Employment Shareholding: The Company confirmed in its 2018 annual report that it would be reviewing and subsequently renewing its Remuneration Policy during 2019. Part of that review would include the development of a formal policy for post-employment shareholding. The new Remuneration Policy includes a post-employment shareholding requirement, effective from 1 January 2020 and discussed more fully in the Remuneration Report on pages 74 to 92.

The Chairman provides leadership to the Board of Directors, sets its agenda and is responsible for its overall effectiveness and performance. This includes ensuring all Directors receive the right information in order to take a full and constructive part in Board discussions. The Chairman, with the involvement of the Executive Directors, also seeks to ensure effective communication with shareholders and will meet with major shareholders as reasonably required.

Report and Accounts 2019

Corporate Governance

The Chief Executive is responsible for all executive management matters within the Group. This

· Recommendation and approval of dividends and other capital distributions

incorporates the development of Group strategy, budgets and business plans as well as providing

· Approval of material corporate transactions including all acquisitions

effective executive leadership and developing a

· Approval of policies and systems for risk

culture which strikes an appropriate balance between

management and internal control

entrepreneurship and the management of risk. The role of the Non-Executive Directors is to provide independent and considered advice to the Board in matters of strategy, risk and performance, whilst

· Appointment of key advisers to the Group · Approval of major items of capital expenditure · Any substantive change in the nature of the
Group's activities

providing governance oversight through operation

of the Board's Committees. The Board is satisfied that Matters falling outside the Board's reserved list

all Non-Executives are independent and that there

are delegated to the Group executive under the

are no circumstances or relationships (as detailed

leadership of the Chief Executive. Responsibilities

in the guidance notes of the Code) that may affect

are, subject to clear written limits, delegated further

judgements. Catherine Glickman was formerly

to the Group's business segments. The Group

engaged in a consultancy capacity by the Group

Leadership Team meets regularly throughout the

for a short period during 2017­2018 to undertake

year and retains operational oversight of the Group's

specific tasks, the Board was satisfied at the time

activities. This team currently consists of: the Chief

of her appointment that this did not constitute a

Executive, Group Finance Director, Group Marketing

material business relationship that would affect her Director, Group People Director, Chief Information

independence. The Chairman and the Non-Executive Officer, Group Strategy Director and the Group's six

Directors are generally appointed for three-year

principal business leaders.

terms, which may subsequently be extended.

Any term beyond six years for a Non-Executive

Board meetings and operation

is rigorously reviewed, taking account of the

requirement to refresh the Board.

The Board has eight scheduled meetings during

61

the year but will meet on other occasions should

The Senior Independent Director is available to

circumstances require. The Board's agenda seeks to

shareholders who wish to raise concerns that cannot achieve a balance between review of performance,

be resolved through the Chairman, Chief Executive or strategy development, adoption of appropriate

Finance Director. Liz Peace has performed the role of corporate policies, risk management and regulatory

Senior Independent Director from May 2019 onwards obligations. During the year the following items were

following Robert Miller-Bakewell stepping down at the considered at each meeting:

Annual General Meeting. The Board is assisted by the

Audit, Remuneration and Nomination Committees. Separate reports from each of these Committees can be found on pages 68 to 92. The Chairman of each Committee provides regular updates at Board meetings.
All Directors are subject to annual re-election by shareholders.

· Safety performance · Financial and business performance · Strategic priorities · Emerging risks · Material employment issues · Significant litigation · Investor and City relations

In addition to these, and at the appropriate point the

Board responsibilities

Board also considered:

The Board Charter incorporates a comprehensive schedule of matters that are reserved for its decision and which include the following:
· Determination of the Group's overall strategy · Approval of annual budgets and business plans · Financial reporting including annual and half year
results and market updates

· The Group's Annual Budget and Business Plan · Group results and the Annual Report and Accounts · Significant market announcements · Board performance · Review of internal control and risk management · Dividends and dividend policy · Reports from Board Committee Chairmen · Other matters reserved for Board approval

Report and Accounts 2019

Corporate Governance

Ken Lever

Full Board Audit Committee

14

­

Remuneration Committee ­

Nomination Committee 3

John Douglas

14

­

­

­

Gary Young

14

­

­

­

Robert Miller-Bakewell*

6

1

7

1

Allison Bainbridge**

13

4

5

3

Liz Peace*****

14

3

9

2

Michael McKelvy ***

14

2

10

3

Catherine Glickman****

14

3

10

3

Number of meetings held

14

4

10

3

* Robert Miller-Bakewell retired as a director on 1 May 2019.

** Allison Bainbridge was appointed to the Remuneration Committee on 18 February 2019 and missed one board meeting which

was called at short notice and she was on holiday without a mobile signal at the time.

62

***Mike McKelvy was appointed to the Audit Committee on 18 February 2019.

**** Catherine Glickman was appointed to the Audit Committee on 18 February 2019.

***** Liz Peace was unable to attend meetings of the Remuneration, Nominations and Audit Committees, due to a prior board

engagement with another Company.

· A presentation from the CEO of Australia Asia Pacific discussing the issues and performance of the business during the year.
· The Board also received a number of presentations from the Chief Information Officer on the introduction of a new ERP system into the business.
Prior to the holding of a majority of the Board meetings, the Chairman will hold a private session with the Non-Executive Directors to discuss the forthcoming business of the meeting and any particular issues that they should focus on in the Board meeting. Outside of Board meetings the Chairman holds regular discussions with all Directors, on issues that may arise between meetings and to provide briefings. The Non-Executives met once

during the year without the Chairman present. Each Director is required to declare any interests that may give rise to a conflict of interest with the Company on appointment and subsequently as they may arise, in accordance with the Companies Act 2006. Where such a conflict or potential conflict arises the Board is empowered (under the Company's articles of association) to consider such conflicts and authorise as appropriate and subject to such terms as the Board deems relevant. No such conflict arose during the year under review.
There is an agreed procedure for Directors to take independent professional advice at the Company's expense. The Company maintains Directors and Officers liability insurance.

Report and Accounts 2019

Corporate Governance

Stakeholder engagement

People
· Quarterly CEO calls with the global Senior Leadership Group
· Regular communication with all employees
· Bi-annual global employee survey · Frequently held future leaders forums
for junior employees to discuss their roles and aspirations for themselves and the Company, and to ask the Board about the strategy and business performance
· Launched Progress@RPS a global business and development framework

Investors
· Annual Report and General Meeting · Communicate four times a year to
the market
· One-to-one investor meetings · Chairman and Senior Independent
Non-Executive Director had meetings with the top 10 shareholders
· Regular sales team briefings and sell-side analyst presentations
· Accessible and up-to-date investor website
63

Clients
· Reinforced making complex easy that was validated through global client research
· Acted on feedback received from clients
· Bringing new and innovative solutions to complex problems
· Consistently giving high value client experiences

Industry
· Engaged in industry discussions at key conferences throughout the year
· Actively engaged with industry bodies to participate in client innovation events
· Memberships of professional bodies · Don McQuillan acting as mentor for
engineering graduates in his capacity as President of the Institution of Structural Engineers

Report and Accounts 2019

Corporate Governance

Board performance
The Board undertakes an annual appraisal of its performance. Given the substantive changes to Board membership in 2017 and further changes during 2018 it was again concluded that a highly structured evaluation process would be of limited value at this point. The Chairman engaged with all of the Company's Directors across a range of topics during this time as a strategic action to ascertain any areas of concern and suggestions.
The results of the exercise were reported to the Board as a whole for discussion. The Board noted that there were no major areas of concern that required immediate attention, but it was noted that having update calls in-between scheduled Board meetings worked well and that this should be utilised more through out the year.

Consequences of decisions in the long term: In the 2018 Annual Report the Group determined five clear strategic priorities for the business. We were very clear in setting these strategies that they were aimed at building long term sustainable growth for the future and that remains very much the case today. We were clear that investment would be required to support the strategy where it had not existed before and that during this period of growth our profits would therefore be subdued. This was clearly articulated to our shareholders who to date have supported us in the execution of our strategic aims and we have achieved significant progress in the aims during the last 24 months.
In 2019, we delivered on brand enabling us to move to focus on client experience and our priority of energising the Energy business is complete. With this progress, these five priorities have evolved into three strategic priorities of people, clients and connectivity.

The Board continues to review progress in these areas Employees: The Group's core strategy is our

as an ongoing action. A more structured review will purpose, promise and behaviours which we talk about

be undertaken during 2020, potentially involving an extensively throughout the Annual Report. This is the

external facilitator if felt required.

Group's DNA and one of our core strategic priorities

is our "People and making RPS a great place to work".

Directors duties ­ Section 172

When the Board meets it regularly holds informal

lunches with staff members who are invited to join

64

The Board is mindful of its duties under Section 172 of the Board and discuss their roles and aspirations for

the Companies Act 2006, to promote the success of themselves and the Company and at the same time to

the Company and with regards to all its stakeholders ask questions of the Board, on strategy and business

and has complied with this in the following ways:

performance. These are mostly junior staff who have

The Board is encouraged to visit the various locations of the Group and meet and discuss various topics with employees

Director Ken Lever

Engagement opportunities with employees During 2019 the Chairman visited a number of office locations

In Consulting UK and Ireland he visited our offices in Wolverhampton, Warrington, Manchester and Newcastle

He also went to the consulting business in Derby and our laboratory in Bedford, being parts of our Services UK and Netherlands business

And then towards the end of the year he spent a week visiting our offices in Perth, Brisbane, Melbourne and Sydney

Catherine Glickman (as workforce representative) Liz Peace

He has in previous years visited our operations in North America, Netherlands, Norway, Ireland, Northern Ireland and Scotland Held town hall gatherings across a number of our UK locations and in Australia
Met our Corporate Responsibility Lead to advise on our approaches to corporate responsibility

Mike McKelvy

Supported our London office in their gender diversity initiative at MIPIM 2019 Visited our offices in Rhode Island and attended the Group Leadership Team meeting

Assisted John Douglas in interviewing the preferred candidate for the Chief Executive Officer role in North America

Report and Accounts 2019

Corporate Governance

been identified as future leaders of the business.

place from anti-bribery to a code of conduct and we

The Board also received a presentation from the

have a moral and legal responsibility to safeguard all

board on Prospects, an employee development

our employees and others affected by our operations

platform which aims to align future leaders across the and services. The Board receives regular health and

organisation, focused on personal and professional

safety updates at all meetings. The instances of

development whilst driving value and efficiency. Open accidents has slightly increased during the year but

to employees up to Associate level, its purpose is to there is nothing systematic or any trends that have

prepare our leaders of tomorrow by equipping them been identified, to cause a matter of concern.

with skills that ensure the continuity and prosperity

of the business.

Act fairly between the members of the Company:

Shareholders are invited to attend the Company's

The Group also launched during the year

Annual General Meetings and ask questions of the

Progress@RPS, a global business and development

Board. The Board have met with shareholders at

framework, which is discussed more fully in the

various times during the year in one to one meetings

people section of the Annual Report.

as requested and through result presentations to

our institutional shareholders. There has also been a

Customers: Our brand has been intentionally created series of investor roadshows to promote the Company

with our clients at the core and we are now in a strong and encourage prospective shareholder investment.

position to deliver a return on the investment that we

made in 2018/2019.

The Company's investor website page [https://

ir.rpsgroup.com/] on its corporate website [https://

Repeatedly delivering high value client experiences www.rpsgroup.com] gives access to a wealth of

that exceed expectations and consistently delivering longstanding and new information on the Company

on our promise of making complex easy at every

and its activities.

interaction is at the centre of everything we do.

Training and induction

In 2020, our focus will be on using data insights to

deliver connected client experiences by generating Directors receive information on the Company as well

65

trackable, measurable leads at every stage of the

as the Board and its procedures on appointment. They

client journey to further strengthen our client

also meet with other members of the Board to be

relationships resulting in long-term loyalty, repeat

briefed on strategy, financial matters and other key issues.

work and reduced cost of sales.

The foregoing applied to all Directors appointed during

the year. Advice is available from the Company's

Community and environment: The Board has

solicitors, auditors and brokers if required. Updates

noted that we need to improve our own Corporate

on key technical matters are provided as required

Responsibility priorities. We as a Company are

including those relating to corporate governance and

involved in various environmental projects, we have corporate social responsibility. During the year the

unrivalled global capabilities that enable our clients Chairman and Non-Executive Directors met with and

to develop environmental and socially responsible

received presentations from members of the Group

solutions. We have recognised the growing

Leadership Team as well as engaging with the Group's

opportunities in offshore wind and will leverage our wider business activities more generally.

brand reputation into new and emerging markets to

achieve organic growth in our top line revenue.

The Non-Executive Directors have access to a

training academy managed by Deloitte LLP.

We have also appointed a Corporate Responsibility Lead

to the business, and this will be a major area of focus

Communication

for the business in the year ahead, building out our

Corporate Responsibility policies and Liz Peace has

The Company attaches great importance to

been instrumental in reviewing the Company's plans

communication with its shareholders and other

for the year in this area.

stakeholders. The Group website includes financial

presentations, general information about the Group

High standards of business conduct: The

and its services, as well as regular corporate reporting

employees of the Company are obliged to act in

including public details on projects the Company

a legal, ethical and responsible manner. These

is engaged on. In addition to presenting financial

obligations apply to all staff who work for the

results, the Executive Directors hold meetings with

Company. The Company has a suite of policies in

the Company's principal shareholders to discuss the

Report and Accounts 2019

Corporate Governance

Company's strategy and performance. The Chairman and Senior Independent Director also meet with major shareholders from time to time. An investor relations update is provided at all regular Board meetings to ensure that the Board is kept aware of the views of larger shareholders and the investment community generally.

Treasury The Group operates a central treasury function that undertakes required borrowing and foreign exchange transactions as well as daily monitoring of bank balances and cash receipts. Appropriate payment authorisation processes are in place throughout the Group. Trading in financial instruments is not permitted.

The Chairman of each of the Board Committees attends the Annual General Meeting and is available to answer questions.

Risk management and internal controls

Overview The Board retains overall responsibility for setting the Group's risk appetite as well as risk management and internal control systems. The Board has maintained procedures in accordance with this throughout the year and up to the date of approval of the financial statements, as recommended in the UK Corporate Governance Code and the supporting document issued by the Financial Reporting Council's Guidance on Risk Management, Internal Control and Related Financial and Business Reporting'.

The principal risks to which the Group is exposed and

66

the measures to mitigate those risks are described on

pages 42 to 44.

The key procedures established by the Company's Directors to ensure effective internal financial controls are:

Financial reporting The Financial results for the Group are reviewed at each Board meeting. The detailed formal budgeting process for all Group businesses culminates in an annual Group budget approved by the Board.

Financial and accounting principles and internal financial controls assurance The Group's accounting policies, principles and standards for effective financial control are clearly communicated to all its accounting teams, assured by the Internal Audit Manager through periodic detailed reviews to ensure close adherence to policies and procedures as well as to identify any control weaknesses.

Capital investment The Group has clearly defined guidelines for capital expenditure. These include detailed appraisal and review procedures as well as due diligence procedures in respect of potential business acquisitions.

Report and Accounts 2019

Base controls The internal controls self-assessment system launched in 2017 by the Group Assurance Manager is now operational throughout the Group. Within this, the Finance Directors of the Group's operating units regularly assess their operational controls against a standard base control set, to identify and mitigate any shortcomings effectively and inform new controls where appropriate.
Delegated authorities A system of delegated authorities is in place throughout the Group, whereby incurring expenditure and assumption of contractual commitments can only be approved by specified individuals and within pre-defined limits.
Review and reporting Internal controls and in particular any failures are reported to and reviewed at Group and operating Board meetings to facilitate effective implementation of system changes wherever required. The Audit Committee maintains a brief to keep the overall internal control systems under review. A detailed review of the Group's internal control system and risk management was undertaken and reviewed by the Board during the year. The Board and the Audit Committee were satisfied that the systems in place are appropriate and effective.
Annual review A detailed report of the Group's systems of risk management and internal control was prepared during the year. Having reviewed and discussed this report the Board was satisfied that these systems are effective.
The respective responsibilities of the Directors and the independent auditors in connection with the accounts are explained on pages 54 and 100. The statement of the Directors in respect of going concern appears on page 45. The long term viability statement is on page 45.
Takeover directive
Disclosures required under the Takeover Directive are included on page 56 and form part of the Group's Corporate Governance report.

Response to
SHAREHOLDER CONSULTATION

Corporate Governance

Report from the Senior Independent Director

Annual General Meeting

At the Annual General Meeting that was held on 1 May 2019, 22.09% of votes were cast against the re-election of Ken Lever as Chairman of the Company. In discussions with some of the Company's shareholders they raised concerns on the number of directorships that the Chairman held and although this was highlighted by Glass Lewis and ISS within their proxy reports they did not believe this warranted a vote against.

Liz Peace Independent Non-Executive
Board Member

Following the vote, I personally wrote to a number of our top shareholders, and specifically to those shareholders who voted against the resolution, to explain why the Board of RPS believed that the Chairman was the right person to lead the Company forward.

The Board is aware that there was a change in the Corporate Governance Code, which made specific recommendations as regards to an additional Board role for an Executive Director. A number of institutional investors and proxy advisors have developed more specific guidelines, which cover the overboarding of both Executive and Non-Executive Directors.
67
In the letter to shareholders I clearly explained that on his appointment to the Board in November 2016 the Chairman had, at that time, a number of other appointments and had indeed resigned from two of his positions during the year. We note that this was a main concern of shareholders in that it could undermine the Chairman's ability to serve effectively on the Board of RPS, particularly at times when the Chairman may be required to involve himself at short notice, such as when urgent issues arise for the Company. Over the period that the Chairman has been on the Board of RPS he has not, to date, missed a Board meeting, or committee meeting of the Company. Furthermore, the Company does hold ad hoc Board and Committee calls and the Chairman has been in attendance at all of these meetings.

I also pointed out that the Chairman does not hold a full time executive role and had calculated that during the last two years he had to commit to circa 150 days in fulfilling his various directorship roles, this would leave him with at least 70 free business days within a year, to devote to other activities.

The Board does monitor the appointments that the Non-Executive Directors hold and in the case of the Chairman we have no concerns in the Chairman being able to fulfil his role on behalf of RPS.

The Board of RPS believes that the Chairman plays a pivotal role in helping drive the strategy of the Group and we remain fully supportive of the role and guidance he provides to the Company and fully endorse his continuing role as Chairman of the Company.

In the letter, I did offer to meet with shareholders if they had any concerns and was happy to discuss any governance issues but did not receive any responses.

A copy of the letter has been posted on the Company's investor website.

Report and Accounts 2019

Corporate Governance

NOMINATION COMMITTEE REPORT

Ken Lever Chairman of the Nomination Committee

I am pleased to report to shareholders in my capacity as Chairman of the Nomination Committee. This report outlines the key responsibilities of the Committee and activities during the year. The previous two years were a busy period for the Nomination Committee, with the appointment of a new Chief Executive Officer, and a number of changes to the Board. The last year has seen a settling down of the Board.

19 February 2020

Membership and meetings

Board changes

I and all of our Non-Executive Directors, Allison

After serving on the Board for over nine years

Bainbridge, Catherine Glickman, Mike McKelvy and Liz Remuneration Committee Chairman Robert Miller-

Peace are members of the Committee. The Company Bakewell stepped down from the Board at the 2019

68

Secretary acts as secretary of the Committee whilst Annual General Meeting. Robert has been replaced

Executive Directors and external agents may be asked by Catherine Glickman. Catherine has extensive HR

to attend as required. The Committee met three

experience and having served on other remuneration

times during the year.

committees, it was always the intention that following

her appointment as a Non-Executive Director

Responsibilities and activities

she would assume the role of the Chair of the

Remuneration Committee from Robert.

The Committee's key responsibilities include

reviewing the Board structure, size and composition; The Nomination Committee further recommended

as well as evaluating the balance of skills, knowledge to the Board the appointment of Liz Peace as the

and experience which may be required in the

Senior Independent Non-Executive Director. Liz has

future and making recommendations to the Board

extensive experience as a director both in the private

accordingly. It is also responsible for nominating

and public sector and was widely endorsed as the

candidates to the Board when vacancies arise,

appropriate person for this role.

recommending retiring Directors for re-election as

relevant, and where appropriate considering any

The Nomination Committee has been aware that the

issues relating to any Director's continuation in office. Group Finance Director would at sometime be looking

The Committee also maintains an ongoing brief to

to retire from the Board of Directors and in holding

consider succession planning at Board and Senior

sessions with management and in particular, looking

Executive level.

at succession, the Committee had identified Judith

Cottrell as a possible long term successor to Gary

All of these activities were undertaken during the

when he retired. Judith has experience of working

year, some of which are described in more detail

initially as the CFO for Europe and then moved into

below. The Committee has written terms of reference an interim role as the Chief Executive Officer for

which are available on the Company's website.

Europe and then Consulting, following the split of

the segments. In preparing Judith for this role, she

also underwent the KPMG C Suite programme which

is a programme to develop individuals to undertake

senior Board level roles.

Report and Accounts 2019

Corporate Governance

The Committee did also consider external candidates Diversity

for the role but were of the opinion that Judith would

be the best person for the role having a wide knowledge The Committee is aware that the Code places an

and understanding of the Group's operations.

increased emphasis on the role of the Nomination

Committee in the areas of diversity and inclusion.

Election and re-election of Directors

When considering appointments to the Board

the Committee evaluates the skills, experience

As in previous years and in accordance with the UK

and knowledge required for a particular role with

Governance Code all Directors will stand for election due regard to the benefit of diversity. Whilst the

or re-election at the Annual General Meeting. The

Committee will look to recruit the best available

range of skills and experience offered by the current candidate for any role, the Company has previously

Board is mentioned above and set out in full on pages set and announced a target that a minimum of 25%

50 to 51. The Committee and the Board consider the of its Board should be female. Following Robert

performance of each of the Directors standing for

Miller-Bakewell's retirement from the Board 43% of

election or re-election to be fully satisfactory and

the Board are female. The female membership of the

that they have demonstrated ongoing commitment Group Leadership Team is 33%. Further information

to their roles. The Board therefore strongly supports on gender balance is also given in the People report.

the election or re-election of all Directors and

The Committee is pleased to report these trends

recommends that shareholders vote in favour of the and believes that the enhanced balance of skills that

relevant resolutions at the Annual General Meeting. this has brought will be an important component in

achieving the Group's strategic priorities.

69

Succession planning

The Board and Group Leadership Team have been through a period of substantial change over the last three years, with a significant number of new appointments having been made as the new team was built. Whilst the Committee has considered succession issues against the backdrop of what should now be a stable Board and executive team it intends to further develop and formalise succession plans for key roles during 2020 and beyond.

Report and Accounts 2019

Corporate Governance

AUDIT COMMITTEE REPORT

Allison Bainbridge Chair of the Audit Committee

I am pleased to present our Audit Committee report for the year ended 31 December 2019. The report below describes the Committee's ongoing responsibilities as well as the major activities undertaken in the year, and its policies in a number of key areas.

19 February 2020

Membership and meetings

Responsibilities and activities

There have been a number of changes to the

The Audit Committee provides an independent

membership of the Committee during the year,

overview of the effectiveness of the financial

following Robert Miller-Bakewell's resignation from

reporting process and internal financial control

70

the Board of Directors at the Annual General Meeting. systems. This incorporates the appointment of the

Catherine Glickman and Mike McKelvy were both

external auditors including: agreeing their terms

appointed as members of the Committee and the

of engagement at the start of each audit, the audit

membership constitutes myself, Liz Peace, Catherine scope and the audit fee.

Glickman and Mike McKelvy.

At the conclusion of the full-year audit and interim

As the serving Finance Director of a fully listed public review the Committee receives a detailed report from

company I am identified as the Committee member the auditors. The Committee reviews this report, and

having recent and relevant financial experience,

the integrity of the accounting statements, ensuring

although the Board considers that all members of the that statutory and associated legal and regulatory

Committee have experience that is relevant to the

requirements are met as well as:

role. The Company Secretary acts as secretary of

the Committee.

· C onsidering significant reporting judgements and estimates

The Committee held four meetings during the year:

these included one to consider audit planning and one to coincide with each of the publication of the

· The adoption of appropriate accounting policies and practices and compliance with

Group's annual and interim financial results. Other

accounting standards

matters which fall within the Committee's terms

of reference are included on the agendas of these

It incorporates consideration of significant

meetings as required. The Group Chairman, Group

accounting issues, as detailed below, and advising

Chief Executive and Group Finance Director all attend the Board in relation to the fairness, balance and

the Committee's meetings and members of the Group understandability of the Annual Report.

Finance team are asked to attend from time to time.

The Deloitte Audit Partner and Director also attend

meetings and with whom the Committee has a

private session at least once a year without

executive management present.

Report and Accounts 2019

Corporate Governance

The Committee monitors the external auditor's effectiveness, independence and objectivity ­ including the nature and appropriateness of any non-audit fees. The Committee additionally assists the Board in monitoring and reviewing the Group's internal control and risk management procedures as described in the Corporate Governance Report. This includes review of the Group's whistleblowing policy whereby employees may, on a confidential basis, raise concerns with regard to improprieties relating to financial reporting, internal control or other matters. All the activities detailed above were undertaken in the year, some of which are described in more detail below. The Committee's detailed terms of reference can be found on the Company's website.
Significant accounting issues

CGU group and the growth expectations for that business in the medium term. See note 14 to the financial statements for further information.
In respect of the other CGU groups, consideration was given as to:
· Whether there were any indicators of impairment in respect of other non-current assets; and
· Whether a reasonably possible change in any one key assumption could give rise to an impairment
For these CGUs, the Board and Committee agreed that no indicators of impairment existed and that a reasonably possible change to any one assumption would not lead to an impairment.

In respect of the year under review and as part of its Contingent liability

role in reviewing estimates and judgements made by The Board and Committee considered in detail

management, the following significant issues were

potential issues regarding RPS' administration of

71

reviewed and in each case addressed as indicated.

government contracts and/or projects in the USA.

RPS has informed the US government of these

Intangible assets

potential issues and is continuing to identify the

This classification of assets is by far the largest

implications, if any, of the conduct under review.

on the Group balance sheet and as such receives

The related employment claims against the Group

careful attention from the Board and Committee to were also considered.

ensure that its carrying value is appropriate. Goodwill

impairment testing is normally undertaken at 30

After careful consideration, the Board and

November; in 2019 additional impairment testing of Committee are satisfied that, at this stage, the

the Group's Australia Asia Pacific and North American impact (if any) is unknown and that it is not

cash generating unit (`CGU') groups was undertaken appropriate to recognise a provision in respect

at 31 May due to the underperformance of those

of these matters at this time. The Board and

business units relative to budget.

Committee are also satisfied that it is appropriate

to treat these matters as contingent liabilities.

The Board and Committee considered the

appropriateness of the CGU's for goodwill testing,

Exceptional items

along with the assumptions and estimates used in the This year the Group has presented Exceptional items

modelling including the approved budgets for 2020 in the Income Statement. A paper was presented

and the three year strategic plan.

to the Committee detailing the items in question

and confirming that those items are significant in

After careful consideration, the Board and

quantum and are expected to be non-recurring.

Committee concluded that it was appropriate to

book an impairment charge of £19.8m against

The Board and Committee are satisfied that it is

the Group's Australia Asia Pacific CGU grouping

appropriate to separately disclose those items.

given the performance and prospects of that

Report and Accounts 2019

Corporate Governance

Recoverability of trade receivables and

Auditor independence

accrued income

Potential risks arising from trade debtors not

Deloitte LLP was appointed as Group Auditor in June

collected and/or non-billable accrued income

2012 following a comprehensive tender process. As

therefore being overstated in the accounts is

general policy audit partners are rotated at least every

considered by the Board on an ongoing basis:

five years. The Group's policy is that the Group audit

at its regular meetings as part of its review of

appointment should be retendered at least every

business performance.

ten years. The Group Audit Partner in the previous

year was Andrew Bond who completed two audits.

The Committee appreciates that there is a reasonable Following a review of our relationship with Deloitte,

estimation applied in the recognition of revenue but Alex Butterworth took over the Group Audit Partner

does not consider this to be a key area of risk. The

role from Andrew. The Committee ensures that the

number of fee-earning projects undertaken by the

Group Auditor remains independent of the Group

company at any time is large and there are relatively and reviews this on an annual basis, with Deloitte

few that are individually material. The procedures

providing a written report to the Committee showing

in place for recognising such revenue are well

its compliance with professional and regulatory

established and a good level of assurance is secured requirements to ensure independence.

through the Committee's comprehensive financial

review of monthly results.

In addition and as part of its responsibility to ensure

audit independence and objectivity, the Committee

Fair balanced and understandable view

has adopted a policy in relation to the use of the

72

auditors for the provision of non-audit services.

Having reviewed the Report and Accounts, the

Under the terms of this policy the provision of certain

Committee concluded and advised the Board that

services are prohibited, including those listed below:

in its view the Report and Accounts for 2019 taken

as a whole is fair, balanced and understandable. The Board then separately considered the advice before formally concurring with the Audit Committee's recommendation. In reaching this conclusion the Committee and the Board were satisfied that the Group's performance across its segments, as well as its business model, strategy and the key risks that it faces are clearly explained in the relevant sections of

· Bookkeeping services · Valuation services · Investment advisory, broker and dealing services · G eneral management services · P reparation of financial statements · Design and implementation of financial systems · Taxation services

the Report and Accounts for 2019.

Notwithstanding the general prohibition in respect

of certain services, any other non-audit service to

New accounting standards

be provided by the Auditor requires the approval

of the Group Finance Director who will in turn refer

2019 was the first year in which accounts have been the matter to the Audit Committee should any

produced in accordance with IFRS 16 `Leases'. During potential for conflict exist. The split between audit

the year the Committee received papers detailing the and non-audit fees for 2019 appears in note 11 to the

transition process and the impact of IFRS 16 on the

consolidated financial statements.

Group accounts.

Report and Accounts 2019

Re-appointment of auditors
As noted above the Audit Committee keeps the scope, cost and effectiveness of the external audit under review. The Committee reviews the effectiveness of the annual audit prior to making recommendations for the annual re-appointment of auditors. This assessment is based upon the Committee's interactions with the external auditor and through feedback from finance teams across the Group. The Committee is satisfied that Deloitte continues to provide an effective service across the Group and accordingly recommended to the Board that a resolution to re-appoint Deloitte as auditor be proposed at the next Annual General Meeting.

Halvard Kilde
CEO Norway

Internal control and audit

The Committee also monitors the ongoing

effectiveness of the Group's internal financial controls

SHOWCASING OUR ABILITY TO TRANSFER

and risk management processes as described on

OUR PROJECT MANAGEMENT SKILLS

page 42 as well as assisting the Board with its annual

FROM GAS AND OIL TO TRANSPORT AND

73

assessment of this area. Internal audit within the

Group is undertaken by the Internal Audit Manager

INFRASTRUCTURE WORKING ON BIG

who has a dual reporting line to the Chairman of the

AND OFTEN COMPLEX PROJECTS.

Audit Committee and the Group Finance Director. The Internal Audit Manager undertakes a planned programme of reviews across the Group's operations that is approved in advance by the Audit Committee. Detailed reports are produced following each review

Oslo S / Oslo Central Station The Follo Line ­ view from Oslo Central Station towards the Ekeberg hill. Source: Bane NOR/ViaNova

and any related follow-up actions identified and in

some cases further summary reports provided to the

Audit Committee for consideration.

Report and Accounts 2019

Corporate Governance
REMUNERATION COMMITTEE REPORT

Catherine Glickman Independent Non-Executive
Board Member

I am pleased to present the report of the Remuneration Committee for 2019, which consists of my Annual Statement and the Annual Report on Remuneration, which follows on pages 76 to 90.

19 February 2020

Membership and meetings

Review of advisors

I took over the role of Chair of the Committee

In the 2018 Annual Report we announced that we

following Robert Miller-Bakewell's retirement from the would be reviewing our remuneration advisors.

Board earlier in the year. I am grateful to Robert for

The Committee invited a number of advisors to

74

establishing the core remuneration policy effective meet with the Remuneration Committee Chair, prior

from 2017: I plan to continue to evolve this in line

Remco Chairman and members of management.

with RPS' strategy. During the year, Allison Bainbridge The Committee chose Mercer to act as the Company's

was appointed to the Committee, joining Liz Peace

principal remuneration advisor and they have been

and Mike McKelvy, all as independent Non-Executive advising us since May 2019.

Directors of the Board.

Framework

Remuneration policy renewal

The objectives of the remuneration policy continue

During 2019, we conducted a full review of the

to be to reward delivery of the strategy and results, to

remuneration policy as our current policy expired on be fair and competitive, and retain and motivate the

31 December 2019. After discussion, we proposed

Executive Directors. These were the objectives

minimal change as the Committee considered

of both the 2017 and 2020 policy.

that, for this cycle, the policy was aligned with

the Company strategy and the design targeted

The Committee believes that there should be a

delivery of the right performance metrics. We put

competitive base package of salary and benefits,

the proposals out to consultation with our major

with variable incentives rewarding short and long

shareholders and were pleased that so many engaged term results. The Short Term Annual Bonus Scheme

with us. After receiving feedback, we introduced a

­ the STABP ­ rewards annual results of which

post-employment shareholding requirement and

adjusted PBTA forms the largest part, supported

confirmed that, for current Executive Directors, we

by cash conversion and achievement of Personal

would keep the position on pension contribution

Objectives. The 3 year incentive - the Executive Long

under review. In December 2019, shareholders

Term Incentive Plan (ELTIP) ­ is linked to long term

voted in favour of the Remuneration Policy with a

growth of the value of the business, with performance

87.15% majority vote. We thank shareholders for their metrics linked to EPS, Total Shareholder Return and

feedback during the consultation and support of the Cash Conversion. We made our first awards under the

policy which became effective on 1 January 2020.

ELTIP in FY2017 for the financial years from FY2017

Report and Accounts 2019

Corporate Governance

to FY2019. ELTIPs are due to vest in 2020 and will be reported in next year's report. ELTIP awards made in 2019 and proposed for 2020 are detailed in the Annual Report on Remuneration on page 79, together with the targets for the 2020 awards.

Committee has exercised its discretion under the terms of 2017's policy and agreed that FY2019's bonus payment to Gary Young will be paid wholly in cash, with no deferral. John Douglas has elected to take all of his bonus in the form of deferred shares.

Performance and outcomes for 2019

Implementation of policy for 2020

Under the STABP, the bonus opportunity for John

We have reviewed the salary of the CEO, increasing

Douglas is up to 150% of basic salary and for Gary

it by 2% - the increase of the wider workforce ­ to

Young, up to 125%. The performance metrics were

£518,600 with effect from 1 January 2020. John

adjusted PBTA (70%), cash collection (20%) and

Douglas helpfully offered the Remuneration

achievement of Personal Objectives (10%).

Committee the opportunity to balance any salary

increase with a reduction in his pension contribution:

In 2019, the threshold and maximum targets for

we thank John for this offer and have accepted it.

PBTA were £50.2m and £56.9m respectively. PBTA

was £37.3m (2018: £50.2m) so no bonus was earned The CEO will participate in the STABP in 2020 with

for this element. For cash conversion, threshold and maximum opportunity of 150% of salary. The

maximum were set at 80% and 100% respectively.

performance conditions will be unchanged: 70% will

Cash conversion was 90% (2018: 94%), so partial

be earned on adjusted PBTA, 20% on cash collection

75

bonus was earned in respect of this element.

and 10% on Personal Objectives.

The Personal Objectives are outlined on page 79 of the Annual Report on Remuneration. For the Chief Executive, they were linked to the Group's strategic priorities, for the Group Finance Director, to key operational priorities. The Committee concluded that the objectives for both John Douglas and Gary Young had been partially met, and that each Executive should receive 50% of the maximum award under this element. A commentary on performance against the objectives is provided on page 79.

In respect of the ELTIP, John will receive an award of shares equal to 150% of salary. A two year postvesting holding period will apply to any shares that vest. Further details of the terms of participation in these plans for 2020 are shown in the Annual Report on Remuneration on page 89.

The table on page 78 details the bonus earned in respect of each element and the total bonus payable to the Executive Directors. The Committee was satisfied that the policy had operated as intended in 2019 and that the rewards were commensurate with the business performance: discretion was exercised in relation to achievement of personal objectives. Under the normal terms of the STABP, 50% of any bonus earned is payable in cash and 50% deferred in shares over a three year period. In light of the retirement of Gary Young at this year's AGM, the Remuneration

Report and Accounts 2019

Corporate Governance

Appointment of new Finance Director
The Company has announced the retirement of Gary Young as the Group Finance Director and Board Director effective from the time of the AGM, and I would like to recognise the contribution Gary has made over a long and successful career with RPS. We are pleased that we are able to appoint an able and well qualified internal successor, Judith Cottrell, who knows the business well and can rapidly make a contribution as she joins the Board. We have agreed an appointment salary of £250,000: in future years, as Judith develops in the role, the Committee reserves the right to increase her salary at a rate higher than general awards for staff to ensure she is appropriately rewarded for her role. Her annual incentive opportunity is up to 125% of basic salary and her ELTIP award of shares will be 125% of salary ­ the same as her predecessor. In line with our policy, Judith's pension contribution has been reduced and aligned with that of the wider workforce at 5%, rising to 7% in July in line with her length of service with RPS. The other terms of her remuneration are in line with policy and will be disclosed in the 2020 Annual Report on Remuneration.

We will continue to review the remuneration policy as the strategy and remuneration guidance develops, recognising that this is a fast moving area, and that requirements are continually changing. We welcome engagement with shareholders, and should anyone wish to engage with me, I can be contacted at investorrelations@rpsgroup.com
CATHERINE GLICKMAN Chair of the Remuneration Committee 19 February 2020

76

Report and Accounts 2019

Corporate Governance

REMUNERATION AT A GLANCE

Summary of our current Remuneration Policy and structure for FY19

Key reward component

Key features

Base salary and core benefits

Competitive salary and benefits to attract right calibre of executive

Short Term Annual Bonus Plan (STABP) 70% PBTA 20% Cash 10% Personal

Max potential 150% of salary for CEO Max potential 125% of salary for GFD Key financial KPIs and personal objectives

Executive Long Term Incentive Plan 50% TSR 25% EPS 25% Cash

CEO Award up to 150% of salary GFD Award up to 125% of salary

Shareholding requirements

CEO: 200% of salary GFD: 150% of salary Ensure material personal stake in the business

77

Reward linked to performance What did we do?

Key reward component

What we have done

Base salary

Increased salaries for CEO and GFD by 2.7% Salaries effective 1st January 2019 CEO : £508,400 GFD: £325,000

Short Term Annual Bonus Plan (STABP)

Bonus CEO : £114,000 GFD: £61,000

Executive Long Term Incentive Plan (ELTIP)

CEO : 420,234 shares value of £762,600 GFD: 223,866 shares value of £406,250

Report and Accounts 2019

Corporate Governance

ANNUAL REPORT ON REMUNERATION

This Report details how the Company's Remuneration Policy for Directors was implemented during the financial year ended 31 December 2019.

It has been prepared in accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act 2016, the Large and Medium-sized Companies, and Group's (Accounts and Reports) Regulations 2008 (as amended in 2013) (the `Regulations'). An advisory resolution to approve this report and the Annual Statement will be put to shareholders at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting scheduled for 1 May 2020.

Director remuneration for the financial year ended 31 December 2019 (audited)

Executive Director's total single figure remuneration

The following table sets out the breakdown total of the remuneration received by each of the Executive Directors during the year under review, with the comparative figures for the prior financial year. Figures provided have been calculated in accordance with the Regulations.

Executive Director Base Salary

£000s

or Fees

Benefits1

Bonus

Long Term Incentives4 Pensions3

All Employee Share Plan5 Total

Year

2019 2018 2019 2018 2019 2018 2019 2018 2019 2018 2019 2018 2019 2018

Executive

John Douglas

508 495 1802 114 114 178

­

­ 108 99

2

2 912 888

78

Gary Young

325 316 17 17 61 89 48

­ 49 47

2

4 502 473

Notes: 1. B enefits ­ the value of benefits for each Executive Director shown is comprised of a company car or car allowance, private
medical insurance, life assurance and group income protection. 2. In the case of John Douglas this includes a relocation allowance of £76,000 per annum that is grossed up and includes a payment
for the outstanding balance due for 2017 of £29,000, an outstanding balance of £56,000 in 2018 and a payment of £83,000 for the current year. The relocation allowance is time limited to 31 March 2021. 3. P ension ­ the Executive Directors are eligible to participate in defined contribution pension schemes, or receive a salary supplement or a combination of the two, the value of which has been shown in the single figure remuneration for each. 4. L ong term Incentives: This relates to an exercise of 27,687 shares under the STABP that were exercised on 14 March 2019 at £1.74 per share. 5. This refers to the matching share award for John Douglas and Gary Young under the Share Incentive Plan.

Short Term Annual Bonus Plan outcomes for the financial year ending 31 December 2019 (audited)

For 2019 John Douglas and Gary Young had a maximum annual bonus opportunity of 150% and 125% of basic salary respectively. For both Executive Directors the 2019 annual bonus determination was based on performance against PBTA (70%), cash conversion (20%) and personal objectives (10%). The table below provides information on the targets for each measure, actual performance and resulting bonus payment for each Executive Director.

Measure
PBTA Cash Conversion Personal Performance

Weighting
70% 20%

Performance required

Threshold Maximum (0% vesting) (100% vesting)

£50.2m

£56.9m

80%

100%

Actual Performance

Actual % of element

£37.3m 0

90%

50%

John Douglas Value £000 0 £76,260

10% See below.

£38,130

Bonus achieved in 2019

£114,390

Gary Young Value £000 0 £40,625 £20,313
£60,938

Report and Accounts 2019

Corporate Governance

Performance against the personal objectives and the Committee's assessment of performance for each Executive Director is set out in the table below.

Director

Personal objectives set at the start of the year Assessment against the targets

John Douglas

Deliver meaningful progress on our five strategic The RPS brand was successfully launched, Progress@RPS

objectives and communicate with investors.

and other initiatives were introduced; improved

Focus on improving the performance of the Australian business.

connectivity delivered new cross selling opportunities and the Energy business was revitalised.

Develop a succession plan for the Group Finance Director. Recommend and implement a succession plan for North America. Build the GLT into a high performing team.

Organic growth was delivered in three segments, but the Australian business was particularly affected by the weak economy. Judith Cottrell was developed internally and will be appointed as the Group Finance Director in May 2020. Doug Matthys has been appointed as CEO North America,

an internal promotion.

The GLT continues to evolve into a strong leadership

team.

The Committee agreed that objectives had been met at

50% of target.

Gary Young

Refinance the revolving credit facility.

The Revolving Credit Facility was renewed for a further

Improve the production time of the ED report to three years.

the Board ensuring quality reviews at every level. The Board reporting time achieved the targeted

Develop standardised Segment reporting for RPS production date, with no reduction in quality of review.

to enable consistency and insight.

Segment reporting improved throughout the year, which

Agree a development plan for the senior Finance resulted in better insight into business performance and

team.

consistency of interpretation.

As an ERP steering committee member, deliver The senior Finance leadership has been developed: the

the project on time, under budget and with agreed team has strengthened with new appointments and

functionality.

promotions.

Develop a plan to deliver significant savings in the ERP was launched on plan in part of Australia and the

finance function to largely offset the additional costs of the ERP

Netherlands: there have been some difficulties with the implementation which are being resolved: commitment

79

remains to the ERP solution.

A number of cost savings were implemented during the

year.

The Committee agreed that the objectives had met 50%

of target.

The Committee has reviewed the overall bonus outcomes against corporate performance and believes that the bonuses earned are commensurate with the shareholder experience in 2019. Under the normal terms of the STABP 50% of bonus earned is payable in cash and 50% deferred in shares over a three-year period. John Douglas has elected to take all of his bonus in the form of deferred shares. Due to the fact that Gary Young is retiring, the Remuneration Committee has exercised its discretion under the terms of 2017's policy and agreed that FY2019's bonus payment to Gary Young will be paid wholly in cash, with no deferral.

Executive Long Term Incentive Plan (`ELTIP') awards vesting in the financial year ending 31 December 2019

There were no ELTIP awards vesting in the Financial Year ending 31 December 2019.

ELTIP awards granted in the financial year ending 31 December 2019 (audited)

The table below sets out the details of the ELTIP awards granted on 7 March 2019 to John Douglas and Gary Young, where vesting will be determined according to the achievement of certain performance measures.

Director John Douglas Gary Young

Type of award Nil Cost Options Nil Cost Options

Basis of award 150% of salary 125% of salary

Face value of award at grant Date (£)
762,600
406,250

Number of shares under option
420,234
223,866

Vesting date 07/03/22 07/03/22

Notes: 1. The number of shares to constitute these awards was calculated by reference to the average of the Company's closing share

price over the period 4 ­ 6 March 2019 being 181.47p.

Report and Accounts 2019

Corporate Governance

The awards will vest subject to achievement of the following targets.

Performance measure

Weighting

Total Shareholder Return relative to 50% the FTSE All Share

Average Annual

Growth in

Earnings Per Share (measured on

25%

a constant

currency basis)

Cash conversion

25%

Measurement period
Three years from date of grant

Performance target Upper Quartile
Median to Upper Quartile
Below Median 9% p.a.

Between 3% and Three financial years 9% p.a.

Below 3% p.a.

100% Three financial years Between 80%
and 100% 80% and below

Vesting level (% maximum) 100% Pro rata on a straight-line basis between 20% and 100% 0% 100% Pro rata on a straight-line basis between 20% and 100%
0%
100% Pro rata on a straight-line basis between 20% and 100% 0%

Share Incentive Plan (`SIP') awards granted in the financial year ending 31 December 2019
The following table sets out the number and value of matching and dividend shares that were awarded to the Executive Directors under the all employee Share Incentive Plan during 2019.

Executive Directors

Number of shares

Value of shares (£)

John Douglas

1,362

2,202

Gary Young

2,375

3,927

80

Shares are valued by reference to their price as at date of award.

Payments to past Directors (audited)

No payments were made to past Directors during the year.

Payments for loss of office (audited)

No payments for loss of office were made during the year.

Non-Executive Directors total single figure remuneration (audited)

The following table sets out the breakdown total of the remuneration received by each of the Non-Executive Directors during the year under review, with the comparative figures for the prior financial year. Figures provided have been calculated in accordance with the Regulations.

Non-Executive Director £000s Year Ken Lever Robert Miller-Bakewell1 Allison Bainbridge Liz Peace Michael McKelvy Catherine Glickman

Fee 2019 140 27 55 58 52 54

Notes: 1. Robert Miller-Bakewell resigned as a Director on 1 May 2019.

Fee 2018 136 64 55 53 33 21

Report and Accounts 2019

Corporate Governance

Statement of Directors' shareholding and share interests (audited)

Directors' share interests as at 31 December 2019 or at date of retirement from the Board are set out below.

Director John Douglas Gary Young Ken Lever Robert Miller-Bakewell Allison Bainbridge Liz Peace Catherine Glickman

Number of beneficially owned shares 528,354
203,654
70,000
10,000
18,400
7,000
21,500

Interests subject to performance conditions1 986,575
534,707
­
­
­
­
­

Interests subject to employment conditions2 157,733
85,793
­
­
­
­
­

Total interests 1,672,662 824,154 70,000 10,000 18,400 7,000 21,500

Notes: 1. Interests held under the Executive Long Term Incentive Plan. 2. Interests held under (i) The RPS Group Plc Short Term Annual Bonus plan and (ii) matching shares held for less than three years
under the Share Incentive Plan.

Between 31 December 2019 and 18 February 2020 no changes in the share interests shown above occurred.

The Company's Remuneration provides that John Douglas and Gary Young are required to build and maintain shareholdings of 200% and 150% of basic salary respectively. As at 31 December 2019 John Douglas and Gary Young held beneficial shares in the Company equal in value to 179% and 108% of their respective salaries. Executive Directors are required to retain 50% of the post-tax number of shares vesting under the STABP and the ELTIP until this requirement is met and maintained.

Short Term Annual Bonus Plan

81

The interests of the Executive Directors under the STABP are set out below:

John Douglas Gary Young

Number of awards at 1 January 2019
56,789
­
25,610
25,403
­

Number of awards granted
­
98,198
­
­
49,005

Number of awards lapsed
­
­
­
­
­

Number of awards exercised
­
­
27,6871
­
­

Number of awards as at 31 December 2019
56,789
98,198
­
25,403
49,005

Market Price at date of grant
250.83p
181.47p
252.83p
250.83p
181.47p

Market price at date of exercise
­
­
174p
­
­

Date from which released
08/03/2021
07/03/2022
14/03/2019
08/03/2021
07/03/2022

1. T he award included 2,077 shares accrued as a dividend reinvestment under the rules of the STABP. On the exercise of the award, Gary Young made a gain of £48,673.74. The weighted average share price of awards exercised in the year was £1.74.

Executive Long Term Incentive Plan (ELTIP) The interests of the Executive Directors under the ELTIP are set out below:

John Douglas Gary Young

Number of awards at 1 January 2019
270,324
296,017
­
153,265
157,576
­

Number of awards granted ­
­
420,234
­
­
223,866

Number of awards lapsed ­
­
­
­
­
­

Number of awards exercised ­
­
­
­
­
­

Number of awards as at 31 December 2019
270,324
296,017
420,234
153,265
157.576
223,866

Market Price at date of grant
274.67p
250.83p
181.47p
252.85p
250.83p
181.47p

Market price at date of exercise
­
­
­
­
­
­

Date from which released 08/06/2020
08/03/2021
07/03/2022
09/03/2020
08/03/2021
07/03/2022

Report and Accounts 2019

Corporate Governance

Total Shareholder Return Performance

The graph below shows the value of £100 invested in RPS over the past ten years compared with the value of £100 invested in the FTSE All Share and FTSE All Share support services. The Company has selected the FTSE All Share and the FTSE All Share support services as the broad equity market indices against which to compare the Company's total shareholder return performance as the Company has been a constituent member of these indices throughout the nine year period.

RPS Group TSR performance against FTSE All Share Index and FTSE All Share Support Services Index

350 300 250 200 150 100
50 2010

2011

2012

2013

2014

2015

RPS

FTSE All-Share

2016 FTSE All-Share Support Services

2017

2018

2019

2020

Chief Executive Officer and employee pay

Chief Executive Officer Remuneration
82
The table below shows the Group Chief Executive's total remuneration and percentage of opportunity achieved for variable remuneration elements.

Element
Total Remuneration (single figure for the Year ­ £000s)
Annual Bonus (% of maximum opportunity)
Long-Term incentives (%age of Maximum number of shares capable of vesting)

2010 2011 20121 2013 2014 2015 2016 20172 20172 2018 A Hearne A Hearne A Hearne A Hearne A Hearne A Hearne A Hearne A Hearne J Douglas J Douglas

608

793

1,650 883

922 748

981

627

351

888

46% 54% 77% 47% 32% zero 20% 33% 33% 24%

zero 13% 100% zero zero zero zero zero zero zero

2019 J Douglas 912 15%
zero

Notes 1.S ingle Figure for 2012 includes the payment of deferred balances under the previous bonus banking plan from 2010 and 2011. These
balances were earned during these years but subject to deferral until the end of 2012 and at risk of performance based forfeiture. 2. The remuneration shown for Alan Hearne for 2017 is in respect of the period to 31 August at which time he retired from the
Board. The total remuneration shown for John Douglas is in respect of 2017 is for the period from 1 September 2017, when he was appointed as Group Chief Executive. The remuneration for John Douglas in 2017 includes a pro-ration of the annual bonus that was earned from 1 June 2017 being the date at which he joined the Board.

Report and Accounts 2019

Corporate Governance

Chief Executive Officer Pay Ratio

2019 is the first year for which RPS Group is required to publish a CEO pay ratio. As required by the reporting regulations, the Committee will build up this disclosure in future years to disclose the trend in the pay ratio over time. The table below provides the ratio between the CEO single figure total remuneration and total remuneration for all UK employees and the details of the salary and total remuneration for UK employees in 2019. We have chosen option B as our method for calculating the pay ratio for this report, consistent with the methodology for reporting of the gender pay gap.

Salary Total remuneration

Year 2019 2019

Method B B

25th percentile 23 40

Pay ratio
Median 16 26

75th percentile 12 17

Remuneration

25th percentile Median

75th percentile

£22,068 £32,050 £43,890

£22,719 £34,487 £52,387

The Committee has considered the findings of the pay ratio analysis which appear to be reasonable in the context of the RPS Group's sector and taking into account the composition of the Group's UK workforce against which CEO remuneration is compared. Going forward, the Committee will review the trend in pay ratio as well as the ratio for the relevant year, and seek to understand the drivers of any short- and medium-term changes to this. Mindful that the ratio of total remuneration will be volatile over time (in large part due to the relative weighting in the CEO's package of variable, performance-based incentives), the Committee has also decided to calculate and publish the pay ratio for salary only. We believe this additional perspective on relative pay (in particular the trend over time) will help ensure that RPS Group is delivering against its stated policy for Executive Director salary increases generally to be consistent with the range awarded across the Group more broadly.

Percentage change in the Chief Executive Officer's remuneration
83
The following table shows the percentage change in the Chief Executive's salary, benefits and annual bonus between financial years compared to the percentage change for all Company employees.

Salary Taxable Benefits Annual Bonus

CEO 2.7% 58%1 -36%

Percentage change from 2018 Financial Year to 2019 Financial Year
Employees 3.6% 15% 24%

1. In the case of John Douglas this includes a relocation allowance of £76,000 that is grossed up per annum and includes a payment for the outstanding balance due for 2017 of £29,000 an outstanding balance of £56,000 in 2018 and a payment of £83,000 for the current year. The relocation allowance is time limited to 31 March 2021.

Relative importance of spend on pay

The chart below shows the total remuneration paid to or receivable by all employees of the Company and total distributions to shareholders by way of dividends for the current and previous financial years: Profit before tax and amortisation is a key performance indicator for the Group and was the principal performance measure used under the Short Term Annual Bonus Plan.

£000s

350,000 300,000 250,000 200,000 150,000 100,000
50,000
-

PBTA 6.4% -7.0% -13.5%
2016

Dividend 1.8% 0.5% -23.8%
2017 2018 2019

Total employee pay 6.0% 1.4% -1.6%
Report and Accounts 2019

Corporate Governance

Committee organisation

Role of the Remuneration Committee ("Committee")

The Committee held 10 meetings in the year timed to ensure the proper discharge of the activities described below. The Group Chairman attends the meetings of the Committee. The Group Chief Executive and Group People Director also attend meetings, although they will not be present when discussion relates to their own remuneration. The Company Secretary acts as Secretary to the Committee and representatives from the Committee's advisers, Mercer, attend meetings as and when required.

The Remuneration Committee is responsible for determining the overall policy for executive remuneration which is then subject to Board and shareholder approval. Within the context of shareholder approved policy the Committee is then responsible for determining the specific remuneration packages for the Executive Directors. This incorporates review of salaries as well as determining opportunities under incentive plans and performance conditions relating to those plans. Activities also include the determination of terms for any Executive leaving or joining the Board.

The Committee also has direct responsibility for the terms and conditions of those Senior Executives that sit immediately below Board level and form the Group Leadership Team. During the year, the Committee reviewed the terms and conditions of this group including future incentives and approved any changes thereto.

The Committee is cognisant of the provisions of the Code as they affect remuneration committees. A key provision relates to the review of wider workforce remuneration and the Committee's remit has been extended to cover this. The Committee already considers employment conditions in the Group as a whole when setting Executive Director remuneration.

84

The Committee's detailed terms of reference can be found on the Company's website.

External advice

During the period January to April 2019 the Committee received external advice in relation to executive remuneration from PwC. Following a tender exercise taken out by the Committee, Mercer were selected to provide ongoing remuneration advice to the Committee and took over the role from PwC on 1 May 2019. Both PwC and Mercer are members of the Remuneration Consultants Group and, as such, voluntarily operate under the code of conduct in relation to executive remuneration consulting in the UK. PwC also undertook some tax advisory work for the Company during the year. The Committee reviewed the nature of the services provided and was satisfied that no conflict of interest exists or existed in the provision of these services provided by PwC and that the advice the Remuneration Committee received was objective and independent. The Committee can also confirm that Mercer provided no other services for the Company. The total fees paid to PwC in the year for services to the Committee amounted to £31,582. This fee was comprised of an annual retainer to cover certain standard advice and payment for additional services in respect of which fees were agreed on a case by case basis. No contingent fee arrangements were operated. The fees paid to Mercer during the period May 2019 to December 2019 were £23,190 and were agreed on a project by project basis.

Report and Accounts 2019

Corporate Governance

Shareholder voting

The Remuneration Committee's Annual Report for 2018 was approved at the Company's 2019 Annual General Meeting on 1 May. The voting for this resolution is shown below.

Annual report Votes for Votes against Total Withheld

Number of Votes cast 155,214,497 7,361,229 162,575,726 10,923,907

% of Votes cast 95.47 4.53 100.00 ­

Implementation of the remuneration policy for the year ending 31 December 2020

The Company's remuneration policy was approved by shareholders at a General Meeting held on 30 November 2016 and applied for 3 years until 31 December 2019. On 16 December 2019 the remuneration Policy was renewed for a further three years effective from 1 January 2020. The key components of this policy as they apply to the Executive Directors of the Company are set out on pages 74 to 75, together with any changes that have been made effective from 1 January 2020.

The full policy statement is available on the Company's website.

In respect of the Remuneration Policy that was approved at a General Meeting on 30 November 2016, the voting in respect of the report was as shown below:

Remuneration policy Votes for Votes against Total Withheld

Number of votes cast % of votes cast

159,064,587

90.55

85

16,607,705

9.45

175,672,292

100.00

3,167,972

­

In respect of the Remuneration Policy that was approved at a General Meeting on 16 November 2019, the voting in respect of the report was as shown below:

Remuneration policy Votes for Votes against Total Withheld

Number of votes cast 162,451,438 23,949,709 186,401,147 58,147

% of votes cast 87.15 12.85 100.00 ­

Report and Accounts 2019

Corporate Governance

Element, purpose and link to strategy
BASE SALARY

Operation and maximum opportunity

Performance measures and assessment

Implementation for 2020

To provide

An Executive Director's basic salary A broad assessment of individual and With effect from 1 January

competitive fixed

is considered by the Remuneration business performance is used as part 2020 the salary for John

remuneration that will Committee on appointment and

of the salary review.

Douglas is £518,600.

attract and retain key normally reviewed once a year, or

employees and reflect when there is a significant change to

their experience and the role or responsibility.

position in the Group. When making a determination as

to the appropriate remuneration,

the Remuneration Committee,

where it is relevant, benchmarks the

remuneration against the Company's

comparator group (organisations of

comparable size and or sector to RPS

in the FTSE All Share).

The results of benchmarking will only

be one of a number of factors taken

into account by the Remuneration

Committee which includes:

· individual performance and

experience of the Executive Director;

· pay and conditions for employees

across the Group;

· the general performance of the

Group; and

· the economic environment

The Remuneration Committee policy

in relation to salary is:

86

· to position this around the median

salary for the role on appointment,

depending on experience and

background; and

· on promotion, to increase salary up

to the median salary for the new role

Annual percentage increases

are generally consistent with the

range awarded across the Group.

Percentage increases in salary above

this level may be made in certain

circumstances ­ such as change in

responsibility or significant increase

in the scale of a role or the Group's

size and complexity.

Individuals recruited or promoted

to the Board may, on occasion, have

their salaries set below the targeted

policy level until they become

established in their role. In such

cases, subsequent increases in salary

may be higher than the average until

the target positioning is achieved.

Report and Accounts 2019

Corporate Governance

Element, purpose and link to strategy
BENEFITS

Operation and maximum opportunity

Performance measures and assessment

To provide competitive benefits and to attract and retain high calibre employees.

The Remuneration Committee's policy is to provide a market competitive benefits package. The Executive Directors may receive the following benefits: · healthcare; · life assurance and
dependents' pensions; · disability schemes; · company car or car allowance; and · o ther benefits as provided from
time to time, such as relocation allowances on recruitment. Benefit values vary year on year depending on premiums and the maximum potential value is the cost of the provision of these benefits.

Not applicable.

PENSION

To provide a competitive company contribution that enables effective retirement planning.

The Executive Directors are eligible Not applicable. to: · participate in defined contribution
pension schemes; · or receive a salary supplement; · or a combination of the two Other than basic salary, no element of the Directors' remuneration is pensionable. Salary supplements are not included in base salary in order to calculate other benefits and incentive opportunities. For incumbent Executive Directors the maximum employer contribution either to a pension scheme and/or provided as a salary supplement is 20% of base salary for the CEO and 15% of base salary for the FD. Under the new policy any new Executive Director appointments from 1 January 2020 will receive an employer contribution in line with that available for the wider workforce in the relevant market.

Implementation for 2020
Benefits for 2020 will be provided in accordance with the policy. In the period up to 31 March 2021 John Douglas will continue to receive a relocation allowance of £76,000 pa.

Pension benefits for

2020 will be provided

in accordance with the

policy. The pension

contribution for John

Douglas will be reduced

relative to the salary

87

increase received from

1 January 2020.

Report and Accounts 2019

Corporate Governance

Element, purpose Operation and and link to strategy maximum opportunity

Performance measures and assessment

THE RPS GROUP PLC SHORT TERM ANNUAL BONUS PLAN (THE `STABP')

Implementation for 2020

To incentivise

Maximum awards each year under the Performance targets will be set by the The bonus opportunity in

achievement of

STABP are equal to 150% of salary.

Remuneration Committee annually 2020 will be 150% of salary

annual objectives

The performance period is one

based on a range of financial and non- for John Douglas.

which support the Group's short-term performance goals.

financial year with pay-out determined financial measures.

by the Remuneration Committee

Financial targets govern the majority

following the year end, based on

of bonus payments, although non-

The bonus awards in 2020 will be subject to achievement of three

achievement against a range of

financial metrics may also be used. measures: PBTA (70%

financial and non-financial targets.

The Remuneration Committee will

weighting), cash

determine the weighting of the

conversion (20%

50% of the bonus award will be paid various measures and targets to

weighting) and personal

out in cash with the remaining 50% ensure that they support the business objectives (10%

deferred into shares subject to a

strategy and objectives for the

weighting).

further three year vesting period.

relevant year.

The Committee considers

There are no further performance

Targets are typically structured on

prospective disclosure of

targets applicable to the deferred

a challenging sliding scale, with

targets to be commercially

amount.

zero pay-out accruing for achieving sensitive in relation to

threshold performance through to full the trading performance

Malus and clawback provisions may apply at the discretion of the Remuneration Committee where it considers such actions necessary and

pay-out for maximum performance. The Remuneration Committee has the discretion to adjust targets or performance measures for any

of the Company but will disclose targets retrospectively following the financial year end.

appropriate.

exceptional events that may occur The bonus will normally be

during the year.

paid 50% in cash and 50%

The malus period would be up to the The Remuneration Committee has

in shares deferred for a

date of the bonus determination and the discretion to make downward or period of three years.

three years after in respect of deferred upward movements to the amount

shares under the STABP. The clawback of bonus earned resulting from the

88

period will be three years from the

application of the performance

date of the bonus determination for measures, if it believes that the bonus

any cash payments under the STABP. outcomes are not a fair and accurate

reflection of business performance.

Participants may be entitled to dividend equivalents representing the dividends paid during the deferral period of the shares.

Report and Accounts 2019

Corporate Governance

Element, purpose Operation and and link to strategy maximum opportunity

Performance measures and assessment

THE RPS GROUP PLC EXECUTIVE LONG TERM INCENTIVE PLAN (THE `ELTIP')

Implementation for 2020

To incentivise

Under the ELTIP, the Remuneration Financial and non-financial measures The ELTIP awards granted

Executives to

Committee may award annual grants may be applied to awards under the in 2019 will be 150% of

achieve sustainable, of performance share awards in the ELTIP.

salary for John Douglas.

strong, long term performance for the Company, to

form of nil-cost options or conditional Targets are typically structured on

The 2019 ELTIP awards

shares (`ELTIP awards').

a challenging sliding scale, with no will vest subject to

Maximum ELTIP awards each year are more than 20% of the maximum award the achievement of

retain key individuals equal to 150% of base salary (200% of vesting for achieving the threshold three measures: EPS

and to align their

salary in exceptional circumstances). performance level through to full

(25% weighting), TSR

interests with shareholders.

ELTIP awards will normally vest after a three year performance period subject to the achievement of the

vesting for maximum performance. The Remuneration Committee has the discretion to adjust targets or

(50% weighting) and cash conversion (25% weighting).

performance measures.

performance measures for any

Performance targets

The Remuneration Committee will retain the discretion to determine

exceptional events that may occur during the vesting period.

will be as shown in the separate table on page 91.

whether to attach a holding period to The Remuneration Committee has

a particular award at the date of

the discretion to make downward or

each grant.

upward movements in the vesting

of the ELTIP resulting from the

Malus and clawback provisions may apply at the discretion of the Remuneration Committee where it considers such action necessary and appropriate.

application of the performance measures.
If the Remuneration Committee believes that the outcomes are not a fair and accurate reflection of business performance.

The malus period will be up to the

The Remuneration Committee will

date of vesting (i.e. three years from review the performance measures

the date of grant). The clawback

annually, in terms of the range of

period will be two years from the date targets, the measures themselves

89

of vesting.

and weightings applied to each

element of the ELTIP. Any revisions to

Participants may be entitled to dividend equivalents during the deferral period of the shares.

the measures and/or weightings in future years will only take place if it is necessary due to developments in the Group's strategy and, where these are

material, following dialogue with the

major shareholders.

Report and Accounts 2019

Corporate Governance

Element, purpose Operation and and link to strategy maximum opportunity
ALL-EMPLOYEE INCENTIVES

Performance measures and assessment

To encourage all employees to become shareholders and thereby align their interests with those of colleague shareholders.

Eligible employees may participate in the Share Incentive Plan or country equivalent. Executive Directors will be entitled to participate on the same terms.
Maximum participation levels for all staff are set by reference to the plan rules and relevant legislation.

Not applicable.

Implementation for 2019
Executive Directors will continue to be eligible to participate in the Share Incentive Plan.

Shareholding guidelines

To ensure that Executive Directors' interests are aligned with those of shareholders over the longer term.

The Executive Directors are required to build or maintain a minimum shareholding in the Company.
Shares included in this calculation are those held beneficially by the Executive Director and their spouse/ life partner.
The shareholding requirement is determined by the Remuneration Committee and may be up to 200% of salary.
Executive Directors will be required to retain 50% of their post-tax number of shares vesting under the STABP and ELTIP until their requirement is met and then maintained.

Not applicable.

90

The Post-Employment Policy

Not applicable.

stipulates that the post-employment

shareholding for the Executive

Directors will be:

· In Year One the shareholding to be

the lessor of the in employment

shareholding requirement or the

current shareholding

· In Year Two this will reduce to 50%

of the figure.

Shareholding guidelines will remain at 200% of salary for the Group Chief Executive and 150% of salary for other Executive Directors.
The new policy will apply from 1 January 2020 and will not apply to any historical awards, or voluntary shares purchased, including the voluntary deferral into shares of any bonus above the mandatory deferral requirement (50%) under the STABP.

Report and Accounts 2019

Corporate Governance

The following performance targets will apply to the LTIP awards to be made to Executive Directors in 2020.

Performance measure

Weighting

Total Shareholder Return relative to the 50% FTSE All Share

Average Annual Growth in Earnings Per Share (measured 25% on a constant currency basis)

Cash conversion

25%

Measurement period
Three years from date of grant

Performance target Upper Quartile Median to Upper Quartile Below Median 9% p.a.

Three financial years Between 3% and 9% p.a.

Below 3% p.a. 100%

Three financial years Between 80% and 100%

80% and below

Vesting level (% maximum) 100% Pro rata on a straight-line basis between 20% and 100% 0%
100% Pro rata on a straight-line basis between 20% and 100% 0%
100%
Pro rata on a straight-line basis between 20% and 100%
0%

Executive Director service contracts and Non-Executive letters of appointment

Executive Director service contracts

When setting notice periods, the Remuneration Committee has regard to market practice and best governance practice. The Company's general policy is to provide contracts to Executive Directors with no greater than 12 months' notice.

The table below summarises the service contracts for the current Executive Directors.

Executive Director

Date of contract

91 Notice period

John Douglas

June 2017

12 months

Gary Young

September 2000

12 months

None of the Directors' contracts provide for extended notice periods or compensation in the event of a change of control.

Report and Accounts 2019

Corporate Governance

Non-Executive Director letters of appointment

The Non-Executive Directors do not have service contracts but are appointed under letters of appointment

which provide for a review after an initial three year term. Each Non-Executive Director is subject to annual

re-election at the Company's AGM. Details of the terms of appointment of the Non-Executive Directors are

shown below:

Non-Executive director

Date of appointment

Unexpired term as at 31 December 2019

Ken Lever

November 2016

5 months

Allison Bainbridge

June 2017

6 months

Liz Peace

August 2017

8 months

Michael McKelvy

May 2018

17 months

Catherine Glickman

August 2018

20 months

No compensation is payable in the event of early termination. All service contracts and letters of appointment are available for viewing at the Company's registered office.

Consideration of employee remuneration and shareholders

Consideration of shareholder views

The Remuneration Committee takes the views of the shareholders very seriously and these have been influential

in shaping remuneration policy and practice. Shareholders were consulted with in September 2019 on the

92

renewal of the Remuneration Policy and their views were considered when evaluating and setting ongoing

remuneration strategy. We also consulted with shareholders in February 2019 in relation to changes we were

considering making to the remuneration policy. We would like to thank shareholders for their engagement and

comments received during the year. The Remuneration Committee will continue to consult with shareholders

prior to any significant changes to the remuneration policy.

Employment conditions elsewhere in the Group

In setting the remuneration policy for Directors, the pay and conditions of other employees of RPS is taken into account, including any base salary increases awarded. The Remuneration Committee has not expressly sought the views of employees and no remuneration comparison measurements were used when drawing up the Policy. Through the Board, however, the Remuneration Committee is updated as to employee views on remuneration generally.

CATHERINE GLICKMAN Chair of the Remuneration Committee

Report and Accounts 2019

FINANCIAL 93 STATEMENTS

Financial statements

INDEPENDENT AUDITOR'S REPORT

to the members of RPS Group Plc

REPORT ON THE AUDIT OF THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

Opinion

The financial reporting framework that has been

applied in the preparation of the group financial

In our opinion:

statements is applicable law and IFRSs as adopted

by the European Union. The financial reporting

·the financial statements of RPS Group Plc (the

framework that has been applied in the preparation of

`parent company') and its subsidiaries (the `group') the parent company financial statements is applicable

give a true and fair view of the state of the group's law and United Kingdom Accounting Standards,

and of the parent company's affairs as at 31

including FRS 102 "The Financial Reporting Standard

December 2019 and of the group's loss for the

applicable in the UK and Republic of Ireland" (United

year then ended;

Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice).

·the group financial statements have been properly

prepared in accordance with International Financial Basis for opinion

Reporting Standards (IFRSs) as adopted by the

European Union;

We conducted our audit in accordance with

·the parent company financial statements have

International Standards on Auditing (UK) (ISAs (UK))

been properly prepared in accordance with United and applicable law. Our responsibilities under those

Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice, standards are further described in the auditor's

including Financial Reporting Standard 102 "The responsibilities for the audit of the financial

94

Financial Reporting Standard applicable in the UK statements section of our report.

and Republic of Ireland"; and

· the financial statements have been prepared

We are independent of the group and the parent

in accordance with the requirements of the

company in accordance with the ethical requirements

Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the

that are relevant to our audit of the financial

group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS

statements in the UK, including the Financial

Regulation.

Reporting Council's (the `FRC's') Ethical Standard as

applied to listed public interest entities, and we have

We have audited the financial statements which

fulfilled our other ethical responsibilities in accordance

comprise:

with these requirements. We confirm that the non-

· the consolidated income statement;

audit services prohibited by the FRC's Ethical

· the consolidated statement of comprehensive

Standard were not provided to the group or the

income;

parent company.

·the consolidated and parent company balance

sheets;

We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained

· the consolidated and parent company statements is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for

of changes in equity;

our opinion.

· the consolidated cash flow statement; and

· the related notes to the consolidated financial

statements 1 to 33 and notes to the parent

company financial statements 1 to 15.

Report and Accounts 2019

Financial statements

Summary of our audit approach

Key audit matters

The key audit matters that we identified in the current year were: · Revenue recognition ­ accrued income cut-off; and · Impairment of goodwill and long lived assets. Within this report, key audit matters are identified as follows:
Similar level of risk

Materiality

The materiality that we used for the group financial statements was £1.7m which was determined on the basis of 5% of profit before tax, amortisation and transaction related costs (PBTA) as detailed in note 3.

Scoping

We focused our group audit scope and work on the business units at 5 locations. Within the 5 locations, 19 business units were subject to a full audit scope, whilst the remaining 7 were subject to specified audit procedures. Our full scope audit testing and specified audit procedures covered 91% of revenue, 92% of PBTA, and 98% of net assets.

Significant changes There have been no significant changes in our audit approach in comparison to the prior year except for in our approach classification of the Ireland component as it was not material in the current year, and therefore not subject to
a full scope audit.

Conclusions relating to going concern, principal risks and viability statement

Going concern

Going concern is the

We have reviewed the directors' statement in the Report of the Directors on page 49 to the financial

basis of preparation

statements about whether they considered it appropriate to adopt the going concern basis of

of the financial

accounting in preparing them and their identification of any material uncertainties to the group's and statements that

company's ability to continue to do so over a period of at least 12 months from the date of approval of assumes an entity will

the financial statements.

remain in operation

for a period of at least

We considered as part of our risk assessment the nature of the group, its business model and related

12 months from the

risks including where relevant the impact of Brexit, the requirements of the applicable financial reporting date of approval of the

95

framework and the system of internal control. We evaluated the directors' assessment of the group's

financial statements.

ability to continue as a going concern, including challenging the underlying data and key assumptions used to make the assessment, and evaluated the directors' plans for future actions in relation to their going concern assessment.

We confirm that we have nothing material to report, add or draw

attention to in respect We are required to state whether we have anything material to add or draw attention to in relation to that of these matters. statement required by Listing Rule 9.8.6R(3) and report if the statement is materially inconsistent with

our knowledge obtained in the audit.

Principal risks and viability statement

Viability means the

Based solely on reading the directors' statements and considering whether they were consistent with the ability of the group to

knowledge we obtained in the course of the audit, including the knowledge obtained in the evaluation of continue over the time

the directors' assessment of the group's and the company's ability to continue as a going concern,

horizon considered

we are required to state whether we have anything material to add or draw attention to in relation to: appropriate by the

directors.

·the disclosures on pages 42-45 that describe the principal risks, procedures to identify emerging risks, and an explanation of how these are being managed or mitigated;
·the directors' confirmation on page 42 that they have carried out a robust assessment of the principal and emerging risks facing the group, including those that would threaten its business model, future performance, solvency or liquidity; or

We confirm that we have nothing material to report, add or draw attention to in respect of these matters.

·the directors' explanation on page 45 as to how they have assessed the prospects of the group, over what period they have done so and why they consider that period to be appropriate, and their statement as to whether they have a reasonable expectation that the group will be able to continue in operation and meet its liabilities as they fall due over the period of their assessment, including any related disclosures drawing attention to any necessary qualifications or assumptions.
We are also required to report whether the directors' statement relating to the prospects of the group required by Listing Rule 9.8.6R(3) is materially inconsistent with our knowledge obtained in the audit.

Report and Accounts 2019

Financial statements

Key audit matters

Key audit matters are those matters that, in our professional judgement, were of most significance in our audit of the financial statements of the current period and include the most significant assessed risks of material misstatement (whether or not due to fraud) that we identified. These matters included those which had the greatest effect on: the overall audit strategy, the allocation of resources in the audit; and directing the efforts of the engagement team.

These matters were addressed in the context of our audit of the financial statements as a whole, and in forming our opinion thereon, and we do not provide a separate opinion on these matters.
There have been no changes to the key audit matters from the prior year.

REVENUE RECOGNITION - ACCRUED INCOME CUT-OFF

Key audit matter description

The group is engaged in the provision of consultancy services through contractual arrangements with its customers. Revenue for the financial year 2019 is £613m (2018: £637m) with accrued income of £46m (2018: £45m).

The specific key audit matter is around the recognition of accrued income on fixed fee contracts over £50,000 where the contracts remain open at year-end. There is judgement required around the recognition of the revenue and its recoverability in estimating the stage of completion and the costs to complete fixed fee open contracts. Given the level of judgement involved in the recognition of revenue in relation to fixed fee contracts, we identified a risk of fraud in the recognition of revenue.

The group's revenue recognition policy is disclosed in note 1(c).

How the scope

We tested relevant controls over the recognition of revenue (including those related to accrued income

of our audit

recognition).

responded to the

96

key audit matter Whilst relying on controls where we tested satisfactorily, we tested in detail a sample of accrued income

and work-in-progress balances. We focused on fixed fee contracts over £50,000 by comparing them to the

signed contract terms and where relevant agreeing inputs to the related time records, verifying customer

acceptances, billing milestones/schedules, understanding and challenging the estimated costs to complete. In

the locations where we were unable to rely on controls due to the results of our testing not being satisfactory,

we increased the extent of our testing.

In our assessment of the stage of completion, wherever relevant, we attended project status review meetings and observed the management's process as well as confirming status of projects. We recalculated the amount of revenue recognised against the percentage completion and ensured that they agreed to the general ledger record.

Key observations Based on our procedures, revenue recognised in respect of accrued income for fixed fee contracts open at year end is appropriate.

IMPAIRMENT OF GOODWILL AND LONG LIVED ASSETS

Key audit matter description

At 31 December 2019, the net book value of goodwill and long lived assets was £411m (2018: £418m). The associated disclosure is included in note 14, the audit committee report on page 71 and the accounting policy is disclosed in note 1(e).
The assessment of the carrying value of goodwill and long lived assets is a key audit matter due to the quantum of the balance recorded and the number of judgements involved in assessing impairment. The trading announcement issued by the Group on 26 June 2019 and prior to that, on 25 October 2018 highlighted underperformance of certain segments of the group, namely Australia Asia Pacific and North America. The key audit matter is pinpointed to the key assumptions in the cash flow forecasts for the Australia Asia Pacific and North America CGUs, specifically assumptions on growth rates and the selection of appropriate discount rates.
Management have identified an impairment charge of £19.8m against the Australia Asia Pacific CGU.
In respect of the key audit matter, the CGUs cashflows are predominantly derived from outside of the European Union.

Report and Accounts 2019

Financial statements

How the scope of our audit responded to the key audit matter

We obtained an understanding of the relevant controls over management review of goodwill and long lived assets impairment.
Our work focused on challenging management's assumptions and the appropriateness of their judgements and forecasts used as part of their value in use calculations, specifically for Australia Asia Pacific and North America CGUs. This included discussions with both group and local management teams and corroboration of information obtained.

We considered management's forecasts in light of current trading conditions by comparing them against current and historical results with particular focus on Australia Asia Pacific and North America CGUs. We worked with our valuation specialists to calculate an acceptable range of discount rates and compared our range to that determined by management.

We examined the short-term and medium growth rates by using market data, relevant industry data and considering historical growth rates, in order to check for any contradictory evidence. We benchmarked the long-term growth rates against external peer group published rates and market data. We also performed sensitivity analysis on the amount and timing of cash flows.

We have considered the adequacy of the associated disclosures.

Key observations We concur with management that the carrying value of goodwill and long lived assets as at 31 December 2019 is appropriately valued.

Our application of materiality

We define materiality as the magnitude of misstatement in the financial statements that makes it probable that the economic decisions of a reasonably knowledgeable person would be changed or influenced. We use materiality both in planning the scope of our audit work and in evaluating the results of our work.

Based on our professional judgement, we determined materiality for the financial statements as a whole

as follows:

97

GROUP FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

PARENT COMPANY FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

Materiality

£1,700,000 (2018: £2,500,000)

£850,000 (2018: £1,250,000)

Basis for determining materiality

5% of adjusted pre-tax profit, adjusted for

Materiality determined at 3% of the parent company net

amortisation and impairment of acquired

assets. This was then capped at 50% of group materiality.

intangible assets, transaction related costs and This materiality equates to 0.5% of net assets.

exceptional items (PBTA). This basis is consistent

with the prior year.

Rationale for the benchmark applied

We chose this measure as it is the group's

Net assets has been chosen as a benchmark as it is

key profit performance indicator. It is also the considered the most relevant benchmark for investors

primary measurement used by the users of the and is a key driver of shareholder value. Materiality has

accounts and key stakeholders to measure the decreased by 32% from prior year consistent in line with

performance of the group. The group carries group materiality due to the application of a component

a material level of intangible assets, therefore materiality threshold.

on an annual basis, the results, including the

impact of amortisation and acquisitions can

be significantly distorted. Similarly, transaction

related and other infrequent costs and are

excluded as they are not reflective of the Group's

trading performance in the year. Materiality

has decreased by 32% from the prior year

consistent with the decrease in PBTA in the year

compared to prior year. The reduction in PBTA

is due to a number of CGUs suffering reduced

performance in the year.

Report and Accounts 2019

Financial statements

PBTA £37.3m
· PBTA · Group materiality

Group materiality £1.7m
Component materiality range £0.9m to £0.7m
Audit Committee reporting threshold £0.1m

We set performance materiality at a level lower than scope, whilst 7 (2018: 6) were subject to specified

materiality to reduce the probability that, in aggregate, audit procedures where the extent of our testing

uncorrected and undetected misstatements exceed was based on our assessment of the risks of material

the materiality for the financial statements as a whole. misstatement and of the materiality of the group's

Performance materiality was set at 70% of materiality operations at those locations.

for the 2019 audit (2018: 70%). In determining

performance materiality, we considered the

These locations, incorporating those covered by

following factors:

specified audit procedures, account for 98% (2018:

a.our risk assessment, including our assessment of 97%) of the group's net assets, 91% (2018: 97%) of

the group's overall control environment and that the group's revenue and 92% (2018: 94%) of the

we consider it appropriate to rely on controls over group's profit before tax, amortisation and transaction-

a significant part of our revenue testing;

related costs. They were also selected to provide

b.the implementation in the year of a new Enterprise an appropriate basis for undertaking audit work to

Resource Planning system in Australia and the

address the risks of material misstatement identified

Netherlands; and

above. Component materiality ranged from £0.68m to

98

c.our past experience of the audit, which has

£0.85m (2018: £1.0m to £1.25m).

indicated a low number of uncorrected

misstatements identified in prior periods.

At the group level, we also tested the consolidation

process, impairment of goodwill and long lived assets,

We agreed with the Audit Committee that we would

accounting for leases, accounting for acquisitions

report to the Committee all audit differences in excess and related balances, borrowings, intercompany

of £85,000 (2018: £125,000), as well as differences

and carried out analytical procedures to support our

below that threshold that, in our view, warranted

conclusion that there were no significant risks of

reporting on qualitative grounds. We also report to

material misstatement of the aggregated financial

the Audit Committee on disclosure matters that we

information of the remaining components not subject

identified when assessing the overall presentation of to audit or audit of specified account balances.

the financial statements.

The group audit team continued to follow a

An overview of the scope of our audit

programme of planned visits that has been designed

so that the Senior Statutory Auditor and/or a senior

Our group audit was scoped by obtaining an

member of the group audit team visits certain

understanding of the group and its environment,

overseas components selected by the Senior Statutory

including group-wide controls and assessing the risks Auditor based on his judgement. In the year, we visited

of material misstatement at the group level.

three (2018: three) overseas locations (Australia,

US and Norway) in addition to the UK. Every year,

Based on that assessment, we focused our group audit regardless of whether we have visited or not, we

scope and work on the business units at 5 locations

include the component audit partner and other senior

­ UK, Australia, USA, Norway and Netherlands (2018: members of the component audit team in our team

6). With the exception of Ireland which was no longer briefing, discuss their risk assessment and review

in scope for the current year, these are the same

documentation of the findings from their work.

locations as prior year. Within the 5 locations, 19

The extent of our involvement which commenced

(2018:20) business units were subject to a full audit

from the planning of the group audit included:

Report and Accounts 2019

Financial statements

·setting the scope of the component auditor and assessment of the component auditor's independence; ·designing the audit procedures for all significant risks to be addressed by the component auditors and issuing
group audit instructions detailing the nature and form of the reporting required by the group engagement team; ·visits to three overseas locations where the group audit scope was focussed in addition to the work performed at the group head office; ·providing direction on enquiries made by the component auditors and reviewing their reporting documents submitted to the group audit team; ·a review of the significant risks work for all component auditors' including the three components we visited this year, Australia, US and Norway; and ·participating in the audit close meetings for each of the operating companies.

8%
19% Revenue 73%

7% 7%
Profit before tax
85%

2% 12%
Net assets 86%

· Full audit scope · Specified audit procedures · Review at group level · Scoped out

Other information

The directors are responsible for the other information. The other information comprises the information

We have nothing to

included in the annual report other than the financial statements and our auditor's report thereon.

report in respect of

these matters

99

Our opinion on the financial statements does not cover the other information and, except to the extent

otherwise explicitly stated in our report, we do not express any form of assurance conclusion thereon.

In connection with our audit of the financial statements, our responsibility is to read the other information and, in doing so, consider whether the other information is materially inconsistent with the financial statements or our knowledge obtained in the audit or otherwise appears to be materially misstated.

If we identify such material inconsistencies or apparent material misstatements, we are required to determine whether there is a material misstatement in the financial statements or a material misstatement of the other information. If, based on the work we have performed, we conclude that there is a material misstatement of this other information, we are required to report that fact.

In this context, matters that we are specifically required to report to you as uncorrected material misstatements of the other information include where we conclude that:
· Fair, balanced and understandable ­ the statement given by the directors that they consider the annual report and financial statements taken as a whole is fair, balanced and understandable and provides the information necessary for shareholders to assess the group's position and performance, business model and strategy, is materially inconsistent with our knowledge obtained in the audit; or
·Audit committee reporting ­ the section describing the work of the audit committee does not appropriately address matters communicated by us to the audit committee; or
· Directors' statement of compliance with the UK Corporate Governance Code ­ the parts of the directors' statement required under the Listing Rules relating to the company's compliance with the UK Corporate Governance Code containing provisions specified for review by the auditor in accordance with Listing Rule 9.8.10R(2) do not properly disclose a departure from a relevant provision of the UK Corporate Governance Code.

Report and Accounts 2019

Financial statements

Responsibilities of Directors

audit procedures responsive to those risks, including

obtaining audit evidence that is sufficient and

As explained more fully in the directors' responsibilities appropriate to provide a basis for our opinion.

statement, the directors are responsible for the

preparation of the financial statements and for being Identifying and assessing potential risks

satisfied that they give a true and fair view, and for

related to irregularities

such internal control as the directors determine

In identifying and assessing risks of material

is necessary to enable the preparation of financial

misstatement in respect of irregularities, including

statements that are free from material misstatement, fraud and non-compliance with laws and regulations,

whether due to fraud or error.

we considered the following:

·the nature of the industry and sector, control

In preparing the financial statements, the directors

environment and business performance including

are responsible for assessing the group's and the

the design of the group's remuneration policies,

parent company's ability to continue as a going

key drivers for directors' remuneration, bonus

concern, disclosing as applicable, matters related to

levels and performance targets;

going concern and using the going concern basis

·results of our enquiries of management, internal

of accounting unless the directors either intend to

audit and the audit committee about their own

liquidate the group or the parent company or to cease

identification and assessment of the risks of

operations, or have no realistic alternative but to do so.

irregularities;

·any matters we identified having obtained and

Auditor's responsibilities for the audit of

reviewed the group's documentation of their

the financial statements

policies and procedures relating to:

oidentifying, evaluating and complying with laws

Our objectives are to obtain reasonable assurance

and regulations and whether they were aware

about whether the financial statements as a whole

of any instances of non-compliance;

are free from material misstatement, whether due

odetecting and responding to the risks of fraud

to fraud or error, and to issue an auditor's report

and whether they have knowledge of any

100

that includes our opinion. Reasonable assurance is a

actual, suspected or alleged fraud;

high level of assurance, but is not a guarantee that

othe internal controls established to mitigate

an audit conducted in accordance with ISAs (UK) will

risks of fraud or non-compliance with laws and

always detect a material misstatement when it exists.

regulations;

Misstatements can arise from fraud or error and are

·the matters discussed among the audit

considered material if, individually or in the aggregate,

engagement team including significant

they could reasonably be expected to influence the

component audit teams and involving relevant

economic decisions of users taken on the basis of

internal specialists, including tax, IT, Valuation and

these financial statements.

industry specialists regarding how and where fraud

might occur in the financial statements and any

Details of the extent to which the audit was considered

potential indicators of fraud.

capable of detecting irregularities, including fraud and

non-compliance with laws and regulations are set

As a result of these procedures, we considered the

out below.

opportunities and incentives that may exist within

the organisation for fraud and identified the greatest

A further description of our responsibilities

potential for fraud in revenue recognition - accrued

for the audit of the financial statements is

income cut off. In common with all audits under

located on the FRC's website at: www.frc.org.uk/

ISAs (UK), we are also required to perform specific

auditorsresponsibilities. This description forms part of procedures to respond to the risk of management

our auditor's report.

override.

Extent to which the audit was considered capable of detecting irregularities, including fraud
We identify and assess the risks of material misstatement of the financial statements, whether due to fraud or error, and then design and perform

We also obtained an understanding of the legal and regulatory frameworks that the group operates in, focusing on provisions of those laws and regulations that had a direct effect on the determination of material amounts and disclosures in the financial statements. The key laws and regulations we considered in this context included UK Companies Act,

Report and Accounts 2019

Financial statements

Listing Rules, pensions legislation and tax legislation. ·enquiring of management, the audit committee

In addition, we considered provisions of other laws

and in-house and external legal counsel

and regulations that do not have a direct effect on the

concerning actual and potential litigation

financial statements but compliance with which may

and claims;

be fundamental to the group's ability to operate or to ·performing analytical procedures to identify any

avoid a material penalty. These included the group's

unusual or unexpected relationships that may

operating license, regulatory solvency requirements

indicate risks of material misstatement due

and environmental regulations.

to fraud;

·reading minutes of meetings of those charged

Audit response to risks identified

with governance, reviewing internal audit reports

As a result of performing the above, we identified

and reviewing correspondence with tax authorities

revenue recognition ­ accrued income cut-off as a key

where the case; and

audit matter related to the potential risk of fraud. The ·in addressing the risk of fraud through

key audit matters section of our report explains the

management override of controls, testing the

matter in more detail and also describes the specific

appropriateness of journal entries and other

procedures we performed in response to that key

adjustments; assessing whether the judgements

audit matter.

made in making accounting estimates are

indicative of a potential bias; and evaluating the

In addition to the above, our procedures to respond to

business rationale of any significant transactions

risks identified included the following:

that are unusual or outside the normal course

·reviewing the financial statement disclosures and

of business.

testing to supporting documentation to assess

compliance with provisions of relevant laws and

We also communicated relevant identified laws and

regulations described as having a direct effect on regulations and potential fraud risks to all engagement

the financial statements;

team members including internal specialists and

significant component audit teams, and remained alert

to any indications of fraud or non-compliance with

laws and regulations throughout the audit.

101

REPORT ON OTHER LEGAL AND REGULATORY REQUIREMENTS

Opinions on other matters prescribed by the Companies Act 2006
In our opinion the part of the directors' remuneration report to be audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006.
In our opinion, based on the work undertaken in the course of the audit: ·the information given in the strategic report and
the directors' report for the financial year for which the financial statements are prepared is consistent with the financial statements; and

·the strategic report and the directors' report have been prepared in accordance with applicable legal requirements.
In the light of the knowledge and understanding of the group and the parent company and their environment obtained in the course of the audit, we have not identified any material misstatements in the strategic report or the directors' report.

Report and Accounts 2019

Financial statements

Matters on which we are required to report by exception

Adequacy of explanations received and accounting records

We have nothing to

Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion:

report in respect of

·we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit; or

these matters.

·adequate accounting records have not been kept by the parent company, or returns adequate for our audit

have not been received from branches not visited by us; or

·The parent company financial statements are not in agreement with the accounting records and returns.

Directors' remuneration Under the Companies Act 2006 we are also required to report if in our opinion certain disclosures of directors' remuneration have not been made or the part of the directors' remuneration report to be audited is not in agreement with the accounting records and returns.

We have nothing to report in respect of these matters.

OTHER MATTERS

Auditor tenure

Use of our report

Following the recommendation of the Audit

Committee, we were appointed by the Board on

This report is made solely to the company's members,

27 June 2012 to audit the financial statements for

as a body, in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of

the year ending 31 December 2012 and subsequent the Companies Act 2006. Our audit work has been

financial periods. The period of total uninterrupted

undertaken so that we might state to the company's

engagement including previous renewals and

members those matters we are required to state to

reappointments of the firm is 8 years, covering

them in an auditor's report and for no other purpose.

the years ending 31 December 2012 to

To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not

31 December 2019.

accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than

the company and the company's members as a body,

Consistency of the audit report with the

for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions

102

additional report to the audit committee

we have formed.

Our audit opinion is consistent with the additional report to the audit committee we are required to provide in accordance with ISAs (UK).

Alexander Butterworth ACA (Senior statutory auditor) For and on behalf of Deloitte LLP

Statutory Auditor

Reading, UK

19 February 2020

Report and Accounts 2019

Financial statements

CONSOLIDATED INCOME STATEMENT

£000s Revenue Recharged expenses Fee income

Note 4,5 4,5 4,5

Year ended 31 December 2019
612,599 (56,099) 556,500

Year ended 31 December 2018
637,383 (63,226) 574,157

Adjusted operating profit

3,4,6,7,8

43,377

54,041

Amortisation of acquired intangibles and transaction-related costs Exceptional items Operating profit

3,6

(9,106)

7

(23,359)

10,912

(9,181) ­
44,860

Finance costs Finance income

9

(6,243)

9

172

(4,111) 232

Profit before tax, amortisation of acquired intangibles, transaction-related costs and exceptional items

37,306

50,162

Profit before tax

4,841

40,981

Tax expense

12

(6,072)

(11,240)

(Loss)/profit for the year attributable to equity holders of the parent

(1,231)

29,741

Basic (loss)/earnings per share (pence) Diluted (loss)/earnings per share (pence)

13

(0.55)

13.34

103

13

(0.54)

13.23

Adjusted basic earnings per share (pence) Adjusted diluted earnings per share (pence)

13

12.43

13

12.31

16.47 16.34

CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF COMPREHENSIVE INCOME

£000s (Loss)/profit for the year Actuarial gains and losses on remeasurement of defined benefit pension scheme Tax on remeasurement of defined benefit provision liability Exchange differences* Total comprehensive expense Total recognised comprehensive (expense)/income for the year attributable to equity holders of the parent
*may be reclassified subsequently to profit or loss in accordance with IFRS.
The notes on pages 107 to 142 form part of these financial statements.

Year ended

Year ended

Note 31 December 2019 31 December 2018

(1,231)

29,741

29

(83)

677

12

(18)

(12,263)

(12,364)

(149) (2,174) (1,646)

(13,595)

28,095

Report and Accounts 2019

Financial statements

CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEET

£000s Assets Non-current assets: Intangible assets Property, plant and equipment Right-of-use assets Deferred tax asset

Current assets: Trade and other receivables Corporation tax receivable Cash at bank

Liabilities Current liabilities: Borrowings Lease liabilities Deferred consideration Trade and other payables Corporation tax liabilities Provisions

Net current assets

104

Non-current liabilities:

Borrowings

Lease liabilities

Deferred consideration

Other payables

Deferred tax liability

Provisions

Net assets

As at

As at

Note 31 December 2019 31 December 2018

14

378,723

15

32,300

16

44,766

23

3,856

459,645

18

156,990

961

17,731

175,682

385,699 32,005 ­ 3,795
421,499
165,783 635
17,986 184,404

20

1,361

16

10,011

21

3,105

19

104,786

­

22

913

120,176

55,506

20

110,465

16

39,784

21

5,642

1,474

23

6,328

22

2,921

166,614

348,537

2,581 ­
53 117,914
3,648 2,119 126,315 58,089
89,280 ­
249 1,719 6,405 4,363 102,016 377,572

Equity Share capital Share premium Retained earnings Merger reserve Employee trust Translation reserve Total shareholders' equity

24

6,814

121,937

195,652

21,256

(10,085)

12,963

348,537

These financial statements were approved and authorised for issue by the Board on 19 February 2020. The notes on pages 107 to 142 form part of these financial statements. John Douglas, Director Gary Young, Director On behalf of the Board of RPS Group Plc (company number 2087786).

6,783 120,400 213,656
21,256 (9,801) 25,278 377,572

Report and Accounts 2019

Financial statements

CONSOLIDATED CASH FLOW STATEMENT

£000s Net cash from operating activities

Year ended

Year ended

Note 31 December 2019 31 December 2018

28

37,602

44,488

Cash flows from investing activities: Purchases of subsidiaries net of cash acquired Deferred consideration Purchase of property, plant and equipment Purchase of intangible assets Proceeds from sale of assets Net cash used in investing activities

(10,053) (51)
(13,325) (7,835) 384
(30,880)

(165) (1,611) (11,872)
­ 222 (13,426)

Cash flows from financing activities: Costs of issue of share capital Increase in bank borrowings Payment of lease liabilities Bank arrangement fees Dividends paid Net cash used in financing activities

­

(9)

23,449

(8,891)

(9,240)

­

(670)

­

25

(16,855)

(22,115)

(3,316)

(31,015)

Net increase in cash and cash equivalents Cash and cash equivalents at beginning of year Effect of exchange rate fluctuations Cash and cash equivalents at end of year
Cash and cash equivalents comprise: Cash at bank Bank overdraft Cash and cash equivalents at end of year

3,406

47

15,405

15,376

(2,441)

(18)

28

16,370

15,405

105

17,731

17,986

(1,361)

(2,581)

28

16,370

15,405

The notes on pages 107 to 142 form part of these financial statements.

Report and Accounts 2019

Financial statements

CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF CHANGES IN EQUITY

£000s At 1 January 2018 Effect of changes in accounting standards

Share capital 6,745
­

Share premium 117,790
­

Retained earnings 205,143
(521)

Merger Employee Translation

reserve

trust reserve

21,256 (8,602) 27,452

­

­

­

Total equity 369,784
(521)

Profit for the year Other comprehensive income/(expense) Total comprehensive income/(expense) for the year Issue of new ordinary shares (note 24) Share-based payment expense (note 31) Transfer on release of shares Dividends paid (note 25) At 31 December 2018

­ ­
­
38 ­ ­ ­ 6,783

­ ­
­
2,610 ­ ­ ­
120,400

29,741 528
30,269
(799) 2,338 (659) (22,115) 213,656

­ ­
­
­ ­ ­ ­ 21,256

­ ­
­
(1,858) ­
659 ­
(9,801)

­ (2,174)

29,741 (1,646)

(2,174) 28,095

­ ­ ­ ­ 25,278

(9) 2,338
­ (22,115) 377,572

Effect of changes in accounting standards

­

­ (1,240)

­

­

(52) (1,292)

Loss for the year

­

­ (1,231)

­

­

­ (1,231)

Other comprehensive income/(expense)

­

­

(101)

­

­ (12,263) (12,364)

Total comprehensive expense for the year

­

­ (1,332)

­

­ (12,263) (13,595)

Issue of new ordinary shares (note 24)

31

1,537

(566)

­ (1,002)

­

­

Share-based payment expense (note 31)

­

­

2,707

­

­

­

2,707

Transfer on release of shares

­

­

(718)

­

718

­

­

Dividends paid (note 25)

­

­ (16,855)

­

­

­ (16,855)

106

At 31 December 2019

6,814 121,937 195,652 21,256 (10,085) 12,963 348,537

The notes on pages 107 to 142 form part of these financial statements.

Report and Accounts 2019

Financial statements

NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

1. SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES

RPS Group Plc (the 'Company') is a public company limited by shares domiciled in England under the Companies Act. The address of the registered office is given on page 56. The nature of the Company's operations and its principal activities are set out in the strategic report on pages 7 to 48. The consolidated financial statements of the Company for the year ended 31 December 2019 comprise the Company and its subsidiaries (together referred to as the `Group').

assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities are initially recognised at their fair values at the acquisition date in the Consolidated Balance Sheet. The results of acquired operations are included in the consolidated statement of comprehensive income from the date on which control is obtained. They are deconsolidated from the financial statements from the date control ceases.
(c) Revenue

Equipment
From time to time, the Group sells pieces of equipment to clients. In these cases, revenue is recognised when control of the asset passes to the customer and we have no remaining rights over the asset.
Laboratory testing
The Group provides Laboratory testing services and the revenue generated is recognised as samples are tested.

(a) Basis of preparation
The Group has prepared its annual financial statements in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS) as endorsed by the European Union and implemented in the UK. The financial statements are presented in pounds sterling, rounded to the nearest thousand. The financial statements have been prepared on the historical cost basis.

Consultancy
The Group delivers consultancy services to our clients on a time and materials or fixed fee basis. In both cases, revenue is recognised over the life of the project, as the services are performed by our staff. The Group delivers services that have no alternative use to us (advice to clients, which may take the form of reports, designs, etc.) as the services are specifically tailored to each client's projects and circumstances. The Group

Agency agreements
The Group enters into certain agreements with clients where it manages client expenditure as an agent. It is obliged to purchase third party services and recharges those costs, plus a management fee, to the client. In these cases only the management fee is recognised as revenue as it becomes due to the Group. Trade receivables, trade payables and cash related to these transactions are included in the

During the year, the Group has adopted

has a right to payment for work

consolidated balance sheet.

107

IFRS 16 `Leases' for the first time and the impact is disclosed in note 32 to the financial statements.
The adoption of IFRIC 23 `Uncertainty over income tax treatment' has not impacted on the current and deferred tax balances presented in the consolidated

performed to date.
For time and materials projects, revenue is recognised in proportion to the number of hours worked and the out of pocket expenses incurred. For fixed fee projects, revenue is recognised with reference to the cost to complete the project.

Payment terms
For all revenue types, payment is typically due between 30 and 60 days after the invoice date, depending on the service, the client and the territory in which the Group is operating.

financial statements.
Except for IFRS 16 and IFRIC 23 the accounting policies set out below have been applied consistently to both years presented in these consolidated financial statements.
(b) Basis of consolidation
Where the Company has the power, either directly or indirectly, to govern the financial and operating policies of another entity or business so as to obtain benefits from its activities, it is classified as a subsidiary. The consolidated financial statements present the results of the Company and its subsidiaries as if they formed a single entity. Intercompany transactions and balances between Group companies are therefore eliminated in full. The consolidated financial statements incorporate the results of business combinations using the purchase method. When the Group makes acquisitions the acquiree's identifiable

Software
The Group sells licences and access to software and applications. The software may be customised by RPS for each client, and where we sell customised software we recognise revenue over the period of customisation. Access to applications is provided for a period and revenue is recognised evenly over that period.
Training
The Group provides classroom, fieldbased and online training services to clients, either on a course by course basis or through a program specifying the numbers of training days available to the client. Revenue is recognised as the courses are delivered to the clients. In some cases, subscriptions give access to training programmes and in those circumstances, revenue is recognised when the subscription is sold.

Fee income and recharged expenses
Revenue is classified into fee income and recharged expenses. `Fee income' represents the Group's personnel, subcontractor and equipment time and expertise sold to clients. `Recharged expenses' is the recharge of costs incidental to fulfilling the Group's contracts, for example mileage, flights, subsistence and accommodation, and subcontractor costs on which a negligible margin is earned by the Group.
Contract assets and liabilities
Contract assets are booked when the amount of revenue recognised on a contract exceeds the amount invoiced. Upon invoicing, the contract asset is reclassified to trade receivables. Where the amount invoiced exceeds the amount of revenue recognised, the difference is booked in contract liabilities.

Report and Accounts 2019

Financial statements

Financing components

Expenditure on internally generated

i Calculation of recoverable

The Group does not expect to have any contracts where the period between the transfer of the promised goods or services to the customer and the payment by the customer exceeds one year. Consequently, the Group does not adjust any of the transaction prices for the time value of money.
(d) Deferred consideration

goodwill and brands is recognised in the income statement as an expense as incurred.
iii Amortisation
Amortisation is charged to profit or loss in proportion to the timing of the benefits derived from the related asset from the date that the intangible assets are available for use over their estimated

amount
The recoverable amount is the greater of the net selling price and value in use. In assessing value in use, the estimated future cash flows are discounted to their present value using a pre-tax discount rate that reflects current market assessments of the time value of money and the risks specific to the asset.

Deferred consideration arises when

useful lives unless such lives are indefinite. (g) Judgements made in applying

settlement of all or part of the cost of a business combination falls due after the date the acquisition was completed.

The Group's intangible assets are amortised on a straight-line basis over their expected useful lives:

accounting policies
In the course of preparing the financial statements, no judgements have been

Deferred consideration is stated at fair value and has been treated as part of the cost of investment. At each balance sheet date, deferred consideration comprises

Customer relationships Trade names Order backlog

5 to 10 years 1 to 5 years 1 to 6 years

made in the process of applying the Group's accounting policies that have had a significant effect on the amounts recognised in the financial statements.

the fair value of the remaining deferred consideration valued at acquisition.
(e) Intangible assets

Software

4 to 8 years

Internally generated software 10 years

Intellectual property rights

4 years

(h) Sources of estimation uncertainty
The key assumptions concerning the

108

i Goodwill

future and other sources of estimation

All business combinations are accounted for by applying the purchase method. Goodwill has been recognised on acquisitions of subsidiaries and the

(f ) Impairment of non-financial assets
The carrying amounts of the Group's nonfinancial assets, other than deferred tax

uncertainty at the end of 2019 that have a significant risk of resulting in a material adjustment to the carrying amount of assets and liabilities are described below.

business, assets and liabilities of

assets, are reviewed at each balance

The Group performs an annual

partnerships. Goodwill represents the

sheet date to determine whether there is impairment review on goodwill and

difference between the cost of the

any indication of impairment. If any such other non-current assets or whenever

acquisition and the fair value of the

indication exists, the asset's recoverable

there are indicators of impairment. The

identifiable assets acquired.

amount is estimated.

recoverable amounts of cash-generating

Goodwill is stated at cost less any accumulated impairment losses and is not amortised as it has an indefinite life. Goodwill is allocated to Groups of cash-generating units and is tested annually for impairment.

For goodwill the recoverable amount is estimated at each annual balance sheet date.
An impairment loss is recognised whenever the carrying amount of an asset or its cash-generating unit exceeds its

units have been determined from value in use calculations and these calculations include estimates about the future financial performance based on budgets and forecasts, medium and long-term growth rates, discount rates and the markets in which the Group operates.

ii Other intangible assets
Intangible assets other than goodwill that are acquired by the Group and internally generated software are stated at cost less accumulated amortisation and impairment losses. Where assets are

recoverable amount. Impairment losses are recognised in the income statement unless the asset is recorded at a revalued amount in which case it is treated as a revaluation decrease to the extent that a surplus has previously been recorded.

Impairment indicators were noted during the year in the AAP and North America segments from poor performance. There is ongoing economic uncertainty in the UK associated with Brexit that may affect the cash flows generated by the

under construction, these are reviewed at the balance sheet date to determine whether there is an impairment.
Intangible assets identified in a business combination are capitalised at fair value at the date of acquisition if they are separable from the acquired entity or

Impairment losses recognised in respect of cash-generating units are allocated first to reduce the carrying value of goodwill allocated to the cash-generating unit and then to reduce the carrying amount of the other assets in the unit on a pro-rata basis.

segments which operate in the UK. Based on the calculations performed, all CGUs have significant headroom except for AAP (further discussion of this uncertainty can be found in note 14).

give rise to other contractual or legal

rights. The fair values ascribed to such

intangibles are arrived at by using

appropriate valuation techniques.

Report and Accounts 2019

Financial statements

2. OTHER ACCOUNTING POLICIES

(a) Foreign currency
i Foreign currency transactions
Transactions in foreign currency are translated at the foreign exchange rate ruling at the date of the transaction. Monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies at the balance sheet date are translated to pounds sterling at the foreign exchange rate ruling at that date. Foreign exchange differences arising on translation are

ii Subsequent costs
The Group recognises in the carrying amount of an item of property, plant and equipment the cost of replacing part of such an item when that cost is incurred if it is probable that the future economic benefits embodied within the item will flow to the Group and the cost of the item can be measured reliably. All other costs are recognised in the income statement as incurred.

periodically reduced by impairment losses and adjusted for certain remeasurements such as exercising a break or an extension option.
ii Lease liabilities
Lease liabilities are measured at the net present value of the following lease payments:
­fixed payments less any incentives receivable;

recognised in income.

iii Depreciation

­variable lease payments based on an

ii Financial statements of

Depreciation is charged to income on a

index or rate; and

foreign operations
The assets and liabilities of foreign operations, including goodwill and fair

straight-line basis over the estimated useful lives of each part of an item of property, plant and equipment. The estimated useful lives are as follows:

­payments of penalties for terminating the lease, if the lease term reflects the lessee exercising that option.

value adjustments arising on

Extension and termination options are

consolidation, are translated to pounds

Freehold buildings

50 years

included in many property leases across

sterling at the exchange rate ruling at the balance sheet date. The revenues and expenses of foreign operations are translated to pounds sterling at rates

Alterations to leasehold premises Motor vehicles

Life of lease 4 years

the Group to maximise operational flexibility and these options tend to be only exercisable by the Group and not the

approximating the foreign exchange rates Fixtures, fittings,

3 to 8 years

lessor. In determining the lease term, the

ruling at the dates of the transactions.

IT and equipment

Group considers the facts and

109

Foreign exchange differences arising on

circumstances that incentivise the Group

retranslation are recognised in the

(c) Leases

to exercise an extension or termination

translation reserve.

The Group has applied IFRS 16 from

option. Extension options are included to the extent they are reasonably certain to

iii Net investment in

1 January 2019 using the modified retrospective approach and therefore the

be exercised. Likewise, the period after a termination option is only excluded from

foreign operations

comparative information has not been

a lease if the option to terminate is

Exchange differences arising from the

restated and is reported under IAS 17.

reasonably certain to be exercised.

translation of the net investment in

The impact of the change is disclosed in

foreign operations are taken to the

note 32.

The lease payments are discounted using

translation reserve. They are recycled and taken to income upon disposal of the operation.
iv Foreign currency forward contracts
Foreign currency forward contracts are initially recognised at nil value, being priced-at-the-money at origination. Subsequently they are measured at fair value (determined by level 2 inputs: price

From 1 January 2019, the Group assesses whether a contract is, or contains, a lease and recognises a right-of-use asset and a corresponding liability at the date at which the leased asset is available for use by the Group.
i Right-of-use assets
Right-of-use assets are measured at cost comprising the following:

the incremental borrowing rate in all cases, as the interest rate implicit in the Group's leases cannot be determined. The lease liability is remeasured when there is a change in future lease payments arising from a change in index or rate, or if the Group changes its assessment of whether it will exercise an extension or termination option. A corresponding adjustment is made to the carrying amount of the rightof-use asset.

changes in the underlying forward rate,

­the amount of the initial

the interest rate, the time to expiration of

measurement of the lease liability;

iii Short-term leases and low

the contract and the amount of foreign currency specified in the contract). Changes in fair value are recognised in the income statement as they arise.

­any lease payments made at or before the commencement date less any lease incentives received;

value assets
Payments associated with short-term leases and leases of low value assets are recognised as an expense in the income

(b) Property, plant and equipment

­ any initial direct costs; and ­ any restoration costs.

statement on a straight-line basis over the lease term. Short-term leases are leases with a term of 12 months or less. Low

i Owned assets
Items of property, plant and equipment are stated at cost less accumulated depreciation (see below) and impairment losses (see accounting policy 1(f) above).

The right-of-use asset is depreciated on a straight-line basis from the commencement date to the earlier of the useful life and the end of the lease term. In addition, the right-of-use asset may be

value assets generally include small pieces of office equipment such as coffee machines and photocopiers.

Report and Accounts 2019

Financial statements

2. OTHER ACCOUNTING POLICIES CONTINUED

iv Comparative information

during significant downturns, and

purchase partnership shares on a monthly

The comparative information is presented consequently the risk associated with

or annual basis using deductions from

under IAS 17. Leases which contained

Brexit is deemed to be limited.

salary and the Group matches this

terms whereby the Group assumed

by awarding matching shares. These

substantially all the risks and rewards

(e) Cash and cash equivalents

matching shares are awarded at no cost

incidental to ownership were classified as finance leases. Assets acquired under a finance lease were capitalised at inception of the lease at the fair value of the leased asset, or if lower, the present value of the minimum lease payments. Obligations under finance leases were included in liabilities net of finance costs allocated to future periods. The finance charge was allocated to each period during the lease term so as to produce a constant periodic rate of interest on the remaining balance

Cash at bank comprises cash balances and call deposits with an original maturity of three months or less. Bank overdrafts that are repayable on demand and form an integral part of the Group's cash management are included as a component of cash and cash equivalents for the purposes of the consolidated cash flow statement.
(f ) Employee benefits

to the employee and are released to the employee subject to continuity of employment provision after three years.
The Performance Share Plan ("PSP") is a discretionary share incentive arrangement for RPS Group Plc's senior employees. The awards are granted over a fixed number of shares at no cost to the employees. At the end of the three year holding period the award will vest subject to continuity of employment conditions.

of the liability.

i Defined contribution plans

The Energy Share Option Plan

All other leases were classified as operating leases and charged to the income statement on a straight-line basis over the lease term. Lease incentives

Obligations for contributions to defined contribution retirement benefit plans are recognised as an expense in the income statement as incurred.

is a discretionary share incentive arrangement for RPS Group Plc's senior employees within the Energy segment. The awards are granted over a fixed number of shares. At the end of the three

received were recognised as an integral part of the total lease expense.

ii Defined benefit plans
The cost of providing benefits is

year holding period, the award will vest subject to continuity of employment

(d) Trade and other receivables

determined using the projected unit credit method, with actuarial valuations

conditions. The employee can exercise the option to purchase the shares on

Trade and other receivables are

being carried out at the end of each

payment of the option price to the

recognised at cost and carried at cost less reporting period. Remeasurement gains

Company at any point between three

impairment losses. Trade and other

and losses are recognised immediately in and ten years following the grant of

110

receivables are subject to impairment tests whenever events or changes in

the balance sheet with a charge or credit to the statement of comprehensive

the option. The Executive Long Term Incentive

circumstances indicate that their carrying income in the period in which they occur. Plan ("ELTIP") is a discretionary share

amount may not be recoverable.

These remeasurement gains and losses

incentive arrangement for RPS Group

Impairment losses are taken to the

are not recycled to the income statement. Plc's senior employees. The awards are

income statement as incurred.

Defined benefit costs are split into

granted over a fixed number of shares at

Financial assets
The Group's financial assets consist of trade receivables, contract assets and cash. These assets are measured at amortised cost as the Group's business

three categories:
­current service cost, past service cost and gains and losses on curtailments and settlements (recognised in administrative expenses)

no cost to the employees. At the end of the three year holding period the award will vest subject to the achievement of the performance measures outlined in the Remuneration Report. There is then a two year holding period for awards that

model for managing these assets is to

­net interest expense or income

have vested.

hold them until realisation of the asset

(recognised in finance costs); and

as cash.
Impairment of financial assets

­remeasurement (recognised in other comprehensive income)

The Short Term Annual Bonus Plan ("STABP") is an incentive scheme for RPS Group Plc's senior employees based on

For trade receivables and contract assets, The retirement benefit obligation

the achievement of a range of financial and

the Group applies the simplified

recognised in the consolidated balance

non-financial targets over a one year period.

impairment approach permitted by IFRS 9 sheet represents the deficit in the

50% of the bonus award is paid in cash

which requires expected lifetime losses to Group's defined benefit scheme.

and 50% is deferred into shares which are

be recognised from initial recognition of

subject to a three year holding period. There

the receivables.

iii Share-based payments

are no further performance conditions

The Group operates share-based payment applicable to the deferred shares.

To measure the expected credit losses, trade receivables and contract assets

arrangements with employees.

The fair value of equity settled awards for

have been grouped based on shared

The Share Incentive Plan ("SIP") is an

share-based payments is determined at

credit risk characteristics relating to the

all-employee share plan which operates

grant and expensed straight-line over the

markets we operate in. The Group's

in the UK, Ireland, Australia, Canada,

period from grant to the date of earliest

history of such losses is not material, even Netherlands, Norway and USA. Employees unconditional exercise.

Report and Accounts 2019

Financial statements

The Group has calculated the fair market Merger reserve

enacted or substantively enacted at the

value of options using a binomial model

Premium on shares issued in respect of

balance sheet date.

and for whole share awards the fair value has been based on the market value of the shares at the date of grant adjusted to take into account some of the terms and conditions upon which the shares were granted.
Those fair values were charged to the income statement over the relevant

acquisitions when merger relief is taken.
Employee trust Own shares held by the SIP and Employee Benefit trusts. When the shares are released to staff, the related entry to the employee trust reserve is reversed to retained earnings.

A deferred tax asset is recognised only to the extent that it is probable that future taxable profits will be available against which the asset can be utilised. Deferred tax assets are reduced to the extent that it is no longer probable that the related tax benefit will be realised.

vesting period adjusted to reflect actual

Translation reserve

(m) Dividends

and expected vesting levels.

Cumulative gains and losses arising on

Dividends are recognised when they

iv Accrued holiday pay

retranslating the net assets of overseas operations into sterling.

become legally payable. In the case of interim dividends to equity shareholders,

Provision is made at each balance sheet date for holidays accrued but not taken, to the extent that they may be carried forward, calculated at the salary of the relevant employee at that date.

Retained earnings C umulative net gains and losses recognised in the consolidated statement of comprehensive income

this is when they are paid. In the case of final dividends, this is when approved by the shareholders at the Annual General Meeting.

(g) Provisions

and consolidated statement of changes in equity.

(n) Share Scheme Trusts
The Company administers its share

A provision is recognised in the balance sheet when the Group has a present legal or constructive obligation as a result of a past event and it is probable that an outflow of economic benefits will be required to settle the obligation. If the effect is material, provisions are determined by discounting the expected

(k) Exceptional items
Exceptional items are items which, because of their size, nature or expected infrequency, merit separate presentation in the consolidated income statement to allow users to better understand the Group's performance in the year.

plans through two Trusts - the Employee Benefit Trust ('EBT') and the SIP Trust. The SIP Trust is used for the HMRC-approved Share Incentive Plan and the EBT as used for all other plans. As the Company is deemed to have control of its share trusts, they are treated as subsidiaries and consolidated for the purpose of the

future cash flows at a pre-tax rate that reflects current market assessments

(l) Income tax

Group accounts. The Trusts' assets (other

than investments in the Company's

111

of the time value of money and, when

Income tax on the income for the

shares), liabilities, income and expenses

appropriate, the risks specific to the liability. years presented comprises current and

are included on a line-by-line basis in the

A provision for onerous contracts is recognised when the expected benefits to be derived by the Group from a contract are lower than the unavoidable cost of meeting its obligations under the contract.

deferred tax. It is the best estimate of the tax amount expected to be paid or received that reflects uncertainty related to income taxes, if any. Income tax is recognised in the income statement except to the extent that it relates to items recognised in equity, in which case

Group financial statements. The Trusts' investments in the Company's shares are deducted from shareholders' funds in the Group balance sheet as if they were treasury shares.
(o) Accounting standards issued

(h) Trade and other payables

it is recognised in equity.

but not adopted

Trade and other payables are stated at cost. Trade payables due within one year are not discounted.

Current tax is the expected tax payable on the taxable income for the year, using tax rates and rules enacted or substantially enacted at the balance sheet date, and

There are no standards that are not yet effective and that would be expected to have a material impact on the Group in current or future reporting periods and on

Financial liabilities
The Group's financial liabilities consist of trade and other payables, contract liabilities and borrowings and are measured at amortised cost.

any adjustment to tax payable in respect of previous years. Deferred tax is provided using the balance sheet liability method, providing for temporary differences between the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities for financial reporting

forseeable future transactions.

(i) Borrowings
Bank overdrafts and interest bearing loans are initially measured at cost and subsequently stated at amortised cost.

purposes and the amounts used for taxation purposes. The following temporary differences are not provided for: goodwill not deductible for tax purposes, the initial recognition of assets

(j) Reserves
The description and purpose of the Group's reserves are as follows:

or liabilities that affect neither accounting nor taxable profit and the differences relating to investments in subsidiaries to the extent that they will probably not

Share premium P remium on shares issued in excess of nominal value, other than on shares issued in respect of acquisitions when merger relief is taken.

reverse in the foreseeable future. The amount of deferred tax provided is based on the expected manner of realisation or settlement of the carrying amount of assets and liabilities, using tax rates

Report and Accounts 2019

Financial statements

3. ALTERNATIVE PERFORMANCE MEASURES

Throughout this document the Group presents various alternative performance measures. The measures presented are those adopted by the Chief Operating Decision Maker ('CODM', deemed to be the main Board) and analysts who follow us in assessing the performance of the business.
Group profit and earnings measures
PBTA and adjusted operating profit Profit before tax and amortisation of acquired intangibles and transactionrelated costs and exceptional items (PBTA) is used by the Board to monitor and measure the trading performance of the Group. It excludes certain items which the Board believes distort the trading

performance of the Group. These items are either acquisition and disposal related or non-cash items, or they are exceptional in nature.
Delivering the Group's strategy includes investment in selected acquisitions that enhance the depth and breadth of services that the Group offers in the territories in which it operates. In addition, from time to time the Group chooses to exit a particular market or service offering because it is not offering the desired returns. By excluding acquisition and disposal related items from PBTA, the Board has a clearer view of the performance of the Group and is able to make better operational decisions to support its strategy.

Accordingly, transaction-related costs including costs of acquisition and disposal, losses on the closure of businesses and amortisation of intangible assets are excluded from the Group's preferred performance measure, PBTA. Similarly, exceptional items are excluded as they are not reflective of the Group's trading performance in the year.
Items are treated consistently year-onyear, and these adjustments are also consistent with the way that performance is measured under the Group's incentive plans and its banking covenants.
Adjusted operating profit is a derivative of PBTA. A reconciliation is shown below.

£000s Add:

Profit before tax Amortisation of acquired intangibles and transaction-related costs Exceptional items PBTA

Year ended

Year ended

31 December 2019 31 December 2018

4,841

40,981

9,106

9,181

23,359

­

37,306

50,162

Add: Net finance costs Adjusted operating profit

6,071 43,377

3,879 54,041

112

Adjusted profit attributable to ordinary shareholders and adjusted earnings per share

It follows that the Group uses adjusted profit attributable to ordinary shareholders as the input to its adjusted EPS measures. Again,

this profit measure excludes amortisation of acquired intangibles and transaction-related costs, but is an after tax measure. The Board

considers adjusted EPS to be more reflective of the Group's trading performance in the year.

£000s Add:

(Loss)/profit attributable to ordinary shareholders Amortisation of acquired intangibles and transaction-related costs Exceptional items Tax on amortisation of acquired intangibles, transaction-related costs and exceptional items Adjusted profit attributable to ordinary shareholders

Year ended

Year ended

31 December 2019 31 December 2018

(1,231)

29,741

9,106

9,181

23,359

­

(3,396)

(2,205)

27,838

36,717

Constant currency

The Group generates revenues and

presents some of its results on a constant

profits in various territories and

currency basis. This means that the prior

currencies because of its international

year's results have been retranslated

footprint. Those results are translated on using current year exchange rates. This

consolidation at the foreign exchange rates eliminates the effect of exchange from the

prevailing at the time. These exchange

year-on-year comparison of results. The

rates vary from year to year, so the Group difference between the reported numbers

and the constant currency numbers is the `constant currency effect'.

£000s Revenue Fee income PBTA Profit before tax

2018 637,383 574,157
50,162 40,981

Constant

2018 at

currency effect constant currency

(3,122)

634,261

(2,776)

571,381

(295)

49,867

(215)

40,766

Report and Accounts 2019

Financial statements

Segment profit and underlying profit Segment profit is presented in our segmental disclosures. This excludes the effects of financing, amortisation and exceptional items which are metrics outside of the control of segment management. It also excludes unallocated expenses. Segment profit is then adjusted by excluding the costs of reorganisation to give underlying profit for the segment. This reflects the underlying trading of the business. A reconciliation between segment profit and operating profit is given in note 4.
Reorganisation costs This classification comprises costs and income arising as a consequence of reorganisation such as redundancy costs, profit or loss on disposal of plant, property and equipment and the costs of consolidating office space.
Unallocated expenses Certain central costs are not allocated to the segments because they predominantly relate to the stewardship of the Group. They include the costs of the main board and the Group finance and marketing functions and related IT costs.

Revenue measures
The Group disaggregates revenue into fee income and recharged expenses. This provides insight into the performance of the business and our productive output. (See note 1(c).) This is reconciled on the face of the income statement. Fee income by segment is reconciled in note 4.
Cash flow measures
EBITDAS EBITDAS is operating profit adjusted by adding back non-cash expenses, tax and financing costs. The adjustments include interest, tax, depreciation, amortisation and transaction-related costs and share scheme costs. This generates a cashbased operating profit figure which is the input into the cash flow statement. A reconciliation between operating profit and EBITDAS is given in note 28.
Conversion of profit into cash A key measure of the Group's cash generation is the conversion of profit into cash. This is the cash generated from operations divided by EBITDAS expressed as a percentage. This metric is used as a measure against which the Group's long

and short-term performance incentive schemes are judged and reflects how much of the Group's profit has been collected as cash in the year.
Net bank borrowings Net bank borrowings is the total of cash and cash equivalents and interest bearing bank loans. This measure gives the external indebtedness of the Group (excluding lease liabilities), and is an input into the leverage calculations. This is reconciled in note 28.
Leverage Leverage is the ratio of net bank borrowings plus deferred consideration to annualised EBITDAS and is one of the financial covenants included in our bank facilities.
Tax measures
We report one adjusted tax measure, which is the tax rate on PBTA ('adjusted effective tax rate'). This is the tax charge applicable to PBTA expressed as a percentage of PBTA and is set out in note 12.

4. BUSINESS AND GEOGRAPHICAL SEGMENTS

113

Segment information is presented in the financial statements in respect of the Group's business segments, as reported to the CODM. The business segment reporting format reflects the Group's management and internal reporting structure.
Inter-segment pricing is determined on an arm's length basis. Segment results include items directly attributable to a segment as well as those that can be allocated on a reasonable basis.

The business segments of the Group are as follows:
- Energy - Consulting - UK and Ireland - Services - UK and Netherlands - Norway - North America - AAP

Report and Accounts 2019

Financial statements

4. BUSINESS AND GEOGRAPHICAL SEGMENTS CONTINUED

Segment results for the year ended 31 December 2019:

£000s Energy Consulting - UK and Ireland Services - UK and Netherlands Norway North America AAP Group eliminations Total

Fee income 110,571 127,589 101,390 64,746 58,305 98,314
(4,415) 556,500

Intersegment

Expenses

revenue

10,534

(1,000)

27,757

(1,279)

9,736

(1,729)

837

(184)

1,046

(509)

6,690

(215)

(501)

4,916

56,099

­

External revenue 120,105 154,067 109,397
65,399 58,842 104,789
­ 612,599

£000s Energy Consulting - UK and Ireland Services - UK and Netherlands Norway North America AAP Total

Underlying Reorganisation

profit

costs

11,073

(4)

15,087

­

10,809

(21)

6,091

(127)

3,465

(87)

6,970

(593)

53,495

(832)

Segment profit 11,069 15,087 10,788 5,964 3,378 6,377
52,663

Segment results for the year ended 31 December 2018:

£000s

Energy

114

Consulting - UK and Ireland

Services - UK and Netherlands

Norway

North America

AAP

Group eliminations

Total

Fee income 101,067 122,089 110,567 69,012 58,671 116,830
(4,079 ) 574,157

Expenses 12,800 30,679 11,414 965 1,149 6,714 (495) 63,226

Intersegment revenue (802) (1,371) (1,178) (171) (524) (528) 4,574 ­

External revenue 113,065 151,397 120,803
69,806 59,296 123,016
­ 637,383

£000s Energy Consulting - UK and Ireland Services - UK and Netherlands Norway North America AAP Total

Underlying Reorganisation

profit

costs

9,579

(676)

15,501

(84)

13,581

(69)

6,978

(786)

5,245

(125)

13,328

(62)

64,212

(1,802)

Segment profit 8,903 15,417 13,512 6,192 5,120 13,266 62,410

Report and Accounts 2019

Financial statements

Group reconciliation:
£000s Revenue Recharged expenses Fee income
Underlying profit Reorganisation costs Segment profit Unallocated expenses Adjusted operating profit Amortisation of acquired intangibles and transaction-related costs Exceptional items Operating profit Net finance costs Profit before tax

Year ended

Year ended

31 December 2019 31 December 2018

612,599

637,383

(56,099)

(63,226)

556,500

574,157

53,495 (832)
52,663 (9,286) 43,377 (9,106) (23,359) 10,912 (6,071) 4,841

64,212 (1,802) 62,410 (8,369) 54,041 (9,181)
­ 44,860 (3,879) 40,981

£000s Energy Consulting - UK and Ireland Services - UK and Netherlands Norway North America AAP Unallocated Group total

Carrying amount of segment assets

Segment depreciation and amortisation

Year ended

Year ended

Year ended

Year ended

31 December 2019 31 December 2018 31 December 2019 31 December 2018

81,739

76,297

2,962

1,933

184,408

169,879

4,749

1,989

107,568

104,950

5,212

3,489

53,865

56,670

2,893

2,262

66,726

66,656

3,299

2,246

114,032

118,608

7,851

5,143

115

26,989

12,843

968

338

635,327

605,903

27,934

17,400

Report and Accounts 2019

Financial statements

4. BUSINESS AND GEOGRAPHICAL SEGMENTS CONTINUED

The table below shows revenue and fee income to external customers based upon the country from which billing took place:

Revenue

Fee income

£000s

Year ended

Year ended

Year ended

Year ended

31 December 2019 31 December 2018 31 December 2019 31 December 2018

UK

232,447

242,707

203,648

205,212

Australia

123,398

138,742

113,557

128,993

USA

97,462

94,119

92,783

89,776

Norway

66,152

73,747

65,243

72,524

Netherlands

40,525

38,998

34,440

33,504

Ireland

38,311

33,158

34,352

29,811

Canada

10,416

11,817

8,993

10,421

Other

3,888

4,095

3,484

3,916

Total

612,599

637,383

556,500

574,157

£000s UK Australia USA Ireland Norway Canada Netherlands Other Total 116

Carrying amount of

non-current assets

As at

As at

31 December 2019 31 December 2018

193,160 96,955

163,591 96,436

52,071

49,458

39,896 21,060 43,423

42,166 38,454 12,679

13,064

18,710

16 459,645

5 421,499

5. REVENUE

Disaggregation of revenue
The Group segmental information disclosed in note 4 best depicts how the nature, timing, amount and uncertainty associated with our revenues and cash flows are affected by economic factors. Segments are structured along geographical and market lines, and risks are broadly consistent within the segments as a result.

Unsatisfied performance obligations

The transaction price allocated to partially satisfied or unsatisfied performance obligations at the balance sheet date are set out below. These obligations equate to the contracted work which the Group has on hand at the year end.

£000s

As at

As at

31 December 2019 31 December 2018

To be undertaken and recognised within one year

252,805

218,227

To be undertaken and recognised between one and two years

37,378

19,233

To be undertaken and recognised after two years

23,592

6,489

313,775

243,949

These obligations will be recognised as revenue over time.

Report and Accounts 2019

Financial statements

6. AMORTISATION OF ACQUIRED INTANGIBLES AND TRANSACTION-RELATED COSTS

£000s Amortisation of acquired intangibles Transaction-related costs Total

Year ended

Year ended

31 December 2019 31 December 2018

8,602

9,144

504

37

9,106

9,181

7. EXCEPTIONAL ITEMS
£000s Impairment of goodwill (note 14) Legal fees Rebranding costs ERP Implementation costs Total

Year ended

Year ended

31 December 2019 31 December 2018

19,806

­

1,373

­

1,012

­

1,168

­

23,359

­

An impairment charge of £19,806,000 (2018: £nil) has been recognised on the AAP CGU (note 14).

During the year the global rebranding of RPS was completed which introduced a new logo, colour scheme and a new website. Total costs during the year of this rebranding were £1,012,000 (2018: £nil).

Legal fees were incurred investigating potential issues regarding the administration of US government contracts and/or projects (see note 26). The investigation is ongoing and further exceptional costs for legal fees will be incurred in 2020.

Our new ERP has been implemented in the Netherlands and part of Australia. The amount expensed in 2019 in respect of change

management and data migration was £1,168,000 (2018: £nil). Further exceptional cost of this nature will be incurred in 2020 as the

roll out of the ERP continues.

117

8. OPERATING PROFIT - BY NATURE OF EXPENSE

£000s Revenue

Year ended

Year ended

31 December 2019 31 December 2018

612,599

637,383

Staff costs (note 10) Subconsultant costs Other employment-related costs Depreciation of owned assets Depreciation of right-of-use assets Amortisation of software Profit on disposal of property, plant and equipment and right-of-use assets Operating lease rentals payable - property Operating lease rentals payable - equipment and motor vehicles Short-term and low value lease rentals Travel costs Office costs Amortisation of acquired intangibles Transaction-related costs Exceptional items Other costs Operating profit

(306,701) (137,671) (27,557)
(9,267) (9,981)
(84) 93
­ ­ (2,675) (18,221) (22,396) (8,602) (504) (23,359) (34,762) 10,912

(311,691) (148,351)
(26,688) (8,256) ­ ­ (37)
(13,453) (4,986) ­
(16,576) (21,608)
(9,144) (37) ­
(31,696) 44,860

Report and Accounts 2019

Financial statements

9. NET FINANCING COSTS
£000s Finance costs: Interest and charges on loans and overdraft Interest on lease liabilities Amortisation of prepaid financing costs Interest payable on deferred consideration
Finance income: Deposit interest receivable Net financing costs

Year ended

Year ended

31 December 2019 31 December 2018

(3,862) (1,885)
(287) (209) (6,243)

(3,734) ­­
(364) (13)
(4,111)

172 (6,071)

232 (3,879)

10. EMPLOYEE BENEFIT EXPENSE
£000s Wages and salaries Social security costs Pension costs - defined contribution plans Pension costs - defined benefit plans Share-based payment expense - equity settled

Year ended

Year ended

31 December 2019 31 December 2018

262,903

268,749

26,884

26,912

14,004

13,443

203

249

2,707

2,338

306,701

311,691

Average monthly number of employees (including Executive Directors) was:

118

Fee earning staff

Support staff

4,129 845
4,974

4,639 917
5,556

The Group considers the Directors to be the key management personnel and details of Directors' remuneration are included in the Remuneration Committee Report from page 74. The share-based payment charge in respect of key management personnel was £602,000 (2018: £396,000). Social security costs in respect of these personnel were £285,000 (2018: £260,000).

Report and Accounts 2019

Financial statements

11. AUDITORS' REMUNERATION

During the year, the Group (including its overseas subsidiaries) obtained the following services from the Group's auditors at costs as detailed below:

£000s Statutory audit of the Company's annual accounts Statutory audit of the Group's subsidiaries Total audit fees Interim review Total audit-related assurance services Other services Total fees

Year ended

Year ended

31 December 2019 31 December 2018

65

50

788

569

853

619

62

27

915

646

­

12

915

658

12. INCOME TAXES
Analysis of tax expense in the consolidated income statement for the year:
£000s Current tax: UK corporation tax Overseas tax Adjustments in respect of prior years
Deferred tax: Origination and reversal of temporary differences Effect of change in tax rate Adjustments in respect of prior years
Total tax charge for the year

Year ended

Year ended

31 December 2019 31 December 2018

1,795 6,008 (482) 7,321

3,065 9,509
887 13,461

(964)

(1,729)

­

28

119

(285)

(520)

(1,249)

(2,221)

6,072

11,240

In addition to the amount charged to the consolidated income statement, the following items related to tax have been recognised:
Deferred tax charge in other comprehensive income

18

149

Report and Accounts 2019

Financial statements

12. INCOME TAXES CONTINUED
The effective tax rate for the year on profit before tax was 125.4% (2018: 27.4% ). The effective tax rate for the year on PBTA was 25.4% (2018: 26.8%) as shown in the table below:

£000s Total tax expense in income statement Add back: Tax on amortisation of acquired intangibles, transaction-related costs and exceptional items Adjusted tax charge on the profit for the year

Year ended

Year ended

31 December 2019 31 December 2018

6,072

11,240

3,396 9,468

2,205 13,445

Profit before tax, amortisation of acquired intangibles, transaction-related costs and exceptional items Adjusted effective tax rate Tax rate impact of amortisation of acquired intangibles, transaction-related costs and exceptional items Statutory effective tax rate

37,306 25.4% 100.0% 125.4%

50,162 26.8%
0.6% 27.4%

The Group operates in and is subject to income tax in many jurisdictions. The weighted average tax rate is derived by weighting the rates in those jurisdictions by the profits before tax earned there. It is sensitive to the statutory tax rates that apply in each jurisdiction and the geographic mix of profits. The statutory tax rates in our main jurisdictions were UK 19.0% (2018: 19.0%) and Australia 30% (2018: 30%) and the weighted average tax rate reduced to 21.3% in 2019 (2018: 23.1%).
The actual tax charge differs from the weighted average charge for the reasons set out in the following reconciliation:

£000s Profit before tax 120
Tax at the weighted average rate of 21.3% (2018: 23.1%) Effect of: Irrecoverable witholding tax suffered Impact of intercompany financing Impairment of goodwill Effect of change in tax rates Losses not recognised Adjustments in respect of prior years Other differences Total tax expense for the year

Year ended

Year ended

31 December 2019 31 December 2018

4,841

40,981

1,031

9,452

1,169 (65)
4,219 ­ 5
(767) 480 6,072

1,018 (56) ­ 39 49 368 370
11,240

The Group operates, mainly through our oil and gas exposed businesses, in jurisdictions that impose withholding taxes on revenue earned in those jurisdictions. This tax may be off-set against domestic corporation tax either in the current year or in the future within certain time limits. To the extent that full recovery is not achieved in the current year or is not considered possible in future years the withholding tax is charged to the income statement. The impact of irrecoverable withholding tax suffered increased in 2019 as more work was undertaken in these jurisdictions.
The impact of intercompany financing relates to the funding of US operations from the UK.
Enacted changes in tax rates impact the carrying value of deferred tax balances, principally those related to the amortisation of intangible assets. The impact in 2018 relates to the Norwegian tax rate that reduced from 23% to 22% with effect from 1 January 2019.
Adjustments in respect of prior years arise when amounts of tax due calculated when tax returns are submitted differ from those estimated at the year end. The 2019 credit arose mainly in the USA.
Other differences include expenses not deductible for tax purposes such as entertaining, share scheme charges, depreciation of property, plant and equipment which do not qualify for capital allowances and transaction-related costs. They also include items that are deductible for tax purposes, such as goodwill and other asset amortisation, but are not included in the income statement.

Report and Accounts 2019

Financial statements

13. EARNINGS PER SHARE
The calculations of basic and diluted earnings per share were based on the profit attributable to ordinary shareholders and a weighted average number of ordinary shares outstanding during the related period as shown in the table below:

£000s

Year ended

Year ended

31 December 2019 31 December 2018

(Loss)/profit attributable to equity holders of the parent

(1,231)

29,741

Weighted average number of ordinary shares for the purposes of basic earnings per share

223,958

222,946

Effect of employee share schemes

2,264

1,793

Weighted average number of ordinary shares for the purposes of diluted earnings per share

226,222

224,739

Basic (loss)/earnings per share (pence)

(0.55)

13.34

Diluted (loss)/earnings per share (pence)

(0.54)

13.23

The calculations of adjusted earnings per share (see note 3) were based on the number of shares as above and are shown in the table below:

£000s (Loss)/profit attributable to equity holders of the parent Amortisation of acquired intangibles and transaction-related costs (note 6) Exceptional items (note 7) Tax on amortisation of acquired intangibles, transaction-related costs and exceptional items (note 12) Adjusted profit attributable to equity holders of the parent Adjusted basic earnings per share (pence) Adjusted diluted earnings per share (pence)

Year ended

Year ended

31 December 2019 31 December 2018

(1,231)

29,741

9,106

9,181

23,359

­

(3,396)

(2,205)

27,838 12.43 12.31

36,717 16.47 16.34

121

Report and Accounts 2019

Financial statements

14. INTANGIBLE ASSETS

£000s

Intellectual

Non

Internally

property Customer Order Trade compete

generated

rights relationships backlog names agreements Software software Goodwill

Total

Cost:

At 1 January 2019

3,743

131,606 19,260 9,355

624 3,299

­ 418,507 586,394

Additions

­

4,109

976

87

­

­

9,199 14,827 29,198

Reclassification from tangible assets

­

­

­

­

­

­

2,175

­ 2,175

Exchange differences

(137)

(3,815) (579) (315)

(14) (124)

2 (9,413) (14,395)

At 31 December 2019

3,606

131,900 19,657 9,127

610 3,175 11,376 423,921 603,372

Aggregate amortisation and impairment losses:

At 1 January 2019

3,743

112,228

Amortisation

­

7,443

Impairment

­

­

Exchange differences

(137)

(3,129)

At 31 December 2019

3,606

116,542

Net book value at 31 December 2019

­

15,358

19,149 9,259

836 115

­

­

(556) (313)

19,429 9,061

228

66

624 3,036

­

208

­

­

(14)

(118)

610 3,126

­ 52,656 200,695

84

­ 8,686

­ 19,806 19,806

1

(272) (4,538)

85 72,190 224,649

­

49 11,291 351,731 378,723

£000s

Intellectual property Customer rights relationships

Non Order Trade compete backlog names agreements Software Goodwill

Total

Cost:

At 1 January 2018

3,563

132,916 20,478 9,566

603 3,224 419,041 589,391

Additions

­

­

­

­

­

­

319

319

122

Disposals

­

(2,130) (1,274) (271)

­

­

­ (3,675)

Exchange differences

180

820

56

60

21

75

(853)

359

At 31 December 2018

3,743

131,606 19,260 9,355

624 3,299 418,507 586,394

Aggregate amortisation and impairment losses:

At 1 January 2018

3,563

105,071

Amortisation

­

8,527

Disposals

­

(2,130)

Exchange differences

180

760

At 31 December 2018

3,743

112,228

Net book value at 31 December 2018

­

19,378

20,133 222
(1,274) 68
19,149

9,420 50
(271) 60
9,259

111

96

603 2,626 52,245 193,661

­

345

­ 9,144

­

­

­ (3,675)

21

65

411 1,565

624 3,036 52,656 200,695

­

263 365,851 385,699

Customer relationships relate to assets acquired in business combinations since 2008 and have remaining useful lives of 1-10 years.

Goodwill
The Group tests annually for impairment or when there are any impairment triggers. The determination of whether or not goodwill has been impaired requires an estimate to be made of the value in use of the CGU Groups to which goodwill has been allocated.

The value in use calculation includes estimates about the future financial performance of the CGUs. In all cases the approved budget for the following financial year forms the basis for the cash flow projections for a CGU. The cash flow projections in the four financial years following the budget year reflect management's expectations of the medium-term operating performance of the CGU and the growth prospects in the CGU's market. Thereafter, a perpetuity is applied.

Key assumptions
The key assumptions in the value in use calculations are the discount rates applied, the growth rates and margins assumed over the forecast period.

Discount rate applied
The discount rate applied to a CGU represents a pre-tax rate that reflects the market assessment of the time value of money at the end of the reporting period and the risks specific to the CGU. The Group bases its estimate for the pre-tax discount rate on its weighted average cost of capital (WACC). The inputs to this calculation are a combination of market, industry and company specific data.

Report and Accounts 2019

Financial statements

Growth rates
The growth rates applied reflect management's judgement regarding the potential future performance of the business. The medium term comprises the years 2021 to 2024. The average real growth rate used during this period is 3% relative to budgeted performance, although particular years may be higher or lower than this rate reflecting market conditions.

The long-term growth rate applied to the perpetuity calculations was between -2.0% and 2.5% per annum (2018: -2.0% and 2.5%) reflecting the average long-term EBIT growth rates of the economies in which the CGUs are based and our assessment of the longer term prospects of these businesses.

The assumptions used for the Groups of CGUs are as follows:

Consulting (UK and Ireland) Services (UK) Services (NL) Norway North America AAP Energy

Pre-tax discount rate

2019

2018

10.7%

11.6%

11.2%

12.2%

12.4%

13.9%

10.8%

12.1%

11.0%

12.3%

12.9%

14.2%

14.2%

15.4%

Medium-term growth rate

2019

2018

3.0%

3.0%

3.0%

3.0%

3.0%

3.0%

3.0%

3.0%

3.0%

3.0%

3.0%

3.0%

3.0%

3.0%

Long-term growth rate

2019

2018

2.1%-2.5% 2.1% - 2.5%

2.1%

2.1%

2.0%

2.0%

2.3%

2.3%

2.3%

2.3%

2.5%

2.5%

(2.0%)

(2.0%)

Summary of results
The Group has recognised an impairment charge of £19,806,000 against the goodwill allocated to the AAP CGU group. AAP performance was well below budget in the first half of the year and goodwill was tested for impairment at that time. The conclusion at the interim was that the goodwill was not impaired as the Group expected AAP performance to improve in the second half and over the forecast period. Whilst performance has improved in the second half, and our budgets show that the CGU group is expected to grow in 2020 and beyond, performance is not as good as previously expected. The Board has considered the prospects of and uncertainty in this business and while improved performance in 2020 is still expected, the medium-term performance is less certain than at the last review. This is due to the combination of market, economic and political risk.

We remain committed to the Australian market and our activities in Australia are fully aligned with and support our strategic objectives.

All other CGUs were tested for impairment and no impairment charges were identified. 123
Sensitivity of results to changes in estimates
The Group's CGU groups all have headroom except for AAP which has no headroom. Aside from AAP, the Group does not consider the changes in estimates that would result in material adjustment to the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities in 2019 to be reasonably possible.

The valuation of goodwill allocated to the AAP CGU group is most sensitive to the achievement of the 2020 budget. Budgets comprise forecasts of revenue, staff costs and overheads based on current and anticipated market conditions that have been considered and approved by the Board. Whilst we are able to manage staff costs, direct costs and overheads, the revenue projections are inherently uncertain due to the short-term nature of our order book and Australian market conditions which remain fragile.

Consequently, further underperformance against budget in 2020 is possible which could lead to an additional reduction in the carrying value of this CGU. It is also reasonably possible that AAP exceeds its budget if market conditions allow.

A 50% underperformance against budget would generate an additional impairment charge of up to £34 million. For 2020 we consider it reasonably possible that AAP could suffer an additional impairment charge of up to £34 million if market conditions worsen significantly. Headroom for this CGU group is currently £nil.

Goodwill acquired in a business combination is allocated at acquisition to the Groups of CGUs that are expected to benefit from that business combination. The carrying amount of goodwill has been allocated as follows:

£000s Consulting (UK and Ireland) Services (UK) Services (Netherlands) Norway North America AAP Energy

As at

As at

31 December 2019 31 December 2018

112,230

114,021

50,095

50,095

9,798

10,106

31,164

32,897

40,516

42,142

70,895

81,229

37,033

35,361

351,731

365,851

Report and Accounts 2019

Financial statements

15. PROPERTY, PLANT AND EQUIPMENT

£000s Cost: At 1 January 2019 Additions Additions through acquisition Disposals Transfers Reclassification to intangible assets Exchange differences At 31 December 2019
Depreciation: At 1 January 2019 Charge for the year Disposals Exchange differences At 31 December 2019 Net book value at 31 December 2019

Freehold land and buildings

Alterations to leasehold
premises

10,755 23 ­ ­ ­ ­
(562) 10,216

6,372 565 ­
(1,107) 1,034
­ (235) 6,629

3,638 229 ­
(174) 3,693 6,523

4,273 857
(1,096) (138) 3,896
2,733

Motor vehicles

Fixtures, fittings,
IT and equipment

3,517 375 ­ (724) ­ ­ (102)
3,066

78,548 12,229
37 (10,147) (1,034) (2,175)
(1,765) 75,693

2,305 467 (707) (57)
2,008 1,058

56,971 7,714 (9,858) (1,120)
53,707 21,986

Total
99,192 13,192
37 (11,978)
­ (2,175) (2,664) 95,604
67,187 9,267 (11,661) (1,489) 63,304 32,300

124

£000s

Cost:

At 1 January 2018

Additions

Disposals

Transfers

Exchange differences

At 31 December 2018

Freehold land and buildings

Alterations to leasehold
premises

10,628 16 ­ ­
111 10,755

6,656 426 (774) 142 (78)
6,372

Motor vehicles

Fixtures, fittings,
IT and equipment

3,284 622 (289) ­ (100)
3,517

72,660 11,123 (4,570)
(142) (523) 78,548

Total
93,228 12,187 (5,633)
­ (590) 99,192

Depreciation: At 1 January 2018 Charge for the year Disposals Transfers Exchange differences At 31 December 2018 Net book value at 31 December 2018

3,371 234 ­ ­ 33
3,638 7,117

4,163 829 (771) 102 (50)
4,273 2,099

2,207 450 (289) ­ (63)
2,305 1,212

55,143 6,743 (4,312) (102) (501)
56,971 21,577

64,884 8,256 (5,372) ­ (581)
67,187 32,005

Report and Accounts 2019

Financial statements

16. LEASES
The Group applied IFRS 16 `Leases' from 1 January 2019 and the impact of the adoption is disclosed in note 32.

£000s i. Right-of-use assets At 1 January 2019 Additions Depreciation Remeasurements Derecognition Exchange differences As at 31 December 2019

Properties
40,646 8,124
(7,958) 1,092 (207) (934) 40,763

Vehicles
3,968 1,794 (1,774)
(31) (33) (132) 3,792

Office equipment
242 254 (249)
2 (22) (16) 211

Total
44,856 10,172 (9,981) 1,063
(262) (1,082) 44,766

£000s

As at 31 December 2019

ii. Lease liabilities

The maturity profile of the Group's lease liabilities based on contractual undiscounted cash flows:

Less than one year

11,728

One to five years

32,418

More than five years

11,771

Total undiscounted lease liabilities at 31 December 2019

55,917

Lease liabilities included in the balance sheet:

Current

10,011

Non-current

39,784

Total

49,795

125

£000s iii. Amounts recognised in profit or loss Depreciation on right-of-use assets Interest expense on lease liabilities Expense relating to short-term leases Expense relating to low value assets

Year ended 31 December 2019
9,981 1,885 2,663
12

£000s iv. Amounts recognised in statement of cash flows Total cash outflow for leases

Year ended 31 December 2019
9,240
9,240

17. SUBSIDIARIES
The Group consists of RPS Group Plc (the parent company incorporated in the UK) and its subsidiaries. A list of the Group's subsidiaries, including the name, country of incorporation and proportion of ownership interests is given in Note 6 to the Parent Company's financial statements.

Report and Accounts 2019

Financial statements

18. TRADE AND OTHER RECEIVABLES
£000s Trade receivables Contract assets Prepayments Other receivables

As at

As at

31 December 2019 31 December 2018

95,822

106,509

45,626

44,907

10,914

10,406

4,628

3,961

156,990

165,783

Trade receivables and contract assets net of provision for impairment are shown below.
£000s Trade receivables Provision for impairment Trade receivables net

As at

As at

31 December 2019 31 December 2018

98,794

111,735

(2,972)

(5,226)

95,822

106,509

£000s Contract assets Provision for impairment Contract assets net

As at

As at

31 December 2019 31 December 2018

50,948

51,531

(5,322)

(6,624)

45,626

44,907

All amounts shown under trade and other receivables fall due within one year.

The carrying value of trade and other receivables is considered a reasonable approximation of fair value due to their short-term nature and the provisions for impairment recorded against them. The individually impaired balances mainly relate to items under discussion with customers.

Certain trade receivables are past due but have not been impaired. These relate to customers where we have no concerns over the

126

recovery of the amount due. The age of financial assets past due but not impaired is as follows:

£000s Not more than three months past due More than three months past due

As at

As at

31 December 2019 31 December 2018

11,308

10,462

7,937

9,582

19,245

20,044

No interest is charged on overdue receivables. At the year end the Group's debtor days were 52 (2018: 50).

Report and Accounts 2019

Financial statements

Movements in impairment:

£000s As at 1 January 2019 Impairment charge Reversal of provisions Receivables written off during the year as uncollectible Exchange differences As at 31 December 2019

Trade receivables 5,226 1,591 (2,461) (1,339) (45) 2,972

Contract assets 6,624 2,361 (2,254) (1,311) (98) 5,322

Total 11,850
3,952 (4,715) (2,650)
(143) 8,294



As at 1 January 2018

4,847

5,756

10,603

Increase in provision on adoption of IFRS 9

353

296

649

Impairment charge

2,285

3,646

5,931

Reversal of provisions

(1,634)

(980)

(2,614)

Receivables written off during the year as uncollectible

(621)

(2,082)

(2,703)

Exchange differences

(4)

(12)

(16)

As at 31 December 2018

5,226

6,624

11,850

The carrying amounts of the Group's trade and other receivables are denominated as follows:

£000s UK Pound Sterling

As at

As at

31 December 2019 31 December 2018

62,585

65,220

US Dollar Euro Australian Dollar

32,185 26,833 21,129

31,847 24,677 25,576

Canadian Dollar

1,841

4,296

Norwegian Krone Malaysian Ringitt Other

8,389

11,977

127

3,286

1,544

742

646

156,990

165,783

The maximum exposure to credit risk at the reporting date is £152,362,000 (2018: £161,822,000).

The concentration of credit risk is limited as the customer base is large and unrelated.

The impact on revenue of projects where work was undertaken in 2018 but related revenue recognised in 2019 was immaterial.

19. TRADE AND OTHER PAYABLES

£000s Trade payables Accruals Contract liabilities Creditors for taxation and social security Other payables

As at

As at

31 December 2019 31 December 2018

26,331

33,210

36,946

38,015

21,116

22,931

15,767

18,385

4,626

5,373

104,786

117,914

All amounts shown under trade and other payables fall due for payment within one year. The carrying values of trade and other payables are considered to be a reasonable approximation of fair value due to the short-term nature of these liabilities.

The revenue recognised in the year that was included in contract liabilities in the previous year was £22,931,000.

Report and Accounts 2019

Financial statements

20. BORROWINGS
£000s Bank loans US loan notes Bank overdraft Total bank loan, notes and overdrafts Arrangement fees Net bank debt Leases Total borrowings

As at

As at

31 December 2019 31 December 2018

55,400

32,800

55,719

56,751

1,361

2,581

112,480

92,132

(654)

(271)

111,826

91,861

49,795

­

161,621

91,861

£000s The bank loan, notes and overdrafts are repayable as follows: Amounts due for settlement within 12 months Amount due between one and two years In the third to fifth years inclusive

As at

As at

31 December 2019 31 December 2018

1,361 55,719 55,400 112,480

2,581 32,800 56,751 92,132

The principal features of the Group's borrowings are as follows:

(i) An uncommitted £3,000,000 bank overdraft facility, repayable on demand.

(ii) An uncommitted Australian Dollar denominated overdraft facility of AUD 1,500,000 repayable on demand.

(iii)The Group has one principal bank facility: a multicurrency revolving credit facility of £100,000,000 with Lloyds Bank plc, HSBC

Bank plc and NatWest Bank plc, expiring in 2022. The facility includes an accordion feature whereby the Group may request an

128

additional facility up to £60,000,000, subject to lender approval. Term loans drawn under this facility carry interest fixed for the

term of the loan equal to LIBOR (or the currency equivalent) plus a margin determined by reference to the leverage of the Group.

There were loans drawn totalling £55,400,000 at 31 December 2019 (2018: £32,800,000).

The facility is guaranteed by the Company and certain subsidiaries but no security over the Group's assets exists.

(iv)In September 2014 the Group issued seven year non-amortising US private placement notes of $34,070,000 and £30,000,000 with fixed interest chargeable at 3.84% and 3.98% respectively, that are repayable in September 2021. The notes are guaranteed by the Company and certain subsidiaries but no security over the Group's assets exists.

The carrying amounts of short-term borrowings approximate their fair values, as the impact of discounting is not significant.

The carrying amounts of our long-term borrowings approximate fair value.

Liquidity risk
The Group has strong cash flow and the funds generated by operating companies are managed on a country basis. The Group also considers its long-term funding requirements as part of the annual business planning cycle.

Loan liquidity risk profile
£000s <1 year 1-2 years >2 but <5 years

As at

As at

31 December 2019 31 December 2018

4,842

5,486

58,623

35,364

56,132

58,151

119,597

99,001

The liquidity risk profile above shows the expected cashflows in respect of the Group's loan facilities comprising payments of capital and interest assuming that the loan balance at year end remains constant until expiry of the facilities and foreign exchange rates remain constant at the rates existing at the year end.

Report and Accounts 2019

Financial statements

21. DEFERRED CONSIDERATION

£000s Amount due within one year Amount due between one and two years Amount due between two and five years Amount due after five years

As at

As at

31 December 2019 31 December 2018

3,105

53

3,004

77

2,255

49

383

123

8,747

302

Deferred consideration relates to payments due to vendors of acquired companies which are due to be made on future anniversaries of the acquisitions.

22. PROVISIONS
Onerous contracts
The provision for onerous contracts related to a vacant property.
Warranty
This provision is in respect of contractual obligations and is expected to be utilised within one to two years.
Dilapidations
The dilapidations provision is in respect of reinstatement obligations related to leasehold properties and will be utilised within ten years.

£000s As at 1 January 2019 Reduction in provision on adoption of IFRS 16 Additional provision in the year Utilised in year Released Exchange difference As at 31 December 2019

Onerous contracts

Warranty Dilapidations

Total

2,263

1,782

2,437

6,482

(2,263)

­

­

(2,263)

129

­

­

382

382

­

(25)

(255)

(280)

­

­

(428)

(428)

­

(25)

(34)

(59)

­

1,732

2,102

3,834

£000s Due as follows: Within one year After more than one year

As at

As at

31 December 2019 31 December 2018

913 2,921 3,834

2,119 4,363 6,482

The carrying value of the provisions disclosed above is a reasonable approximation of their fair value.

Report and Accounts 2019

Financial statements

23. DEFERRED TAXATION

£000s At 1 January 2018 Effect of changes in accounting standards (Charge)/credit to income relating to current year (Charge)/credit to income due to change in tax rates Charge to equity for the year Exchange differences At 31 December 2018 Disclosed within liabilities Disclosed within assets (Charge)/credit to income relating to current year Charge to equity for the year Acquisitions Exchange differences At 31 December 2019 Disclosed within liabilities Disclosed within assets

Property, plant and equipment
timing differences
762
­

Goodwill and
intangible assets

Share

Employment

based

benefits payments

Provisions and other
timing differences

(6,687)

2,821

(132)

(1,792)

­

­

­

116

(32)

327

338

(133)

1,749

Total (5,028)
116
2,249

2
­ (15) 717 285 432
(862)
­ ­ ­ (145) (465) 320

(20)
­ 261 (6,119) (8,351) 2,232
1,212
­ (1,437)
149 (6,195) (5,366)
(829)

(15)
(149) (108) 2,887 419 2,468
(324)
(18) ­
(160) 2,385
497 1,888

­
­ ­ (265) (290) 25
38
­ ­ 3 (224) (231) 7

5

(28)

­ 92 170 1,532 (1,362)

(149) 230 (2,610) (6,405) 3,795

1,185 1,249

­ ­ 352 1,707 (763) 2,470

(18) (1,437)
344 (2,472) (6,328) 3,856

No deferred tax liability is recognised on temporary differences of £3,443,000 (2018: £3,776,000) related to the unremitted earnings

of overseas subsidiaries as the Group is able to control the timing of the reversal of these temporary differences and it is probable that

they will not reverse in the foreseeable future. The amount of tax that would be payable on the unremitted earnings is £393,000

130

(2018: £406,000).

Deferred corporation tax assets and liabilities are offset where there is a legally enforceable right to offset current tax assets against current tax liabilities and when the deferred income taxes relate to the same fiscal authority.

Report and Accounts 2019

Financial statements

24. SHARE CAPITAL
Ordinary shares of 3p each

As at 31 December 2019

Authorised Number

Authorised £000s

240,000,000

7,200

As at 31 December 2018

Authorised Number

Authorised £000s

240,000,000

7,200

Issued and fully paid

Number

Ordinary shares of 3p each: At 1 January Issued under the Share Incentive Plan Issued in respect of the Performance Share Plan Issued in respect of the Bonus Plan Admission fees At 31 December

226,105,296 685,990 320,439 27,687 ­
227,139,412

£000s Share capital

2019
£000s Share premium

Number

6,783 20 10 1 ­
6,814

120,400 982 488 67 ­
121,937

224,817,001 877,492 410,803 ­ ­
226,105,296

2018

£000s

£000s

Share

Share

capital premium

6,745 26 12 ­ ­
6,783

117,790 1,833 786 ­ (9)
120,400

Number Ordinary shares held by the ESOP Trust Ordinary shares held by the SIP Trust

As at 31 December
2019 3,645,018
5,302,292

As at 31 December
2018 3,237,181
4,619,977

The total number of issued and fully paid shares is inclusive of the shares held in the ESOP and SIP Trusts. These shares are deducted

from equity through the EBT reserve. The ESOP Trust has elected to waive any dividend on the unallocated ordinary shares held.

131

The table below shows options outstanding under the Energy Share Option Scheme at 31 December 2019:

Period exercisable 2019 - 2021

Number 50,000

Exercise price (p)
212.01

Report and Accounts 2019

Financial statements

25. DIVIDENDS

£000s Amounts recognised as distributions to equity holders during the year: Final dividend for the year ended 31 December 2018 of 5.08p (2017: 5.08p) per share Interim dividend for the year ended 31 December 2019 of 2.42p (2018: 4.80p) per share

Year ended

Year ended

31 December 2019 31 December 2018

11,406 5,449 16,855

11,358 10,757 22,115

Proposed final dividend for the year ended 31 December 2019 of 2.00p (2018: 5.08p) per share

4,522

11,415

The proposed final dividend for the year ended 31 December 2019 is subject to approval by shareholders at the Annual General Meeting and has not been included as a liability in the financial statements.

26. CONTINGENCIES
From time to time the Group receives claims from clients and suppliers. Some of these result in payments to the claimants by the Group and its insurers. The Board reviews all significant claims at each Board meeting and more regularly if required. The Board is satisfied that the Group has sufficient provisions at the balance sheet date to meet all likely uninsured liabilities.
RPS has notified the US government of potential issues regarding its administration of government contracts and/or projects. We are continuing to identify the implications, if any, of the conduct under review. The impact, if any, is unknown. During 2019 legal fees totalling £1,373,000 were incurred investigating this matter and were presented within exceptional items (note 7). Related to this matter are certain employment claims made against RPS, the outcome of which are also unknown.

27. RELATED PARTY TRANSACTIONS
132 Related parties, following the definitions within IAS 24, are the subsidiary companies, members of the Board, key management personnel and their families. Transactions between the Company and its subsidiaries are on an arms length basis and have been eliminated on consolidation and are not disclosed in this note. The Group considers the Directors to be the key management personnel. There were no transactions within the year in which the Directors had any interest. The Remuneration Committee Report contains details of Board emoluments.

Report and Accounts 2019

Financial statements

28. NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED CASH FLOW STATEMENT

£000s Operating profit Adjustments for: Depreciation of owned assets Depreciation of right-of-use assets Amortisation of intangibles Amortisation of acquired intangible assets Impairment of goodwill Non-cash movement on provisions Share-based payment expense (Profit)/loss on sale of assets EBITDAS Decrease in trade and other receivables Decrease in trade and other payables Cash generated from operations

Year ended

Year ended

31 December 2019 31 December 2018

10,912

44,860

9,267 9,981
84 8,602 19,806
­ 2,707
(93) 61,266 6,358 (12,750) 54,874

8,256 ­ ­
9,144 ­
(461) 2,338
37 64,174
1,964 (5,779) 60,359

Interest paid Interest received Income taxes paid Net cash from operating activities

(5,843) 172
(11,601) 37,602

(3,773) 232
(12,330) 44,488

The table below provides an analysis of net bank borrowings, comprising cash and cash equivalents, interest bearing loans and finance

leases, during the year ended 31 December 2019.

Effect of

At 31 changes in

Prepaid

Lease

At 31

December accounting

arrangement accounting

Foreign December

133

£000s

2018 standards Cash flow

fees adjustments1 exchange

2019

Cash at bank

17,986

­

2,186

­

­

(2,441)

17,731

Overdrafts

(2,581)

­

1,220

­

­

­

(1,361)

Cash and cash equivalents

15,405

­

3,406

­

­

(2,441)

16,370

Bank loans and notes

(89,280)

­

(22,779)

(287)

­

1,881 (110,465)

Net bank debt

(73,875)

­

(19,373)

(287)

­

(560) (94,095)

Leases

­

(49,208)

9,240

­

(10,800)

973

(49,795)

(73,875)

(49,208)

(10,133)

(287)

(10,800)

413 (143,890)

1Includes lease additions, remeasurements and disposals.

£000s

At 31 December 2017

Cash at bank

15,588

Overdrafts

(212)

Cash and cash equivalents

15,376

Bank loans and notes

(96,008)

(80,632)

Prepaid

At

Cash flow arrangement fees Foreign exchange 31 December 2018

2,416

­

(18)

17,986

(2,369)

­

­

(2,581)

47

­

(18)

15,405

8,891

(363)

(1,800)

(89,280)

8,938

(363)

(1,818)

(73,875)

The cash balance at 31 December 2019 includes £1,301,000 (2018: £2,164,000) that is restricted in its use either as security or client deposits.

Report and Accounts 2019

Financial statements

29. DEFINED BENEFIT PENSION SCHEMES
The Group has two defined benefit pension schemes, arising from the acquisition in 2013 of the OEC Group. These schemes are closed to new entrants.
The schemes are administered by a fund that is legally separated from the company. The trustees of the pension fund are required by law to act in the interest of the fund and of all relevant stakeholders in the scheme. The trustees are responsible for the investment policy with regard to the assets of the fund.
Under the plans, the employees are entitled to post-retirement yearly instalments amounting to 66% of pensionable salary on attainment of a retirement age of 67. The pensionable salary is the difference between the current salary of the employee and the state retirement benefit.
The schemes expose the Group to actuarial risks such as: investment risk, interest rate risk, longevity risk and salary risk.
The most recent full actuarial valuations of the plans' assets and present value of the defined benefit liabilities were carried out in November 2018 for the two schemes by a qualified actuary.
The principal assumptions used for the purposes of actuarial valuation were as follows:

Discount rate Expected rate of salary increase Inflation

As at

As at

31 December 2019 31 December 2018

1.80%

2.60%

2.25%

2.75%

2.00%

2.50%

With the exception of the rates of pension increase all principal assumptions are the same for both schemes. The assumed rates of pension increase were 2.0% and 0% (2018: 2.5% and 0%).

The assumed life expectations on retirement at age 65 are:

Years

Retiring today:

Males

134

Females

As at

As at

31 December 2019 31 December 2018

21.8

21.8

25.0

25.0

This is based on Norway's standard mortality table with modifications to reflect expected changes in mortality. Amounts recognised in income in respect of these defined benefit schemes are as follows:

£000s
Current service cost (including tax) Net interest (income)/expense Components of defined benefit costs recognised in profit or loss

Year ended

Year ended

31 December 2019 31 December 2018

203

249

(3)

14

200

263

The service charge for the year has been included in the income statement in administrative expenses. The net interest (income)/ expense has been included within net finance costs.
Amounts recognised in the statement of comprehensive income are as follows:

£000s
Actuarial gains/(losses) arising from: Changes in financial assumptions Movements in payroll tax Derecognition of surplus Remeasurement of the net defined benefit liability

Year ended

Year ended

31 December 2019 31 December 2018

(54)

606

(11)

71

148

­

83

677

Report and Accounts 2019

Financial statements

The amount included in the balance sheet arising from the Group's obligations in respect of its defined benefit retirement benefit schemes is as follows:

£000s Present value of defined benefit obligations Fair value of plan assets
Asset not recognised Net asset/liability arising from defined benefit obligations

As at

As at

31 December 2019 31 December 2018

(2,697)

(4,042)

2,845

4,022

148

(20)

(148)

­

­

(20)

In 2018, the net liability is reported within the consolidated balance sheet within `other payables'. Movements in the present value of defined benefit obligations in the year were as follows:

£000s
Defined benefit obligation at 1 January Current service cost Interest cost Remeasurement (gains)/losses: Actuarial gains arising from changes in financial assumptions Reduction in employer's national insurance liability Exchange differences Benefits paid Defined benefit obligation at 31 December
Movements in the fair value of plan assets in the year were as follows:

Year ended

Year ended

31 December 2019 31 December 2018

4,042

4,389

167

249

102

113

(1,300) (14)
(227) (73)
2,697

(514) (81) (39) (75)
4,042

£000s Plan assets at 1 January

Year ended

Year ended

31 December 2019 31 December 2018

4,022

3,630

135

Remeasurement (gains)/losses:

The return on plan assets (excluding amounts included in net interest expense)

105

99

Actuarial gains arising from changes in financial assumptions

(1,246)

92

Exchange differences

(221)

(5)

Contributions from the employer

266

288

Benefits paid

(73)

(75)

Administration costs

(8)

(7)

Plan assets at 31 December

2,845

4,022

The major categories and fair values of scheme assets at the end of the reporting period were:

Shares Other investments Short term bonds Term bonds Property Total

As at

As at

31 December 2019 31 December 2018

9.7%

11.7%

1.9%

0.9%

12.4%

23.5%

62.6%

54.1%

13.4%

9.8%

100%

100.0%

Reasonably possible changes at the reporting date to one of the actuarial assumptions, holding all other assumptions constant would have affected the defined benefit obligation as follows:

£000s Discount rate (1% movement) Future salary growth (1% movement) Future pension growth (1% movement) Mortality rates (1 year movement)

As at 31 December 2019

Increase

Decrease

(358)

428

92

(86)

355

(23)

(122)

108

Report and Accounts 2019

Financial statements

30. FINANCIAL RISK MANAGEMENT

(a) Capital management
The capital of the Group consists of debt, which includes the borrowings and facilities disclosed in note 20, cash and cash equivalents and equity attributable to equity holders of the parent, comprising issued capital, reserves and retained earnings as disclosed in the consolidated balance sheet. The Group manages its capital to support its strategy. At the interim results, the Group changed its dividend policy. Full year dividends to equal, in total, 40% of adjusted earnings for the financial year.
The borrowings are managed centrally and funds are onward lent to operating subsidiaries as required. The Group has a committed £100 million multi currency revolving credit facility that provides a high degree of flexibility. There are two financial covenants related to this facility; interest cover must be no less than 400% and the leverage ratio of Group net borrowings (including deferred consideration) to EBITDAS adjusted to include the annualised contribution of acquisitions in the year should be no greater than 300%. These covenants are tested regularly and were not breached during the year and have not been since the year end.
Seven year non-amortising notes with principal of £30.0 million and $34.1 million were issued in September 2014 bearing fixed interest at 3.98% and 3.84% per annum, respectively. There are two financial covenants associated with these notes that are the same as for the revolving credit facility above. These loan notes represent the Group's core debt.
The Group's businesses provide a good level of cash generation which helps fund future growth. The Group seeks to minimise borrowings by utilising cash generated by operations that is surplus to the immediate operating needs of the business and an objective is to maintain a minimum level of cash at bank.

(b) Financial instruments
The Group's financial assets comprise cash and trade and other receivables. The Group's financial liabilities comprise borrowings, lease liabilities, deferred consideration and trade and other payables. It is, and has been throughout the period under review, the Group's policy that no trading in financial instruments shall be undertaken.

Fair values
The fair value of the financial assets and liabilities of the Group are considered to be materially equivalent to their book value. The classification of financial instruments is shown in the table below.

£000s
Cash 136
Trade and other receivables
Financial assets

As at

As at

31 December 2019 31 December 2018

17,731

17,986

146,076

156,012

163,807

173,998

Borrowings Lease liabilities Deferred consideration Trade and other payables Financial liabilities

112,480 49,795 8,747 73,211
244,233

91,861 ­
302 84,799 176,962

Interest rate and currency risk are the most significant aspects for the Group in the area of financial instruments. It is exposed to a lesser extent to liquidity risk that is reviewed in note 20. The Board reviews and agrees policies for managing each of these risks and they are summarised below.
(c) Interest rate risk
The Group draws down term loans, typically between one and three months, against its revolving credit facility at fixed rates of interest for the term of the loan. The Group has not entered any contracts to fix interest rates beyond the period of the term loans but will consider doing so if borrowings become significantly larger and longer term. The Group's overdraft bears interest at floating rates. Surplus funds are placed on short-term deposit or held within instant access deposit accounts earning floating rate interest.

Report and Accounts 2019

Financial statements

Interest rate risk and profile of financial liabilities
The interest rate risk profile of the Group's financial liabilities at 31 December was as follows:

Floating rate

Fixed rate Non interest bearing

£000s Sterling Euro Australian Dollar Canadian Dollar US Dollar Norwegian Krone Other At 31 December

2019 56,761
­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ 56,761

2018 31,842
­ ­ ­ ­ 3,400 ­ 35,242

2019 50,112 5,529 19,569 1,589 32,449 4,868
145 114,261

2018 29,868
­ 213
­ 26,814
26 ­
56,921

2019 28,436
6,737 12,523
339 13,434 11,537
205 73,211

2018 33,513
6,588 15,615
4,343 9,978 14,438
324 84,799

2019 135,308
12,266 32,092
1,928 45,883 16,405
351 244,233

Total
2018 95,223
6,588 15,828
4,343 36,792 17,864
324 176,962

The maturity profile of financial liabilities at 31 December was as follows:

Floating rate

Fixed rate

£000s Within one year In one to two years In two to five years Over five years

2019 1,361
­ 55,400
­ 56,761

2018 2,581 32,661
­ ­ 35,242

2019 13,116 67,925 21,775 11,445 114,261

2018 53 77
56,668 123
56,921

Non interest bearing

2019 68,816
1,346 2,117
932 73,211

2018 78,717
3,345 2,129
608 84,799

2019 83,293 69,271 79,292 12,377 244,233

Total
2018 81,351 36,083 58,797
731 176,962

The weighted average interest rate and term for interest bearing financial liabilities is shown below:

Sterling Australian Dollar US Dollar Norwegian Krone Euro Canadian Dollar Other

Fixed and floating rate financial liabilities

Fixed rate financial liabilities

Weighted average period for

Weighted average interest rate %

which rate is fixed ­ months

137

2019 3.2 3.9 3.9 4.0 2.5 4.6 4.4 3.4

2018 3.0 3.5 3.8 2.3 ­ ­ ­ 3.2

2019 44 59 28 65 59 38 66 43

2018 33 34 33 16 ­ ­ ­ 21

Cash balances at year end:
£000s Sterling Euro US Dollar Australian Dollar Canadian Dollar Norwegian Krone Malaysian Ringgit Singapore Dollar Other

As at

As at

31 December 2019 31 December 2018

2,029

261

2,215

2,103

2,393

2,302

3,897

3,837

393

955

5,653

7,044

486

1,069

134

122

531

293

17,731

17,986

The fair value of the forward foreign exchange contracts held at year end was not material.

Report and Accounts 2019

Financial statements

30. FINANCIAL RISK MANAGEMENT CONTINUED
(d) Foreign currency sensitivity
Since the Group hedges the majority of its transactional foreign currency exposures, the sensitivity of the results to transactional foreign currency risk is not material.
(e) Credit risk
It is Group policy, implemented locally, to assess the credit risk of new customers before entering contracts. The Group does not enter into complex derivatives to manage credit risk. The Group's exposure to credit risk is limited to the carrying amount of financial assets recognised at the balance sheet date. The Directors consider the Group's financial assets that are not impaired to be of good credit quality including those that are past due. It is Group policy, implemented locally, that receivables are only written off when there is no reasonable expectation of recovery. This may occur if there is objective evidence of a client's financial difficulty, or if enforcement activity has been unsuccessful. See note 18 for further detail on receivables that are past due. The Group's financial assets are not secured by collateral advanced by counterparties. In respect of trade and other receivables, the Group has a broad range of clients, the largest being government agencies and departments, national water companies, multi-national oil companies or substantial utility companies. Infrequently (and generally for administrative reasons) there may be a build up of unpaid invoices. The Group does not have significant credit risk exposure to any single counterparty or Group of counterparties having similar characteristics.
The credit risk in cash and derivatives is limited because the counterparties are banks with high credit ratings assigned by international credit ratings.

31. SHARE-BASED PAYMENTS
Share scheme costs

£000s

Share Incentive Plan (`SIP')

Performance Share Plan (`PSP')

Executive Long Term Incentive Plan (`ELTIP')

138

Short Term Annual Bonus Plan (`STABP')

Total share scheme costs

A description of each plan is given in accounting policy note 2(f)iii.

Year ended 31 December 2019
1,457 652 414 184
2,707

Year ended 31 December 2018
1,304 640 277 117
2,338

The following tables set out details of material share schemes activity:

SIP
Year of grant 2016 2017 2018 2019

Number outstanding 31 December
2018 612,608
506,496
801,336
­
1,920,440

New grants ­ ­ ­
1,146,438 1,146,438

Releases (572,513)
(23,263) (30,154) (11,406) (637,336)

Forfeits (40,095) (45,916) (75,827) (39,564) (201,402)

Number outstanding 31 December
2019 ­
437,317
695,355
1,095,468
2,228,140

Vesting conditions
3 years 3 years 3 years 3 years

Year of grant 2015 2016 2017 2018

Number outstanding 31 December
2017 463,068
702,879
578,835
­
1,744,782

New grants ­ ­ ­
833,623 833,623

Releases (435,899)
(26,398) (19,352)
(6,555) (488,204)

Forfeits (27,169) (63,873) (52,987) (25,732) (169,761)

Number outstanding 31 December
2018 ­
612,608
506,496
801,336
1,920,440

Vesting conditions
3 years 3 years 3 years 3 years

Report and Accounts 2019

Financial statements

PSP
Year of grant 2009 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019

Number outstanding 31 December
2018 18,292 20,659 27,617 34,697 38,647 76,326 421,302 305,495 429,393
­ 1,372,428

New grants ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­
561,660 561,660

Releases (16,482) ­ ­ ­ ­ (9,071)
(285,315) (8,381) (1,190) ­
(320,439)

Lapses (1,810)
(760) (850) (1,402) (1,032) (3,336) (68,753) (39,776) (21,937) (2,765) (142,421)

Number outstanding 31 December
2019 ­
19,899 26,767 33,295 37,615 63,919 67,234 257,338 406,266 558,895 1,471,228

Vesting conditions
3 years 3 years 3 years 3 years 3 years 1, 2 or 3 years 3 years 3 years 3 years 3 years

Year of grant

Number outstanding 31 December
2017

New grants

Releases

Lapses

Number outstanding 31 December
2018

Vesting conditions

2009

52,543

­

(34,251)

­

18,292

3 years

2011

41,618

­

(20,959)

­

20,659

3 years

2012

45,315

­

(15,147)

(2,551)

27,617

3 years

2013

51,139

­

(15,641)

(801)

34,697

3 years

2014

66,554

­

(24,894)

(3,013)

38,647

3 years

2015

383,118

­

(278,726)

(28,066)

76,326 1, 2 or 3 years

2016 2017

470,080 337,729

­

(13,364)

(35,414)

421,302

3 years

­

(7,821)

(24,413)

305,495

3 years

139

2018

­

431,122

­

(1,729)

429,393

3 years

1,448,096

431,122

(410,803)

(95,987)

1,372,428

SIP

F or the purposes of calculating the fair value of conditional shares awarded under the SIP, the fair value was calculated as the market value of the shares at the date of grant as participants are entitled to receive dividends over the three year holding period.

SIP awards

Fair value at measurement date

120.00p - 292.25p

Weighted fair value

193.47p

Holding period

3 years

The Group assumed a 5% annual lapse rated as at the date of grant for the above schemes and all non-market based performance conditions would be satisfied in full (see accounting policy 2(f)iii).

PSP

For the purposes of calculating the fair value of conditional shares awarded under the PSP, the fair value was calculated as the market value of the shares at the date of grant adjusted to reflect that participants are not entitled to receive dividends over the performance period.

PSP awards

Fair value at measurement date

147.97p - 318.65p

Weighted fair value

199.4p

Weighted average exercise price

184.93p

Holding period

3 years

Expected dividend yield

2.02% - 5.55%

Report and Accounts 2019

Financial statements

32. NEW ACCOUNTING STANDARD
The Group has applied IFRS 16 from 1 January 2019 using the modified retrospective approach under which the cumulative effect is recognised in retained earnings on the date of application. The Group leases offices, equipment and vehicles that are negotiated on an individual basis and contain a wide range of different terms and conditions.
On transition to IFRS 16, the Group has elected not to reassess whether a contract is or contains a lease at the date of initial application and has relied upon the assessment made under IAS 17. In addition, the following practical expedients permitted by the standard have been applied:
- The use of a single discount rate for a portfolio of leases with reasonably similar characteristics.
- Reliance on previous estimates of whether leases are onerous.
- The accounting for operating leases with a remaining life of less than one year as at 1 January 2019 as short-term leases.
- The use of hindsight in determining the lease term where the contract contains options to extend or terminate the lease.
On adoption of IFRS 16, the Group measured the lease liabilities at the present value of the remaining lease payments, discounted using the incremental borrowing rate at 1 January 2019. The weighted average incremental borrowing rate applied was 3.96%. The associated right-of-use assets were measured on a retrospective basis as if the new rules had always been applied. Onerous lease contracts have been adjusted through the right-of-use assets.
The change in accounting policy affected the following items in the consolidated balance sheet on 1 January 2019:

£000s

Right-of-use assets increased by:

44,856

Deferred tax asset increased by:

350

Prepayments reduced by:

482

Accruals reduced by:

1,096

Lease liabilities increased by:

49,208

Provisions reduced by:

2,096

Translation reserve reduced by:

52

Retained earnings reduced by:

1,240

140 A reconciliation of the operating lease commitments at 31 December 2018, disclosed in the 2018 consolidated financial statements, to the lease liability recognised on the transition date is as follows:

£000s Operating lease commitments disclosed as at 31 December 2018 Recognition exemption for short-term leases Recognition exemption for low value assets Adjustments as a result of different treatment of extension and termination options Effect of discounting Lease liability recognised at 1 January 2019

57,075 (2,148)
(19) 1,331 (7,031) 49,208

Of which are:
Current lease liabilities Non-current lease liabilities

8,054 41,154

At 31 December 2018 the Group's total remaining commitments as lessee under non-cancellable operating leases were as follows:

As at 31 December 2018

£000s Within one year In two to five years After five years

Property 11,799 28,871 8,318 48,988

Other 3,519 4,567
1 8,087

Report and Accounts 2019

Financial statements

Impact on alternative performance measures
Adjusted earnings per share decreased by 0.16p for the year ended 31 December 2019 as a result of the adoption of IFRS 16. PBTA decreased by £572,000, operating profit before amortisation increased by £1,313,000 and finance costs increased by £1,885,000.

Segment profit has been disclosed including the effects of IFRS 16 transition. This is consistent with how management reviews the performance of the business. The IFRS 16 adjustments that have been posted to each segment for the year ended 31 December 2019 are as follows:

£000s Energy Consulting - UK and Ireland Services - UK and Netherlands Norway North America AAP Total

Segment profit per note 4 11,069 15,087 10,788 5,964 3,378 6,377 52,663

IFRS 16 adjustment
(83) (514) (111) (129) (172) (263) (1,272)

Segment profit pre IFRS 16 adjustment 10,986 14,573 10,677 5,835 3,206 6,114 51,391

33. ACQUISITIONS
On 1 February 2019 the Group acquired the trade and assets of Corview Pty Ltd, an Australian transport advisory consultancy that is included in the AAP segment. This acquisition further strengthens RPS's deep expertise in the region.
On 30 September 2019 the Group acquired the entire issued share capital Reservoir Imaging Limited, a UK-based seismic data acquisition software services company that will add a new growth area to the Energy segment.
The amounts recognised in respect of identifiable assets acquired and liabilities assumed, the fair value of consideration and the resulting goodwill are as follows:

£000s Intangible assets:
Order book Customer relations Trade names Property, plant and equipment Cash Other assets Other liabilities Net assets acquired Satisfied by: Initial cash consideration Fair value of deferred cash consideration Total consideration Goodwill

Reservoir

141

Corview Imaging Limited

776 3,359
67 29 1,164 57 (1,442) 4,010

200 750
20 8
1,222 860 (627)
2,433

9,756 7,548 17,304 13,294

2,683 1,283 3,966 1,533

The fair values of the net assets are provisional.
The goodwill arising on both acquisitions represents the value of the workforce acquired, potential synergies, future contracts and access to new markets and customers. There is no tax deductible goodwill.

Report and Accounts 2019

Financial statements

33. ACQUISITIONS CONTINUED
The fair value of the receivables acquired and the breakdown between gross receivables and estimated irrecoverable amounts was as follows:

£000s Gross receivables Estimated irrecoverable Fair value of assets acquired

Corview 67 ­ 67

Reservoir Imaging Limited
767 ­
767

The Group incurred acquisition-related costs of £398,000 for Corview and £106,000 for Reservoir Imaging Limited which have been expensed through the consolidated income statement and are included within amortisation of acquired intangibles and transactionrelated costs.
The contribution of Corview and Reservoir Imaging Limited to the Group's results for the year is given below:

£000s Revenue Fees Operating profit before amortisation Operating (loss)/profit

Corview 7,640 5,895 821 (882)

Reservoir Imaging Ltd
641 641 135
64

The pro forma Group revenue and operating profit assuming that the acquisitions had been completed on the first day of the year would have been £614,903,000 and £31,038,000 respectively.
A reconciliation of the goodwill movement in 2019 in respect of the acquisition of Corview is as follows:

£000s

On acquisition

142

Foreign exchange revaluation

As at 31 December 2019

Corview 13,294 (568) 12,726

Reservoir Imaging Limited
1,533 ­
1,533

Report and Accounts 2019

PARENT COMPANY BALANCE SHEET

Financial statements

£000s Fixed assets: Intangible assets Tangible assets Investments
Current assets: Debtors: - due within one year Cash at bank and in hand
Creditors: amounts falling due within one year: Net current assets Total assets less current liabilities

As at

As at

Notes 31 December 2019 31 December 2018

4

11,292

5

1,370

6

341,267

353,929

251 1,541 353,356 355,148

7

48,595

111

48,706

8

42,889

5,817

359,746

50,525 139
50,664 45,733
4,931 360,079

Creditors: Amounts falling due after more than one year Provision for liabilities Net assets

9

110,465

89,280

10

172

152

143

249,109

270,647

Capital and reserves Called up share capital Share premium account Profit and loss account Merger reserve Employee trust shares Other reserve Total shareholders' equity

12

6,814

6,783

12

121,937

120,400

12

65,931

76,664

12

21,256

21,256

12

(10,085)

(9,801)

12

43,256

55,345

249,109

270,647

The loss for the year attributable to the shareholders of the Parent Company and recorded through the accounts of the Parent Company was £7,390,000 (2018 profit: £6,882,000). These financial statements were approved and authorised for issue by the Board on 19 February 2020. The notes on pages 145 to 153 form part of these financial statements. John Douglas, Director Gary Young, Director On behalf of the Board of RPS Group Plc (company number: 2087786).

Report and Accounts 2019

Financial statements

PARENT COMPANY STATEMENT OF CHANGES IN EQUITY

£000s At 1 January 2018 Changes in equity during 2018: Issue of new shares Share-based payment expense Transfer on release of shares Profit and total comprehensive income Reserves transfer on impairment loss (note 6) Dividend paid (note 13) At 31 December 2018

Share capital
6,745

Share premium
117,790

Employee Profit and

Merger

trust

loss

reserve shares account

21,256 (8,602) 83,373

Other reserve 62,989

Total 283,551

38 ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ 6,783

2,610 ­ ­ ­ ­ ­
120,400

­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ 21,256

(1,858) ­
659 ­ ­ ­
(9,801)

(799) 2,338 (659) 6,882 7,644 (22,115) 76,664

­ ­ ­ ­ (7,644) ­ 55,345

(9) 2,338
­ 6,882
­ (22,115) 270,647

Changes in equity during 2019:

Issue of new shares

31

1,537

­ (1,002)

(566)

­

­

Share-based payment expense

­

­

­

­

2,707

­

2,707

Transfer on release of shares

­

­

­

718

(718)

­

­

Loss and total comprehensive expense

­

­

­

­ (7,390)

­ (7,390)

Reserves transfer on impairment loss (note 6)

­

­

­

­ 12,089 (12,089)

­

144

Dividends paid (note 13)

­

­

­

­ (16,855)

­ (16,855)

At 31 December 2019

6,814 121,937 21,256 (10,085) 65,931 43,256 249,109

The notes on pages 145 to 153 form part of these financial statements.

Report and Accounts 2019

Financial statements

NOTES TO THE PARENT COMPANY FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

1. ACCOUNTING POLICIES

RPS Group Plc (the "Company") is a company domiciled in England under the Companies Act. The address of the registered office is given on page 56. The nature of the Company's operations and its principal activities are set out in the strategic report on pages 7 to 48.

Tangible fixed assets
Tangible fixed assets are stated at cost, net of depreciation and any provision for impairment.
Depreciation is provided on all tangible fixed assets at rates calculated to write off the cost, less estimated residual value

has been based on the market value of the shares at the date of grant adjusted to take into account some of the terms and conditions upon which the shares were granted.
Those fair values were charged to the income statement over the relevant

The individual Company financial

of each asset on a straight-line basis over vesting period adjusted to reflect actual

statements have been prepared under

their expected useful lives as follows:

and expected vesting levels.

the historical cost convention, modified to include certain items at fair value, and in accordance with Financial Reporting Standard 102 (FRS 102) issued by the Financial Reporting Council.

Alterations to leasehold premises: Life of lease
Fixtures, fittings, IT and equipment: 3 to 8 years

Taxation
Current tax, including UK corporation tax, is provided at amounts expected to be paid (or recovered) using the tax

The functional and presentational

All tangible fixed assets are expected to

rates and laws that have been enacted

currency of RPS Group Plc is considered

have nil residual value.

or substantively enacted by the balance

to be pounds sterling.

Operating leases

sheet date.

RPS Group Plc meets the definition of a qualifying entity under FRS 102 and has therefore taken advantage of the disclosure exemptions available to it in respect of its financial statements. Exemptions have been taken in relation to share-based payments, financial instruments, presentation

Rentals under operating leases are charged on a straight-line basis over the lease term, even if the payments are not made on such a basis. Benefits received and receivable as an incentive to sign an operating lease are similarly spread on a straight-line basis over the lease term.

Deferred tax is recognised in respect of all timing differences that have originated but not reversed at the balance sheet date where transactions or events that result in an obligation to pay more tax in the future or a right to pay less tax in the future have occurred at the balance sheet date. Timing

145

of a cash flow statement, intra-Group transactions and remuneration of key management personnel.

Foreign currency translation
Foreign currency transactions are translated at the rates ruling when they

differences are differences between the Company's taxable profits and its results as stated in the financial statements that arise from the inclusion of gains

Goodwill
Goodwill arising on the acquisition of businesses, representing any excess of

occurred. Foreign currency monetary assets and liabilities are translated at the rates ruling at the balance sheet date.

and losses in tax assessments in periods different from those in which they are recognised in the financial statements.

the fair value of the consideration given over the fair value of the identifiable assets and liabilities acquired, is capitalised and is written off on a straightline basis over its useful economic life of up to 20 years. Provision is made for

Pension costs
Contributions to the Company's defined contribution pension schemes are charged to the profit and loss account in the year in which they become payable.

Unrelieved tax losses and other deferred tax assets are recognised only to the extent that, on the basis of all available evidence, it can be regarded as more likely than not that there will be suitable taxable profits from which the future

any impairment.
Other intangible assets
Other intangible assets are stated at cost less accumulated amortisation and impairment losses.
Amortisation is charged to the income

Share based employee remuneration
The Company's employees may benefit from a Group operated sharebased payment arrangement. Further information on these arrangements is in other accounting policies to the

reversal of the underlying timing differences can be deducted.
Deferred tax is measured using the tax rates and laws that have been enacted or substantively enacted by the balance sheet date that are expected to apply to the reversal of the timing difference.

statement on a straight-line basis over their estimated useful lives as follows:

Software

10 years

Valuation of investments
Investments held as fixed assets are stated at cost, less any provision for impairment in value.

consolidated financial statements (2(f)(iii)). The fair value of equity settled awards for share-based payments is determined at grant and expensed straight-line over the period from grant to the date of earliest unconditional exercise.
The Group has calculated the fair market value of options using a binomial model and for whole share awards the fair value

Where items recognised in other comprehensive income or equity are chargeable to or deductible for tax purposes, the resulting current or deferred tax expense or income is presented in the same component of comprehensive income or equity as the transaction or other event that resulted in the tax expense or income.

Report and Accounts 2019

Financial statements

1. ACCOUNTING POLICIES CONTINUED

Employee Share Trusts
The assets, income and expenditure of the SIP and Employee Benefit Trust are incorporated into the Company's financial statements.
The Trusts are used to issue shares under the Group's share schemes, as described on page 110. Cash is loaned to the Trust and then used to subscribe for shares in the Company.
Financial instruments
Disclosures on financial instruments have not been included in the Company's financial statements as its consolidated financial statements include appropriate disclosures.

i Financial assets Trade debtors, other debtors and amounts due from subsidiary undertakings are financial assets that are recognised at fair value on inception and are subsequently carried at amortised cost. They are subject to impairment tests whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that their carrying value may not be recoverable. Impairment losses are taken to the profit and loss account as incurred.
ii Financial liabilities Trade creditors and other creditors including bank loans are financial liabilities that are recognised at fair value on inception and are subsequently carried at amortised cost.

2. CRITICAL ACCOUNTING JUDGEMENTS AND KEY SOURCES OF ESTIMATION UNCERTAINTY

In the course of preparing the financial

The ongoing economic uncertainty in the

statements, no judgements have been

UK associated with Brexit was considered

made in the process of applying the

for the investment values in the UK.

Company's accounting policies, other

than those involving estimations,

The US business underperformed against

that have had a significant effect

budget in 2019 and whilst not probable, it

146

on the amounts recognised in the financial statements.

is possible that further underperformance may occur in 2020 if expenditure by our

clients reduces. Our US business may

Sources of estimation uncertainty
In applying the Company's accounting policies various transactions and balances

exceed budget if market conditions allow. An underperformance against budget may lead to an impairment of this asset.

are valued using estimates or assumptions. The investment value associated with

Should these estimates or assumptions

the US business at 31 December 2019

prove incorrect, there may be an impact

was £88,383,000.

on the following year's financial statements. The only source of estimation uncertainty at the end of 2019, that has a significant risk of resulting in a material adjustment to the carrying amounts of

No impairment was recorded against the investment value associated with the Australia business and the carrying value at 31 December 2019 was £75,613,000.

assets and liabilities during 2020, relates

to the testing for impairment of the

Company's investments.

The Company performs an annual impairment review on the valuation of the investment. The recoverable amounts of each investment have been determined from value in use calculations and these calculations include estimates about the future financial performance based on budgets and forecasts, medium and longterm growth rates, discount rates and the markets in which the investments operate.

Report and Accounts 2019

Financial statements

3. PROFIT ATTRIBUTABLE TO SHAREHOLDERS
No profit and loss account is disclosed by the Parent Company as allowed by Section 408 of the Companies Act 2006. The remuneration of the auditors for the statutory audit of the Company was £65,000 (2018: £50,000). The average number of employees of the Company during the year, including Directors, was 160 (2018: 141).

4. INTANGIBLE ASSETS
£000s Cost At 1 January 2019 Additions Reclassification frm tangible assets At 31 December 2019 Amortisation At 1 January 2019 Charge for the year At 31 December 2019 Net book value at 31 December 2019 Net book value at 31 December 2018

Goodwill
2,134 ­ ­
2,134
1,883 66
1,949 185 251

Software
­ 10,200
924 11,124
­ 17 17 11,107
­

Total
2,134 10,200
924 13,258
1,883 83
1,966 11,292
251

5. TANGIBLE ASSETS
£000s Cost or valuation At 1 January 2019 Additions Disposals Reclassification to intangible assets At 31 December 2019 Depreciation At 1 January 2019 Charge for the year Disposals At 31 December 2019 Net book value at 31 December 2019 Net book value at 31 December 2018

Fixtures,

Alterations

fittings,

to leasehold

IT and

147

premises

equipment

Total

599

8,310

8,909

55

1,170

1,225

­

(36)

(36)

­

(924)

(924)

654

8,520

9,174

505

6,863

7,368

48

424

472

­

(36)

(36)

553

7,251

7,804

101

1,269

1,370

94

1,447

1,541

Report and Accounts 2019

Financial statements

6. INVESTMENTS
£000s Subsidiary undertakings Cost At beginning and end of year

2019 455,670

2018 455,670

Provisions At beginning of year Impairment At end of year Net book value at end of year

102,314 12,089 114,403 341,267

94,670 7,644
102,314 353,356

The Group's investment in its US business was impaired by £12,089,000 (2018: £7,644,000) and this was recorded through the profit and loss account. The impact on the profit and loss reserve is offset by a transfer of the same amount from the other reserve. The other reserve represents profits previously recognised in a group reorganisation involving the US business.
Subsidiary undertakings
The principal activity of the majority of our trading subsidiaries is the provision of consulting services.
The following were the subsidiaries during the year. All subsidiaries are held 100% by RPS Group Plc with the exception of Delphi Group Asia PTE Limited where 85% of the ordinary share capital is held.
Shares are held directly by RPS Group Plc except where marked by an asterisk where they are held by a subsidiary undertaking.

Registered Office Registered Office

Country of registration and operation

Country of registration and operation

148

Australia

Canada

1 ECL DM Pty Ltd

*

3 Petroleum Institute for Continuing Education Ltd

*

1 ECL Drilling Management Pty Limited

*

3 Boyd Exploration Consultants Ltd

*

1 ECL Pty Ltd

*

3 Maverick Land Consultants 2012 Ltd

*

1 Everything Infrastructure Consulting Pty Ltd

*

3 RPS Canada Ltd

*

1 Everything Infrastructure Group Pty Ltd

*

3 RPS Energy Canada Ltd

*

1 Intelligent Infrastructure Pty Ltd

*

4 Canadian GaiaTech, B.C. ULC

*

1 RPS APASA Pty Ltd 1 RPS Advisory Services Pty Ltd 1 RPS Aquaterra Pty Ltd 1 RPS Australia East Pty Ltd 1 RPS Australia West Pty Ltd 1 RPS Consultants Pty Ltd 1 RPS ECOS Pty Ltd 1 RPS Energy Pty Ltd 1 RPS Energy Services Pty Ltd 1 RPS Environment and Planning Pty Ltd 1 RPS Harper Somers O'Sullivan Pty Ltd 1 RPS Manidis Roberts Pty Ltd 1 RPS AAP Consulting Pty Ltd 1 Rudall Blanchard Associates Pty Limited 1 Troy Ikoda Australasia Pty Ltd 1 Whelans Corporation Pty Limited 1 Whelans Insites Pty Limited

*

England

*

5 Aquaterra International Ltd

*

*

5 Aquaterra UK Limited

*

*

5 Basicshare Limited

*

5 Burks Green & Partners Limited

*

5 Cambrian Consultants America Limited

*

*

5 Cambrian Consultants Limited

*

*

5 CgMs Holdings Limited

*

*

5 CgMs Limited

*

*

5 Clear Environmental Consultants Limited

*

*

5 DBK Partners Limited

*

*

5 ECL Group Limited

*

5 ECL Resources Management Limited

*

*

5 ECL Technology Limited

*

*

5 Emulous Group Limited

*

5 Emulous Ltd

*

5 Energy Innovations Limited

*

Brazil 2 RPS Consultores do Brasil Ltda

5 Exploration Consultants Limited

*

5 Flow Control (Water Conservation) Limited

*

5 Geocon Group Services Limited

Report and Accounts 2019

Registered Office Registered Office

Financial statements

Country of registration and operation

Country of registration and operation

5 Geophysical Consultants Limited

*

Gibraltar

5 Geophysical Safety Resources Limited 5 Hydrosearch Associates Limited 5 Ichron Limited 5 Isochrone Holdings Limited 5 Knowledge Reservoir (UK) Ltd 5 Martindale Holdings Limited 5 Nautilus (SEAA) Limited

*

7 Geocon Asia Limited

*

*

Ireland

8 RPS Consulting Engineers Limited

*

*

8 RPS Engineering Services Limited

*

*

8 RPS Environmental Consultancy Limited

*

8 RPS Group Limited

*

5 Nautilus Limited 5 Net Admin Limited

*

8 RPS MMA Limited

*

*

8 RPS Planning & Environment Limited

*

5 Nigel Moor Associates plc 5 Oil Experience Limited 5 Paras Consulting Limited 5 Paras Limited 5 Probablistic Risk Assessments Limited

*

8 RPS Properties Limited

*

*

*

Malaysia

*

9 Cambrian Consultants Asia Sdn. Bhd

*

10 Knowledge Reservoir Geoscience & Engineering Sdn. Bhd *

5 Quad Engineering Limited

*

11 RPS Consultants Sdn Bhd

*

5 Reservoir Imaging Limited

*

5 R W Gregory Limited 5 RPS Business Healthcare Limited

Mexico 12 Cambrian Consultants CC America, Inc S.de R.L. de C.V. *

5 RPS Chapman Warren Limited

*

5 RPS Consultants Ltd

*

Mongolia

5 RPS Consulting Services Limited

13 Aquaterra East Asia LLC

*

5 RPS Design Ltd

5 RPS Ecoscope Limited

Netherlands

5 RPS Energy Consultants Limited 5 RPS Energy Limited 5 RPS Energy Services Limited 5 RPS Environmental Management Limited 5 RPS Finance AAP Limited 5 RPS Group US Holdings Limited 5 RPS Occupational Health Limited 5 RPS Laboratories Limited 5 RPS Mountainheath Limited

14 RPS advies-en ingenieursbureau BV 15 RPS Analyse BV 14 RPS BV 14 RPS Detachering BV

New Zealand

*

16 RPS Consultants NZ Limited

*

Northern Ireland

* *
* 149
*

5 RPS Planning & Development Limited

17 RPS Ireland Limited

*

5 RPS Timetrax Limited

*

5 RPS Trustees Limited

Norway

5 RPS US Holdings Limited

*

18 Delphi AS

*

5 RPS Utilities Limited

9 Knowledge Reservoir AS

*

5 Rudall Blanchard Associates Group Limited

*

9 Knowledge Reservoir Holding AS

*

5 Rudall Blanchard Associates Limited

*

19 Metier OEC AS

*

5 Safety and Reliability Consultants Limited

20 RPS Norway AS

*

5 Scott Pickford Limited

*

20 RPS Group AS

5 Sherwood House Properties Limited 5 SRC (Consultants) Limited 5 Town Planning Consultancy Limited 5 TPK Consulting Limited 5 Troy Ikoda Limited 5 Troy-Ikoda Management Limited

*

*

Oman

21 Knowledge Reservoir LLC (Oman)

*

*

Papua New Guinea

*

22 Point Project Management (PNG) Ltd

*

5 Utility Technical Services Limited

5 WTW & Associates Limited

Scotland

5 X-IPEC Limited

*

23 OceanFix International Limited

*

24 RPS Health in Business Limited

*

Germany

6 Metier Academy GmbH

*

Singapore

25 Delphi Group Asia PTE Limited

*

Report and Accounts 2019

Financial statements

6. INVESTMENTS CONTINUED

Registered Office Registered Office

Country of registration and operation
Sweden 26 Metier AB 26 Metier Academy AB
USA 27 APA USA, Inc 27 Espey Consultants, Inc. 27 GaiaTech Holdings, Inc

Country of registration and operation

27 GaiaTech Canada, Inc

*

27 Houston Geoscan Inc

*

*

27 Hydrosearch USA Inc

*

*

28 RPS Infrastructure Inc

*

27 Knowledge Reservoir Group Inc

27 RPS America Group Inc

*

*

27 RPS Americas Inc

*

*

27 RPS Group, Inc.

*

*

Registered Offices

1 520 Wickham Street, Fortitude Valley, Queensland 4006, Australia

14 Elektronicaweg 2, 2628 XG Delft, The Netherlands

2 Av. Almirante Barroso 91, Rio de Janeiro, Rio De Janeiro 20031--005, Brazil
3 1200, 700 - 2nd Street SW, Calgary, Alberta, TP2 4V5, Canada

15 Minervum 7002, 4817, ZL Breda, The Netherlands
16 50 Customhouse Quay, Wellington Central, Wellington, 6011, New Zealand

4 1300-777 ST Dunsmuir Vancouver, British Columbia V7Y1K2 Canada

17 Elmwood House, 74 Boucher Road, Belfast, BT12 6RZ

5 20 Western Avenue, Milton Park, Abingdon, Oxfordshire OX14 4SH

18 Engelsminnegata, 24, 4008 Stavanger, Norway

6 Frankfurt am Main, Gashaftsanschrift, Marketstrasse 4460388

19 Hoffsveien 70C, 0377 Oslo, Norway

Frankfurt am Main, Germany

20 Hovfaret 10, 0275 Oslo, Norway

150

7 Line Group Limited, 57/63 Line Wall Road, Gilbraltar 8 West Pier Business Campus, Old Dunleary Road, Dunlaoghaire,

21 Al-Kulieah Street, Al-Khuwair 17/2, Building No.741, Way No. 4508 Muscat, Oman

Co Dublin, Republic of Ireland

22 2nd Floor, Brian Bell Plaza, Turumu Street, Boroko, NCD,

9 Level 11-2 Faber Imperial Court, Jalan Sultan Ismail 50250, Kuala

Papua New Guinea

Lumpur, Malaysia

23 9 Queens Road, Aberdeen, AB15 4YL

10 Welhavens Road 5, 4319 Sandines, Sandines, Norway

24 Unit 1, Ratho Park, Station Road, Edinburgh, EH28 8QQ

11 Suite 11-13A, Level 11, Wisma UOA II, Jalan Pinang, 50450 Kuala Lumpur. Malaysia

25 Paya Lebar Road 60, 40 Singapore - Hougang, Singapore - Singapore

12 Avenida Paseo de la Reforma No. 404, Pisa 6 - Despacho 602, CoL Juarez, Mexico City, Mexico, FED DISTR. 06600

26 Drottninggatan 71, C, 111 36, Stockholm, Sweden 27 20405 Tomball Parkway, Suite 200, Houston, Texas 77070, USA

13 701 San Business Centre, 8th Khoroo, Sukhbaatar, Ulaanbaatar, Mongolia

28 575 North Dairy Ashford, Suite 700, Houston, Texas 77079, USA

Report and Accounts 2019

Financial statements

7. DEBTORS

£000s Amounts falling due within one year: Amounts due from subsidiary undertakings Corporation tax receivable Other debtors Prepayments

As at

As at

31 December 2019 31 December 2018

36,478 4,000 3,299 4,818 48,595

42,665 2,032 2,729 3,099
50,525

Amounts due from subsidiary undertakings include short-term loans of £33,850,000 that incur interest at rates of between 1.33% and 4.67%. All other amounts are unsecured, interest free and repayable on demand.

8. CREDITORS ­ AMOUNTS FALLING DUE WITHIN ONE YEAR

£000s Borrowings Trade creditors Amounts due to subsidiary undertakings Other creditors Accruals

As at

As at

31 December 2019 31 December 2018

1,361

2,581

2,549

3,270

34,386

36,646

630

501

3,963

2,735

42,889

45,733

Amounts due to subsidiary undertakings include short-term loans of £27,565,000 that incur interest at rates of between 1.13% and 4.47%. All other amounts are unsecured, interest free and repayable on demand.
151

9. CREDITORS ­ AMOUNTS DUE AFTER MORE THAN ONE YEAR

£000s Borrowings: Bank loans US loan notes Arrangement fees

As at

As at

31 December 2019 31 December 2018

55,400 55,719
(654) 110,465

32,800 56,751
(271) 89,280

Due as follows: Amount due between one and two years In the third to fifth years inclusive Arrangement fee previously settled
Details of borrowings are disclosed in note 20 to the consolidated financial statements.

55,719 55,400
(654) 110,465

32,800 56,751
(271) 89,280

Report and Accounts 2019

Financial statements
10. PROVISION FOR LIABILITIES
£000s As at 1 January 2019 Additional provision in the year Utilised in the year As at 31 December 2019
The provisions relate to property and dilapidations provisions. The total provision is expected to be utilised as follows:
£000s Within one year After more than one year
11. DEFERRED TAXATION
The movement on deferred taxation in the year was as follows:
£000s Net asset at beginning of year Credit/(charge) to income for the year Net asset at year end 152 The deferred taxation balances comprise:
£000s Short-term timing differences Depreciation in excess of capital allowances Deferred tax asset Deferred tax is included within other debtors in the balance sheet.

Total 152 24 (4) 172

As at

As at

31 December 2019 31 December 2018

51

4

121

148

172

152

As at

As at

31 December 2019 31 December 2018

198

257

91

(59)

289

198

As at

As at

31 December 2019 31 December 2018

163

27

126

171

289

198

Report and Accounts 2019

Financial statements

12. SHARE CAPITAL AND RESERVES

Ordinary shares of 3p each At 1 January 2019 At 31 December 2019

Number

Authorised Value £000s

240,000,000 240,000,000

7,200 7,200

Allotted and fully paid

Value

Number

£000s

226,105,286 227,139,412

6,783 6,814

Full details of the share capital of the Company are disclosed in note 24 to the consolidated financial statements.

The Company's reserves are as follows:

Share premiumPremium on shares issued in excess of nominal value, other than on shares issued in respect of acquisitions when merger relief is taken.

Profit and loss account Cumulative net gains and losses recognised in the profit and loss account and statement of changes in equity.

Merger reserve

Premium on shares issued in respect of acquisitions when merger relief is taken.

Employee trust shares Own shares held by the SIP and Employee Benefit trusts.

Other reserves

Non-distributable profit generated on Group reconstruction.

13. DIVIDENDS
Details of dividends paid by the Company are disclosed in note 25 of the consolidated financial statements.

14. COMMITMENTS UNDER OPERATING LEASES

153

Total future minimum lease payments under non-cancellable operating leases are as follows:

Land and buildings

Other

£000s Within one year Between one and five years

31 December 2019 31 December 2018 31 December 2019 31 December 2018

16

20

629

834

­

20

662

874

16

40

1,291

1,708

15. DIRECTORS' INTERESTS IN TRANSACTIONS
There were no transactions during the year in which the Directors had any interest.

Report and Accounts 2019

Financial statements

FIVE YEAR SUMMARY

£000s Revenue Fee income PBTA Net bank debt Net assets Cash generated from operating activities Average number of employees Dividend per share Adjusted basic EPS Adjusted diluted EPS

2019 612,599 556,500
37,306 (94,095) 348,537 54,874
4,974 4.42p 12.43p 12.31p

2018 637,383 574,157
50,162 (73,875) 377,572 60,359
5,556 9.88p
16.47p 16.34p

The Five Year Summary does not form part of the audited financial statements.

2017 630,636 562,320
53,941 (80,632) 369,784 63,511
5,340 9.88p
17.13p 17.01p

2016 594,471 534,296
50,704 (83,419) 411,307 78,253
5,099 9.74p
16.60p 16.51p

2015 566,972 506,110
51,795 (78,779) 364,490 92,628
5,054 9.74p
16.57p 16.47p

154

Report and Accounts 2019

This page has been left blank intentionally

Contact:
RPS Group Plc 20 Western Avenue, Milton Park Abingdon, Oxon OX14 4SH T +44 (0)1235 863206
Registered in England No. 2087786
rpsgroup.com

