REPORT AND ACCOUNTS
2018
rpsgroup.com

Our story

OUR STORY

Founded in 1970, RPS is a leading global professional services firm of 5,600 people.

Operating in 125 countries, working across six continents we define, design and manage projects that create shared value to a complex, urbanising and resource-scarce world.

We work across six sectors: property, energy, transport, water, resources, defence and government.

Our services span twelve clusters: project and program management; design and development; water services; environment; advisory and management consulting; exploration and development; planning and approvals; health, safety and risk; oceans and coastal; laboratories; training and communication and creative services.

We stand out for our clients by using deep expertise

2

to solve problems that matter. Delivering on our

promise of making complex easy.

Report and Accounts 2018

CONTENTS

Performance highlights

4

Financial headlines

5

Strategic report

7

Chairman's statement

8

Chief Executive's statement

10

Our promise

16

Building deep expertise since 1970

17

Our business model

18

Our digital transformation

20

Strong leadership and global reach

22

Financial review

24

Risk and risk management

27

People

31

A great place to do great work

32

Corporate social responsibility

35

People

36

Health and safety

36

Reportable accident rates

36

Business relationships

37

Environmental management and climate change

37

Greenhouse gas reporting

38

Responsible re-branding

39

Our partnership with Tree Aid

40

Report of the Directors

43

The Board

44

Corporate governance

51

Chairman's introduction

52

Annual report

54

Nomination committee report

59

Audit committee report

61

Remuneration committee report

64

Annual report on remuneration

67

Financial statements

81

Contents 3
Report and Accounts 2018

Performance highlights

PERFORMANCE HIGHLIGHTS

STRENGTHENED LEADERSHIP

Completed Board renewal Group Leadership Team (GLT) structure finalised Established Global Senior Leadership community

A GREAT PLACE TO DO GREAT WORK

New appraisal and development framework for all staff Global incentive scheme for senior leaders First ever global employee survey

TELLING OUR STORY BETTER

4

AND CONNECTING OUR BRAND

Launched new visual identity, brand ethos and website Digital transformation underway Global technology roll-out

SEGMENT ACHIEVEMENTS

ENERGY
CONSULTING UK AND IRELAND SERVICES UK AND NETHERLANDS
NORWAY
NORTH AMERICA
AUSTRALIA ASIA PACIFIC

Expanded our capabilities in renewables, in particular offshore wind
Appointed to support Highways England's six-year program for work in the North of England
Integrated drainage planning to reduce flooding for Anglian Water
Assigned project management for Norway's largest water project, New Water Supply to Oslo Texas Engineering Excellence Gold medal award for Critical Infrastructure Repairs
Acquisition of Corview, a leading transport advisory consultancy

Report and Accounts 2018

Financial headlines

FINANCIAL HEADLINES

Revenue (Бm)

2018
637.4

2017
630.6

Variation %
1

Fee income1

(Бm)

574.2 562.3 2

PBTA1

(Бm)

50.2 53.9 (7)

5

Statutory profit/ (loss) before tax
(Бm)

41.0

(1.6) >100

Adjusted earnings per share (diluted)1 (p) (Бm)

16.34

17.01

(4)

Total dividend

per share (p) (Бm)

9.88 9.88 Г

(1) Alternative Performance Measures are used consistently throughout the Report and Accounts. These include PBTA, fee income, items prefaced "adjusted" such as adjusted EPS, segment profit, underlying profit, underlying operating profit, amounts labelled "at constant currency", EBITDAS, conversion of profit into cash, net bank borrowings and leverage. For further details of their purpose, definition and reconciliation for the equivalent statutory measures see note 3 to the financial statements.
Report and Accounts 2018

Our purpose
OUR PURPOSE
We create shared value by solving problems that matter to a complex, urbanising and resource-scarce world.
Our purpose reflects our commitment to creating shared value for our people, investors and clients. It reinforces our undertaking to challenge industry norms to solve the problems of a modern world.
6
CHALLENGING THE NORM Specialist consultants deploy drones to deliver lightweight wireless sensors via biodegradable darts to gather vital survey data while ensuring human interference in delicate ecosystems is kept to a minimum.

Report and Accounts 2018

Image courtesy of Total

Strategic report
STRATEGIC 7 REPORT
Report and Accounts 2018

Strategic report
CHAIRMAN'S STATEMENT
"We are making significant progress transforming our business into a highly focused consulting and services organisation where we strive to make complex easy for our clients."

Ken Lever Chairman

A year of change - investing to realise

Drivers of growth

8

our potential

In this Annual Report John Douglas explains how

During the year our Chief Executive, John Douglas

our industry has consolidated and sets out the

has led considerable change at RPS. We have greater competitive positioning of RPS. First and foremost,

clarity about our markets and our offerings, deeper we are a people business and so our success is

understanding of how our clients and our people

predicated on investing in our people and offering

view us, re-defined how we are organised and how

them development in their careers so that we can

we present ourselves to our markets and clients and retain their skill, talent and knowledge within our

gained greater insight into our purpose and culture. organisation. Although RPS offers a diverse array of

services, the markets we primarily address are those

The Group Leadership Team is now complete and

impacted by the demands of population growth such

has the right people to provide the business, market as energy, water, infrastructure, transport and the

and functional leadership: bringing together internal environment. All these markets should provide good

talent and external hires. This cohesion is being felt long-term growth prospects for our business that is

across the organisation as colleagues work more

likely to be in excess of global GDP. We are also seeing

collectively and share good practice.

the increasing impact of technology in our markets, in

our clients' businesses and in our own business and

The investments we are making will drive sustainable we are responding appropriately.

growth in the value of our business into the future.

Inevitably the cost of these investments had a short Board support for the strategy

term impact on the Group's profit performance

which we have seen in the 2018 results with some

The Board has been closely involved with the Group

continuing effect into 2019.

Leadership Team to develop the strategy for the Group

and what is required for implementation. The time is

right to make the necessary investments. The market

opportunity is clear, and our depth of expertise

and digital capability gives us substantial potential

Report and Accounts 2018

Strategic report

to grow. Our strong cash flows mean that we are well positioned for organic growth and growth by value accretive acquisitions.
People need to know who we are, what we do and where we do it. We have a good story to tell. We are committed to leveraging our global capabilities across multiple pockets of excellence to consistently deliver market-leading service. We are aware of the challenge of achieving year on year growth. Acquisitions in the past have disguised this challenge. Our investment in our identity, technology and people will position us to take advantage of the growing markets where we operate.
Returns to shareholders
Last year we stated our intention to retain the dividend at its current level for the foreseeable future so that future earnings growth will provide a more appropriate earnings dividend cover. For 2018 the final dividend is recommended to be 5.08 pence resulting in an unchanged dividend in line with the stated policy.

Remuneration Committee. Catherine will succeed Robert as Chairman of the Remuneration Committee and Liz Peace who joined the Board in 2017 will become Senior Independent Non-Executive Director.
Our Company Secretary Nick Rowe retired at the end of December after ten years with the Group and has been replaced by David Gormley who has held a series of roles as Company Secretary of UK listed businesses.
The Board wishes to thank Robert and Nick for their dedicated service to the Group over the years.
Behaving responsibly
We work with our clients to help them deliver sustainable project outcomes that have minimal impact on the local environment. Responsibility is integral to our agreed purpose and behaviours. The Board is delighted to be continuing its commitment to Tree Aid.
Our people

The Board is disappointed with the share price

In a year of repositioning and change I have been

performance in 2018 and believe there is a disconnect very impressed by the energy of our people and how

9

between the share price and the intrinsic value. The positively they have responded.

price at the start of the year was 272 pence and it

ended the year at 137 pence representing a decline of I would like to thank all our employees and associates

50 per cent compared to decline in the All-Share Index for pushing the boundaries of what is possible for

of 13 per cent over that period. At the date of writing clients, for engaging with the change process we have

this, the share price had improved to 171 pence.

embarked on, for getting involved in the conversation

The Board's focus is to drive growth in the long-term on the direction in which we are taking the business

intrinsic equity value of the business. It is the view

and for delivering for our clients, every day.

of the Board that over time the value benefit from

the necessary overdue investments will be driven by We recognise the talents of individuals and look to

the sustainable growth in the business which should create the most inclusive working environment that

ultimately be reflected in an improving share price, as we can. We are proud of our gender ratios on the

the discount against the intrinsic value narrows.

Board and on our Group Leadership Team. We are

working hard to address gender balance in general

Composition of the Board

across the organisation.

We are delighted that during the year Michael McKelvy and Catherine Glickman joined the Board. Michael is the Chief Executive of Gilbane in the United States and has experience of our markets and our business. Catherine has a successful career as a human resources leader.
Robert Miller-Bakewell will have been on the Board for nine years at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting. Accordingly, Robert will step down from the Board and from his roles as Senior Independent Non-Executive Director and Chairman of the

A renewed focus
As our new brand states, RPS is completely focused on making complex easy and delivering market leading results for our clients, our people and our shareholders. While the Board is very positive about the progress we are making, the progress must be reflected in our share price and much remains to be done to get to where we want to be. The Board is united in its support for the strategy and is completely focused on maintaining the pace of change and to benefit from the opportunities available.

Report and Accounts 2018

Strategic report

10

Report and Accounts 2018

John Douglas Chief Executive

Strategic report

CHIEF EXECUTIVE'S STATEMENT
A year of strong fundamentals, significant change, real opportunity and progress.

Investing to accelerate growth

As I reflect on my first full year as Chief Executive,

to capitalise on the opportunity our scale gives us.

2018 has been a year of good progress for RPS.

We are large enough to solve complex problems and

small enough to be easy to work with. Good organic

Since 1970, RPS has grown into a global team of

growth and margins do not lie solely in the domain of

5,600 creative professionals and service providers

large companies.

and has established itself as an industry leader,

operating in 125 countries across six continents.

In 2018, RPS refined its business model and global

We solve problems that matter to a complex,

structure. We restructured into six segments and

urbanising and resource scarce world. It's a

identified six sectors and 12 service clusters to reflect

heritage we are very proud of.

the truly global nature of the business and to further

enable our people to meet the requirements of our

Trading conditions were good in 2018 with Energy

clients. This new way of describing our model allows

11

and Norway, in particular, performing strongly.

us to showcase our deep expertise, innovation,

We are making targeted investment to make a

technology and easily and intuitively connect clients

good business better and have shown strong

to all of our highly specialised consultants, service

progress against our strategic objectives.

providers and thought leaders. This re-organisation

also gives greater transparency in our reporting,

Staff turnover remains too high, but we are confident allowing people to see more clearly how different

that actions underway will bring it closer to industry

parts of the business are performing.

norms. Staff turnover and investment have dampened

returns a little in this year. The business remains very

profitable with good margins and strong cash flow. This

strong cash flow allows us to reinvest in the business

while still paying attractive dividends.

We expect our investment in people, brand and connectivity to show a very positive return. RPS is a good business that can get better. Ongoing urbanisation and resource scarcity will ensure ongoing demand for the services we provide.
Renewed focus
Over the last 12 months we have made a clear shift from thinking of ourselves as a conglomerate of small consulting and services businesses, to being a mid-sized global firm that uses its combined expertise to deliver professional services around the world. We are good at what we do and we want to be the best mid-sized company in our industry. We want

We are a business rooted in great fundamentals
A good and improving safety record Г but no complacency
Profitable with healthy margins
High levels of cash conversion and good cash flows
A strong balance sheet and supportive lenders
A diversified client-base
Quality people

Report and Accounts 2018

Strategic report
Five clear priorities

Investing in people and reducing staff turnover

1

Tell our story better for staff, clients and investors

Exploit revenue synergies where they exist Г but not where they don't. Define the sectors and services

2

that will be our core focus
12

3

Revitalise the Energy business to better exploit opportunities in oil and gas, and in broader energy markets

Grow our business organically and through selective acquisition

4

5

Report and Accounts 2018

Strategic report

Strong fundamentals
On 21st February we announced a set of results that, overall, showed a business with a financial performance that was in-line with revised expectations. Our results showed steady revenue and fee growth, reduced debt, comfortable leverage levels, a strategic acquisition and strong dividend yield.

Revenue (Бm) Fee income (Бm) PBTA (Бm) Adjusted diluted earnings per share (p) Total dividend per share (p) Statutory profit/ (loss) before tax (Бm) Statutory diluted earnings/(loss) per share (p)

FY 2018 637.4 574.2 50.2 16.34 9.88 41.0 13.23p

FY 2017 630.6 562.3 53.9 17.01 9.88 (1.6) (7.47)p

FY 2017 at constant currency 619.9 552.6 52.8 16.65 9.88 (2.4) (7.66)p

Trading performance and our markets

It's a mixed picture for our segments in 2018.

ии Norway traded well but felt the impact of further integration costs; particularly the

ии Our reinvigorated Energy segment benefited

cost of combining premises.

from increased activity in oil and gas markets with

13

ии Exploration and Development, Oceans and Coastal, In North America we did not capitalise on

and Advisory and Management posting good fee

the buoyant market conditions. We suffered

and profit growth.

recruitment and retention issues resulting in

modest profit levels compared to prior years.

ии Consulting Г UK & Ireland: Our Ireland and Northern Ireland businesses performed well where public infrastructure spending is strong. Although

ии In AAP the project management business continues to benefit from an active defence

market conditions in the rest of the UK were

sector and grew fees. Retention issues within our

generally strong we have been held back by staff

Advisory Services business saw a reduced profit

recruitment and retention issues in London and,

margin. Investment in support functions in the

to a lesser extent, Birmingham. This is our most

region supressed margins in the short term

Brexit exposed segment. We have not seen any

but will assist in improving retention in the

shortening of order books but there is increasing

longer term.

client concern.

A year of notable progress and

ии Services Г UK & Netherlands: Our UK Water businesses delivered a strong performance with

pragmatic investment

fees growing strongly. The business benefitted

In the last 12 months we have made significant

from poor weather in the first half of the year.

progress in respect of our five strategic priorities.

Some of the growth was in profitable but

There remains much to do, and we have the right

lower margin contracts. Organic investment in

strategy in place to deliver our growth ambitions.

other areas of the business suppressed overall

As we previously announced, more investment will

performance but is expected to provide additional be made in support of the strategy to drive longer

profits in 2019 and beyond.

term, sustainable growth for the future.

Report and Accounts 2018

Strategic report

ии Reducing staff turnover and developing our staff Г The loss of key staff from recently

ии Revitalising Energy Г Our Energy business is being successfully revitalised. The inclusion of

acquired businesses affected business

all our directly exposed oil and gas businesses in

performance this year. Investing in our people is

Energy enables us to provide globally recognised

vital for the long-term health of the business and

consultancy and services to this important global

this has been a priority for the business globally.

market. This, together with the appointment

To lead this critical area of work we appointed a

of a new, experienced management team, has

Group People Director, to deliver a global view of

enabled the reinvigoration of our Energy business

what an organisation like ours should be delivering

in markets that are showing greater levels of

for our people. For the first time in RPS' history,

activity. While much of our activity is still focused

critical people related activities are being looked

on hydrocarbons, we are actively growing into

at from a global perspective. We worked at pace to

renewables. Offshore wind is an opportunity that

deliver some significant milestones, including our

draws heavily on existing RPS services such as

first ever global employee survey, improved career

Ocean and Coastal, Environment and Planning

development pathways, a universal performance

and Approvals.

review process, and a new bonus scheme for

senior leaders that is heavily focused on profits, fee growth and cash collection.

ии Organic growth and selective acquisition Г Our portfolio is diverse which provides resilience

as well as some management challenges.

ии Telling our story better Г defining our brand Г Excellent progress was made with respect to

We continue to evaluate the portfolio but have not identified material value creating divestment

our ambition to tell our story better. In January

opportunities. Our strategy is to build greater

2019 we unveiled a new global brand to best

density within our existing segments, sectors

position the Group for future growth. Informed

and services. We will focus on organic growth,

by an independent client perception audit and

supported by very selective acquisitions. The

comprehensive engagement with employees,

announcement on 4 February 2019 of the

14

along with expert third-party research, the brand

acquisition of Corview in Australia is an example

encapsulates the essence of RPS via three core

of a pre-eminent consultancy joining with us to

concepts: our purpose (why we exist), our promise

add expertise and talent to our existing strong

(what we do) and our behaviours (how we do it).

capabilities in the region. We continue to seek

We also updated our visual identity and have an

acquisitions in all our existing geographies that

excellent new website which reflects our global,

are value creating, that add density to our existing

unified business and effectively communicates RPS'

offerings, and that fit with our culture and brand.

unique value proposition of making complex easy.

Our people have been integral to delivering this

ии Connectivity Г As well as refining our business model, we also finalised our Group Leadership

progress and I would like to thank them for their vision, hard work and dedication in 2018.

Team structure this year. Key appointments,

combining new and existing leaders, have created

a team who provide deep expertise, a global

perspective and strong functional support in a

more collaborative and responsive organisational

structure. Investment in the Group's IT systems

was also required to underpin our strategic

priorities. We appointed a new Chief Information

Officer who will oversee this critical work. A major

component of our investment will be in a global

Enterprise Resource Planning ("ERP") system

that will be developed by the end of 2019, with

deployment completed in 2021.

Report and Accounts 2018

Group prospects
The future for RPS is about being at the forefront of changing market trends, identifying growth opportunities and delivering complex solutions in a way that is easy to understand and implement. Alongside investment in our brand, 2019 will see a continuation of the focus and investment in our people, technology and innovation to build on the deep expertise that our clients have recognised us for and give us a stronger competitive edge in all the markets that we operate in. RPS is pragmatic in its aspirations and we have the capability to utilise the means available to us to achieve our goals and further strengthen the business.
Trading conditions in most of our markets appear satisfactory and supportive of organic growth although necessary investment previously announced will temper performance this year before accelerating growth in future years. The risks associated with Brexit are contained mainly within the Consulting UK and Ireland business and we have seen little impact so far. Against this background, the Board's view of the 2019 outlook for the Group is unchanged and is in line with market expectations. The transition the Group is undertaking is providing a strong foundation to deliver long term shareholder value.

Strategic report 15

Report and Accounts 2018

Strategic report
OUR PROMISE
We have deep expertise in things that matter and we are easy to work with. Our clients trust us and we are respected for our creative thinking. Together we build strong relationships by repeatedly delivering on our promise.
Making complex easy
16

Report and Accounts 2018

ROV Operator Performing an underwater inspection with an ROV (Remotely Operated Vehicle)

Strategic report

BUILDING DEEP EXPERTISE SINCE 1970

2019 Corview
2016 DBK Partners Ltd
2014 Whelans InSites Clear Environmental Consultants Ltd GaiaTech Holdings Inc
CgMs Ltd Point Project Management Pty Ltd
Delphi AS 2012
Manidis Roberts Pty Ltd
2010 Health in Business Ltd Aquaterra Consulting Pty Ltd (AQT) Boyd Exploration Consultants Ltd
2008 Kraan Consulting Holdings BV (Holland)
RW Gregory LLP (UK) WTW & Associates Ltd (UK) Oceanfix International Ltd (UK) Land Management Unit Trust t/a Koltasz Smith (Australia) Rudall Blanchard Associates Group Ltd (Scotland) The Geocet Group LLC (US) Mountainheath Services Ltd (UK)
Paras Ltd (UK) Business and Environmental Communications Ltd (IRL)
2006 Ecos Consulting Pty Ltd (Australia)
Harper Somers O'Sullivan Pty Ltd Thonger Safety Associates (TSA) Basicshare Ltd, and subsidiaries Burks Green & Partners Ltd and
Martindale Holdings Ltd Geoprojects Canada Ltd (inc. parent company TLP Holdings Ltd)
2004 Troy-Ikoda Ltd Mason Richards Partnership Bowman Bishaw Gorham Flow Control Water Conservation Ltd Cambrian Consultants Ltd Kirk McClure Morton Ingenieursbureau BCC BV European Safety & Health Consultants BV

2020 2010

2000 TPK Consulting Ltd UK
Chapman Warren Ltd Environmental Engineering Ltd & NES Ltd
BKH Advies Bureau
1998 Utility Technical Services Ltd

1995

Safety & Reliability Consultants

Inspectorate Casella

1991

WJ Cairns & Partners

1989 Brian Clouston & Partners

2000
1990 1980

2018 Straight Talk

2015 Klotz Associates Metier Holdings AS Iris Environmental Everything Infrastructure Group

2013

Petroleum Institute for Continuing Education

Knowledge Reservoir

Asia Pacific Applied Science Associates

HMA Land Services Ltd

2011

Ichron Ltd

Evans Hamilton Inc OEC Group

Nautilus Ltd

Ark Occupational Health

Terranean

Esprey Consultants Inc

Applied Science Associates Inc

2009 Conics Pty Ltd Mary Murphy Associates Ltd

2007

APA Petroleum Engineering Inc

Safety & Risk Practice Pty Ltd

Geophysical Consultants Ltd

Geocon Group Services Ltd

MetOcean Engineers Pty Ltd (Aus)

The Scotia Group Inc. (US)

17

Netadmin Ltd

JD Consulting (US) LP

Oil Experience Ltd

2005 Business Healthcare Ltd ECL Group Ltd

2003

Hydrosearch Associates Ltd

Woods Warren Ltd

Emulous Group Ltd

2002

KCA Associates

Indepth Surveys Ltd

JR Stansfield & Associates Ltd

Probablistic Risk Assessments Ltd

MC O'Sullivan & Co. Ltd

Ecoscope Applied Ecologists

2001

Ashdown Environmental Ltd

Town Planning Consultancy Ltd

ELS BV t/a ASCOR

McHugh Consultants Ltd

1999

Isochrone Holdings Ltd

H2 Operations Ltd

All Water Technology Ltd

1997 BAK Nederland Beheer BV

1994 Nigel Moor & Associates Plc Thomson Laboratories Ltd Paleo Services Ltd

FOUNDED IN 1970

Report and Accounts 2018

Strategic report

OUR BUSINESS MODEL
Delivering solutions to clients that position them to navigate a complex urbanising, resource-scarce world coupled with increasingly complex legislation and regulation.

The primary objective of the Group is to deliver

A significant proportion of our work is undertaken

value for shareholders by growing profit and

at a local level, although increasingly, the

generating cash. Our business has been purposefully breadth of our international expertise is being

created from a hybrid of sectors, services and

brought to bear on specific projects to provide

geographies to deliver a responsive approach to our comprehensive solutions globally. The types

clients in the markets that we operate in. The key

of projects that the Group undertakes are fully

components of the business model through which

described on our website at www.rpsgroup.com.

we achieve this are described below. The strategy

through which the Group will develop its business

Drivers of our business

is described in the Chief Executive's statement.

The demand for our services is underpinned by a need

to deliver solutions to clients that position them to

18

What we do

navigate the complexities they face, whether through

RPS is a leading global firm providing professional

the impact of population growth or an increasingly

services to clients across six sectors: property,

multifaceted legislative and regulatory landscape.

energy, transport, water, resources, defence

These are long term drivers that contribute to:

and government. We define, design and manage

projects that create shared value to a complex, urbanising and resource-scarce world.

ии the continuing need for sustainable development of land and buildings;

We are known and respected for our deep expertise

ии the expanding need to provide adequate infrastructure such as airports, power

across a wide range of services: project and program

stations, public transport, water treatment

management; design and development; water

plants and to deliver energy to market;

services; environment; advisory and management consulting; exploration and development;

ии the requirement to secure adequate supplies of energy and other natural resources; and

planning and approvals; health, safety and risk; oceans and coastal; laboratories; training

ии the need to manage environmental and health and safety risks, including climate change.

and communication and creative services.

Professional staff

An important part of our offering is our project

We create shared value, meaning that the work

management services which help clients

we do solves clients' problems and adds value to

successfully execute their projects in a wide range

their activities as well as our own. We generate

of sectors including infrastructure, buildings

income by selling the specialist skills and output

and construction, defence, oil and gas. We focus

of our professional teams to clients to resolve

on providing cost effective and value-added

their technical problems. The ability to deliver

solutions. We employ professionals across a wide

this breadth of specialist technical expertise and

range of technical disciplines which enables us to

services is therefore dependent on the skills of

service a broad range of clients, small and large,

the professionals we employ. The recruitment,

private and public in many different sectors.

retention and motivation of high calibre employees

are therefore crucial elements of our business.

Report and Accounts 2018

Strategic report

The Group's principal cost is the people it employs and the matching of this cost to the workload within its various business units is also a key component of operations. This is coupled with the careful management of projects to ensure that the Group's profitability is matched by strong cash flow.
Managing and leading to accelerate growth The Group Board has overall responsibility for the stewardship of the Group. At the operational level, the Chief Executive has overall responsibility for the executive management of the Group and is supported by a settled Group Leadership Team which comprises the Chief Executive, Group Finance Director, six segment CEOs, Group People Director, Group Marketing Director and the more recently appointed Chief Information Officer and Group Strategy Director.

250
SERVICES
REFINED TO
12
SERVICE CLUSTERS

IN JULY 2018 THE BOARD MADE THE FOLLOWING CHANGES:

Creation of a global Energy business

made the following organisational changes:

Our business in Norway that provides project and

19

As part of the Board's strategic priority to revitalise

program management is managed by a dedicated

our Energy business, the Group's oil and gas

team and now reports directly to the Group's CEO.

businesses in Australia Asia Pacific (AAP), Norway,

and North America have been brought together

Our business in the UK, Ireland and Netherlands is

with the UK based Energy team to form a global

now being managed as two separate businesses:

team. A new team is in place to lead and manage

the business, which now provides consulting

1. a design and development, planning and

and services to the oil and gas sector globally.

environment, and project management

consulting business in UK and Ireland,

The Board has also changed the name of BNE Г

named `Consulting Г UK and Ireland'; and

North America to `North America'. The Group's

ocean science business, based in the USA, that

2. a water, laboratory, health, safety and

provides services to various sectors including

risk services business in UK and

oil and gas, has extensive collaboration

Netherlands, named `Services

with the Energy segment, but remains

Г UK and Netherlands'.

within the North America business.

Re-organisation of our businesses in Europe

RPS provides a range of consultancy and technical services in the UK, Ireland, Netherlands and Norway. To increase focus and manage the Group's businesses better the Board has

Report and Accounts 2018

Strategic report

OUR DIGITAL TRANSFORMATION

We want to capitalise on current and potential strengths by combining data with digital technologies and our deep expertise to collect, collate, interpret and then disseminate this data to our clients in a way that is easy to understand.

We have assembled a group of digital leaders and work is well underway towards:
иUsing data and digital technologies in progressive ways to enhance client engagement and delivery

Scaling our digital advantage to deliver unique experiences that our clients value has the potential to create multiples of value and to disrupt traditional consulting pricing models.
Our goal is to embed RPS' digital advantage into every part of our business towards delivering self-sustaining, profitable business transformation.

ии Commercialising the untapped value in the data assets we hold to extend our domain expertise into new markets
ии Harnessing technology that complements and augments the services we offer to build new lines of revenue.
Our goal is to create significant value for clients, our people and shareholders as we seek to build the density of our expertise across all markets, multiplied by the power of data and digital technologies.

20

WHAT WE DO: We create shared understanding of complex scenarios in the real world with a digital 3D model in a virtual world.
MAKING COMPLEX EASY: Our 3D modelling services help clients and stakeholders collaborate to develop integrated solutions and communicate complex scenarios.
THE RESULT: We transform complex technical information into accurate, clear visual communications. Our expertise includes rendering, 3D modelling, editing, video capture by drones and technical software development to help our clients communicate with clarity, to build trust and deliver project outcomes with confidence.

DIGITAL 3D MODELLING EXPERTISE

Report and Accounts 2018

Strategic report
21
Marketing Professional Testing out VR capabilities at our service and innovation leadership workshop
Report and Accounts 2018

Strategic report

STRONG LEADERSHIP AND GLOBAL REACH

Group Leadership Team
Effective Integration

Gary Young Group Finance Director

Value creation

Global mindset

John Tompson CEO, Energy

Strategies for growth

Program management

Judith Cottrell Group Strategy Director

Mergers and aquisitions

Liza Kane Group People Director

Paul Aitken
CEO, Services UK & Netherlands

Culture change

Energy and nuclear

Experienced leaders
Oil and gas

Ross Thompson CEO, Australia Asia Pacific

Engineering

John Douglas Chief Executive

Design and

22

innovation

Chantalle Meijer Group Marketing Director
Agility and connectivity

Transformational technology

Kelly Olsen Chief Information Officer

Global agenda setting

John Chubb CEO, Consulting UK & Ireland

Peter Fearn CEO, North America

Halvard Kilde CEO, Norway

Dedicated commitment

SIX SECTORS

12 SERVICE CLUSTERS

Property
Residential Commercial and retail Leisure and tourism Industrial Health and healthcare Education
Resources
Mining Waste

Defence and g overnment services
Defence Security and safety Information and telecommunications
Energy
Oil and gas Renewables Nuclear facilities Power and gas networks Storage

Transport
Roads Rail Aviation Ports
Water
Water management Wastewater Flooding and drainage Groundwater

Project and program management Design and development Water services Environment Advisory andmanagement consulting Training Planning and approvals Health, safety and risk Oceans and coastal Laboratories Exploration and development Communications andcreative services

Report and Accounts 2018

Strategic report
OUR REACH

Energy
Sectors
Energy
Services
Exploration and development Oceans and coastal Advisory and management consulting Training Health, safety and risk Environment Laboratories

Services Г UK & Netherlands
Sectors
Water Property Transport Energy Defence andgovernment services
Services
Water services Design and development Laboratories Health, safety and risk Advisory and management consulting

North America
Sectors
Property Transport Energy Defence and government services Water
Services
Environment Design and development Advisory and management consulting Oceans and coastal

Norway
Sectors
Defence and government services Property Energy
Services
Project and program management Advisory and management consulting Training

Consulting Г UK & Ireland

Sectors

Property

Transport

Energy

23

Water

Defence and government services

Resources

Services

Exploration and development Oceans and coastal Advisory and management consulting Training Health, safety and risk Environment Laboratories

Australia Asia Pacific
Sectors
Energy Transport Defence andgovernment services Property Resources Water
Services
Project and program management Design and development Advisory and management consulting Environment Communications and creative services Planning and approvals Water services

Report and Accounts 2018

Strategic report

FINANCIAL REVIEW

Performance summary

Fee income for 2018 was Б574.2m (2017: Б562.3m, Б552.6m at constant currency), an increase of 4% at constant currency. Our PBTA was Б50.2m (2017: Б53.9m, Б52.8m at constant currency).

The Group's results for the year are summarised in the table below:

Key financial performance metrics Revenue Fee income Operating profit before A1 Operating before A margin PBTA Adjusted diluted earnings per share Amortisation and impairment of intangible assets and transaction related costs

2018
Б637.4m Б574.2m Б54.0m 9.4% Б50.2m 16.34p Б9.2m

2017
Б630.6m Б562.3m Б58.5m 10.4% Б53.9m 17.01p Б55.5m

2017 (constant currency)
Б619.9m Б552.6m Б57.3m 10.4% Б52.8m 16.65p Б55.1m

Statutory reporting

24

Operating profit

PBT

Statutory diluted earnings per share

Б44.9m Б41.0m 13.23p

Б2.9m Б(1.6)m (7.47)p

Б2.1m (Б2.4m) (7.66)p

Note 1 `A' is Amortisation and impairment of acquired intangibles and transaction-related costs.

We believe that PBTA and operating profit before A are more representative measures of performance than statutory measures. By excluding amortisation and impairment of intangible assets and acquisition related costs (`A'), the Board has a clearer view on the performance of the Group and is better able to make operational decisions to support its strategy.

Segment underlying profit was Б64.2m (2017 Б68.2m) with growth in Energy and Norway, whilst Consulting UK & Ireland, North America and AAP suffered from the effects of retention and recruitment challenges. Organic initiatives, yet to produce significant returns, lessened the performance of Services UK & NL. Reorganisation costs were Б1.8m compared to Б1.2m in 2017, the increase mainly due to lease exit costs in Norway of Б0.8m. Unallocated expenses were Б8.4m, compared to Б8.5m in the prior year. In 2018 we invested in Group HR, marketing and IT but incurred no significant costs associated with Board changes as we did in 2017 and bonuses were lower. Operating profit before A was Б54.0m (2017: Б58.5m, Б57.3m at constant currency) at a margin on fees of 9.4% (2017: 10.4%).

Report and Accounts 2018

Strategic report

Net finance costs

Amortisation and impairment of intangible

assets and transaction related costs

Net finance costs were Б3.9m (2017: Б4.5m) reflecting

lower average total net borrowings, comprising net

Amortisation and impairment of intangible assets

bank debt and deferred consideration, in 2018 than in and transaction related costs totalled Б9.2m (2017:

2017. The average total net borrowings in 2018

Б55.5m). Included in this total is goodwill impairment

was Б87.2m (2017: Б98.4m).

of Бnil (2017: Б40.0m related to the impairment of our

oil and gas exposed energy businesses), amortisation

Tax

of acquired intangibles Б9.1m (2017: Б12.8m), and loss

on disposal of business Бnil (2017: Б2.7m).

The effective tax rate for the year on profit before tax,

amortisation of acquired intangibles and transaction Foreign exchange

related costs is 26.8 % (2017 29.6%). The reduction

is mainly due to a decrease in the US Federal tax rate Approximately 67% of underlying operating profit

from 35% to 21% effective from 1 January 2018 and a was derived from operations other than in the UK,

lower level of irrecoverable withholding tax in 2018. mainly in Australia, US, Norway, Netherlands, Ireland

and Canada. The Group's consolidated results are

The income tax expense for the year was Б11.2m

therefore significantly exposed to the effect of

(2017: Б15.1m) on a profit before tax of Б41.0m

exchange rates when translating the results of

(2017: Б1.6m loss). The effective tax rate for the year non-UK operations into sterling.

on profit before tax was 27.4% (2017: 39.2% after

adjustment for the impairment of goodwill which was The profit in 2018 suffered from exchange

not deductible for tax purposes). The 2017 tax rate

movements on the conversion of overseas results.

was higher as it included the impact of the US Federal PBTA in 2018 would have been Б1.3m higher than

tax rate reduction on deferred tax assets relating to reported had 2017 exchange rates been repeated in

the amortisation of goodwill and intangibles.

2018. The PBTA in 2017 would have been Б1.2m lower

than reported if 2018 exchange rates have prevailed

25

EPS

in 2017. Statutory profit in 2017 would have been

Б0.4m lower than reported if 2018 exchange rates

Adjusted diluted EPS was 16.34p (2017: 17.01p, 16.65p prevailed in 2017.

at constant currency), a decrease of 1.9% over last

year at constant currency. The percentage decrease Borrowings and cash flow

is less than the reduction in PBTA mainly due to

the lower effective tax rate on PBTA in the year. The

Net bank borrowings at the year-end were lower at

board consider that adjusted EPS, which is statutory

Б73.9m (31 December 2017: Б80.6m). Net cash from

EPS excluding the amortisation and impairment of

operating activities was Б44.5m (2017: Б43.7m). Our

intangible assets and transaction related costs and

conversion of profit into operating cash was again

the tax thereon provides a more useful indication of

good at 94% (2017: 91%) reflecting our strong focus

performance and trends over time. Statutory diluted on collections. Net cash used in investing activities

EPS was 13.23p (2017: -7.47p).

was Б13.4m (2017: Б21.1m), the reduction due to

lower expenditure on deferred consideration for

acquisitions of Б1.6m (2017: Б12.9m) and higher

net capital expenditure of Б11.7m (2017: Б8.4m).

The amount paid in respect of dividends was Б22.1m

(2017: Б22.0m).

Deferred consideration outstanding at the year-end was Б0.3m (31 December 2017: Б1.8m). Our leverage (being net bank debt plus deferred consideration expressed as a percentage of adjusted EBITDA) at the year end was 1.3x (31 December 2017: 1.3x).

Report and Accounts 2018

Strategic report

Bank facilities

Basis of preparation and new

accounting standards

The Group's main bank facility is a committed

multi-currency revolving credit facility totalling

The financial statements have been prepared in

Б150m which expires in July 2020. Б32.8m was drawn accordance with International Financial Reporting

at the year-end resulting in headroom of Б117.2m.

Standards (IFRS) adopted by the EU and International

The margin payable on the drawn funds is variable

Financial Reporting Standards Interpretations

and is set for the following six months dependent

Committee (IFRS IFRIC) interpretations issued and

on the leverage of the Group at 31 December and

effective at the time of preparing the financial

30 June. The loans drawn at the year-end have

statements. The Group's principal accounting policies

tenors of up to 1 month.

are detailed in note 1 to the accounts on pages 92 and

93. The Group adopted IFRS 9 "Financial instruments"

In 2014, the Group issued 7 year US private placement and IFRS 15 "Revenue" for the first time in 2018. The

notes of $34.1m and Б30.0m that are repayable in

impact of the adoption of these new standards is

September 2021. They are non-amortising and carry disclosed in note 30 to the accounts on page 125.

fixed interest of 3.84% pa and 3.98% pa respectively.

These notes represent the Group's core debt.

The Group will apply IFRS 16 `Leases' from 1 January

2019 and has elected not to restate comparatives on

Dividends

initial adoption. An assessment has been undertaken

of the impact of adopting IFRS 16 based on leases

The total (paid and proposed) dividend for the year

outstanding at 31 December 2018 and the Group

is 9.88p per ordinary share (2017 9.88p) and amounts estimates that lease right of use assets of Б44m

to Б22.1m. The proposed final dividend of 5.08p

and lease liabilities of Б48m will be recognised on

(2017: 5.08p) will be paid on 17 May 2019 to

transition. In addition, lease prepayments of Б0.5m,

shareholders on the register of members at the

lease accruals of Б0.5m and onerous lease provisions

close of business on 23 April 2019 subject to

of Б2.1m will be derecognised on transition. We

26

approval at the Annual General Meeting on

have confirmed with our lenders that bank covenant

1 May 2019.

compliance will be calculated on the basis of IAS 17,

that is pre the application of IFRS 16, until the renewal

Capital structure

of our facilities.

As at 31 December 2018 the Group had shareholders' funds of Б377.6m (31 December 2017: Б369.8m). The Company had shareholders' funds of Б270.6m (2017: Б283.6m) and Б226.1m fully paid ordinary shares in issue at 31 December 2018 (31 December 2017: Б224.8m).

Report and Accounts 2018

Strategic report

RISK AND RISK MANAGEMENT

Risk management

Principal risks

The nature of the activities that the Group undertakes The principal risks to which the Group is exposed, as

and its business model are described on pages 18 to well as the measures taken to achieve their mitigation

19. This gives rise to a range of risks consistent with and in each case any change that has happened in the

a commercial organisation of this type, the principal year, are detailed in the table on the following pages.

risks of which are itemised and explained below. This

explanation encompasses the nature of each risk,

Long term viability

the steps taken to mitigate them and changes in the

magnitude of such risks during the year.

In accordance with the requirements of the UK

Governance Code the Board has assessed the long

The Group's formal system of Risk Management and term viability of the Group. This was done over a

Internal Control and its principal components are

three-year period to March 2022 taking account of the

described on pages 57 to 58. Through the adoption principal risks as well as the Group's current position,

of appropriate controls and related audit this seeks

its strategy and the Board's risk appetite. A three year

to mitigate financial and commercial risks which are period was chosen as it covers the period supported

inherent in the Group's operating processes. Given

by strategic review work undertaken, giving greater

the nature of the Group's activities, however, the

certainty over the forecasting assumptions used.

effective management of risk also requires collective The Board considered cash flow models over that

responsibility and engagement across the business. period based upon a range of assumptions relating

27

The management of risk is not therefore separated

to trading performance, expenditure on acquisitions

from the business and is treated as an integral part

and other outflows including those associated with

of the Group's culture and the way it operates. Our

the principal risks the Group faces Г this modelling

operational teams accordingly consider the risks to included severe but reasonable scenarios (and

which their component businesses are exposed, and reflected the potential impact of a no-deal exit from,

their mitigation, on an ongoing basis and at regular

the EU). Based on this assessment the Directors have

meetings. A structured reporting framework is in

a reasonable expectation that the Group will continue

place to support this activity. This analyses key risks to in operation and be able to meet its liabilities as they

provide clear understanding and enable identification fall due over the period to March 2022. In making

of mitigating actions.

this statement the Directors have also made the key

assumption that the Group's revolving credit facility,

Against the background of reporting from this level, that expires in July 2020, will be renewed in all plausible

the Group Leadership Team oversees the operational market conditions.

management of the key risks to which the Group as

a whole is exposed. Reporting to the Group Board

incorporates the principal risks to which the Group is

exposed and the specific manifestation of those risks

from time to time. In considering and challenging

this information the Group Board undertakes robust

assessment of the principal risks facing the Group

including those that would threaten its business

model, future performance, solvency or liquidity.

This process is integral to consideration of the Group's

Long Term Viability Statement.

Report and Accounts 2018

Strategic report

Economic Environment

RISK Exposure
Changes in the economic environment have historically proved to be the greatest risk to which the Group is exposed. The global financial crisis of 2008 and ensuing recession as well as the collapse of oil prices in 2015/16 both had substantive impact on parts of the Group. Adverse economic changes may cause clients to cancel, postpone or downsize projects as well as increasing risk associated with recovery of debts and work-in-progress.

Mitigation
Exposure to a wide range of markets and geographies serves to mitigate overall risk. As far as practicable, economic conditions affecting our markets are monitored in order that swift action can be taken. The contracted order book is monitored relative to the productive capacity of fee-earning staff and actions taken to match costs with anticipated workload.

Change in the year
Overall economic risks have increased during the year. In line with the stance adopted by the Trump administration in the US, the risks of a significant global trade war have increased. In addition the risk of a `hard-Brexit' and ensuing economic disruption have increased significantly.

Recruitment and Retention of Staff

The Group's ability to manage and service its clients is dependent upon the skills of well-qualified and professional employees. A failure to recruit and retain employees of appropriate calibre will therefore affect our ability to meet client expectations and develop the business. Linked to this, a failure to adequately consider management succession may lead to discontinuity in operations.

The Group retains the key strategic priority of being recognised by its people as being a great place to do great work. This entails the development of an appropriate culture and related management systems. The ongoing work in this area is fully described on pages 32 to 34 the successful completion of which will serve to substantially mitigate overall risk in this area.

The impact of staff loss from aquired businesses was felt in Consulting UK & Ireland, North America and AAP. Our staff turnover rate remained high. The competition for talent in a number of the Group's markets has remained intense. Initiatives taken to mitigate risks in this area will therefore be of continuing importance.

The changes and uncertainties arising The substantial majority of the

Overall risk increased in the year.

from political events may have an

Group's services are provided in

The political uncertainty relating to

impact upon the markets in which

relatively stable and predictable

the terms of the UK's departure from

we operate and the plans of

liberal democracies. In addition

the European Union has increased

Political Events

28

our clients. This may cause the

the factors serving to mitigate

as has the related possibility of a UK

cancellation, postponement or

economic risks also operate in this

General Election and potential change

downsizing of projects.

area whereby the wide range of

of government. Political risks in the

markets and geographies in which we Group's other principal jurisdictions

operate serves to reduce the impact

have not changed substantially

of political change in any particular

although as noted above the risks

region. As far as is practicable,

of a global trade war appear to be

risks in this area are monitored

heightened.

and plans adjusted accordingly.

Business Acquisitions

Well-planned business acquisitions continue to be an important element in support of our strategy. A failure to understand the market conditions affecting an acquired business, to identify acquired liabilities, or to retain and motivate key employees within acquired businesses can all result in a business failing to deliver anticipated profit and cash flow.

The Group's strategy will in general dictate that acquisitions are only made in market areas with which senior management are familiar. Detailed commercial, financial and legal due diligence is undertaken prior to completing any acquisition and clear corporate integration plans are agreed.

There was no change in overall risk in the year. The Group retains considerable acquisition experience and as activity in this area resumes, risks are unlikely to change materially.

Health and Safety

The Group has a legal and moral obligation to ensure the safety of its employees and others whom its activities may affect. A failure to discharge these obligations could expose individuals to risk of injury or other harm as well as leaving the Group liable to related damages, regulatory penalty and reputational harm.

Detailed health and safety policies and procedures are in place throughout the Group and focus on the differing and emerging risks within the Group's various businesses. A structured reporting process is in place to ensure that any incidents are identified and appropriate action taken to investigate and mitigate future risk. The Group's approach to health and safety is described more fully in the Corporate Social Responsibility report on page 36.

There was no overall change during the year. The scope of the Group's activities and the risks they present has not changed in any significant way.

Report and Accounts 2018

Strategic report

Regulatory and Compliance

RISK Exposure
The Group is subject to a range of legal, taxation and regulatory requirements at corporate level and within each of the jurisdictions within which it operates and does business. A failure to comply with these obligations could give rise to financial penalty, regulatory intervention and reputational damage.

Mitigation
Whilst the Group is subject to the corporate law and regulation affecting most groups of its size and complexity, the activities that the Group undertakes are, in general, not subject to industry specific regulation. Overseas projects that may carry elevated risk are scrutinised on a case by case basis. The Group has appropriate internal controls to support regulatory compliance and employs suitably qualified professionals to monitor and manage regulation within its various jurisdictions.

Change in the year
There was no overall change during the year. Whilst the detail of applicable law and regulation will continue to evolve there have been no changes anticipated within the Group's current jurisdictions which are likely to have any material effect upon overall risks in this area. Appropriate processes have been put in place to deal with the impact of GDPR. The range of jurisdictions in which project work is undertaken may change, although will remain subject to scrutiny as highlighted above.

Service Failures

A failure to deliver our services

The Group operates quality control

There was no overall change in

in accordance with contractual

systems many of which are externally the year. The nature of the Group's

obligations may lead to compensatory accredited and which are designed

activities and the environments in

claims against the Group and damage to mitigate the risk of failures. In

which they are conducted have not

to reputation as well as possible loss of addition the Group operates contract changed materially.

future work.

management systems to ensure that

contractual risks are identified, risk

assessed and as far as practicable

mitigated. The Group maintains

professional indemnity insurance

throughout the large majority of its

businesses at a level commensurate

with risks. Subject to applicable policy

limits and excesses this will indemnify

the Group against claims in the large

majority of situations.

29

Financial Risks

An inability to secure adequate funding for the Group will limit the ability to invest in growth. In addition a failure to manage risks related to foreign exchange, interest rates, credit and liquidity could lead to a significant deterioration in the Group's financial position.

The Group has in place a multicurrency revolving credit facility of Б150m provided by Lloyds and HSBC and which expires in 2020. The Group has also issued seven year US private placement notes of US$34m and Б30m repayable in 2021 under a facility provided by Prudential Management
Inc. Funding and investment requirements are monitored by the Group Finance function which also oversees the management of financial risks on a prudent basis and as more fully described in note 28 to the financial statements on page 122.

There was no overall change in the year. The Group has an adequate committed facility until 2020 and will continue to manage financial risks on a prudent basis. The refinancing of this facility is a priority for 2019 although is not expected to present undue difficulty.

Information Technology and Security Risks

A prolonged lack of availability of critical IT systems could cause significant discontinuity in operations. A cyber-related attack on our systems could lead to infection by viruses, loss of personal data and sensitive data, theft or fraud. Either eventuality could lead to operational disruption, affecting our ability to deliver client services, leading to financial loss and reputational damage.

The Group continues to manage its IT systems on a centralised basis with annual planning which incorporates measures designed to maximise reliability and resilience as well as disaster planning. Systems are reviewed and upgraded on a rolling basis. The Group employs a Security Officer and policies, procedures and security measures are reviewed and enhanced on a regular basis. The roll-out of a number of additional measures has commenced during the year including user authentication and device encryption.

There was no overall change in the year. The ongoing program of systems development should serve to improve the resilience and reliability of systems.
Notwithstanding additional measures highlighted above, the level of threat from cyber-attacks of an increasingly sophisticated nature is unlikely to diminish and must be accounted for with responsible forethought.

Report and Accounts 2018

30

People
PEOPLE
31
Report and Accounts 2018

People

PEOPLE

A great place to do great work Г one of our five strategic priorities

Creating the foundations for attracting and retaining the best people

RPS has identified the recruitment and retention of our people as a very high priority across the Group.

Our people are undeniably our greatest asset and have always been the key to our success. We want our teams to experience an environment that engages and inspires them to be their best. We want RPS to be a company where everyone can use their skills and specialist knowledge to make complex easy and solve the problems facing our changing world.

Without the right people in the right place doing the best job they can, we won't realise our full potential. In recognition of this strategic imperative we have established our first Global People Strategy. This can be summed up as making RPS a great place to do great work.
Creating a stimulating and engaging working environment

We inspire our people to deliver
our strategy

We create a high performance
culture and reward accordingly

In 2018 we conducted our inaugural global staff survey because we wanted to hear our employees' views on working life at RPS and for them to identify the issues that need to be put at the heart of our

strategy. Thanks to a fantastic response rate of 80%

we have, for the first time, a detailed picture of what

32

Our organisational structure supports clients and growth

RPS a great place to do great work

We enable our employees to shine and build meaningful
careers

our people are thinking and feeling, and this feedback has underpinned our Global People Strategy. Our action plans have prioritised:

We attract and retain high calibre
talent and offer them flexibility

We create high performing
leadership teams

ии The effectiveness of our senior leaders and how we act more successfully on our people's ideas and opinions
ии Providing clarity on our strategy to build confidence in the direction we are taking
ии Improving levels of understanding of how people are rewarded.

We recognise potential and work in partnership to make the most of opportunity RPS established a new forum in Netherlands called Young RPS in 2018. Young RPS is for every employee under the age of 35. The group shares an online platform to keep in touch with each other, share information and arrange events where they discuss RPS' strategy and their own career development and journey at RPS.
Young RPS held its first meeting in October 2018 following the Senior Leadership Conference: sharing the highlights and priorities presented by John Douglas, Chief Executive. It also held a dedicated career development day in January 2019 to focus on employee career paths.
Report and Accounts 2018

STRONGER TOGETHER
YOUNG RPS NETHERLANDS

People

We are
STRONGER TOGETHER
We are
CONFIDENTLY PRAGMATIC

A newly defined set of organisational behaviours
Our newly created Behaviours, which sit alongside our new Purpose and Promise, form an integral part of how we want people to identify with RPS and will underpin our efforts in making RPS a great place to do great work.
Each element of our brand was created by our people, this is especially true of our behaviours. We know these reflect what our clients like about working with us. They also importantly reflect the best of what our people say we are like to work for.
Our Behaviours
We solve
PROBLEMS THAT MATTER

In 2019 our behaviours will be integrated into our daily working life and form part of the fabric of key initiatives which are aimed at helping our people shine and build meaningful careers at RPS.
Diversity and inclusion As a global firm operating in 125 countries, we're as diverse as the communities and clients we represent. RPS is grounded in the belief that people should be supported to find the right position and that all interactions are based on respect, compassion and fairness. It's a view that our people share: in our global staff survey completed in 2018, 82% agreed that RPS treats employees fairly regardless of their age, gender, race, sexual orientation, disability, religion or beliefs.
RPS has continued to make progress with the female to male ratios at its most senior levels. The Group has committed to a minimum target of 25% of its Board being female. In 2017, this target was met with 33% of the Board being female and in 2018 the percentage was maintained at 33%. The Group Leadership Team, made up of 12 members, was finalised in 2018 and 33% of this group is female.

Male to Female Ratios

33

Winning mindset

Male to Female ratios

We make it
EASY TO CONNECT

Board 9 members
6 men: 3 women
2017: 33% women 2018: 33% women

Our behaviours framework will help guide us operating at our best day, every day.
Our aspiration is that our Behaviours will:
ии Guide all employees on the environment we wish to create
ии Support our diverse collective of people around the globe
ии Guide our employees on the set standards of performance to drive their career
ии Support our leaders in aligning what needs to be achieved and how we do it
ии Drive a stronger culture of innovation ии Provide a strong link between what needs to be
achieved and how we do it
ии Act as a reminder to be more compelling in supporting the communities we impact

Group Leadership Team 12 members
8 men: 4 women
2017: 14% women 2018: 33% women

Report and Accounts 2018

People

Rewarding performance
Starting with developing global reward principles to inform our decisions around reward, we are prioritising the review of our reward offering to our senior leaders. We want to ensure a pay for performance philosophy aligned to robust annual objectives that will provide focus on Absolute Delivery. We are presently reviewing the short-term and long-term incentive offering for leaders across the organisation in readiness for the full year 2019 performance period.
Investment in leadership
This year we have paid particular attention to our global leadership community. We established a global senior leadership group made up of 80 of our senior leaders around the world.

Our staff told us how important understanding the strategy, building confidence in leadership and leaders acting as role models is to them. To help our leaders support their teams in these aspects, we ran a three-day global Senior Leadership Conference for our senior leaders. This was the first time in RPS' history that a global team of this size had gathered to discuss as a community how we wanted to move the business forward. Attendees took part in a range of sessions from strategy updates to exploring, probing and contributing ideas as well as a targeted session investing in their own leadership development.
Our new organisation structure supports clients and growth
To support the restructure of our European businesses, this year we have expanded the breadth of expertise on the Group Leadership Team. We have also appointed functional leaders with global scope and we have also invested in strengthening operational teams around the world.

34

Report and Accounts 2018

Our people seizing the opportunity at our first global senior leadership conference

Corporate Social Responsibility
CORPORATE SOCIAL 35 RESPONSIBILITY
Report and Accounts 2018

Corporate Social Responsibility

CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY

People

Training is focused not only on specific hazards but

also the wider obligations of management. These

Recruitment, retention and motivation of employees activities are overseen by appropriately qualified and

is of vital importance for a professional services

experienced health and safety advisers and systems

organisation and is identified as one of the Group's

are subject to regular audit, both internally and by

principal risks.

external agencies. Where accidents, near-misses or

dangerous occurrences occur these are investigated

This is also reflected as one of the Group's strategic

in order that they are fully understood and appropriate

priorities to be rated by employees as a great place

action can be taken to minimise risk of occurrence.

to do great work. Our Group People Director was

appointed during the year and, working with

Health and Safety performance is monitored at

the Group Leadership Team, has focused on

business and segment level. This incorporates

strengthening our resources and improving human analysis of incidents, dangerous occurrences and

resource practices in pursuit of this priority. A full

near-misses in order that appropriate remedial action

report in relation to this area, including policies in

can be taken where required. As noted above, the

relation to diversity is presented on pages 32 to 34.

Group Board receives and reviews a regular report

which incorporates these elements and any emerging

Health and safety

issues. Any material issues or concerns identified at

Group level are considered by the Chief Executive and

36

We have a moral and legal responsibility to safeguard the Group People Director.

our employees and others affected by our operations

and services. Health and Safety is also recognised

OHSAS 18001 is an internationally recognised

as one the Group's principal risks. The Group sets

standard for health and safety management that is

an overall policy for the management of health

aligned with the ISO 9000 (Quality Management) and

and safety and the Group People Director retains

ISO 14001 (Environmental Management) standards.

general oversight in this area. The Chief Executive

69% (2017: 66%) of employees across the Group work

takes a direct interest in health and safety and

in offices that now have third party accreditation to

discusses performance on a regular basis with

the OHSAS 18001 standard.

business segments. He also reports to the Board on

overall performance and any more serious incidents The reportable accident rate in the year was 0.8

that arise. Operational responsibility, however, lies

accidents per 1,000 employees (2017: 2.1). Accidents

within the Group's operating businesses which are

that do occur most commonly relate to field staff and

closest to and best positioned to manage their

involve manual handling activities, slips and falls.

risks. The nature of these risks is dependent on the

activities of particular businesses and health and

Reportable accident rates

safety systems vary accordingly to ensure that key

areas are addressed. All, however, have in common

Group

2018

2017

clear policies and procedures and appropriate risk

Reportable injuries

5

12

assessment techniques backed by training and clear communication.

Reportable injuries incident rate per 1,000 employees

0.8

2.1

Report and Accounts 2018

Corporate Social Responsibility

Business relationships

Environmental management and

climate change

The Group looks to conduct business relationships in

a transparent and fair manner and correspondingly

As indicated above the Group's greatest contribution

expects its employees to behave in a fashion

to the environment is through its own expertise

consistent with these values. The standards expected and many of the projects with which it is involved.

are specified in codes of conduct to which employees It advises international bodies, governments, local

are required to adhere. Employees are required to be authorities and companies on the improvement

sympathetic to the cultures of and comply with the of environmental performance. Projects include

laws and regulations of the countries in which they

the development of strategies to reduce carbon

operate, as well as giving due regard to the safety

emissions and the adaptation of buildings and

and wellbeing of all project personnel and relevant

infrastructure to anticipate climate change as

local communities. All RPS employees are expected well as the preparation of Environmental Impact

to avoid any personal or professional interests that

Assessments across several sectors. Whilst given the

could conflict with their responsibilities to the Group nature of its activities the Group's direct impact on

and, should such a situation arise, are expected to

the environment is comparatively modest, policies

report it promptly. The Group has a clearly stated and and standards are in place which aim to minimise

zero tolerance policy in relation to acts of bribery and this impact wherever possible. These incorporate

corruption and supports the UN Global Compact and the following:

the UN Convention on Anti-Corruption. No incidents

of bribery or corruption have been identified within the Group's operations.

ии Compliance with all relevant national and regional legislation as a minimum standard

The Group also supports the Universal Declaration

ии Compliance with relevant codes of practice and other requirements such as those specified by

of Human Rights and the International Labour

regulators and our clients

ии Organisation's Declaration on Fundamental Principles

Employment of practical energy efficiency and

and Rights at Work. The Group understands its

waste minimisation measures

37

responsibility to respect the human rights of the communities and workforces with whom it interacts

ии Policies in relation to the purchase and use of vehicles to minimise environmental impact

and employees are expected to conduct themselves in a commensurate manner. In particular RPS

ии Provision of an inter-office IT network together with communications and video

supports the objectives of the Modern Slavery Act and will not tolerate modern slavery or human

ии Conferencing technology in order to reduce business travel (the foregoing is consistent

trafficking within its own supply chain. During the

with the Group's current publicly stated policy

year, the Group having conducted a further review of

in this area).

its supply chain published its second modern slavery

statement. As far as is reasonably ascertainable none To achieve these objectives, appropriate training is

of the Group's activities have directly or indirectly

provided where required to enable activities to be

given rise to the abuse of human rights.

conducted in an environmentally sensitive manner,

and sufficient management resources are allocated

to enable effective implementation of policies. A

number of the Group's operating businesses have

achieved ISO14001, the internationally recognised

environmental management system standard.

During 2018 many of our offices continued to recycle

waste paper, spent toner and ink cartridges, obsolete

computer hardware, printers and mobile phones.

Report and Accounts 2018

Corporate Social Responsibility

RPS is a participating member of the Carbon

Greenhouse gas emissions (tCO2e) are set out in

Disclosure Project to which it provides data

the table below.

on an annual basis.

2017

2018

Greenhouse gas reporting

Scope 1: Direct emissions

9,435

10,466

For the reporting year January 1 Г December 31

Scope 2: Indirect emissions

3,655

3,539

2018 we have used the GHG Protocol Corporate

Total

13,090

14,005

Accounting and Reporting Standard (revised edition)

and emission factors from the 2018 UK Government's The increase in Scope 1 is largely attributable

Conversion Factors for Company Reporting and the to increases in staff numbers and harsh winter

International Energy Agency CO2 Emissions from Fuel temperatures. The decrease in Scope 2 emissions is

Combustion, OECD/IEA, Paris, 2018 for consumption largely attributable to some office rationalisation in

in our international offices. Greenhouse gas emissions parts of the business and decarbonisation of the grid.

are reported using the following parameters to

determine what is included within the reporting

The Group has set a target to reduce per capita office

boundaries in terms of RPS energy consumption.

energy consumption by 2.5% on a five year rolling

average basis. Using this approach the five year rolling

ии Scope 1 Г direct emissions includes any gas data and fuel use for company owned vehicles.

average up to 2017 was 3.34 MWh per capita which decreased to 3.26 MWh per capita for the five year

Fugitive emissions from air conditioning are

rolling average to 2018. This equates to a decrease of

included where it is RPS' responsibility within

2.39% which is just below our target.

the tenanted buildings

The Group's policies and objectives for environmental

ии Scope 2 Г indirect energy emissions includes purchased electricity throughout the

management are reviewed from time to time in the light of changes within the Group's businesses, new

38

company operations.

legislation and emerging practice.

Report and Accounts 2018

Corporate Social Responsibility

RESPONSIBLE RE-BRANDING
A considered and responsible approach to our re-brand
Our commitment to sustainability and ethical good practice have formed the foundation of our re-branding process.
PERSONAL PROTECTIVE EQUIPMENT

Personal Protective Equipment (PPE) is critical to the safety and security of our people and we have a wide range of items that are worn day in day out by thousands of colleagues across the world. One of the biggest challenges of our responsible rebrand was how to minimise waste through out of date PPE. To do this we are working with a global network of recycling groups to dispose of `old-brand' PPE in the best ways possible. This includes shredding hi-vis jackets to manufacture insulation for sustainable building components. In the US we are working with long standing partner Green Standards on a waste diversion programme that will benefit community groups. In the UK wool clothing is being re-woven into new clothing, other materials are being shredded for vehicle insulation and we will achieve zero landfill certification through this process.

DIGITAL BUSINESS CARDS

DUAL-WALL

39

THERMAL WATER BOTTLES

We have switched from paper business cards to digital cards. All 5,600 employees are now able to create their own digital business card. As well as making good business sense in reducing cost, we are also dramatically reducing our consumption of paper, saving half a million A4 sheets of paper in the process, making a meaningful reduction in our carbon footprint.

To mark our brand launch with employees in a responsible way, we gifted dual-wall thermal water bottles. 5,600 more people across the world are now using long lasting water bottles, instead of adding to landfill. Our supplier is regulated by not-for-profit body Sedex, working to improve ethical and responsible business practices throughout the supply chain globally.

Report and Accounts 2018

Corporate Social Responsibility

We create shared value by solving problems that matter to a complex, urbanising and resource-scarce world.
OUR PARTNERSHIP WITH
TREE AID: CELEBRATING 12 YEARS

Since being founded in 1987, TREE AID has:

HELPED LIFT OVER
1 MILLION
PEOPLE OUT OF POVERTY

GROWN OVER
17 MILLION
TREES

IMPROVED ACCESS
RIGHTS TO
FOREST AND
TREE RESOURCES

INFLUENCED NATIONAL AND INTERNATIONAL POLICY

OUR PAST

40

Long term and evolving relationship over the last 12 years.

For 5 years RPS as sole funder supported the specific Bongo River Trees project in Ghana, through a

mix of funding and pro-bono specialist and practical services working directly with the charity and

community volunteer groups.

PROTECTED 35KM
OF RIVER BANK

PLANTED 92K TREES
AND 34K VETIVER
GRASS PLANTS

BUILT 4 WEIRS AND 2 WELLS

IMPROVED THE LIVES OF OVER 11K PROJECT PARTICIPANTS IN THE BONGO RIVER AREA

RPS IS CURRENTLY FUNDING THE MEKI PROJECT IN ETHIOPIA

ии The Meki river basin is a major source of water in the country and of vital importance to agriculture and horticulture in the Oromia region Г it flows from the Gurage highlands in SNNPR, 100km to Lake Ziway.

ии Along the Meki River, the land is overexploited as people try to survive, feeding a cycle of environmental degradation and poverty, with depleted topsoil silting up the lake and damaging it as a vital water source.

Report and Accounts 2018

Corporate Social Responsibility

THE SOLUTION

30-50 ENTERPRISE GROUPS PRODUCING
TREE RELATED
PRODUCTS e.g. HONEY
300 HECTARES
OF ENCLOSED LAND FOR PLANTING AND
PROTECTION
60 WOMEN'S GROUPS MAKING FUEL EFFICIENT STOVES REDUCING NEED
FOR FUEL WOOD

THE IMPACT

PROJECT HAS BEEN

INCREASED

41

RUNNING FOR JUST

VEGETATION

REDUCED

OVER A YEAR

COVER ACROSS 300 HECTARES

FUELWOOD USE

INCREASED SUSTAINABLE INCOME

IMPROVED WATER SUPPLY

A PROJECT LEADER FROM OUR AMSTERDAM OFFICE VISITED THE BONGO RIVER TREES PROJECT IN GHANA
Report and Accounts 2018

42

Directors Report
REPORT OF 43
THE DIRECTORS
Report and Accounts 2018

Report of the Directors
THE BOARD

44

Report of the Directors
The Directors present their report together with the audited financial statements of RPS Group Plc and its subsidiary undertakings (the `Group') for the year ended 31 December 2018. Certain matters that would otherwise be disclosed in the Report of Directors are reported elsewhere in the Annual Report and Accounts. The Report of Directors should therefore be read in conjunction with the Strategic Report on pages 7 to 30, the Corporate Governance Report on pages 52 to 78 and other parts of the Report and Accounts as referred to below.
Directors
The Directors of the Company as at 31 December 2018 were those listed on pages 46 to 47. The changes to the Board that occurred in the year are as detailed on page 54. The Directors' interests in the share capital of the Company are as shown in the Annual Report on Remuneration on page 69.

None of the Directors was materially interested in any significant contract to which the Company or any of its subsidiaries were party to during the year.
Results and dividend
The Consolidated Income Statement is set out on page 90 and shows the profit for the year. The Directors recommend a final dividend of 5.08p (2017: 5.08p) per share which, subject to approval at the Annual General Meeting to be held on 1 May 2019, will be paid to shareholders on 17 May 2019. This together with the interim dividend of 4.80p (2017: 4.80p) per share paid on 12 October 2018 gives a total dividend of 9.88p (2017: 9.88p) per share for the year ended 31 December 2018.
Strategic report
The Group's Strategic Report can be found on pages 7 to 30. This report is required to contain a fair review of the Company's business and a description of the principal risks and uncertainties that it faces. The Strategic Report contains certain forward looking

Report and Accounts 2018

Report of the Directors

45

statements with respect to the financial condition, results of operations and businesses of RPS as well as likely future developments. These statements involve risk and uncertainty as they relate to events and depend upon circumstances that may occur in the future. There are a number of factors that could cause actual results or developments to differ materially from those expressed or implied by these forward looking statements. Nothing in the Strategic Report should be construed as a profit forecast.

Consistent with its size and complexity, the Group has a large number of contractual relationships with clients and suppliers. In the Directors' view, however, there is no single contract or client relationship, which is essential to the Group's business. The Group's subsidiary undertakings are listed in note 6 to the Parent Company Financial Statements. The Group develops and delivers innovative technical solutions to its clients, the costs of which are expensed to the Consolidated Income Statement.

Financial key performance indicators can be found on page 5. The Directors review performance using these Alternative Performance Measures (APMs) as defined in Note 3 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. The APMs used exclude certain items that the Board believes distort the trading performance of the Group. These items are either acquisition and disposal related or non-cash items. The Board does not at present use non-financial key performance indicators to assess the Group as a whole, although parts of the Group do use such indicators from time to time.

The Group obtains enhanced tax relief for these costs in the United Kingdom and has adopted the RDEC (Research and Development Expenditure Credit) regime.
The Board: (left to right) Gary Young, Liz Peace, Michael McKelvy, Allison Bainbridge, John Douglas, Ken Lever, Catherine Glickman, David Gormley, and Robert Miller-Bakewell.

Report and Accounts 2018

Report of the Directors
THE BOARD

Ken Lever Non-Executive Chairman

Robert Miller-Bakewell Senior Independent Non-Executive

Ken Lever joined the Board in November 2016 as

Robert is the Chairman of the Remuneration

Group Chairman. Ken is a Chartered Accountant and

Committee as well as being the Senior Independent

his previous experience includes Finance Director

Director and a member of the Audit Committee; he

of Alfred McAlpine Plc, Albright and Wilson Plc and

was also Chairman of the Nomination Committee

Tomkins Plc. Prior to that he was a partner at Arthur

prior to November 2016. He is a director of private

Andersen. He was Chief Executive of XChanging

companies in Scotland, Chairman of the EH99 think

Plc between 2010 and 2015 and currently holds

tank, and Chairman of trustees of two private trusts.

non-executive positions at Biffa Plc, Blue Prism Group Formerly a Senior Director of Investment Research at

Plc, Gresham House Strategic Plc and Vertu Motors Plc. Merrill Lynch and an investment analyst with NatWest

Ken is Chairman of the Nomination Committee.

Markets, providing analysis and advice to water,

waste, transport and environmental infrastructure

companies internationally.

John Douglas

46

Chief Executive

Allison Bainbridge

Independent Non-Executive

John Douglas joined the Board on 1 June 2017 and

assumed the role of Chief Executive with effect from

1 September 2017. John was previously Chief Executive Allison was appointed to the Board on 1 June 2017

of Coffey International Limited, a business listed on

and is serving an initial three year term. She is

the Australian Stock Exchange which operated in

the Group Finance Director of Vp Plc ("Vp"), a

markets similar to RPS. Prior to that he worked with

quoted specialist in the equipment rental business

Boral, an International Building Material Group, latterly serving international markets including rail, water,

as Divisional Managing Director. John had previously

construction, civil engineering, house building and

worked as a consultant with Boston Consulting Group oil and gas. Prior to that she was Finance Director

as well as for a number of engineering companies.

at Yorkshire Water and Kelda Group, having initially

John is a civil engineer from Adelaide University and

trained and qualified as a Chartered Accountant with

has a MBA from London Business School.

Price Waterhouse. Allison graduated in economics

from Birmingham University and went on to take

an MA in economics at Leeds University. Allison is

Gary Young

Chairman of the Audit Committee and a member

Finance Director

of the Nomination Committee.

Gary Young graduated from Southampton University in 1982 and qualified as a Chartered Accountant in 1986 with Price Waterhouse. Before joining RPS he held a number of Finance Director roles including positions within Rutland Trust Plc and AT&T Capital. He joined RPS in September 2000 and was appointed to the Board in November of that year.

Report and Accounts 2018

Report of the Directors

Liz Peace Independent Non-Executive

Catherine Glickman Independent Non-Executive

Liz Peace was appointed in July 2017 and is serving an Catherine was appointed to the Board on 2 August

initial three year term. She has extensive senior level

2018 and has joined the Remuneration Committee.

experience spanning both public and private sectors. Catherine has extensive senior level executive

Between 2002 and 2014 she was Chief Executive of the experience in public companies, most recently as

British Property Federation having previously served Group HR Director at the FTSE 250 animal genetics

for 12 years as Company Secretary and Director of

company, Genus Plc, where she led an agenda on

Corporate Affairs for QinetiQ Plc. Prior to that Liz held talent and leadership development to support

various senior positions within the Ministry of Defence. growth plans. Catherine retired from this position in

She was awarded the CBE in 2008.

2017. Prior to her time at Genus, Catherine worked

for over twenty years at Tesco Plc where she held

various senior positions including latterly as Group

Michael McKelvy

HR Director. Catherine is currently a Non-Executive

Independent Non-Executive

Director of Marston's Plc, Renishaw Plc and TheWorks.

co.uk Plc where in each case she is Chair of the

47

Remuneration Committee.

Michael joined the Board on 1 May 2018. He is based

in the USA and has extensive senior level experience

of its construction, infrastructure and natural

David Gormley

resource markets. In 2014 he became Chief Operating

Company Secretary

Officer of Gilbane a major family owned construction

company, and was appointed as its Chief Executive

Officer in 2016. Prior to that Michael spent twelve

David has over 20 years' senior experience as a

years with CH2M in a number of senior roles including company secretary, starting his career with Guinness

President of firstly its Industrial division and then

Plc, before working in roles as company secretary

its Government, Environmental and Infrastructure

continental Europe in Belgium for the Albert Fisher

Division. Michael is a qualified architect, having spent Group Plc, then group company secretary for Sky Plc.

the earlier part of his career in this area, including a

He has since worked with UK insurance firms Brit and

period of fifteen years with Lockwood Greene which Hiscox and infrastructure developer John Laing.

was acquired by CH2M in 2003. Michael is a member

of the Nomination and Remuneration Committees.

Report and Accounts 2018

Report of the Directors

Corporate governance

Going concern

The Directors' report on corporate governance can be found on pages 52 to 78 and incorporates other parts of the Report and Accounts as detailed therein.
Employees
The Group's policies in relation to employees are disclosed on pages 32 to 34.

The Group's business activities, a review of the 2018 results together with factors likely to affect its future development and prospects are set out on pages 11 to 15. Note 18 to the Consolidated Financial Statements sets out the borrowings of the Group and considers liquidity risk, whilst note 28 describes the Group's approach to capital management, and financial risk management in general.

Corporate responsibility

The Group has a diverse range of businesses in a

spread of geographies which serve to limit the overall

The Group's corporate responsibility statement is

impact of adverse conditions in any particular market.

included on pages 36 to 41.

It continues to enjoy strong cash flow and operates

well within the financial covenants applying to its

This includes the disclosures concerning greenhouse main bank facility. The Group's bank facilities will not

gas emissions that are required pursuant to part 7 of expire until July 2020 and, it is anticipated, will be

The Companies Act (Strategic Report and Directors' renewed during 2019.

Report) Regulations 2013. The Group made no

contribution to political organisations during the year. The Directors have a reasonable expectation that

the Company has adequate resources to continue in

Substantial shareholdings

operational existence at least twelve months from

the date of approval of the financial statements.

The Company is aware of the following interests

They therefore continue to adopt the going concern

in excess of 3% of the ordinary share capital of the

basis of accounting in preparing the annual financial

48

Company as at 8 February 2019.

statements. The Group's Long Term Viability

Statement is shown on page 27.

Shareholder Aberforth Partners

Total holding % of ISC 25,999,025 11.49

Directors' responsibilities statement

UBS Asset Management 15,498,101

6.85

Artemis Investment Management
Montanaro Investment Managers
Unicorn Asset Management

12,630,362 5.58

8,392,574

3.71

8,355,048

3.69

NBIM

8,285,142

3.66

Dimensional Fund Advisors

8,199,363

3.62

The Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report and the financial statements in accordance with applicable law and regulations. Each of the persons who is a Director at the time of this report confirms that, so far as he or she is aware, there is no relevant audit information of which the Company's auditor is unaware and that he or she has taken all the steps that he or she ought to make himself or herself aware of any relevant audit information and to establish that the Company's auditor is aware of that information.

BlackRock

8,109,040

3.58

BMO Global Asset Management (UK)

7,655,213

3.38

Columbia Threadneedle Investments

7,536,877

3.33

Majedie Asset Management

7,286,198

3.22

Chelverton Asset Management

7,235,000

3.20

This confirmation is given and should be interpreted in accordance with the provisions of s.418 of the Companies Act 2006.
Company law requires the Directors to prepare financial statements for each financial year. Under that law the Directors are required to prepare the Group financial statements in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRSs) as adopted by the European Union and Article 4 of

Report and Accounts 2018

Report of the Directors

the IAS Regulation and have elected to prepare the

the assets of the Company and hence for taking

parent company financial statements in accordance reasonable steps for the prevention and detection

with United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting of fraud and other irregularities.

Practice (United Kingdom Accounting Standards

and applicable law) including FRS102 "The Financial The Directors are responsible for the maintenance

Reporting Standard Applicable in the UK and Republic and integrity of the corporate and financial

of Ireland." Under company law the Directors must

information included on the Company's website.

not approve the accounts unless they are satisfied

Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the

that they give a true and fair view of the state of

preparation and dissemination of financial statements

affairs of the company and of the profit or loss of the may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.

company for that period.

Responsibilities pursuant to DTR4

Group Financial Statements

We confirm that to the best of our knowledge:

In preparing the Group financial statements,

International Accounting Standard 1 requires that Directors:

ии the financial statements, prepared in accordance with the relevant financial reporting framework,

give a true and fair view of the assets, liabilities,

ии properly select and apply accounting policies; ии present information, including accounting policies,
in a manner that provides relevant, reliable,

financial position and profit or loss of the Company and the undertakings included in the consolidation taken as a whole;

comparable and understandable information;
ии provide additional disclosures when compliance with the specific requirements in IFRSs are

ии the strategic report includes a fair review of the development and performance of the business and the position of the Company and the undertakings

insufficient to enable users to understand the

included in the consolidation taken as a whole,

impact of particular transactions, other events and

together with a description of the principal risks

conditions on the entity's financial position and

and uncertainties that they face; and

49

financial performance; and
ии make an assessment of the Company's ability to continue as a going concern.

ии the annual report and financial statements, taken as a whole, are fair, balanced and understandable and provide the information necessary for shareholders

to assess the Company's performance, business

Parent Company Financial Statements

model and strategy.

In preparing the parent company financial statements, the Directors are required to:
ии select suitable accounting policies and then apply them consistently;
ии make judgments and accounting estimates that are reasonable and prudent;
ии state whether applicable UK Accounting Standards have been followed, subject to any material departures disclosed and explained in the financial statements; and
ии prepare the financial statements on the going concern basis unless it is inappropriate to presume that the Company will continue in business.
The Directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting records that are sufficient to show and explain the Company's transactions and disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the Company and enable them to ensure that the financial statements comply with the Companies Act 2006. They are also responsible for safeguarding

Financial instruments
Details on the use of financial instruments and financial risk are included in note 28 to the Consolidated Financial Statements.
Post balance sheet events
On 1 February 2019 the Group acquired the business of Corview, an Australian based transport advisory consultancy for a maximum consideration of A$32.0m (Б17.8m), all payable in cash. At completion the vendors received A$17.6m (Б9.8m) with A$4.8m (Б2.7m) payable on each of the first, second and third anniversaries of completion. In the year to 30 June 2018, Corview had revenues of A$17.1m (Б9.5m) and adjusted profit after tax of A$5.1m (Б2.8m).
There were no other events arising after the balance sheet date requiring adjustments to the year end results or disclosure.

Report and Accounts 2018

Report of the Directors

Takeover directive
The following additional information is provided for shareholders pursuant to the requirements of the Takeover Directive.

No such power was exercised during the year under review. Directors' interests in the share capital of the Company are shown in the table on page 69.
Change of Control

Share Capital
As at 31 December 2018 the Company's issued share capital consisted of 226,105,296 ordinary shares of 3p each. Substantial shareholder interests of which the Company is aware are shown above on page 48.

The Company's debt facilities include provisions that take effect on a change of control and which provide that the Company may be unable to draw down any further amounts and/or that such facilities may be cancelled, thus restricting the Company's ability to operate.

Shareholder Rights and Restrictions

Listing rule 9.8.4c

At a general meeting of the Company every holder

Pursuant to listing rule 9.8.4C the Company is

of ordinary shares present in person is entitled to

required to disclose that an arrangement is in place

vote on a show of hands, and in a poll every member whereby the trustee of the Company's employee

present in person or by proxy and entitled to vote

benefit trust has agreed to waive present and future

has one vote for every ordinary share held. Holders

dividend rights in respect of certain shares that it

of ordinary shares may receive interim dividends

holds. There are no other matters requiring

approved by the Directors and dividends declared

disclosure required pursuant to this listing rule.

in general meetings. On liquidation and subject to a

special resolution, the liquidator may divide among Directors' indemnities

members in specie the whole or any part of the

assets of the Company. There are no shares in issue Directors and Officers of the Company benefit from

50

that carry special rights with regard to control of the directors' and officers' liability insurance cover

Company and there are no restrictions on the transfer in respect of legal actions brought against them.

of ordinary shares in the Company other than those In addition Directors are indemnified under the

that may be imposed by law or regulation from time to Company's articles of association to the maximum

time. The Company's Articles of Association may be extent permitted by law, such indemnities being

amended by special resolution at a general meeting qualifying third party indemnities.

of the shareholders.

Annual General Meeting

Directors

The Annual General Meeting will be held on

Directors are appointed by ordinary resolution at a

1 May 2019. The Notice of Annual General Meeting

general meeting of the shareholders. The Board can circulated with this Report and Accounts contains a

appoint a Director but any Director so appointed

full explanation of the business to be conducted at

must be elected by an ordinary resolution at the next that meeting. This includes a resolution to re-appoint

general meeting. Under the Articles of Association

Deloitte LLP as the Company's Auditor.

any Director who has held office for more than

three years since their last appointment must offer

By order of the Board

themselves for re-election at the next annual general

meeting. It is the Company's policy, however, that

David Gormley

all Directors should stand for annual re-election.

Company Secretary

The Directors have power to manage the Company's 21 February 2019

business subject to the provision of the Company's

Articles of Association, law and applicable regulations. Registered Office:

The Directors have power to issue and buy back

20 Western Avenue

shares in the Company pursuant to the terms and

Milton Park

limitations of resolutions passed by shareholders

Abingdon

at each annual general meeting of the Company.

Oxfordshire OX14 4SH

Registered in England No. 02087786

Report and Accounts 2018

Corporate Governance
CORPORATE 51 GOVERNANCE
Report and Accounts 2018

Corporate Governance

CORPORATE GOVERNANCE

Chairman's introduction

Governance and culture

The Group's strategic priorities and progress against The Board continues to operate within the framework

them is set out on pages 11 to 15. Whist achieving

of a Board Charter which clarifies the respective roles

these objectives is key to the Group's future, the

of the Chairman, Chief Executive, Finance Director

Board also believes that maintaining high standards

and Non-Executives as well as incorporating a

of governance is an important ingredient to drive

schedule of matters reserved for Board approval and

success. Whilst the formal rules that apply to RPS as a the terms of reference of the Board Committees.

listed Group are important in maintaining standards

in this area, good governance is also about culture,

The revised UK Corporate Governance Code which

behaviours and how we do business. The Board is

was published in July 2018 (the `Revised Code')

therefore committed to ensuring that the Group's

applies to the Group with effect from 1 January

values and standards are set at the top and embedded 2019. The Board has reviewed two papers relating

throughout the Group. The work to define Purpose, to the Revised Code and has already been taken a

Promise and Behaviours is described elsewhere in

number of steps to ensure compliance with it. In

the Annual Report and is an important component in particular Catherine Glickman has been designated

this process. During the year the Group held its first as the Non-Executive Director to oversee workforce

52

Senior Leadership conference which brought together engagement. The Company has established a work

senior leaders from the Group's operations around

forum: `Your Voice', which is representative of the

the world. I attended the start of this event and I

whole workforce and Catherine will be invited to

had a strong sense that a set of values to underpin

those meetings to hear and discuss issues raised

good governance practice throughout our Group are by the workforce. The Board Charter has also been

emerging as a strong theme.

reviewed, amendments have been made to the

terms of reference of the Nomination Committee, to

Framework and compliance

reflect the wider responsibilities under the Revised

Code and the Company has introduced a new policy

During the year under review the Group was subject around external appointments and overboarding, in

to the UK Corporate Governance Code as published line with the Revised Code, and also, that whilst being

in April 2016 (the `Code'). The Board considers that

encouraged to take up Non-Executive appointments,

throughout the year to 31 December 2018 the Group the Executive Directors should only take up one

was in compliance with all the provisions of the Code. appointment in a FTSE350 company.

The Code contains broad provisions together with

more specific provisions which set out standards of The Board also reviewed the wider responsibilities

good practice in relation to Board leadership and

around the Remuneration Committee. The

effectiveness, accountability and remuneration and Remuneration Committee has agreed to review these

relations with shareholders. The Annual Corporate

further during the year, when the Remuneration

Governance Report that follows together with the

Policy will be renewed and will be further impacted by

reports from each of our principal committee chairs changes in the Revised Code. This is discussed more

explain how, in a practical sense, the provisions of

fully in the Remuneration Committee's Chairman's

the Code have been applied throughout this period. introduction on page 64 to 66. A full explanation of

the steps taken in relation to the Revised Code and

compliance with it will be included as part of next

year's reporting.

Report and Accounts 2018

Corporate Governance

Whilst in a people business, risk management

meetings at operating business locations, a practice

and internal control needs to remain an integral

that it intends to develop further during 2019. The two

part of our culture. The Group's formal systems of

day strategy review mentioned above was undertaken

risk management and internal control continue

in conjunction with the Group Leadership Team and

to develop as outlined in the Annual Corporate

provided an excellent opportunity for the Board to gain

Governance Report below.

greater insight into the challenges facing our business.

Steps have also been taken to improve the Group's

Leadership and performance

engagement with the investment community. The

Group now has a Communications and Corporate

The further changes that have occurred at Board level Affairs Director whose brief includes a focus on this

during the year are detailed in the Annual Report

area. The Group has committed to ongoing quarterly

of the Nomination Committee. The Board, as now

reporting, taken steps to improve the quality and

constituted, incorporates a strong and appropriate

accessibility of information on its Investor Relations

balance of skills, diversity and experience and will,

website and has sought to adopt a more pro-active

I anticipate, following Robert Miller-Bakewell's

approach to the investment community with greater

forthcoming retirement, be stable in membership for access to executive management.

the foreseeable future. The Board is, I believe, now

well equipped to provide an appropriate balance of

The year ahead

leadership and oversight as the Group pursues its

strategic objectives and is working well with executive We will continue to focus on governance as an

management to offer support and robust challenge important element in the achievement of our

as appropriate. The Board's agenda will continue to

strategic priorities and driving our business

balance oversight and governance of the business

performance. Whilst the necessary steps will be taken

with the ability to debate and examine forward

to comply with revisions with the UK Governance

looking strategy including changes to the business

Code we will continue to focus on our values and

environment and the markets in which we operate.

culture as key elements in driving good governance.

During the year the Board again undertook a two day Better engagement with our stakeholder groups, in

53

review of strategy with the Group Leadership Team. particular our employees and shareholders, will also

The review of effectiveness, which I led towards the continue to be a priority.

end of the year, and which was then considered by the

Board, is described in the Annual Governance Report.

Although a number of areas for improvement were

Ken Lever

identified no significant areas of concern arose and

Chairman

the exercise, I believe, confirmed my view that the

21 February 2019

Board is discharging the duties described above to

good effect. Whilst we had previously contemplated

undertaking an external review of performance

we concluded that against the backdrop of further

changes in Board membership such an exercise would

be premature. We will give further consideration to

undertaking an externally facilitated review during 2019.

Engagement

Notwithstanding the formal framework within which the Board operates, it is important that it remains connected with and understands the wider business. The Board receives regular presentations from business and functional areas within the Group and has commenced a programme of holding Board

Report and Accounts 2018

Corporate Governance

CORPORATE GOVERNANCE

Annual Report

communication with shareholders and will meet with

major shareholders as reasonably required. The Chief

Overview and compliance

Executive is responsible for all executive management

matters within the Group. This incorporates the

The Chairman's statement which appears on page 8 development of Group strategy, budgets and

incorporates comments relating to the governance business plans as well as providing effective executive

of the Group and provides a backdrop to this detailed leadership and developing a culture which strikes an

report. The Board continues to operate within the

appropriate balance between entrepreneurship and

framework of a charter which incorporates the key

the management of risk.

aspects of the Group's governance arrangements.

This includes the definition of roles, responsibilities The role of the Non-Executive Directors is to provide

and authorities as applicable to the Board, its

independent and considered advice to the Board

Committees and individual Directors. The Board

in matters of strategy, risk and performance, whilst

is pleased to report that throughout the year the

providing governance oversight through operation

Company complied with all provisions of the UK

of the Board's Committees.

Corporate Governance Code 2016 (the `Code') as

applicable to a small market capitalisation company. The Board is satisfied that all Non-Executives are

As indicated in the Chairman's statement the Board independent and that there are no circumstances or

has been considering the revised version of the UK

relationships that may affect judgements. In particular

54

Governance Code and has already made a number of none of the circumstances detailed in provision B.1.1

changes as detailed. The Board Charter is also being of the Code apply. Whilst Catherine Glickman was

updated to reflect the required changes. This report engaged in a consultancy capacity by the Group for

and the following report of the Committee Chairmen a short period at the end of 2017 and start of 2018

describe the structures, processes and events

to undertake some specific tasks, the Board was

through which compliance was achieved in 2018.

satisfied at the time of her appointment that this

did not constitute a material business relationship

Board structure

that would affect her independence. As noted in the

Report of the Nomination Committee a full external

At the date of this report the Board comprised two

search process was undertaken in respect of this

Executive Directors, five Non-Executive Directors and role at the end of which the Nomination Committee

the Chairman. During the year Michael McKelvy and and the Board concluded that Catherine Glickman

Catherine Glickman both joined the Board on 1 June was the best qualified candidate for the role. The

and 2 August respectively. Robert Miller-Bakewell

Chairman and the Non-Executive Directors are

will retire as a director at the forthcoming Annual

generally appointed for three-year terms, which may

General Meeting.

subsequently be extended. Any term beyond six years

for a Non- Executive is rigorously reviewed, taking

The Board Charter referred to above incorporates

account of the requirement to refresh the Board.

descriptions of the distinct roles of the Chairman

and Chief Executive. The Chairman provides

The Senior Independent Director is available to

leadership to the Board of Directors, sets its agenda shareholders who wish to raise concerns that cannot

and is responsible for its overall effectiveness

be resolved through the Chairman, Chief Executive

and performance. This includes ensuring that all

or Finance Director. Robert Miller-Bakewell acted

Directors are in receipt of timely information in

as the Senior Independent Director throughout the

order to take a full and constructive part in Board

year. Following Robert Miller-Bakewell's retirement

discussions. The Chairman, with the involvement of at the AGM, Liz Peace will be appointed to this role.

the Executive Directors, also seeks to ensure effective

Report and Accounts 2018

Corporate Governance

The Board is assisted by the Audit, Remuneration and Nomination Committees. Separate reports from each of these Committees can be found on pages 59 to 78. The Chair of each Committee provides regular updates at Board meetings.
Catherine Glickman and Michael McKelvy having been appointed during the year will all be subject to election at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting. All Directors are subject to annual re-election by shareholders.
Board responsibilities
The Board Charter incorporates a comprehensive schedule of matters that are reserved for its decision and which include the following:

operational oversight of the Group's activities. This team currently consists of the Chief Executive, the Group Finance Director, and the Group Marketing Director, the Group People Director, the Chief Information Officer, the Group Strategy Director and the Group's five principal business leaders.
Board meetings and operation
The Board has eight scheduled meetings during the year, but will meet on other occasions should circumstances require. The Board's agenda seeks to achieve a balance between review of performance, the development of strategy, the adoption of appropriate corporate policies, the management of risk and regulatory obligations. During the year the following items were considered at each meeting:

ии Determination of the Group's overall strategy ии The approval of annual budgets and business plans ии Financial reporting including annual and half year
results and market updates
ии The recommendation and approval of dividends and other capital distributions
ии The approval of material corporate transactions including all acquisitions

ии Safety performance ии Financial and business performance ии Strategic priorities ии Emerging risks ии Material employment issuess ии Significant litigation ии Investor and City relations.

ии The approval of policies and systems for risk

The Board additionally considered the following

55

management and internal control

at the appropriate point:

ии The appointment of key advisers to the Group ии The approval of major items of capital expenditure ии Any substantive change in the nature of the
Group's activities.
Matters falling outside of the Board's reserved list are delegated to the Group executive under the leadership of the Chief Executive. Responsibilities are, subject to clear written limits, delegated further to the Group's business segments and in turn within each segment. The Group Leadership Team,

ии The Group's annual budget and business plan ии Group results and the Annual Report and Accounts ии Significant market announcements ии Board performance ии Review of internal control and risk management ии Dividends and dividend Policy ии Reports from Board Committee Chairmen ии Other matters reserved for Board approval ии Presentations from certain segments of the business.

which meets regularly throughout the year, retains

Ken Lever John Douglas Gary Young Robert Miller-Bakewell Allison Bainbridge Liz Peace Michael McKelvy * Catherine Glickman* Number of meetings held
*served for part year only

Full Board 8 8 8 8 8 8 6 2 8

Audit Committee 4 4 4 4

Remuneration Committee 6 6 4 1 6

Nomination Committee 3 3 3 3 1 3

Report and Accounts 2018

Corporate Governance

The Board also conducted a two day strategy

out of the 2017 review, to assess how they were

workshop in conjunction with the Group Leadership performing, noting that most of the points had been

Team following which the strategic priorities

addressed, were ongoing and others remained as

described on pages 11 to 15 were endorsed.

work in progress. The Company uses Diligent for

posting its Board and Committee papers on and the

Detailed papers are made available in advance of

Board remains concerned that the board packs do not

meetings in support of relevant agenda items through become excessively large and are delivered in a timely

a Board portal. The Company Secretary assists the

manner; this was also highlighted again this year. A

Chairman in ensuring that Board procedures are

number of priorities and notably the following were

followed and is available to assist directors generally as identified from this process:

well as advising on matters of corporate governance.

Outside of Board meetings the Chairman has

ии Consider having a Board update call between meetings with no papers, no minutes, no

discussions with all Directors. The Chairman

agenda Г used by CEO/CFO to provide high

and Non-Executives meet without the Executive

level updates and keep the Board informed

Directors on three occasions during the year and the Non-Executives met once during the year

ии Set up visits for individual Non-Executives that meet their circumstances and then Non-

without the Chairman present.

Executives to provide feedback from their visits

to the rest of the Non-Executives

Each Director is required, in accordance with the

Companies Act 2006, to declare any interests

The Board will keep progress in these areas under

that may give rise to a conflict of interest with the

review. A more structured review, which may involve

Company on appointment and subsequently as they the use of an external facilitator, will be undertaken

may arise. Where such a conflict, or potential conflict, during 2019.

arises the Board is empowered under the Company's

articles of association to consider and authorise such Training and induction

56

conflicts as appropriate and subject to such terms as

they think fit. No such conflict arose during the year On appointment Directors receive information on

under review.

the Company as well as the Board and its procedures.

They also meet other members of the Board to be

There is an agreed procedure for Directors to take

briefed on strategy, financial matters and other

independent professional advice at the Company's

key issues. The foregoing applied to all Directors

expense. The Company maintains Directors and

appointed during the year. Advice is available from the

Officers liability insurance with a current limit of

Company's solicitors, auditors and brokers if required.

indemnity of Б20m.

Updates are provided on key technical issues as

required including those relating to corporate

Board performance

governance and corporate social responsibility.

During the year the Chairman and Non-Executive

The Board undertakes an annual appraisal of its

Directors met with and received presentations from

performance. Given the substantive changes to Board members of the Group Leadership Team and engaged

membership that took place in 2017 and the further with the Group's various businesses more generally.

changes during 2018 it was again concluded that

a highly structured evaluation process would be of

The Non-Executive Directors have access to a training

limited value at this point. A process was, however,

academy managed by Deloitte LLP.

undertaken whereby the Chairman engaged with all

of the Company's Directors across a range of topics

to ascertain any areas of concern and suggestions.

The results of this exercise were then reported to

and discussed with the Board as a whole. The Board

also reviewed the action points that had arisen

Report and Accounts 2018

Corporate Governance

Communication

The key procedures that the Directors have

established to provide effective internal financial

The Company attaches great importance to

controls are as follows:

communication with its shareholders and other

stakeholders. In addition to regular corporate

Financial reporting

reporting, the Group website includes financial

The results for the Group are reported to and

presentations, general information about the Group reviewed at each Board meeting. A detailed

and the services it offers, as well as news stories

formal budgeting process for all Group businesses

regarding projects on which businesses are engaged. culminates in an annual Group budget which is

approved by the Board.

In addition to presentations of financial results,

the Executive Directors hold meetings with the

Financial and accounting principles and internal

Company's principal shareholders to discuss the

financial controls assurance

Company's strategy and performance. The Chairman The Group's accounting policies, principles and

and Senior Independent Director also meet with

minimum standards required for effective financial

major shareholders from time to time.

control are communicated to all accounting teams.

An investor relations update is provided at all regular The Group Assurance Manager undertakes periodic

Board meetings to ensure that the Board is kept

detailed reviews at key centres within the Group to

aware of the views of larger shareholders and the

ensure that policies and procedures are being followed

investment community generally. As detailed in the as well as to identify any control weaknesses or failings.

foregoing Chairman's Introduction, various steps

have been taken in the year to improve the quality

Capital investment

of communication with shareholders and

The Group has clearly defined guidelines for capital

the investment community generally.

expenditure. These include detailed appraisal and

review procedures as well as due diligence procedures

The Chair of each of the Board Committees attends in respect of potential business acquisitions.

the Annual General Meeting and is available to

57

answer questions.

Treasury

The Group operates a central treasury function that

Risk management and internal controls

undertakes required borrowing and foreign exchange

Overview

transactions as well as the daily monitoring of bank

The Board retains overall responsibility for setting

balances and cash receipts. Appropriate payment

the Group's risk appetite as well as risk management authorisation processes are in place in all parts of the

and internal control systems. In accordance with this Group. Trading in financial instruments is not permitted.

obligation the Board, has throughout the year and

up to the date of approval of the financial statements, Base Controls

had procedures in place as recommended in the

An internal controls self-assessment system that was

guidance in the UK Corporate Governance Code and

launched in 2017 by the Group Assurance Manager

the supporting document issued by the Financial

is now operational throughout the Group. As part

Reporting Council `Guidance on Risk Management,

of this process the Finance Directors of the Group's

Internal Control and Related Financial and

operating units regularly assess the controls they

Business Reporting'.

operate against a standard set of base controls, with

any shortcomings identified being mitigated or new

The principal risks to which the Group is exposed and controls put in place.

the measures to mitigate such risks are described on

pages 27 to 29.

Report and Accounts 2018

Corporate Governance

Delegated Authorities A system of delegated authorities, whereby the incurring of expenditure and assumption of contractual commitments can only be approved by specified individuals and within pre-defined limits, is in place throughout the Group.

Annual Review During the year reviewed, a detailed report regarding the Group's systems of risk management and internal control was prepared. Having reviewed and discussed this report the Board was satisfied that these systems are effective.

Review and reporting Internal controls and in particular any failures are reported to and reviewed at Group and operating Board meetings in order that changes to systems can be implemented where required. The Audit Committee also maintains a brief to keep the overall systems of internal control under review. During the year a detailed review of the Group's system of internal control and risk management was undertaken and reviewed by the Board. The Board and the Audit Committee were satisfied that the systems in place are appropriate and effective.

The respective responsibilities of the Directors and the independent auditors in connection with the accounts are explained on pages 48 to 49 and 82 and the statement of the Directors in respect of going concern appears on page 48. The long term viability statement is set out on page 27.
Takeover directive
Disclosures required under the Takeover Directive are included on pages 50 and 51 and form part of the Group's Corporate Governance report.

58

Report and Accounts 2018

Corporate Governance

NOMINATION COMMITTEE REPORT

I am pleased to report to shareholders in my capacity as Chairman of the Nomination Committee. The report outlines the key responsibilities of the Committee and activities during the year.

Membership and meetings

Board changes

I and all of our Non-Executive Directors, Allison

2017 saw substantial change to the Board with

Bainbridge, Catherine Glickman, Michael McKelvy,

a new Chief Executive appointed and two new

Robert Miller-Bakewell and Liz Peace, are members of Non-Executives joining. During 2018 the task

the Committee. Michael and Catherine both joined the of building a strong and diverse Board with an

Committee on their respective appointments to the appropriate balance of skills and experience has

Board as at 1 May and 2 August 2018. The Company

continued with two additional Non-Executives

Secretary acts as Secretary of the Committee whilst joining. Michael McKelvy has extensive senior level

Executive Directors and external agents may be asked experience of construction, infrastructure and natural

to attend as required. The Committee met on a total resource markets. He is based in North America and

of three times during the year.

accordingly has a deep understanding of markets in

which the Group has a strategic priority and wishes

Responsibilities and activities

to achieve substantial growth. Catherine Glickman

59

has senior level public company experience in Human

The Committee's key responsibilities include

Resources and allied areas which will be of substantial

reviewing the Board structure, size and composition value in support of the Group's strategic priority to

as well as evaluating the balance of skills,

be rated as a great place to do great work. She also

knowledge and experience which may be required

has prior experience as Chair of a Remuneration

in the future and making recommendations

Committee and will succeed Robert Miller-Bakewell

to the Board accordingly. It is also responsible

in this role when Robert retires at the forthcoming

for nominating candidates to the Board when

Annual General Meeting.

vacancies arise, recommending Directors who

are retiring from the Board to be put forward for

In both the above cases detailed role specifications were

re-election and where appropriate considering

prepared and a search process undertaken through

any issues relating to the continuation in office

Spencer Stuart, following which recommendations were

of any Director. The Committee also maintains

made to and accepted by the Board.

an ongoing brief to consider succession

planning at Board and Senior Executive level.

All of these activities were undertaken during the year, a number of which are described in more detail below. The Committee has written terms of reference which are available on the Company's website.

Report and Accounts 2018

Corporate Governance

Election and re-election of Directors

Diversity

As in previous years and in accordance with the UK

The Committee is aware that the revised

Governance Code all Directors will stand for election UK Corporate Governance Code, effective from

or re-election at the Annual General Meeting. The

1 January 2019, places an increased emphasis on the

range of skills and experience offered by the current role of the Nomination Committee in the areas of

Board is mentioned above and set out in full on pages diversity and inclusion. In considering appointments

46 to 47. The Committee and the Board consider the to the Board the Committee evaluates the skills,

performance of each of the Directors standing for

experience and knowledge required for a particular

election or re-election to be fully satisfactory and

role with due regard to the benefit of diversity. Whilst

that they have demonstrated ongoing commitment the Committee will look to recruit the best available

to their roles. The Board therefore strongly supports candidate for any role, the Company has previously

the election or re-election of all those directors

set and announced a target that a minimum of 25%

standing and recommends that shareholders vote

of its Board should be female. Following Catherine

in favour of the relevant resolutions at the Annual

Glickman's appointment to the Board 37.5% of

General Meeting.

the Board are female which will rise to 43% on

Robert Miller- Bakewell's forthcoming retirement.

Succession planning

As described in the People Report on page 32 and

following appointments made during the year,

The Board and Group Leadership Team have been

the female membership of the Group Leadership

through a period of substantial change and with a

Team has increased from 14% to 33%. Further

significant number of new appointments having been information on gender balance is also given in

made as a new team is built. Whilst the Committee

the People Report. The Committee is pleased to

has considered succession issues from time to

report these trends and believes that the enhanced

time against the backdrop of what should now be a

balance of skills that this has brought will be an

stable Board and Executive team it intends to further important component in achieving the Group's

60

develop and formalise succession plans for key

strategic priorities. The Committee will give further

roles during 2019.

consideration to policy on diversity and inclusion,

in respect of which it will report further next year.

Ken Lever Chairman of the Nomination Committee 21 February 2019

Report and Accounts 2018

Corporate Governance

AUDIT COMMITTEE REPORT

I am pleased to present our Audit Committee report for the year-ended 31 December 2018. The report below describes the Committee's ongoing responsibilities as well as the major activities undertaken in the year and its policies in a number of key areas.

Membership and meetings

During 2018 the membership of the Committee

At the conclusion of the full-year audit and interim

consisted of Liz Peace, Robert Miller-Bakewell

review the Committee receives a detailed report from

and myself. Although the Board considers that all

the Auditors. The Committee reviews this report, as

members of the Committee have experience that is well as the integrity of the accounting statements.

relevant to the role, as the serving Finance Director This includes ensuring that statutory and associated

of a fully listed public company, I am identified as the legal and regulatory requirements are met as well

Committee member having most recent and relevant as considering significant reporting judgements

financial experience. The Company Secretary acts as and estimates, the adoption of appropriate

secretary of the Committee.

accounting policies and practices and compliance

with accounting standards. It also incorporates

The Committee holds three regular meetings during consideration of significant accounting issues as

61

the year, one to consider audit planning and one

detailed below and advising the Board in relation to

to coincide with each of the publication of Group's

the fairness, balance and understandability of the

annual and interim financial results. Other matters

annual report.

which fall within the Committee's terms of reference

are included on the agendas of these meetings

The Committee monitors the external auditor's

as required. The Group Chairman, Group Chief

effectiveness, independence and objectivity

Executive and Group Finance Director all attend the including the nature and appropriateness of any non-

Committee's meetings and members of the Group

audit fees. Additionally the Committee assists the

Finance team are asked to attend from time to time. Board in monitoring and reviewing the Group's system

The Deloitte audit partner and director also attend

of internal control and risk management as described

meetings, with whom the Committee also has a

in the Corporate Governance Report. As part of this it

private session, at least once a year, without

reviews the Group's whistle-blowing policy whereby

executive management present.

employees may, on a confidential basis raise concerns

with regard to improprieties relating to financial

Responsibilities and activities

reporting, internal control or other matters.

The Audit Committee provides an independent overview of the effectiveness of the financial reporting process and internal financial control systems. This incorporates the appointment of the external auditors including agreeing their terms of engagement at the start of each audit, the audit scope and the audit fee.

All the activities detailed above were undertaken in the year: a number of which are described in more detail below. The Committee's detailed terms of reference can be found on the Company's website.

Report and Accounts 2018

Corporate Governance

Significant accounting issues

Fair balanced and understandable view

In respect of the year under review and as part of its Having reviewed the Report and Accounts, the

role in reviewing estimates and judgements made by Committee concluded and advised the Board that

management, the following significant issues were

in its view the Report and Accounts for 2018, taken

reviewed and in each case addressed as indicated.

as a whole, is fair, balanced and understandable.

The Board then separately considered this matter

Intangible assets

and concurred with the Audit Committee's

This classification of assets is by far the largest

recommendation. In reaching this conclusion the

on the Group balance sheet and as such receives

Committee and the Board were satisfied that the

careful attention from the Board and Committee

Group's performance across its segments, as well as

which need to be satisfied that its carrying value

its business model, strategy and the key risks that it

is appropriate. Goodwill impairment testing was

faces are clearly explained in the relevant sections

undertaken at 31st October 2018 with a subsequent of the Report and Accounts.

review for impairment triggers at the balance sheet

date. The Board and Committee considered the

New accounting standards

appropriateness of the cash generating units for

goodwill testing and the assumptions and estimates 2018 was the first year in which accounts have been

used in the modelling, including approved budgets

produced in compliance with IFRS 15 "Revenue from

for 2019. The conclusion was that no impairment was Contracts with Customers" and IFRS 9 "Financial

necessary across any of the Group's Cash Generating Instruments". During the year the Committee

Units. Consideration was also given as to whether

received and reviewed papers explaining the steps

there were any indicators of impairment in respect

taken to ensure compliance. In addition IFRS 16

of other intangible assets and whether a reasonably "Leases" will be applicable from 1 January 2019. The

possible change in any one key assumption could

Committee was also kept appraised of work being

give rise to an impairment. The Board and Committee undertaken to achieve compliance and in accordance

62

agreed that no indicators of impairment exist and that with the requirements of the standard an opening

a reasonably possible change to any one assumption balance sheet adjustment is disclosed in note 2a on

would lead to an impairment.

page 98.

Recoverability of trade receivables and accrued income The risk that trade debtors may not be collected and accrued income may not be billable and therefore be overstated in the accounts is considered by the Board at its regular meetings as part of its review of business performance.
The Committee appreciates that there is estimation applied in the recognition of revenue. However, the number of projects undertaken at any time is large and there are relatively few that are individually material. The procedures in place for recognising revenue are well established and comprehensive financial review of monthly results provides a good level of assurance.

Auditor independence
Deloitte LLP were appointed as Group Auditors in June 2012 following a tender process. As a matter of general policy, audit partners are rotated at least every five years and the Group's policy is that the Group audit appointment should be retendered at least every ten years. The current Group audit partner is Andrew Bond for whom 2018 has been his second completed audit. The Committee ensures that the Group Auditors remain independent of the Group and reviews this on an annual basis. In this regard Deloitte provide a written report to the Committee on how they comply with professional and regulatory requirements designed to ensure their independence.

Report and Accounts 2018

Corporate Governance

Internal control and audit

In addition and as part of its responsibility to ensure audit independence and objectivity, the Committee has adopted a policy in relation to the use of the Auditors for the provision of Non-Audit Services. Under the terms of this policy the provision of certain services are prohibited and include those listed below:
ии Bookkeeping services ии Valuation services ии Investment advisory, broker and dealing services ии General management services ии Preparation of financial statements ии Design and implementation of financial systems ии Taxation services.
Notwithstanding the general prohibition in respect of certain services, any other Non-Audit service to be provided by the Auditors requires the approval of the Group Finance Director who will in turn refer the matter to the Audit Committee should any potential for conflict exist. The split between audit and nonaudit fees for 2018 appears in note 10 on page 106.

The Committee also monitors the ongoing effectiveness of the Group's internal financial controls and risk management processes as described on page 27 as well as assisting the Board with its annual assessment of this area. Internal audit within the Group is undertaken by the Group Assurance Manager who has a dual reporting line to the Chairman of the Audit Committee and the Group Finance Director. The Group Assurance Manager undertakes a planned programme of reviews across the Group's operations that is approved in advance by the Audit Committee. Detailed reports are produced following each review and related follow-up actions identified. Summary reports are provided to the Audit Committee for consideration. As Chairman of the Committee on an annual basis I hold a meeting with the Group Assurance Manager.
Allison Bainbridge Chair of the Audit Committee 21 February 2019

Re-appointment of auditors

63

As noted above the Audit Committee keeps the scope, cost and effectiveness of the external audit under review. The Committee reviews the effectiveness of the annual audit prior to making recommendations as to the annual re-appointment of Auditors. This assessment is based upon the Committee's interactions with the external Auditors and through feedback from finance teams across the Group. The Committee is satisfied that Deloitte continue to provide an effective service across the Group and accordingly recommended to the Board that a resolution to re-appoint Deloitte as Auditors be proposed at the Annual General Meeting.

Report and Accounts 2018

Corporate Governance

REMUNERATION COMMITTEE REPORT
I am pleased to present the report of the Remuneration Committee for 2018 which consists of my Annual Statement which is set out immediately below and the Annual Report on Remuneration which follows on pages 67 to 78.

Membership and meetings

I have acted as Chairman of the Committee during

Remuneration Committee and that the Remuneration

the year and Liz Peace has also been a Committee

Committee would need to decide how this impacts

member throughout that period. Michael McKelvy

on its terms of reference and duties. Any changes

and Catherine Glickman both joined the Committee the Remuneration Committee makes will also impact

during the year on their appointments as Directors. on its Remuneration Policy which enters into its final

year and will need to be approved by shareholders in

On my retirement as Director at the forthcoming Annual 2020. In light of this, the Remuneration Committee

General Meeting, Catherine Glickman will become

agreed that the review of the Revised Code and the

Chair of the Committee. Catherine has extensive

Remuneration Policy, should all be included within

senior level experience within the area of Human

the review of the Remuneration advisors, rather

64

Resources and has been the Chair of another listed

than make piecemeal changes now that we may

company Remuneration Committee for over a year.

subsequently want to change when the full review

takes place with the new/existing advisor.

The Committee held four meetings in the year timed

to ensure the proper discharge of the activities

Responsibilities and activities

described below. The Group Chairman attends

the meetings of the Committee. The Group Chief

The Remuneration Committee is responsible

Executive and Group People Director also both attend for determining the overall policy for Executive

these meetings, although they will not be present

remuneration which is then subject to Board

when discussion relates to thier own remuneration. and shareholder approval. Within the context of

The Company Secretary acts as Secretary to

shareholder approved policy the Committee is

the Committee and representatives from the

then responsible for determining the specific

Committee's advisers, PwC, attend meetings as

remuneration packages for the Executive Directors.

and when required.

This incorporates review of salaries as well as

determining opportunities under incentive plans

Review of Advisors, Policy and

and performance conditions relating to those plans.

New Corporate Governance Code

Activities also include the determination of terms for

any Executive leaving or joining the Board.

During the year the Committee resolved that a

review of its advisor was appropriate. It has launched

a process under which a number of members of the

Remuneration Consultants Group have been invited

to present their credentials for evaluation as part

of a tender process. The Remuneration Committee

noted that the Revised Code, places a wider remit on

Report and Accounts 2018

Corporate Governance

The Committee now also has direct responsibility for The Executive incentive plans in operation, as part

the terms and conditions of those Senior Executives of current policy, are the RPS Group Plc Short Term

that sit immediately below Board level and who form Annual Bonus Plan (`STABP') and the RPS Group

the Group Leadership Team. During the year, for the Executive Long Term Incentive Plan (`ELTIP'). The

first time, the Committee reviewed the terms and

latter operates over a three year period with the first

conditions of this Group including future incentives awards made under this plan due to reach maturity in

and approved any changes thereto.

2020. Details of the awards made in 2018 and which

will be made to the Executive Directors in 2019 can

The Committee is cognisant of the provisions of

be found in the Annual Report on Remuneration on

the revised UK Governance Code as they affect

page 67. The STABP is an annual bonus plan linked to

remuneration committees. A key provision relates

performance in the relevant year. The operation of the

to the review of wider workforce remuneration and

STABP and the outcomes for 2018 are described below.

the Committee's remit has been extended to cover

this. The Committee already considers employment The current remuneration policy will reach the end

conditions in the Group when setting Executive

of its three-year life at the end of 2019. During the

Director remuneration, but as it now considers

year the Committee will, therefore, be undertaking a

wider Group policies will seek to align Executive

review of current policy with view to submitting a new

remuneration with these. The Committee has

policy to shareholders for approval and then to apply

formally reviewed other provisions of the revised

from 2020 onwards.

Code as they affect its activities which will be fully

taken account of during 2019 and reported upon at As outlined on pages 11 to 15 and following review,

the end of the year.

the Board has adopted a number of strategic

priorities. The Committee believes that the current

The Committee's detailed terms of reference can be structure of remuneration policy remains appropriate

found on the Company's website.

in facilitating both annual delivery of performance

and achievement of these priorities. In particular,

Framework

it believes that reward linked to shorter term

65

performance of which PBTA forms the largest part,

The Company's current remuneration policy was

combined with longer term incentive linked primarily

approved by shareholders in November 2016 and

to growth in EPS and Total Shareholder Return is an

has operated during 2017 and 2018. A summary of

effective way of measuring success in delivery of

the policy is included within the Annual Report on

strategic objectives. The Committee will, however,

Remuneration and the full policy statement is available keep this position under review and, in particular,

on the Company's website at www.rpsgroup.com.

will consider this issue in context of the forthcoming

Through this policy the Committee aims to ensure that policy review highlighted above.

remuneration is fair and competitive, whilst operating

to retain and motivate the Company's Executive

Directors in pursuit of the Group's corporate objectives.

Report and Accounts 2018

Corporate Governance

Performance and outcomes for 2018

Implementation of policy for 2019

The bonus opportunities for 2018 under the STABP were set at 150% of basic salary for John Douglas, and 125% for Gary Young. The performance conditions for the year related to PBTA (70%), cash collection (20%) and personal objectives (10%).

The basic salaries of the Executive Directors have been reviewed by the Committee following which John Douglas' salary was increased by 2.7% to Б508,400 and Gary Young's was increased by 2.7% to Б325,000.

The threshold and maximum targets in respect of PBTA John Douglas and Gary Young will participate in the

were set at Б54m and Б60m respectively for 2018.

STABP in 2019 with maximum opportunities (again) at

Actual PBTA for 2018 was Б50.2 m (2017: Б53.9m), with 150% and 125% of salary respectively. The balance of

the result that no bonus was earned in respect of this performance conditions will be unchanged with 70%

element. In respect of cash collection threshold and

attributable to PBTA, 20% to cash collection and 10%

maximum were set at 80% and 100% respectively.

to personal objectives.

Actual cash collection for 2018 was 94% (2017: 91%)

with the result that partial bonus was also earned in

In respect of the ELTIP John Douglas will receive an

respect of this element.

award of shares equal to 150% of salary and Gary

Young will receive an award equal in value to 125% of

The personal objectives for the year are outlined on his salary. A two year post-vesting holding period will

page 68 of the Annual Report on Remuneration. In the apply to these awards. Further details of the terms of

case of the Chief Executive these were linked to the participation in these plans for 2019 are shown in the

progression of the Group's strategic priorities and in Annual Report on Remuneration on pages 67 to 78.

the case of the Group Finance Director to a number

of operational priorities. The Committee concluded Chief Executive Officer Relocation Allowance

that, as detailed on page 68, the objectives in respect

of the Chief Executive Officer had been met in full and When we recruited the CEO, John Douglas, the

66

85% met in respect of the Financial Director.

Remuneration Committee agreed to put in place a

relocation allowance of approx. Б117,000 p.a. for two

The table which appears on page 67 of the Annual

years. This reflected the fact that John was based in

Report on Remuneration details the bonus earned in Australia and the Company wished him to relocated

respect of each element by each Executive Director to the UK to take up the CEO role. As stated in the

and the total bonus payable. The Committee was

Annual Report on Remuneration for 2017 the end of

satisfied that the policy had operated as intended in this two year period will be March 2019.

2018 and the only discretion exercised related to the

achievement of personal objectives.

Due to a change in personal circumstances John's

family can no longer relocate to the UK and therefore

Under the normal terms of the STABP 50%

currently John is maintaining two dwellings. The

of bonus earned is payable in cash and 50%

Board feels that over the next two years with the

deferred in shares over a three year period.

launch and implementation of the new strategy

Although both Executive Directors John Douglas

that John must be based in the UK and be solely

and Gary Young have elected to take all of

focused on its delivery. In order to ensure that John

their bonus in the form of deferred shares.

is committed to staying in the UK and not distracted

from the implementation of the Company' strategy

due to his personal circumstances; the Remuneration

Committee following consultation with the Chairman

of the Company has determined to provide John

with an accommodation allowance for two years

from March 2019. The value of this allowance will be

approximately Б76,000 p.a.

Report and Accounts 2018

Robert Miller-Bakewell Chairman of the Remuneration Committee 21 February 2019

Corporate Governance

ANNUAL REPORT ON REMUNERATION
This report details how the Company's Remuneration Policy for Directors was implemented during the financial year ended 31 December 2018.

It has been prepared in accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act 2016 and the Large and Medium-sized Companies and Group's (Accounts and Reports) Regulations 2008 (as amended in 2013) (the `Regulations'). An advisory resolution to approve this report and the Annual Statement will be put to shareholders at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
Director remuneration for the financial year ended 31 December 2018 (audited)

Executive Director's total single figure remuneration

The following table sets out the breakdown total of the remuneration received by each of the Executive Directors during the year under review, with the comparative figures for the prior financial year. Figures provided have been calculated in accordance with the Regulations.

Executive Director Base Salary

Б000s

or Fees

Benefits

Bonus

Long Term Incentives Pensions

All Employee Share Plan Total

Year

2018 2017 2018 2017 2018 2017 2018 2017 2018 2017 2018 2017 2018 2017

Executive

67

John Douglas

495 289 114 124 178 142

Г

Г 99 58

2

1 888 614

Gary Young

316 310 17 16 89 127

Г

Г 47 47

4

4 473 504

Notes: 1. B enefits Г the value for benefits for each Executive Director shown is comprised of a company car or company car allowance and
private medical insurance. 2. In the case of John Douglas the benefits also include the grossed-up value of relocation assistance provided which is equal to
Б101,000. The net of tax amounts reimbursed comprised UK property rental costs (Б27,000), air fares for family visits (Б16,000) and the costs of professional tax advice figure Г Б11,000. With the exception of assistance relating to taxation advice, all relocation assistance provided to John Douglas is time limited to 31 March 2019. The value of assistance to be provided in 2019 will therefore be substantially lower than the prior year. 3. P ension Г the Executive Directors are eligible to participate in defined contribution pension schemes, or receive a salary supplement or a combination of the two, the value of which has been shown in the single figure remuneration for each.

Short Term Annual Bonus Plan outcomes for the financial year ending 31 December 2018 (audited)

For 2018 John Douglas and Gary Young had a maximum annual bonus opportunity of 150% and 125% of basic salary, respectively. For both Executive Directors the 2018 annual bonus determination was based on performance against PBTA (70%), cash conversion (20%) and personal objectives (10%). The table below provides information on the targets for each measure, actual performance and resulting bonus payment for each Executive Director.

Measure
PBTA Cash Conversion Personal Performance

Weighting
70% 20% 10% See below.

Performance required

Threshold Maximum

(0%

(100%

vesting) vesting)

54m Б60 m

80% 100%

Actual Performance

John Douglas

Actual % of element Value Б000

50.2

ГГ

94%

70 103,950

Bonus achieved in 2018

74,250 178,200

Gary Young Value Б000
Г 55,335 33,596 88,931

Report and Accounts 2018

Corporate Governance

Performance against the personal objectives and the Committee's assessment of performance for each

Executive Director is set out in the table below.

Director

Personal objectives set at the start of the year Assessment against the targets

John Douglas

To make tangible progress in achieving the Group's five strategic priorities.

Considerable progress has been made during the year with the launch of a new senior leadership team and the new brand providing the Group with a clear identity and appointing a new leader to revitalise the international oil and gas business. Although no acquisitions were made in North America, the Group did make two targeted acquisitions in Australia in line with its stated strategy.

Gary Young

To (a) develop a Group ERP strategy and progress its implementation (b) accelerate monthly and annual financial reporting (c) develop a personal succession plan and (d) improve the Group budget review process.

The Committee was satisfied that the overall objectives achieved 100% of target.
The targets for the introduction of the ERP and the reduction in reporting days were fully met during the year. The targets for the personal succession plan and for improving the planning and budget process are well underway and made positive progress during the period.
The Committee agreed that the personal objectives had been achieved at 85% of target.

The Committee has reviewed the overall bonus outcomes against corporate performance and believes that the bonuses earned are commensurate with the shareholder experience in 2018. Under the normal terms of the STABP 50% of bonus earned is payable in cash and 50% deferred in shares over a three year period. The award of shares is not subject to performance conditions. Both John Douglas and Gary Young have elected to take all of their bonus in the form of deferred shares.

Executive Long Term Incentive Plan (`ELTIP') awards vesting in the financial year ending 31 December 2018

There were no ELTIP awards vesting in the Financial Year ending 31 December 2018.
68
ELTIP awards granted in the financial year ending 31 December 2018 (audited)

The table below sets out the details of the ELTIP awards granted on 9 March 2018 to John Douglas and Gary Young, where vesting will be determined according to the achievement of certain performance measures.

Director

type of award

Basis of award

Face value of award at grant Date (Б)

number of shares

under option

Vesting date

John Douglas

Nil Cost Options

150% of salary

742,500

296,017

08-Mar-21

Gary Young

Nil Cost Options

125% of salary

395,250

157,576

08-Mar-21

Notes The number of shares to constitute these awards was calculated by reference to the average of the Company's closing share price over the period 5 Г 7 March 2018 being 250.83p.

The awards will vest subject to achievement of the following targets.

Performance measure

Weighting

Measurement period

Performance target

Total Shareholder Return relative to 50% the FTSE All Share

Average Annual

Growth in

Earnings Per Share (measured on

25%

a constant

currency basis)

Three years from date of grant

Upper Quartile
Median to Upper Quartile Below Median 12% p.a.

Between 3% and Three financial years 12% p.a.

Below 3% p.a.

100%

Cash conversion 25%

Three financial years Between 80% and 100% 80% and below

Report and Accounts 2018

Vesting level (% maximum) 100% Pro rata on a straight-line basis between 20% and 100% 0% 100% Pro rata on a straight-line basis between 20% and 100%
0%
100% Pro rata on a straight-line basis between 20% and 100% 0%

Corporate Governance

Share Incentive Plan (`SIP') awards granted in the financial year ending 31 December 2018 (audited)
The following table sets out the number and value of matching and dividend shares that were awarded to the Executive Directors under the all employee Share Incentive Plan during 2018.

Executive Directors John Douglas Gary Young

Number of shares 1,003 1,971

Value of shares (Б) 1,599 4,334

Shares are valued by reference to their price as at date of award.

Payments to past Directors (audited)

No payments were made to past Directors during the year with those made to Alan Hearne in 2017 having been reported in last year's Remuneration Report.

Payments for loss of office (audited)

No payments for loss of office were made during the year.

Non-Executive Directors total single figure remuneration (audited)

The following table sets out the breakdown total of the remuneration received by each of the Non-Executive Directors during the year under review, with the comparative figures for the prior financial year. Figures provided have been calculated in accordance with the Regulations.

Non-Executive Director Б000s

Fee

69

Year

2018

2017

Ken Lever

136

136

Robert Miller-Bakewell

64

64

Allison Bainbridge

55

32

Liz Peace

53

25

Michael McKelvy1

33

Г

Catherine Glickman1

21

Г

Notes: 1. Michael McKelvy was appointed to the Board on 1 May 2018. Catherine Glickman was appointed to the Board on 2 August 2018.

Statement of Directors' shareholding and share interests (audited) Directors' share interests as at 31 December 2018 or at date of retirement from the Board are set out below.

Director John Douglas Gary Young Ken Lever Robert Miller-Bakewell Allison Bainbridge Liz Peace Michael McKelvy Catherine Glickman

number of beneficially owned shares 208,823 173,592 70,000 10,000 18,400 Г Г Г

interests subject to performance conditions1 566,341 310,841 Г Г Г Г Г Г

interests subject to employment conditions2 58,305 61,168 Г Г Г Г Г Г

total interests 833,469 545,601 70,000 10,000 18,400 Г Г Г

Notes: 1. Interests held under the Executive Long Term Incentive Plan. 2. Interests held under (i) The RPS Group Plc Short Term Annual Bonus plan (ii) The RPS Group Plc Bonus Plan and (iii) matching shares
held for less than three years under the Share Incentive Plan.

Report and Accounts 2018

Corporate Governance

Between 31 December 2018 and 20 February 2019 no changes in the share interests shown above occurred.

The Company's Remuneration provides that John Douglas and Gary Young are required to build and maintain shareholdings of 200% and 150% of basic salary respectively. As at 31 December 2018 John Douglas and Gary Young held beneficial shares in the Company equal in value to 56% and 73% of their respective salaries. Executive Directors are required to retain 50% of the post-tax number of shares vesting under the STABP and the ELTIP until this requirement is met and maintained.

Short Term Annual Bonus Plan

The interests of the Executive Directors under the STABP are set out below:

John Douglas Gary Young

Number of awards at 1 January 2018
-
25,610
-

Number of awards granted 56,789
-
25,403

Number of awards lapsed -
-
-

Number of awards exercised -
-
-

Number of awards as at 31 December 2018
56,789
25,610
25,403

Market Price at date of grant
250.83p
252.83p
250.83p

Market price at date of exercise
-
-
-

Date from which released 8/3/2021
9/3/2019
8/3/2021

Executive Long Term Incentive Plan (ELTIP)

The Interests of the Executive Directors under the ELTIP are set out below:

Number

Number of

of awards Market

Market

awards at Number Number Number as at 31

Price at

price at

Date from

1 January of awards of awards of awards December date of

date of

which

70

2018

granted lapsed

exercised 2018

grant

exercise released

John Douglas 270,324 -

-

-

270,324

274.67p

-

8/6/2020

-

296,017 -

-

269,017

250.83p -

8/3/2021

Gary Young 153,265 -

-

-

153,265 252.85p -

9/3/2020

-

157,576

-

-

157.576

250.83p -

8/3/2021

Total Shareholder Return Performance

The graph below shows the value of Б100 invested in RPS over the past ten years compared with the value of Б100 invested in the FTSE All Share and FTSE All Share support services. The Company has selected the FTSE All Share and the FTSE All Share Support Services as the broad equity market indices against which to compare the Company's total shareholder return performance as the Company has been a constituent member of these indices throughout the nine year period. RPS Group TSR performance against FTSE All Share Index and FTSE All Share Support Services Index

Total Shareholder Return
(Rebased from 01/01/2009)

450 400 350 300 250 200 150 100
50 0 1/1/2009

1/1/2010

1/1/2011 1/1/2012 RPS Group

1/1/2013 1/1/2014 1/1/2015 1/1/2016

FTSE All Share

FTSE All Share Support Services

1/1/2017

1/1/2018

1/1/2019

RPS Group FTSE AllShareFTSE AllShare Support Services (all rebased to RPS).

Report and Accounts 2018

Corporate Governance

Chief Executive Officer and employee pay

Chief Executive Officer Remuneration

The table below shows the Group Chief Executive's total remuneration and percentage of opportunity achieved for variable remuneration elements.

2009 2010 2011 20121 2013 2014 2015 2016 20172 20172 2018

Element

A Hearne A Hearne A Hearne A Hearne A Hearne A Hearne A Hearne A Hearne A Hearne J Douglas J Douglas

Total

Remuneration (single figure for

636

608

793

1,650 883

922

748

981

627

351

888

the Year - Б000s)

Annual Bonus (% of maximum zero 46% 54% 77% 47% 32% zero 20% 33% 33% 24% opportunity)

Long-Term

incentives

(%age of Maximum

100% zero 13% 100% zero zero zero zero zero zero zero

number of shares capable of vesting)

Notes 1. Single Figure for 2012 includes the payment of deferred balances under the previous bonus banking plan from 2010 and 2011. 2. These balances were earned during these years but subject to deferral until the end of 2012 and at risk of performance based forfeiture. 3. The remuneration shown for Alan Hearne for 2017 in respect of the period to 31 August at which time he retired from the Board. 4. T he total remuneration shown for John Douglas is in respect of 2017 is the period from 1 September 2017, when he was appointed
as Group Chief Executive. The remuneration for John Douglas in 2017 includes a pro-ration of the annual bonus that was earned from 1 June 2017 being the date at which he joined the Board.

Percentage change in the Chief Executive Officer's remuneration

The following table shows the percentage change in the Chief Executive's salary, benefits and annual bonus

71

between financial years compared to the percentage change for all employees.

Salary Taxable Benefits Annual Bonus

CEO 0% -8% 25.4%

Percentage change from 2017 Financial Year to 2018 Financial Year
Employees 2.2 % 4.3 % -15.7 %

Relative importance of spend on pay

The chart below shows the total remuneration paid to or receivable by all employees of the Company and total distributions to shareholders by way of dividends for the current and previous financial years:

Profit before tax and amortisation is a key performance indicator for the Group and was the principal performance measure used under the Short Term Annual Bonus Plan.

Б000

350,000 300,000 250,000 200,000 150,000 100,000
50,000
-

PBTA 6.4% 7.0%

Dividend 1.8% 0.5%
2016 2017 2018

Total employee pay 6.0% 1.4%

Report and Accounts 2018

Corporate Governance

Committee organisation

Role of the Remuneration Committee ("Committee")

The membership and responsibilities of the Remuneration Committee are described in the Annual Statement on page 64. Meetings held during 2018 are included in the table shown on page 55.

External advice

During 2018 the Committee received external advice in relation to executive remuneration from PwC. PwC are members of the Remuneration Consultants Group and, as such, voluntarily operate under the code of conduct in relation to executive remuneration consulting in the UK. PwC also undertook some tax advisory work for the Company during the year. The Committee reviewed the nature of the services provided and was satisfied that no conflict of interest exists or existed in the provision of these services and that the advice the Remuneration Committee received was objective and independent.

The total fees paid to PwC in the year for services to the Committee amounted to Б33,500. This fee was comprised of an annual retainer to cover certain standard advice and payment for additional services in respect of which fees were agreed on a case by case basis. No contingent fee arrangements were operated.

Shareholder voting

The Remuneration Committee's Annual Report for 2017 was approved at the Company's 2018 Annual General Meeting. The voting for this resolution is shown below.

Annual report

72

Votes for

Votes against

Total

Withheld

Number of Votes cast 173,014,539 12,522,844 185,537,383 3,149,300

% of Votes cast 93.25 6.75 100.00 Г

The Company's Remuneration Policy was approved at a General Meeting held on 30 November 2016. The voting in respect of this resolution was as shown below:

Remuneration policy Votes for Votes against Total Withheld

Number of votes cast 159,064,587 16,607,705 175,672,292 3,167,972

% of votes cast 90.55 9.45 100.00 -

Implementation of the remuneration policy for the year ending 31 December 2018

The Company's remuneration policy was approved by shareholders at a General Meeting held on 30 November 2016 and applies for three years from 1 January 2017. The key components of this policy as they apply to the Executive Directors of the Company including planned implementation for 2019 are set out in the table below.

The full policy statement is available on the Company's website.

Report and Accounts 2018

Corporate Governance

Element, purpose and link to strategy
BASE SALARY

Operation and maximum opportunity

Performance measures and assessment

Implementation for 2019

To provide

An Executive Director's basic salary A broad assessment of individual

With effect from

competitive fixed

is considered by the Remuneration and business performance is used

1 January 2019 John

remuneration that will Committee on appointment and

as part of the salary review.

Douglas' salary will be

attract and retain key normally reviewed once a year, or

Б508,400 an increase of

employees and reflect when there is a significant change to

2.7% and Gary Young's

their experience and role or responsibility.

salary will also be

position in the Group. When making a determination as to the appropriate remuneration,

increased by 2.7% to Б325,000.

the Remuneration Committee,

where it is relevant, benchmarks the

remuneration against the Company's

comparator Group (organisations of

comparable size and or sector to RPS

in the FTSE All Share).

The results of benchmarking will,

however, only be one of a number

of factors taken into account by the

Remuneration Committee and which

will include:

ии t he individual performance

and experience of the

Executive Director;

ии p ay and conditions for employees

across the Group;

ии t he general performance of

the Group; and the economic

environment.

The Remuneration Committee

73

policy in relation to salary is:

ии a round median salary on

appointment depending on the

experience and background of

the new Executive Director; and

Annual percentage increases

are generally consistent with the

range awarded across the Group.

Percentage increases in salary

above this level may be made in

certain circumstances, such as

a change in responsibility or a

significant increase in the scale

of a role, or the Group's size

and complexity.

Individuals who are recruited or

promoted to the Board may on

occasion have their salaries set

below the targeted policy level until

they become established in their role.

In such cases subsequent increases

in salary may be higher than the

average until the target positioning

is achieved.

Report and Accounts 2018

Corporate Governance

Element, purpose and link to strategy
BENEFITS

Operation and maximum opportunity

Performance measures and assessment

To provide competitive benefits and to attract and retain high calibre employees.

The Remuneration Committee's policy is to provide a market competitive benefits package. The Executive Directors may receive the following benefits: ии healthcare; ии life assurance and
dependents' pensions; ии disability schemes; ии company car or car allowance; and ии o ther benefits as provided from
time to time, such as relocation allowances on recruitment. Benefit values vary year on year depending on premiums and the maximum potential value is the cost of the provision of these benefits.

Not applicable.

Implementation for 2019
Benefits for 2019 will be provided in accordance with the policy. In the period up to 31 March 2019 John Douglas will continue to receive benefits related to his relocation, including UK property rental costs, air fares for family visits and personal taxation advice.

PENSION

To provide a

The Executive Directors are eligible Not applicable.

competitive company to participate in defined contribution

contribution that

pension schemes, or receive a salary

enables effective

supplement or a combination of

retirement planning. the two.

74

Other than basic salary, no element

of the Directors' remuneration is

pensionable. Salary supplements

are not included in base salary to

calculate other benefits and

incentive opportunities.

The maximum employer contribution

either to a pension scheme and/or

provided as a salary supplement is

25% of basic salary.

Pension benefits for 2019 will be provided in accordance with the policy. John Douglas will receive a contribution of 20% of base salary and Gary Young will receive a contribution of 15% of base salary.

Report and Accounts 2018

Corporate Governance

Element, purpose Operation and and link to strategy maximum opportunity

Performance measures and assessment

THE RPS GROUP PLC SHORT TERM ANNUAL BONUS PLAN (THE `STABP')

Implementation for 2019

To incentivise

Maximum awards each year under the Performance targets will be set by the The bonus opportunity in

achievement of

STABP are equal to 150% of salary.

Remuneration Committee annually 2019 will be 150% of salary

annual objectives

The performance period is one

based on a range of financial and

for John Douglas and 125%

which support the

financial year with pay-out determined non-financial measures.

of salary for Gary Young.

Group's short-term performance goals.

by the Remuneration Committee following the year end, based on

Financial targets govern the majority The bonus awards in of bonus payments, although non- 2019 will be subject to

achievement against a range of

financial metrics may also be used. achievement of [three

financial and non-financial targets. The Remuneration Committee will measures: PBTA

determine the weighting of the

(70% weighting),

various measures and targets to

cash conversion

ensure that they support the business (20% weighting) and

strategy and objectives for the

personal objectives

relevant year.

(10% weighting).]

Targets are typically structured on

The Committee considers

a challenging sliding scale, with

prospective disclosure of

zero pay- out accruing for achieving targets to be commercially

threshold performance through to full sensitive but will disclose

pay-out for maximum performance. targets retrospectively

The Remuneration Committee has following the financial

the discretion to adjust targets or

year end.

performance measures for any

The bonus will be paid 50%

exceptional events that may occur

in cash and 50% in shares

during the year.

deferred for a period of

The Remuneration Committee has three years.

the discretion to make downward or

upward movements to the amount

of bonus earned resulting from the

application of the performance

75

measures if it believes that the bonus

outcomes are not a fair and accurate

reflection of business performance.

Report and Accounts 2018

Corporate Governance

Element, purpose Operation and and link to strategy maximum opportunity

Performance measures and assessment

THE RPS GROUP PLC EXECUTIVE LONG TERM INCENTIVE PLAN (THE `ELTIP')

Implementation for 2019

To incentivise

Under the ELTIP, the Remuneration Financial and non-financial measures The ELTIP awards granted

Executives to

Committee may award annual grants may be applied to awards under

in 2019 will be 150% of

achieve sustainable, of performance share awards in the the ELTIP.

salary for John Douglas

strong, long term

form of nil-cost options or conditional Targets are typically structured on

and 125% of salary for

performance for the shares (`ELTIP awards').

a challenging sliding scale, with no Gary Young.

Company, to retain

Maximum ELTIP awards each year are more than 20% of the maximum award The 2019 ELTIP awards

key individuals and to equal to 150% of base salary (200% of vesting for achieving the threshold will vest subject to the

align their interests salary in exceptional circumstances). performance level through to full

achievement of three

with shareholders.

ELTIP awards will normally vest after vesting for maximum performance. measures: EPS

a three year performance period

The Remuneration Committee has (25% weighting),

subject to the achievement of the the discretion to adjust targets or

TSR (50% weighting) and

performance measures.

performance measures for any

cash conversion

The Remuneration Committee will exceptional events that may occur

(25% weighting).

retain the discretion to determine during the vesting period.

Performance targets are

whether to attach a holding period The Remuneration Committee has as shown in the separate

to a particular award at the date of the discretion to make downward or table following.

each grant.

upward movements in the vesting

In setting the EPS target

of the ELTIP resulting from the

for the 2019 LTIP awards

application of the performance

the Committee has sought

measures if the Remuneration

to set the right balance

Committee believes that the

between investing in the

outcomes are not a fair and accurate business, focusing on

reflection of business performance. sustainable growth and

The Remuneration Committee will maximising shareholder

review the performance measures

returns. The Committee

annually, in terms of the range of

has taken into account

76

targets, the measures themselves

analyst estimates for the

and weightings applied to each

period 2019 Г 2020 and

element of the ELTIP. Any revisions to our own expectations of

the measures and/or weightings in the global market over the

future years will only take place if it is three year performance

necessary because of developments in period. The Committee

the Group's strategy and, where these is of the view that an EPS

are material, following dialogue with range of 3 - 6% pa in the

the major shareholders.

current environment

strikes an appropriate

balance between setting

challenging targets

and motivating senior

management.

Report and Accounts 2018

Corporate Governance

Element, purpose Operation and and link to strategy maximum opportunity
ALL-EMPLOYEE INCENTIVES

Performance measures and assessment

Implementation for 2019

To encourage all employees to become shareholders and thereby align their interests with those
of shareholders.

Eligible employees may participate in the Share Incentive Plan or country equivalent. Executive Directors will be entitled to participate on the same terms.
Maximum participation levels for all staff are set by reference to the plan rules and relevant legislation.

Not applicable.

Shareholding guidelines

Executive Directors will continue to be eligible to participate in the Share Incentive Plan.

To ensure that Executive Directors' interests are aligned with those of shareholders over the longer term.

Executive Directors are required to build or maintain (as relevant) the following minimum shareholding in the Company: ии 200% of base salary for the Chief
Executive; and
ии 1 50% of base salary for other Executives.
Shares included in this calculation are those held beneficially by the Executive Director and his or her spouse/life partner.

Not applicable.

Shareholding guidelines will remain at 200% of salary for the Group Chief
Executive and 150% of salary for other Executive Directors.

The shareholding requirement is

Executive Directors will

determined by the Remuneration

be required to retain 50%

Committee and may be up to 200% of salary.

of the post tax number of

77

shares vesting under the

STABP and ELTIP until

their requirement is met

and maintained

The following performance targets will apply to the LTIP awards to be made to Executive Directors in 2019.

Performance measure

Weighting

Total Shareholder Return relative to the 50% FTSE All Share

Average Annual Growth in Earnings Per Share (measured 25% on a constant currency basis)

Cash conversion

25%

Measurement period
Three years from date of grant

Performance target Upper Quartile Median to Upper Quartile Below Median 6% p.a.

Three financial years Between 3% and 6% p.a.

Below 3% p.a. 100%

Three financial years Between 80% and 100%

80% and below

Vesting level (% maximum) 100% Pro rata on a straight-line basis between 20% and 100% 0%
100% Pro rata on a straight-line basis between 20% and 100% 0%
100%
Pro rata on a straight-line basis between 20% and 100%
0%

Executive Director service contracts and Non-Executive letters of appointment
Executive Director service contracts
When setting notice periods, the Remuneration Committee has regard to market practice and best governance practice. The Company's general policy is to provide contracts to Executive Directors with no greater than 12 months' notice.
Report and Accounts 2018

Corporate Governance

The table below summarises the service contracts for the current Executive Directors.

Executive Director John Douglas Gary Young

Date of contract June 2017 September 2000

Notice period 12 months 12 months

None of the Directors' contracts provide for extended notice periods or compensation in the event of a change of control.

Non-Executive Director letters of appointment

The Non-Executive Directors do not have service contracts but are appointed under letters of appointment

which provide for a review after an initial three year term. Each Non-Executive Director is subject to annual

re-election at the Company's AGM. Details of the terms of appointment of the Non-Executive Directors are

shown below:

Non-Executive director

Date of appointment

Unexpired term as at 31 December 2018

Ken Lever

November 2016

10 months

Robert Miller-Bakewell

May 2010

4 months

Allison Bainbridge

June 2017

17 months

Liz Peace

August 2017

19 months

Michael McKelvy

May 2018

28 months

78

Catherine Glickman

August 2018

31 months

No compensation is payable in the event of early termination. All service contracts and letters of appointment are available for viewing at the Company's registered office.

Consideration of employee remuneration and shareholders
Consideration of shareholder views
The Remuneration Committee takes the views of the shareholders very seriously and these have been influential in shaping remuneration policy and practice. Shareholder views are considered when evaluating and setting on-going remuneration strategy and the Remuneration Committee commits to consulting with shareholders prior to any significant changes to the remuneration policy.
Employment conditions elsewhere in the Group
In setting the remuneration policy for Directors, the pay and conditions of other employees of RPS are taken into account, including any base salary increases awarded. The Remuneration Committee has not expressly sought the views of employees and no remuneration comparison measurements were used when drawing up the Policy. Through the Board, however, the Remuneration Committee is updated as to employee views on remuneration generally.

Robert Miller-Bakewell Chairman of the Remuneration Committee 21 February 2019

Report and Accounts 2018

79 Report and Accounts 2018

Financial statements
FINANCIAL 81 STATEMENTS
Report and Accounts 2018

Financial statements

INDEPENDENT AUDITOR'S REPORT

to the members of RPS Group Plc

REPORT ON THE AUDIT OF THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

Opinion

The financial reporting framework that has been

applied in the preparation of the Group financial

In our opinion:

statements is applicable law and IFRSs as adopted

by the European Union. The financial reporting

иthe financial statements of RPS Group Plc (the

framework that has been applied in the preparation of

`parent company') and its subsidiaries (the `Group') the parent company financial statements is applicable

give a true and fair view of the state of the Group's law and United Kingdom Accounting Standards,

and of the parent company's affairs as at 31

including FRS 102 "The Financial Reporting Standard

December 2018 and of the Group's profit for the applicable in the UK and Republic of Ireland" (United

year then ended;

Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice).

иthe Group financial statements have been properly

prepared in accordance with International Financial Basis for opinion

Reporting Standards (IFRSs) as adopted by the

European Union;

We conducted our audit in accordance with

иthe parent company financial statements have

International Standards on Auditing (UK) (ISAs (UK))

been properly prepared in accordance with United and applicable law. Our responsibilities under those

Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice, standards are further described in the auditor's

including Financial Reporting Standard 102 "The responsibilities for the audit of the financial

82

Financial Reporting Standard applicable in the UK statements section of our report.

and Republic of Ireland"; and

иthe financial statements have been prepared

We are independent of the Group and the parent

in accordance with the requirements of the

company in accordance with the ethical requirements

Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the

that are relevant to our audit of the financial

Group financial statements, Article 4 of the

statements in the UK, including the Financial Reporting

IAS Regulation.

Council's (the `FRC's') Ethical Standard as applied to

listed public interest entities, and we have fulfilled

We have audited the financial statements which

our other ethical responsibilities in accordance with

comprise:

these requirements. We confirm that the non-audit

иthe consolidated income statement;

services prohibited by the FRC's Ethical Standard were

иthe consolidated statement of comprehensive

not provided to the Group or the parent company.

income;

иthe consolidated and parent company balance

We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained

sheets;

is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for

иthe consolidated and parent company statements our opinion.

of changes in equity;

иthe consolidated cash flow statement; and

иthe related notes to the consolidated financial

statements 1 to 31 and notes to the parent

company financial statements 1 to 15.

Report and Accounts 2018

Financial statements

Summary of our audit approach

Key audit matters

The key audit matters that we identified in the current year were: и revenue recognition Г accrued income cut off; and и impairment of goodwill and long lived assets. Within this report, any new key audit matters are identified with same as the prior year identified with .

and any key audit matters which are the

Materiality

The materiality that we used for the Group financial statements was Б2.5m which was determined on the basis of 5% of profit before tax, amortisation and transaction related costs (PBTA) as detailed in note 3.

Scoping

We focused our Group audit scope and work on the business units at 6 locations. Within the 6 locations, 20 business units were subject to a full audit scope, whilst the remaining 6 were subject to specified audit procedures. Our full scope audit testing and agreed upon procedures covered 97% of revenue, 94% of PBTA, and 97% of net assets.

Significant changes There have been no significant changes in our audit approach, with the exception of the removal of the in our approach recoverability of trade receivables and accrued income in the Energy segment as a key audit matter.

Conclusions relating to going concern, principal risks and viability statement

Going concern

We confirm that

We have reviewed the Directors' statement in the Report of the Directors on page 48 to the financial

we have nothing

statements about whether they considered it appropriate to adopt the going concern basis of accounting in material to report,

preparing them and their identification of any material uncertainties to the Group's and company's ability to add or draw

continue to do so over a period of at least twelve months from the date of approval of the financial statements. attention to in

respect of these

We considered as part of our risk assessment the nature of the Group, its business model and related risks

matters.

including where relevant the impact of Brexit, the requirements of the applicable financial reporting framework

and the system of internal control. We evaluated the directors' assessment of the Group's ability to continue

83

as a going concern, including challenging the underlying data and key assumptions used to make the

assessment, and evaluated the directors' plans for future actions in relation to their going concern assessment.

We are required to state whether we have anything material to add or draw attention to in relation to that statement required by Listing Rule 9.8.6R(3) and report if the statement is materially inconsistent with our knowledge obtained in the audit.

Principal risks and viability statement

We confirm that

Based solely on reading the Directors' statements and considering whether they were consistent with the

we have nothing

knowledge we obtained in the course of the audit, including the knowledge obtained in the evaluation of the material to report,

Directors' assessment of the Group's and the company's ability to continue as a going concern, we are required add or draw

to state whether we have anything material to add or draw attention to in relation to:

attention to in

respect of these

иthe disclosures on pages 28-29 that describe the principal risks and explain how they are being managed or matters.

mitigated;

иthe Directors' confirmation on page 27 that they have carried out a robust assessment of the principal risks

facing the Group, including those that would threaten its business model, future performance, solvency or

liquidity; or

иthe Directors' explanation on page 27 as to how they have assessed the prospects of the Group, over what

period they have done so and why they consider that period to be appropriate, and their statement as to

whether they have a reasonable expectation that the Group will be able to continue in operation and meet

its liabilities as they fall due over the period of their assessment, including any related disclosures drawing

attention to any necessary qualifications or assumptions.

We are also required to report whether the Directors' statement relating to the prospects of the Group required by Listing Rule 9.8.6R(3) is materially inconsistent with our knowledge obtained in the audit.

Report and Accounts 2018

Financial statements

Key audit matters

Key audit matters are those matters that, in our professional judgement, were of most significance in our audit of the financial statements of the current period and include the most significant assessed risks of material misstatement (whether or not due to fraud) that we identified. These matters included those which had the greatest effect on: the overall audit strategy, the allocation of resources in the audit; and directing the efforts of the engagement team.

These matters were addressed in the context of our audit of the financial statements as a whole, and in forming our opinion thereon, and we do not provide a separate opinion on these matters.
In the prior year, we included the recoverability of trade receivables and accrued income in the Energy segment as a key audit matter. In the current year, this is not considered a key audit matter on the basis that we have not historically identified any material errors, combined with improved economic conditions particularly in the oil and gas sector.

REVENUE RECOGNITION - ACCRUED INCOME CUT-OFF

Key audit matter description

The Group is engaged in the provision of consultancy services through contractual arrangements with its customers. Revenue for the financial year 2018 is Б637m (2017: Б631m) with accrued income of Б45m (2017:Б39m).

ISA 240 states that when identifying and assessing the risks of material misstatement due to fraud, the auditor shall, based on a presumption that there are risks of fraud in revenue recognition, evaluate which types of revenue transactions or assertions give rise to such risks.

The specific key audit matter is around the recognition of accrued income on fixed fee contracts over Б50,000

where the contracts remain open at year end. This risk excluded the Norwegian component where the total

value of fixed fee contracts was immaterial. There is judgement required around the recognition of the revenue

84

and its recoverability in estimating the stage of completion and the costs to complete fixed fee open contracts.

The Group's revenue recognition policy is disclosed in note 1(c).

How the scope of our audit responded to the key audit matter

Our audit work assessed the adequacy of the design, implementation and tested the operating effectiveness of controls over the recognition of revenue (including those related to accrued income recognition specifically) for the most significant full scope components. Whilst relying on the operating effectiveness of the controls, we tested in detail a sample of accrued income and work-in-progress balances, focusing on fixed fee contracts over Б50,000 by comparing them to the signed contract terms and where possible, agreeing inputs to the related time records, verifying customer acceptances, billing milestones/schedules and understanding and challenging the estimated costs to complete. In our assessment of the stage of completion, wherever possible we attended project status review meetings and observed the process in place as well as confirming status of projects. Finally, we recalculated the amount of revenue recognised against the percentage completion determined and confirmed that they agreed to the general ledger record. Based on our findings from this, we determined whether revenue recognition was appropriate.

Key observations Based on our procedures, revenue recognised in respect of accrued income for fixed fee contracts open at year end is appropriate.

IMPAIRMENT OF GOODWILL AND LONG LIVED ASSETS

Key audit matter description

At 31 December 2018, the net book value of goodwill and long lived assets was Б418m (2017: Б424m). The associated disclosure is included in note 13, the Audit Committee Report on page 62 and the accounting policy is disclosed in note 1(e).
Assessment of the carrying value of goodwill and long lived assets is a key audit matter due to the quantum of the balance recorded and the number of judgements involved in assessing impairment. The trading announcement issued by the Group on 25th October 2018 also highlighted underperformance of certain segments of the Group. Finally, in the prior year an impairment charge of Б40m was recorded removing any headroom in the Energy cash generating unit (CGU). Given this background, the key audit matter is pinpointed to the key assumptions in the cash flow forecasts for the Energy, Australia Asia Pacific and North America CGUs.
The Group's assessment of the carrying values of goodwill and long lived assets is based on assumptions of future cash flows, including assumptions on growth rates and the selection of appropriate discount rates.

Report and Accounts 2018

Financial statements

In respect of the key audit matter, the CGUs' cashflows are predominantly derived from outside of the European Union.

How the scope of our audit responded to the key audit matter

Our audit work assessed the adequacy of the design and implementation of controls over management review of goodwill and long lived assets impairment.
Our work focused on challenging management's assumptions and the appropriateness of their judgements and forecasts used as part of their value in use calculations, specifically for Energy, Australia Asia Pacific and North America CGUs.

We considered management's forecasts in light of current trading conditions by comparing it against current and historical results with particular focus on Energy, Australia Asia Pacific and North America CGUs.

In performing our procedures, we challenged management's assessment of the impact of Brexit on future cashflows by performing sensitivity analysis on the potential impact.

We used our valuation specialists to calculate an acceptable range of discount rates and compared our range to that determined by management.

We examined the short term growth rates by using market data, relevant industry data and considering historical growth rates, in order to check for any contradictory evidence. We benchmarked the long-term growth rates against external peer Group published rates and market data. We also performed sensitivity analysis on the amount and timing of cash flows. We have considered the adequacy of the associated disclosures.

Key observations Based on our procedures performed, we did not identify any impairment as at 31 December 2018.

Our application of materiality

We define materiality as the magnitude of misstatement in the financial statements that makes it probable

85

that the economic decisions of a reasonably knowledgeable person would be changed or influenced. We use

materiality both in planning the scope of our audit work and in evaluating the results of our work.

Based on our professional judgement, we determined materiality for the financial statements as a whole as follows:

GROUP FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

PARENT COMPANY FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

Materiality

Б2,500,000 (2017: Б2,600,000)

Б1,250,000 (2017: Б1,300,000)

Basis for determining materiality

5% of adjusted pre-tax profit, adjusted for amortisation and impairment of acquired intangible assets and transaction related costs (PBTA). This basis is consistent with the prior year.

Materiality determined at 3% of the parent company net assets. This was then capped at 50% of Group materiality. This materiality equates to 0.5% of net assets.

Rationale for the benchmark applied

We chose this measure as it is the Group's key profit performance indicator. It is also the primary measurement used by the users of the accounts and key stakeholders to measure the performance of the Group. The Group carries a material level of intangible assets, therefore on an annual basis, the results, including the impact of amortisation and acquisitions can be significantly distorted.

Net assets has been chosen as a benchmark as it is considered the most relevant benchmark for investors and is a key driver of shareholder value.

Report and Accounts 2018

Financial statements

PBTA Б50.2m
и PBTA и Group materiality

Group materiality Б2.5m
Component materiality range Б1.25m to Б1.0m
Audit Committee reporting threshold Б0.125m

We agreed with the Audit Committee that we would

At the parent entity level we also tested the

report to the Committee all audit differences in excess consolidation process and carried out analytical

of Б125,000 (2017: Б130,000), as well as differences procedures to confirm our conclusion that there were

below that threshold that, in our view, warranted

no significant risks of material misstatement of the

reporting on qualitative grounds. We also report to

aggregated financial information of the remaining

the Audit Committee on disclosure matters that we

components not subject to audit or audit of specified

identified when assessing the overall presentation of account balances.

the financial statements.

The Group audit team continued to follow a

An overview of the scope of our audit

programme of planned visits that has been designed

so that the Senior Statutory Auditor and or a senior

Our Group audit was scoped by obtaining an

member of the Group audit team visits certain

understanding of the Group and its environment,

overseas components selected by the Senior Statutory

including Group-wide controls and assessing the risks Auditor based on his judgement. In the year we visited

of material misstatement at the Group level. Based on three (2017: three) overseas locations (Australia, US

86

that assessment, we focused our Group audit scope

and Netherlands). Every year, regardless of whether we

and work on the business units at 6 locations Г UK,

have visited or not, we include the component audit

Australia, USA, Norway, Netherlands and Ireland (2017: partner and other senior members of the component

6). These are the same locations as prior year. Within audit team in our team briefing, discuss their risk

the 6 locations, 20 (2017:24) business units were

assessment and review documentation of the findings

subject to a full audit scope, whilst the remaining 6

from their work.

(2017: 7) were subject to specified audit procedures The extent of our involvement which commenced

where the extent of our testing was based on our

from the planning of the Group audit included;

assessment of the risks of material misstatement

иsetting the scope of the component auditor

and of the materiality of the Group's operations at

and assessment of the component auditor's

those locations. These locations, incorporating those

independence;

covered by specified audit procedures, account for

иdesigning the audit procedures for all significant

97% (2017: 91%) of the Group's net assets, 97%

risks to be addressed by the component auditors

(2017: 96%) of the Group's revenue and 94% (2017:

and issuing Group audit instructions detailing the

90%) of the Group's profit before tax, amortisation

nature and form of the reporting required by the

and transaction-related costs. They were also selected

Group engagement team;

to provide an appropriate basis for undertaking audit иvisits to three overseas locations where the Group

work to address the risks of material misstatement

audit scope was focussed in addition to the work

identified above. Our audit work at some locations with

performed at the Group head office;

local statutory reporting requirements were executed иproviding direction on enquiries made by the

at levels of materiality applicable to the individual

component auditors and reviewing their reporting

entity which were lower than Group materiality and

documents submitted to the Group audit team;

ranged from Б1.0m to Б1.25m (2017: Б1.0m to Б1.3m). иa review of the component auditors files for the

three visited components (Australia, US and

Netherlands); and

иparticipating in the audit close meetings for each

of the operating companies.

Report and Accounts 2018

Financial statements

Other information

The Directors are responsible for the other information. The other information comprises the information included in the annual report other than the financial statements and our auditor's report thereon.
Our opinion on the financial statements does not cover the other information and, except to the extent otherwise explicitly stated in our report, we do not express any form of assurance conclusion thereon.

We have nothing to report in respect of these matters

In connection with our audit of the financial statements, our responsibility is to read the other information and, in doing so, consider whether the other information is materially inconsistent with the financial statements or our knowledge obtained in the audit or otherwise appears to be materially misstated.

If we identify such material inconsistencies or apparent material misstatements, we are required to determine whether there is a material misstatement in the financial statements or a material misstatement of the other information. If, based on the work we have performed, we conclude that there is a material misstatement of this other information, we are required to report that fact.

In this context, matters that we are specifically required to report to you as uncorrected material misstatements of the other information include where we conclude that: и Fair, balanced and understandable Г the statement given by the Directors that they consider the annual
report and financial statements taken as a whole is fair, balanced and understandable and provides the information necessary for shareholders to assess the Group's position and performance, business model and strategy, is materially inconsistent with our knowledge obtained in the audit; or иAudit committee reporting Г the section describing the work of the audit committee does not appropriately address matters communicated by us to the audit committee; or и Directors' statement of compliance with the UK Corporate Governance Code Г the parts of the Directors' statement required under the Listing Rules relating to the company's compliance with the UK Corporate Governance Code containing provisions specified for review by the auditor in accordance with Listing Rule 9.8.10R(2) do not properly disclose a departure from a relevant provision of the UK Corporate Governance Code.

Responsibilities of Directors

an audit conducted in accordance with ISAs (UK) will

87

always detect a material misstatement when it exists.

As explained more fully in the Directors' responsibilities Misstatements can arise from fraud or error and are

statement, the Directors are responsible for the

considered material if, individually or in the aggregate,

preparation of the financial statements and for being they could reasonably be expected to influence the

satisfied that they give a true and fair view, and for such economic decisions of users taken on the basis of

internal control as the Directors determine is necessary these financial statements.

to enable the preparation of financial statements that

are free from material misstatement, whether due to Details of the extent to which the audit was considered

fraud or error.

capable of detecting irregularities, including fraud are

set out below.

In preparing the financial statements, the Directors

are responsible for assessing the Group's and the

A further description of our responsibilities for the

parent company's ability to continue as a going

audit of the financial statements is located on the FRC's

concern, disclosing as applicable, matters related to website at: www.frc.org.uk/auditorsresponsibilities. This

going concern and using the going concern basis

description forms part of our auditor's report.

of accounting unless the Directors either intend to

liquidate the Group or the parent company or to cease Extent to which the audit was considered

operations, or have no realistic alternative but to do so. capable of detecting irregularities,

including fraud

Auditor's responsibilities for the audit of

the financial statements

We identify and assess the risks of material

misstatement of the financial statements, whether

Our objectives are to obtain reasonable assurance

due to fraud or error, and then design and perform

about whether the financial statements as a whole

audit procedures responsive to those risks, including

are free from material misstatement, whether due

obtaining audit evidence that is sufficient and

to fraud or error, and to issue an auditor's report

appropriate to provide a basis for our opinion.

that includes our opinion. Reasonable assurance is a

high level of assurance, but is not a guarantee that

Report and Accounts 2018

Financial statements

Identifying and assessing potential risks

Audit response to risks identified

related to irregularities

As a result of performing the above, we identified

In identifying and assessing risks of material

revenue recognition Г accrued income cut-off as a

misstatement in respect of irregularities, including

key audit matter. The key audit matter section of our

fraud and non-compliance with laws and regulations, report explains the matter in more detail and also

our procedures included the following:

describes the specific procedures we performed in

иEnquiring of management, internal audit and

response to the key audit matter.

the audit committee, including obtaining and

reviewing supporting documentation, concerning In addition to the above, our procedures to respond to

the Group's policies and procedures relating to:

risks identified included the following:

oidentifying, evaluating and complying with laws иReviewing the financial statement disclosures and

and regulations and whether they were aware

testing to supporting documentation to assess

of any instances of non-compliance;

compliance with relevant laws and regulations

odetecting and responding to the risks of fraud

discussed above.

and whether they have knowledge of any

и Enquiring of management, the audit committee

actual, suspected or alleged fraud; and

and in-house and external legal counsel concerning

othe internal controls established to mitigate

actual and potential litigation and claims.

risks related to fraud or non-compliance with иPerforming analytical procedures to identify any

laws and regulations.

unusual or unexpected relationships that may

иDiscussing among the engagement team including

indicate risks of material misstatement due to fraud.

significant component audit teams and involving иReading minutes of meetings of those charged

relevant internal specialists, including tax, IT and

with governance, reviewing internal audit reports

industry specialists regarding how and where

and reviewing correspondence with tax authorities

fraud might occur in the financial statements and

where the case.

any potential indicators of fraud. As part of this

и In addressing the risk of fraud through management

discussion, we identified potential for fraud in

override of controls, testing the appropriateness of

revenue recognition - accrued income cut off.

journal entries and other adjustments; assessing

88

иObtaining an understanding of the legal and

whether the judgements made in making

regulatory frameworks that the Group operates in,

accounting estimates are indicative of a potential

focusing on those laws and regulations that had

bias; and evaluating the business rationale of any

a direct effect on the financial statements or that

significant transactions that are unusual or outside

had a fundamental effect on the operations of the

the normal course of business.

Group. The key laws and regulations we considered

in this context included the UK Companies Act,

We also communicated relevant identified laws and

Listing Rules, pensions legislation and

regulations and potential fraud risks to all engagement

tax legislation.

team members including internal specialists and

significant component audit teams, and remained alert

to any indications of fraud or non-compliance with

laws and regulations throughout the audit.

REPORT ON OTHER LEGAL AND REGULATORY REQUIREMENTS

Opinions on other matters prescribed by the Companies Act 2006
In our opinion the part of the Directors' Remuneration Report to be audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006.
In our opinion, based on the work undertaken in the course of the audit:
иthe information given in the strategic report and the Directors' report for the financial year for which the financial statements are prepared is consistent with the financial statements; and

иthe strategic report and the Directors' report have been prepared in accordance with applicable legal requirements.
In the light of the knowledge and understanding of the Group and of the parent company and their environment obtained in the course of the audit, we have not identified any material misstatements in the Strategic Report or the Report of the Directors.

Report and Accounts 2018

Financial statements

Matters on which we are required to report by exception

Adequacy of explanations received and accounting records Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion: иwe have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit; or иadequate accounting records have not been kept by the parent company, or returns adequate for our audit
have not been received from branches not visited by us; or иthe parent company financial statements are not in agreement with the accounting records and returns.

We have nothing to report in respect of these matters.

Directors' remuneration Under the Companies Act 2006 we are also required to report if in our opinion certain disclosures of Directors' remuneration have not been made or the part of the Directors' remuneration report to be audited is not in agreement with the accounting records and returns.

We have nothing to report in respect of these matters.

OTHER MATTERS

Auditor tenure

Following the recommendation of the Audit

Use of our report

Committee, we were appointed by the Board on

27 June 2012 to audit the financial statements

This report is made solely to the company's members,

for the year ending 31 December 2012 and

as a body, in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of

subsequent financial periods. The period of

the Companies Act 2006. Our audit work has been

total uninterrupted engagement including

undertaken so that we might state to the company's

previous renewals and reappointments of the

members those matters we are required to state to

firm is 7 years, covering the years ending

them in an auditor's report and for no other purpose.

31 December 2012 to 31 December 2018.

To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept

or assume responsibility to anyone other than the

Consistency of the audit report with the

company and the company's members as a body, for

additional report to the Audit Committee

our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we

89

Our audit opinion is consistent with the additional

have formed.

report to the Audit Committee we are required to provide in accordance with ISAs (UK).

Andrew Bond FCA (Senior statutory auditor) For and on behalf of Deloitte LLP

Statutory Auditor

Reading, UK

21 February 2019

Report and Accounts 2018

Financial statements

CONSOLIDATED INCOME STATEMENT

Б000s Revenue Recharged expenses Fee income

Note 4,5 4,5 4,5

Year ended 31 Dec 2018
637,383 (63,226) 574,157

Year ended 31 Dec 2017
630,636 (68,316) 562,320

Operating profit before amortisation and impairment of acquired intangibles 3,4,6,7 and transaction related costs

Amortisation and impairment of acquired intangibles and transaction related costs

3,6

Operating profit

54,041
(9,181) 44,860

58,467
(55,541) 2,926

Finance costs Finance income
Profit before tax, amortisation and impairment of acquired intangibles and transaction related costs

8

(4,111)

8

232

50,162

(4,639) 113
53,941

Profit/(loss) before tax

40,981

(1,600)

Tax expense

11

(11,240)

(15,072)

Profit/(loss) for the year attributable to equity holders of the parent 90

29,741

(16,672)

Basic earnings/(loss) per share (pence)

12

13.34

(7.52)

Diluted earnings/(loss) per share (pence)

12

13.23

(7.47)

Adjusted basic earnings per share (pence) Adjusted diluted earnings per share (pence)

12

16.47

12

16.34

17.13 17.01

CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF COMPREHENSIVE INCOME

Б000s Profit/(loss) for the year Actuarial gains and losses on remeasurement of defined benefit pension scheme Tax on remeasurement of defined benefit provision liability Exchange differences* Total recognised income/(loss) for the year attributable to equity holders of the parent *may be reclassified subsequently to profit or loss in accordance with IFRS.
The notes on pages 94 to 127 form part of these financial statements.

Note
27 11

Year ended 31 Dec 2018
29,741 677 (149)
(2,174)
28,095

Year ended 31 Dec 2017
(16,672) (66) 15
(5,867)
(22,590)

Report and Accounts 2018

Financial statements

CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEET

Б000s Assets Non-current assets: Intangible assets Property, plant and equipment Deferred tax asset
Current assets: Trade and other receivables Cash at bank
Liabilities Current liabilities: Borrowings Deferred consideration Trade and other payables Corporation tax liabilities Provisions
Net current assets Non-current liabilities: Borrowings Deferred consideration Other payables Deferred tax liability Provisions
Net assets Equity Share capital Share premium Retained earnings Merger reserve Employee Trust Translation reserve Total shareholders' equity

Note

As at 31 Dec 2018

As at 31 Dec 2017

13

385,699

14

32,005

21

3,795

421,499

16

166,418

17,986

184,404

395,730 28,344 3,312
427,386
169,755 15,588
185,343

18

2,581

19

53

17

117,914

3,648

20

2,119

126,315

58,089

212 1,608 123,406 3,415 2,953 131,594 53,749

18

89,280

96,008

19

249

148

1,719

2,543

91

21

6,405

8,340

20

4,363

4,312

102,016

111,351

377,572

369,784

22

6,783

120,400

213,656

21,256

(9,801)

25,278

377,572

6,745 117,790 205,143
21,256 (8,602) 27,452 369,784

These financial statements were approved and authorised for issue by the Board on 21 February 2019. The notes on pages 94 to 127 form part of these financial statements. John Douglas, Director Gary Young, Director On behalf of the Board of RPS Group Plc (company number 2087786).

Report and Accounts 2018

Financial statements

CONSOLIDATED CASH FLOW STATEMENT

Б000s Net cash from operating activities

Note 26

Year ended 31 Dec 2018
44,488

Year ended 31 Dec 2017
43,744

Cash flows from investing activities: Purchases of subsidiaries net of cash acquired Deferred consideration Purchase of property, plant and equipment Proceeds from sale of business Proceeds from sale of property, plant and equipment Net cash used in investing activities

(165) (1,611) (11,872)
Г 222 (13,426)

Г (12,879)
(8,651) 234 221
(21,075)

Cash flows from financing activities: Costs of issue of share capital Proceeds from issue of share capital Repayment of bank borrowings Payment of finance lease liabilities Dividends paid Net cash generated in financing activities

(9)

(8)

Г

382

(8,891)

(1,424)

Г

(36)

23

(22,115)

(22,007)

(31,015)

(23,093)

Net increase/(decrease) in cash and cash equivalents

47

(424)

Cash and cash equivalents at beginning of year

Effect of exchange rate fluctuations

92

Cash and cash equivalents at end of year

15,376

16,503

(18)

(703)

26

15,405

15,376

Cash and cash equivalents comprise: Cash at bank Bank overdraft Cash and cash equivalents at end of year
The notes on pages 94 to 127 form part of these financial statements.

17,986

15,588

(2,581)

(212)

26

15,405

15,376

Report and Accounts 2018

Financial statements

CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF CHANGES IN EQUITY

Б000s At 1 January 2017

Share

Share Retained

capital premium earnings

6,703 114,353 249,353

Merger Employee Translation

reserve

trust reserve

Total equity

21,256 (13,677) 33,319 411,307

Loss for the year Other comprehensive income Total comprehensive income for the year Issue of new ordinary shares Share based payment expense Transfer on release of shares Dividends paid At 31 December 2017

Г Г Г 42 Г Г Г 6,745

Г Г Г 3,437 Г Г Г 117,790

(16,672) (51)
(16,723) (1,352) 2,700 (6,828)
(22,007) 205,143

Г Г Г Г Г Г Г 21,256

Г Г Г (1,753) Г 6,828 Г (8,602)

Г (5,867) (5,867)
Г Г Г Г 27,452

(16,672) (5,918)
(22,590) 374
2,700 Г
(22,007) 369,784

Effect of changes in accounting standards Profit for the year Other comprehensive income Total comprehensive income for the year Issue of new ordinary shares Share based payment expense Transfer on release of shares Dividends paid At 31 December 2018

Г Г Г Г 38 Г Г Г 6,783

Г Г Г Г 2,610 Г Г Г 120,400

(521) 29,741
528 30,269
(799) 2,338
(659) (22,115) 213,656

Г Г Г Г Г Г Г Г 21,256

Г Г Г Г (1,858) Г 659 Г (9,801)

Г Г (2,174) (2,174) Г Г Г Г 25,278

(521) 29,741 (1,646) 28,095
(9) 2,338
Г (22,115) 377,572

Details of dividends paid are provided in note 23.

The notes on pages 94 to 127 form part of these financial statements.

93

Report and Accounts 2018

Financial statements

NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

1. SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES

RPS Group Plc (the "Company") is a public company limited by shares domiciled in England under the Companies Act. The consolidated financial statements of the Company for the year ended 31

consolidated statement of comprehensive income from the date on which control is obtained. They are deconsolidated from the financial statements from the date control ceases.

Laboratory testing
The Group provides Laboratory testing services and the revenue generated is recognised as samples are tested.

December 2018 comprise the Company and its subsidiaries (together referred to as the "Group").
The consolidated financial statements were authorised for issuance on 21 February 2019.
(a) Basis of preparation
The Group has prepared its annual financial statements in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS) as endorsed by the European Union and implemented in the

(c) Revenue
Consultancy
The Group delivers consultancy services to our clients on a time and materials or fixed fee basis. In both cases, revenue is recognised over the life of the project, as the services are performed by our staff. The Group delivers services that have no alternative use to us (advice to clients, which may take the form of reports, designs, etc.) as the services are specifically tailored to each client's

Agency agreements
The Group enters into certain agreements with clients where it manages client expenditure as an agent. It is obliged to purchase third party services and recharges those costs, plus a management fee, to the client. In these cases only the management fee is recognised as revenue as it becomes due to the Group. Trade receivables, trade payables and cash related to these transactions are included in the consolidated balance sheet.

UK. The financial statements are presented in pounds sterling, rounded to the nearest thousand. The financial statements have been prepared on the historical cost basis.

projects and circumstances. The Group has a right to payment for work performed to date.
For time and materials projects, revenue is recognised in proportion to the number

Payment terms
For all revenue types, payment is typically due between 30 and 60 days after the invoice date, depending on the service, the client and the territory in which the

94

During the year, the Group has adopted

of hours worked and the out of pocket

Group is operating.

IFRS 9 "Financial Instruments" and IFRS

expenses incurred. For fixed fee projects,

15 "Revenue from Contracts with Customers" for the first time. Their impact is disclosed in note 30 to the Financial Statements. Otherwise the Group has prepared these accounts on the same basis as the 2017 Report and Accounts.
The accounting policies set out below have been applied consistently to both years presented in these consolidated financial statements.
(b) Basis of consolidation
Where the Company has the power, either

revenue is recognised with reference to the cost to complete the project.
Software
The Group sells licences and access to software and applications. The software may be customised by RPS for each client, and where we sell customised software we recognise revenue over the period of customisation. Access to applications is provided for a period and revenue is recognised evenly over that period.

Fee income and recharged
expenses
Revenue is classified into fee income and recharged expenses. `Fee income' represents the Group's personnel, subcontractor and equipment time and expertise sold to clients. `Recharged expenses' is the recharge of costs incidental to fulfilling the Group's contracts, for example mileage, flights, subsistence and accommodation, and subcontractor costs on which a negligible margin is earned by the Group.

directly or indirectly, to govern the financial and operating policies of another entity or business so as to obtain benefits from its activities, it is classified as a subsidiary. The consolidated financial statements present the results of the Company and its subsidiaries as if they formed a single entity. Intercompany transactions and balances between Group companies are therefore eliminated in full. The consolidated financial statements incorporate the results of business combinations using the purchase method. When the Group makes acquisitions the acquiree's identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities are initially recognised at their fair values at the acquisition date in the Consolidated Balance Sheet. The results of acquired operations are included in the

Training
The Group provides classroom, field based and online training services to clients, either on a course by course basis or through a program specifying the numbers of training days available to the client. Revenue is recognised as the courses are delivered to the clients. In some cases, subscriptions give access to training programmes and in those circumstances, revenue is recognised when the subscription is sold.
Equipment
From time to time, the Group sells pieces of equipment to clients. In these cases, revenue is recognised when control of the asset passes to the customer and we have no remaining rights over the asset.

Contract assets and liabilities
Contract assets are booked when the amount of revenue recognised on a contract exceeds the amount invoiced. Where the amount invoiced exceeds the amount of revenue recognised, the difference is booked in contract liabilities.
Financing components
The Group does not expect to have any contracts where the period between the transfer of the promised goods or services to the customer and the payment by the customer exceeds one year. Consequently, the Group does not adjust any of the transaction prices for the time value of money.

Report and Accounts 2018

Financial statements

(d) Deferred consideration

The estimated useful lives of the Group's i Calculation of recoverable

Deferred consideration arises when settlement of all or part of the cost of a business combination falls due after the date the acquisition was completed.

intangible assets are as follows:

Customer relationships Trade names Order backlog

5 to 10 years 1 to 5 years 1 to 6 years

amount
The recoverable amount is the greater of the net selling price and value in use. In assessing value in use, the estimated future cash flows are discounted to their

It is stated at the fair value. All deferred

Software

4 to 8 years present value using a pre-tax discount

consideration has been treated as part of the cost of investment. At each

Intellectual property rights

4 years rate that reflects current market assessments of the time value of money

balance sheet date, deferred

and the risks specific to the asset.

consideration comprises the fair value of the remaining deferred consideration valued at acquisition.
(e) Intangible assets
i Goodwill
All business combinations are accounted for by applying the purchase method. Goodwill has been recognised on

(f ) Impairment of non financial assets
The carrying amounts of the Group's nonfinancial assets, other than deferred tax assets, are reviewed at each balance sheet date to determine whether there is any indication of impairment. If any such indication exists, the asset's recoverable amount is estimated.

(g) Judgements made in applying accounting policies
In the course of preparing the financial statements, no judgements have been made in the process of applying the Group's accounting policies that have had a significant effect on the amounts recognised in the financial statements.

acquisitions of subsidiaries and the

business, assets and liabilities of

For goodwill the recoverable amount

(h) Sources of estimation

partnerships. Goodwill represents the difference between the cost of the

is estimated at each annual balance sheet date.

uncertainty
In applying the Group's accounting

acquisition and the fair value of the

An impairment loss is recognised

policies various transactions and

95

identifiable assets acquired.

whenever the carrying amount of an asset balances are valued using estimates or

Goodwill is stated at cost less any accumulated impairment losses. Goodwill is allocated to Groups of cash-generating units and is tested annually for impairment.

or its cash generating unit exceeds its recoverable amount. Impairment losses are recognised in the income statement unless the asset is recorded at a revalued amount in which case it is treated as a revaluation decrease to the extent that a

assumptions. Should these estimates or assumptions prove incorrect, there may be an impact on the following year's financial statements. The only source of estimation uncertainty at the end of 2018, that has a significant risk of

ii Other intangible assets
Intangible assets other than goodwill that are acquired by the Group are stated at cost less accumulated amortisation and impairment losses.
Intangible assets identified in a business combination are capitalised at fair value at the date of acquisition if they are

surplus has previously been recorded.
Impairment losses recognised in respect of cash generating units are allocated first to reduce the carrying value of goodwill allocated to the cash generating unit and then to reduce the carrying amount of the other assets in the unit on a pro-rata basis.

resulting in a material adjustment to the carrying amount of assets and liabilities during 2019, is the lack of clarity around the terms of the UK's exit from the EU. The uncertainty associated with Brexit may affect the cash flows generated by our Consulting UK & Ireland business. Although we consider it unlikely, if these cash flows are significantly different

separable from the acquired entity or

to those modelled in our goodwill

give rise to other contractual or legal

impairment reviews, the carrying value of

rights. The fair values ascribed to such

goodwill associated with that CGU Group

intangibles are arrived at by using

may be affected.

appropriate valuation techniques.

Expenditure on internally generated goodwill and brands is recognised in the income statement as an expense as incurred.

iii Amortisation
Amortisation is charged to profit or loss in proportion to the timing of the benefits derived from the related asset from the date that the intangible assets are available for use over their estimated useful lives unless such lives are indefinite.

Report and Accounts 2018

Financial statements

2. OTHER ACCOUNTING POLICIES

(a) Foreign currency

(b) Property, plant and

(c) Trade and other receivables

i Foreign currency transactions equipment

Trade and other receivables are

Transactions in foreign currency are translated at the foreign exchange rate ruling at the date of the transaction. Monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies at the balance sheet date are translated to

i Owned assets
Items of property, plant and equipment are stated at cost less accumulated depreciation (see below) and impairment losses (see accounting policy 1 (f) above).

recognised at cost and carried at cost less impairment losses. Trade and other receivables are subject to impairment tests whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that their carrying amount may not be recoverable.

pounds sterling at the foreign exchange rate ruling at that date. Foreign exchange

ii Leased assets
Leases which contain terms whereby the

Impairment losses are taken to the income statement as incurred.

differences arising on translation are recognised in income.

Group assumes substantially all the risks and rewards incidental to ownership of

Financial Assets

the leased item are classified as finance

The Group's financial assets consist of

ii Financial statements of

leases. Assets acquired under a finance

trade receivables, contract assets and

foreign operations

lease are capitalised at the inception of

cash. These assets are measured at

The assets and liabilities of foreign

the lease at fair value of the leased assets, amortised cost as the Group's business

operations, including goodwill and fair

or if lower, the present value of the

model for managing these assets is to

value adjustments arising on

minimum lease payments.

hold them until realisation of the asset

consolidation, are translated to pounds sterling at the exchange rate ruling at the balance sheet date. The revenues and expenses of foreign operations are

Obligations under finance leases are included in liabilities net of finance costs allocated to future periods.

as cash.
Impairment of Financial Assets
For trade receivables and contract assets,

translated to pounds sterling at rates

All other leases are classified as operating the Group applies the simplified

96

approximating the foreign exchange rates leases and are not capitalised.

impairment approach permitted by IFRS 9

ruling at the dates of the transactions.

which requires expected lifetime losses to

Foreign exchange differences arising on retranslation are recognised in the

iii Subsequent costs
The Group recognises in the carrying

be recognised from initial recognition of the receivables.

translation reserve.

amount of an item of property, plant and To measure the expected credit losses,

iii Net investment in

equipment the cost of replacing part of such an item when that cost is incurred if

trade receivables and contract assets have been grouped based on shared

foreign operations

it is probable that the future economic

credit risk characteristics relating to the

Exchange differences arising from the

benefits embodied within the item will

markets we operate in. The Group's

translation of the net investment in

flow to the Group and the cost of the item history of such losses is not material, even

foreign operations are taken to the

can be measured reliably. All other costs during significant downturns, and

translation reserve. They are recycled

are recognised in the income statement consequently the risk associated with

and taken to income upon disposal

as incurred.

Brexit is deemed to be limited.

of the operation.
iv Foreign currency forward contracts
Foreign currency forward contracts are initially recognised at nil value, being priced-at-the-money at origination. Subsequently they are measured at fair value (determined by price changes in the underlying forward rate, the interest rate, the time to expiration of the contract and the amount of foreign currency specified

iv Depreciation
Depreciation is charged to income on a straight-line basis over the estimated useful lives of each part of an item of property, plant and equipment. The estimated useful lives are as follows:

Freehold buildings
Alterations to leasehold premises Motor vehicles

50 years Life of lease
4 years

(d) Cash and cash equivalents
Cash at bank comprises cash balances and call deposits with an original maturity of three months or less. Bank overdrafts that are repayable on demand and form an integral part of the Group's cash management are included as a component of cash and cash equivalents for the purposes of the consolidated cash flow statement.

in the contract). Changes in fair value are Fixtures, fittings,

3 to 8 years

recognised in the income statement as

IT and equipment

they arise.

Report and Accounts 2018

Financial statements

(e) Employee benefits

The Performance Share Plan ("PSP")

The Group has calculated the fair market

i Defined contribution plans
Obligations for contributions to defined contribution retirement benefit plans are recognised as an expense in the income statement as incurred.

is a discretionary share incentive arrangement for RPS Group Plc's senior employees. The awards are granted over a fixed number of shares at no cost to the employees. At the end of the three year holding period the award will vest subject

value of options using a binomial model and for whole share awards the fair value has been based on the market value of the shares at the date of grant adjusted to take into account some of the terms and conditions upon which the shares were

to continuity of employment conditions. granted.

ii Defined benefit plans

The cost of providing benefits is

The Energy Share Option Plan

Those fair values were charged to the

determined using the projected unit

is a discretionary share incentive

income statement over the relevant

credit method, with actuarial valuations

arrangement for RPS Group Plc's senior

vesting period adjusted to reflect actual

being carried out at the end of each

employees within the Energy segment.

and expected vesting levels.

reporting period. Remeasurement gains

The awards are granted over a fixed

and losses are recognised immediately in number of shares. At the end of the three iv Accrued holiday pay

the balance sheet with a charge or credit year holding period, the award will vest

Provision is made at each balance sheet

to the statement of comprehensive

subject to continuity of employment

date for holidays accrued but not taken,

income in the period in which they occur. conditions. The employee can exercise

to the extent that they may be carried

These remeasurement gains and losses

the option to purchase the shares on

forward, calculated at the salary of the

are not recycled to the income statement. payment of the option price to the

relevant employee at that date.

Defined benefit costs are split into

Company at any point between three

three categories:

and ten years following the grant of

(f ) Provisions

the option. Гcurrent service cost, past service cost

A provision is recognised in the balance

and gains and losses on curtailments The Executive Long Term Incentive

sheet when the Group has a present

and settlements (recognised in administrative expenses)

Plan ("ELTIP") is a discretionary share incentive arrangement for RPS Group

legal or constructive obligation as a result of a past event and it is probable

97

Гnet interest expense or income (recognised in finance costs); and

Plc's senior employees. The awards are granted over a fixed number of shares at no cost to the employees. At the end of

that an outflow of economic benefits will be required to settle the obligation. If the effect is material, provisions are

Гremeasurement (recognised in other the three year holding period the award

determined by discounting the expected

comprehensive income)

will vest subject to the achievement of

future cash flows at a pre-tax rate that

The retirement benefit obligation recognised in the consolidated balance sheet represents the deficit in the Group's defined benefit scheme.

the performance measures outlined in the Remuneration Report. There is then a two year holding period for awards that have vested.

reflects current market assessments of the time value of money and, when appropriate, the risks specific to the liability.

iii Share-based payments
The Group operates share based payment arrangements with employees.
The Share Incentive Plan ("SIP") is an all-employee share plan which operates in the UK, Ireland, Australia, Canada, Netherlands, Norway and USA. Employees purchase partnership shares on a monthly or annual basis using deductions from salary and the Group matches this

The Short Term Annual Bonus Plan ("STABP") is an incentive scheme for RPS Group Plc's senior employees based on the achievement of a range of financial and non-financial targets over a one year period. 50% of the bonus award is paid in cash and 50% is deferred into shares which are subject to a three year holding period. There are no further performance conditions applicable to the deferred shares.
The fair value of equity settled awards for

A provision for onerous contracts is recognised when the expected benefits to be derived by the Group from a contract are lower than the unavoidable cost of meeting its obligations under the contract.
(g) Trade and other payables
Trade and other payables are stated at cost. Trade payables due within one year are not discounted.

by awarding matching shares. These matching shares are awarded at no cost to the employee and are released to the employee subject to continuity of employment provision after three years.

share based payments is determined at grant and expensed straight line over the period from grant to the date of earliest unconditional exercise.

(h) Borrowings
Bank overdrafts and interest bearing loans are initially measured at cost. Borrowings are not discounted.

Report and Accounts 2018

Financial statements

2. OTHER ACCOUNTING POLICIES CONTINUED

(i) Reserves

Current tax is the expected tax payable on (m) Share Scheme Trusts

The description and purpose of the Group's reserves are as follows:
Share premium Premium on shares issued in excess of nominal value, other than on shares issued in respect of acquisitions when merger relief is taken.
Merger reserve Premium on shares issued in respect of acquisitions when merger relief is taken.
Employee trust Own shares held by the SIP and Employee Benefit trusts. When the shares are released to staff, the related entry to the Employee Trust reserve is reversed to Retained earnings.

the taxable income for the year, using tax rates and rules enacted or substantially enacted at the balance sheet date, and any adjustment to tax payable in respect of previous years. Deferred tax is provided using the balance sheet liability method, providing for temporary differences between the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities for financial reporting purposes and the amounts used for taxation purposes. The following temporary differences are not provided for: goodwill not deductible for tax purposes, the initial recognition of assets or liabilities that affect neither accounting nor taxable profit and the differences relating to investments in subsidiaries to the extent that they will probably not reverse in the foreseeable future. The

The Company administers its share plans through two Trusts - the Employee Benefit Trust and the SIP Trust. The SIP Trust is used for the HMRC-approved Share Incentive Plan and the EBT as used for all other plans. As the Company is deemed to have control of its share trusts, they are treated as subsidiaries and consolidated for the purpose of the Group accounts. The Trusts' assets (other than investments in the Company's shares), liabilities, income and expenses are included on a line-by-line basis in the Group financial statements. The Trusts' investments in the Company's shares are deducted from shareholders' funds in the Group balance sheet as if they were treasury shares.

Translation reserve Cumulative gains and losses arising on

amount of deferred tax provided is based on the expected manner of realisation or settlement of the carrying amount

(n) Accounting Standards Issued but not adopted

retranslating the net assets of overseas operations into sterling.

of assets and liabilities, using tax rates enacted or substantively enacted at the

IFRS 16 "Leases".
The Group will apply IFRS 16 from

Retained earnings

balance sheet date.

1 January 2019. The Group has elected

C umulative net gains and losses

A deferred tax asset is recognised only to not to restate comparatives on initial

recognised in the consolidated

the extent that it is probable that future

adoption. The Group has performed an

statement of comprehensive income

taxable profits will be available against

assessment of the impact of adopting

and consolidated statement of

which the asset can be utilised. Deferred IFRS 16 based on leases outstanding at

98

changes in equity.

tax assets are reduced to the extent that it 31 December 2018. The Group estimates is no longer probable that the related tax that lease right of use assets of Б44m

(j) Expenses

benefit will be realised.

and lease liabilities of Б48m will be

recognised on transition. In addition, lease

i Operating lease payments
Payments made under operating leases are recognised in the income statement on a straight-line basis over the term of the lease. Lease incentives received are recognised as an integral part of the total lease expense.

(l) Dividends
Dividends are recognised when they become legally payable. In the case of interim dividends to equity shareholders, this is when they are paid. In the case of final dividends, this is when approved by the shareholders at the Annual

prepayments of Б0.5m, lease accruals of Б0.5m and onerous lease provisions of Б2.1m will be derecognised.
There are no other standards that are not yet effective and that would be expected to have a material impact on the Group in current or future reporting periods and on

ii Finance lease payments

General Meeting.

forseeable future transactions.

Minimum lease payments are apportioned

between the finance charge and the

reduction of the outstanding liability. The

finance charge is allocated to each period

during the lease term so as to produce a

constant periodic rate of interest on the

remaining balance of the liability.

(k) Income tax
Income tax on the income for the years presented comprises current and deferred tax. Income tax is recognised in the income statement except to the extent that it relates to items recognised in equity, in which case it is recognised in equity.

Report and Accounts 2018

Financial statements

3. ALTERNATIVE PERFORMANCE MEASURES

Throughout this document the Group

believes distort the trading performance of

presents various alternative performance the Group. These items are either

measures. The measures presented are acquisition and disposal related or they are

those adopted by the Chief Operating

non-cash items.

Decision Maker ("CODM", deemed to be the main Board) and analysts who follow us in Delivering the Group's strategy includes assessing the performance of the business. investment in selected acquisitions that
enhance the depth and breadth of services

Group profit and earnings measures

that the Group offers in the territories in which it operates. In addition, from time to time the Group chooses to exit a particular

PBTA

market or service offering because it is not

Profit before tax and amortisation and

offering the desired returns. By excluding

impairment of acquired intangibles and acquisition and disposal related items from

transaction related costs (PBTA) is used by PBTA, the Board has a clearer view of the

the Board to monitor and measure the

performance of the Group and is able to

trading performance of the Group. It

make better operational decisions to

excludes certain items which the Board support its strategy.

Accordingly, transaction related costs including costs of acquisition and disposal, losses on the closure of businesses and amortisation and impairment of intangible assets are excluded from the Group's preferred performance measure, PBTA.
Items are treated consistently year on year, and these adjustments are also consistent with the way that performance is measured under the Group's incentive plans and its banking covenants.
Operating profit before amortisation and impairment of acquired intangible assets and transaction related costs is a derivative of PBTA. A reconciliation is shown below.

Б000s Profit/(loss) before tax Add: Amortisation and impairment of acquired intangibles and transaction related costs PBTA

2018 40,981
9,181 50,162

2017 (1,600) 55,541 53,941

Add: Net finance costs Operating profit before amortisation and impairment of acquired intangibles and transaction related costs

3,879 54,041

4,526 58,467

Adjusted profit attributable to ordinary shareholders
It follows that the Group uses adjusted profit attributable to ordinary shareholders as the input to its adjusted EPS measures. Again,
this profit measure excludes amortisation of acquired intangibles and transaction related costs, but is an after tax measure. 99

Б000s

2018

2017

Profit/(loss) attributable to ordinary shareholders

29,741

(16,672)

Add: Amortisation and impairment of acquired intangibles and transaction related costs

9,181

55,541

Deduct:

Tax on amortisation and impairment of acquired intangibles and transaction related costs

(2,205)

(885)

Adjusted profit attributable to ordinary shareholders

36,717

37,984

Constant currency

The Group generates revenues and

rates vary from year to year, so the Group

profits in various territories and

presents some of its results on a constant

currencies because of its international

currency basis. This means that the prior

footprint. Those results are translated on year's results have been retranslated

consolidation at the foreign exchange rates using current year exchange rates. This

prevailing at the time. These exchange

eliminates the effect of exchange from the

year on year comparison of results. The difference between the reported numbers and the constant currency numbers is the "constant currency effect".

Б000s Revenue Fee income PBTA Loss before tax

Constant 2017 currency effect

630,636

(10,697)

562,320

(9,742)

53,941

(1,176)

(1,600)

(754)

2017 at constant currency 619,939 552,578
52,765 (2,354)

Report and Accounts 2018

Financial statements

3. ALTERNATIVE PERFORMANCE MEASURES CONTINUED

Segment profit and underlying profit Segment profit is presented in our segmental disclosures. This excludes the effects of financing and amortisation which are metrics outside of the control of segment management. It also excludes unallocated expenses. Segment profit is then adjusted by excluding the costs of reorganisation to give underlying profit for the segment. This reflects the underlying trading of the business. A reconciliation between segment profit and operating profit is given in note 4.
Reorganisation costs This classification comprises costs and income arising as a consequence of reorganisation such as redundancy costs, profit or loss on disposal of plant, property and equipment, the costs of consolidating office space and rebranding costs.
Unallocated expenses Certain central costs are not allocated to the segments because they predominantly relate to the stewardship of the Group. They include the costs of the main board and the Group finance and marketing functions and related IT costs.

Revenue measures
The Group disaggregates revenue into Fee Income and Recharged Expenses. This provides insight into the performance of the business and our productive output. (See note 1(c).) This is reconciled on the face of the income statement. Fee income by segment is reconciled in note 4.
Cash flow measures
EBITDAS EBITDAS is operating profit adjusted by adding back non-cash expenses, tax and financing costs. The adjustments include interest, tax, depreciation, amortisation and impairment and transaction related costs and share scheme costs. This generates a cash-based operating profit figure which is the input into the cash flow statement. A reconciliation between Operating Profit and EBITDAS is given in note 26.
Conversion of profit into cash A key measure of the Group's cash generation is the conversion of profit into cash. This is the cash generated from operations divided by EBITDAS expressed as a percentage. This metric is used as a

measure against which the Group's long and short term performance incentive schemes are judged and reflects how much of the Group's profit has been collected as cash in the year.
Net bank borrowings Net bank borrowings is the total of cash and cash equivalents, interest bearing bank loans and finance leases. This measure gives the external indebtedness of the Group, and is an input into the leverage calculations. This is reconciled in note 26.
Leverage Leverage is the ratio of net bank borrowings plus deferred consideration to annualised EBITDAS and is one of the financial covenants included in our bank facilities.
Tax measures
We report one adjusted tax measure, which is the tax rate on PBTA ("adjusted effective tax rate"). This is the tax charge applicable to PBTA expressed as a percentage of PBTA and is set out in note 11.

100

4. BUSINESS AND GEOGRAPHICAL SEGMENTS

Segment information is presented in the financial statements in respect of the Group's business segments, as reported to the CODM. The business segment reporting format reflects the Group's management and internal reporting structure.
Inter-segment pricing is determined on an arm's length basis. Segment results include items directly attributable to a segment as well as those that can be allocated on a reasonable basis.

The segment results for the year ended 31 December 2017 were restated following changes to the Group's management structure and organisation, as announced on 2 July 2018.
The business segments of the Group are as follows:
- Energy - Consulting - UK and Ireland - Services - UK and Netherlands - Norway - North America - AAP

Report and Accounts 2018

Financial statements

Segment results for the period ended 31 December 2018:
Б000s Energy Consulting - UK and Ireland Services - UK and Netherlands Norway North America AAP Group eliminations Total

Fee income 101,067 122,089 110,567 69,012 58,671 116,830
(4,079) 574,157

Intersegment

Expenses

revenue

12,800

(802)

30,679

(1,371)

11,414

(1,178)

965

(171)

1,149

(524)

6,714

(528)

(495)

4,574

63,226

Г

External revenue 113,065 151,397 120,803
69,806 59,296 123,016
Г 637,383

Б000s Energy Consulting - UK and Ireland Services - UK and Netherlands Norway North America AAP Total

Underlying Reorganisation

profit

costs

9,579

(676)

15,501

(84)

13,581

(69)

6,978

(786)

5,245

(125)

13,328

(62)

64,212

(1,802)

Segment profit 8,903 15,417 13,512 6,192 5,120 13,266 62,410

Segment results for the period ended 31 December 2017 (restated):

Б000s Energy Consulting - UK and Ireland Services - UK and Netherlands Norway North America AAP Group eliminations Total

Fee income

Intersegment

Expenses

revenue

External revenue

93,005

13,024

(675)

105,354

120,767

25,339

(1,388)

144,718

95,699

16,497

(708)

111,488

101

67,986

1,192

(212)

68,966

68,274

1,918

(217)

69,975

119,674

10,939

(478)

130,135

(3,085)

(593)

3,678

Г

562,320

68,316

Г

630,636

Б000s Energy Consulting - UK and Ireland Services - UK and Netherlands Norway North America AAP Total

Underlying profit 8,511 16,615 13,955 6,378 7,507 15,257 68,223

Reorganisation costs (544) Г Г Г (206) (461) (1,211)

Segment profit 7,967 16,615 13,955 6,378 7,301 14,796 67,012

Report and Accounts 2018

Financial statements

4. BUSINESS AND GEOGRAPHICAL SEGMENTS CONTINUED
Group reconciliation
Б000s Revenue Recharged expenses Fee income
Underlying profit Reorganisation costs Segment profit Unallocated expenses Operating profit before amortisation and impairment of acquired intangibles and transaction related costs Amortisation and impairment of acquired intangibles and transaction related costs Operating profit Net finance costs Profit/(loss) before tax

Year ended 31 Dec 2018
637,383 (63,226) 574,157

Year ended 31 Dec 2017
630,636 (68,316) 562,320

64,212 (1,802) 62,410 (8,369)
54,041
(9,181) 44,860 (3,879) 40,981

68,223 (1,211) 67,012 (8,545)
58,467
(55,541) 2,926 (4,526) (1,600)

Б000s

Energy

Consulting - UK and Ireland

Services - UK and Netherlands

102

Norway

North America

AAP

Unallocated

Group total

Carrying amount of segment assets

Year ended 31 Dec 2018

Year ended 31 Dec 2017
restated

76,297

74,637

169,879

169,307

104,950

103,848

56,670

57,372

66,656

66,194

118,608

128,923

12,843

12,448

605,903

612,729

Segment depreciation and amortisation

Year ended 31 Dec 2018

Year ended 31 Dec 2017
restated

1,933

42,454

1,989

2,680

3,489

3,364

2,262

2,756

2,246

3,397

5,143

6,172

338

422

17,400

61,245

Report and Accounts 2018

Financial statements

The table below shows revenue and fee income to external customers based upon the country from which billing took place:

Revenue

Fee income

Б000s UK Australia USA Norway Netherlands Ireland Canada Other Total

Year ended 31 Dec 2018
242,707 138,742
94,119 73,747 38,998 33,158 11,817 4,095 637,383

Year ended 31 Dec 2017
232,490 144,694
98,957 73,217 36,180 28,805 12,461
3,832 630,636

Year ended 31 Dec 2018
205,212 128,993
89,776 72,524 33,504 29,811 10,421
3,916 574,157

Year ended 31 Dec 2017
193,183 132,200
93,901 71,804 30,148 26,641 10,624
3,819 562,320

Б000s UK Australia USA Ireland Norway Canada Netherlands Other Total

Carrying amount of non current assets

As at 31 Dec 2018

As at 31 Dec 2017

163,591

162,597

96,436

102,999

49,458

50,910

42,166

41,782

38,454

40,530

12,679

9,885

18,710

18,678

5

5

421,499

427,386

103

5. REVENUE

Disaggregation of revenue
The Group segmental information disclosed in note 4 best depicts how the nature, timing, amount and uncertainty associated with our revenues and cash flows are affected by economic factors. Segments are structured along geographical and market lines, and risks are broadly consistent within the segments as a result.

Unsatisfied performance obligations
The transaction price allocated to partially satisfied or unsatisfied performance obligations at 31 December 2018 is set out below. These obligations equate to the contracted work which the Group has on hand at the year end.

Б000s To be recognised in 2019 To be recognised in 2020 To be recognised in 2021 and beyond

As at 31 Dec 2018
218,227 19,233 6,489
243,949

These obligations will be recognised as revenue over time.

Report and Accounts 2018

Financial statements

6. AMORTISATION AND IMPAIRMENT OF ACQUIRED INTANGIBLES AND TRANSACTION RELATED COSTS

Б000s Amortisation of acquired intangibles Impairment of goodwill (Note 13) Loss on sale of business Transaction costs

Year ended 31 Dec 2018
9,144 Г Г
37 9,181

Year ended 31 Dec 2017
12,804 40,024
2,695 18
55,541

Loss on sale of business
On 29 December 2017, the Group disposed of the trade and certain assets of its pipeline approval business in Canada. The sale proceeds were C$395,000 (Б233,000). The loss on disposal includes a lease which became onerous since we could no longer make economic use of part of the building in which the business was based.
Impairment of goodwill
In 2017 the Group recognised an impairment charge of Б40,024,000 against the goodwill allocated to its Energy businesses in Europe and North America. No impairment charges were recognised against goodwill in 2018.

7. OPERATING PROFIT - BY NATURE OF EXPENSE

Б000s Revenue 104 Staff costs (see note 9) Subconsultant costs Other employment related costs Depreciation of owned assets Depreciation of assets held under finance leases Loss on disposal of property, plant and equipment Loss on sale of business Operating lease rentals payable - property Operating lease rentals payable - equipment and motor vehicles Travel costs Office costs Amortisation of acquired intangibles Impairment of acquired intangibles Bad debt provision Other transaction related costs Other costs Operating profit

Year ended 31 Dec 2018
637,383

Year ended 31 Dec 2017
630,636

(311,691) (148,351) (26,688)
(8,256) Г
(37) Г
(13,453) (4,986) (16,576)
(21,608) (9,144) Г Г (37)
(31,696) 44,860

(307,488) (137,849)
(23,626) (8,409) (8) (86) (2,695)
(12,840) (5,402)
(13,980) (19,850) (12,804) (40,024)
(28) (18) (42,603) 2,926

Report and Accounts 2018

Financial statements

8. NET FINANCING COSTS
Б000s Finance costs: Interest and charges on loans, overdraft and finance leases Amortisation of prepaid financing costs Interest payable on deferred consideration
Finance income: Deposit interest receivable Net financing costs

Year ended 31 Dec 2018

Year ended 31 Dec 2017

(3,734) (364) (13)
(4,111)
232 (3,879)

(3,952) (383) (304)
(4,639)
113 (4,526)

9. EMPLOYEE BENEFIT EXPENSE

Б000s Wages and salaries Social security costs Pension costs - defined contribution plans Pension costs - defined benefit plans Share based payment expense - equity settled

Year ended 31 Dec 2018
268,749 26,912 13,443 249 2,338 311,691

Year ended 31 Dec 2017
265,643 25,858 13,044 243 2,700
307,488

Average number of employees (including Executive Directors) was: Fee earning staff Support staff

4,639

4,477

105

917

863

5,556

5,340

The Group considers the Directors to be the key management personnel and details of Directors' remuneration are included in the Remuneration Committee Report from page 64. The share based payment charge in respect of key management personnel was Б396,000 (2017: Б552,000). Social security costs in respect of these personnel were Б260,000 (2017: Б334,000).

Report and Accounts 2018

Financial statements

10. AUDITORS' REMUNERATION
During the year, the Group (including its overseas subsidiaries) obtained the following services from the Group's auditors at costs as detailed below:

Б000s Statutory audit of the Company's annual accounts Statutory audit of the Group's subsidiaries Total audit fees

Year ended 31 Dec 2018
50 569 619

Year ended 31 Dec 2017
50 562 612

Interim review Other services Total audit related assurance services

27

27

Г

2

646

641

Tax compliance services

Г

4

Other services

12

11

Total fees

658

656

Expenses for 2017 were Б15,000. In finalising the 2017 audit, additional fees of Б50,000 were billed which are not included in the 2017 numbers above.

11. INCOME TAXES
Analysis of tax expense/(credit) in the income statement for the year:

106

Б000s

Current tax:

UK corporation tax

Overseas tax

Adjustments in respect of prior years

Deferred tax: Origination and reversal of temporary differences Effect of change in tax rate Adjustments in respect of prior years

Total tax charge for the year
In addition to the amount charged to the income statement, the following items related to tax have been recognised:
Deferred tax charge/(credit) in other comprehensive income

Year ended 31 Dec 2018

Year ended 31 Dec 2017

3,065 9,509
887 13,461

3,750 9,603 1,422 14,775

(1,729) 28
(520) (2,221)

(722) 2,278 (1,259)
297

11,240

15,072

149

(15)

Report and Accounts 2018

Financial statements

The effective tax rate for the year on profit before tax was 27.4% (2017: 39.2% as adjusted for the impairment of goodwill which was not deductible for tax purposes). The effective tax rate for the year on PBTA was 26.8% (2017: 29.6%) as shown in the table below:

Б000s Total tax expense in income statement Add back: Tax on amortisation and impairment of acquired intangibles and transaction related costs Adjusted tax charge on the profit/(loss) for the year
Profit before tax, amortisation and impairment of acquired intangibles and transaction related costs Adjusted effective tax rate Tax rate impact of amortisation and impairment of acquired intangibles and transaction related costs Statutory effective tax rate

Year ended 31 Dec 2018
11,240

Year ended 31 Dec 2017
15,072

2,205 13,445

885 15,957

50,162 26.8%
0.6% 27.4%

53,941 29.6% (971.6%) (942.0%)

The Group operates in and is subject to income tax in many jurisdictions. The weighted average tax rate is derived by weighting the rates in those jurisdictions by the profits before tax earned there. It is sensitive to the statutory tax rates that apply in each jurisdiction and the geographic mix of profits. The statutory tax rates in our main jurisdictions were UK 19.0% (2017: 19.25%) and Australia 30% (2017: 30%). The tax rate in the US reduced to 22.5% in 2018 (2017: 38.0%) due to the reduction in the US Federal tax rate effective from 1 January 2018.
The weighted average tax rate reduced to 23.1% in 2018 (2017: 26.1% as adjusted for the impairment of goodwill which was not deductable for tax purposes) due to the reduction in the Federal tax rate effective from 1 January 2018.
The actual tax charge differs from the weighted average charge for the reasons set out in the following reconciliation:

Б000s Profit/(loss) before tax Add back: impairment of goodwill Profit before tax and impairment of goodwill
Tax at the weighted average rate of 23.1% (2017: 26.1%) Effect of: Irrecoverable witholding tax suffered Impact of intercompany financing Effect of change in tax rates US repatriation tax Canadian losses not recognised Adjustments in respect of prior years Other differences Total tax expense for the year

Year ended Year ended

31 Dec 2018 31 Dec 2017

107

40,981

(1,600)

Г

40,024

40,981

38,424

9,452

10,031

1,018 (56) 39 Г 49 368 370
11,240

1,619 (581) 2,424 209 795 163 412 15,072

Report and Accounts 2018

Financial statements

11. INCOME TAXES CONTINUED

The Group operates, mainly through

Effect of change in tax rates - from 1

our oil and gas exposed businesses, in

January 2018 the Norwegian tax rate

jurisdictions that impose withholding taxes reduced from 23% to 22%. This resulted

on revenue earned in those jurisdictions. in an income statement charge arising

This tax may be offset against domestic principally from the reduction in the

corporation tax either in the current year or balance sheet carrying value of deferred

in the future within certain time limits. To tax assets relating to the amortisation

the extent that full recovery is not achieved of intangible assets. A higher charge

in the current year or is not considered

arose in 2017 due to the US Federal tax

possible in future years the withholding tax rate reducing from 35% to 21% and the

is charged to the income statement. The Norwegian tax rate from 24% to 23%.

impact of irrecoverable withholding tax suffered reduced in 2018 as less work was undertaken in these jurisdictions.

US repatriation tax - this applied in 2017 on undistributed profits of US subsidiaries which became taxable at rates between

The impact of intercompany financing

8.0% and 15.5% following US tax reform.

relates to the funding of US operations

The charge was not recurring.

from the UK. The impact reduced in 2018 due to the reduction in the US Federal tax rate from 35% to 21% that applied from 1 January 2018.

Canadian losses not recognised - no benefit was recognised for losses arising where it was uncertain they would be utilised. The impact was higher at

December 2017 due to the the losses arising on the disposal of the Linear Infrastructure business.
Adjustments in respect of prior years arise when amounts of tax due calculated when tax returns are submitted differ from those estimated at the year end. The 2018 charge relates mainly to issues arising in the US.
Other differences include expenses not deductible for tax purposes such as entertaining, share scheme charges, depreciation of property, plant and equipment which do not qualify for capital allowances and transaction related costs. They also include items that are deductible for tax purposes, such as goodwill and other asset amortisation, but are not included in the income statement.

12. EARNINGS PER SHARE
The calculations of basic and diluted earnings per share were based on the profit attributable to ordinary shareholders and a weighted average number of ordinary shares outstanding during the related period as shown in the table below:

108

Б000s/000s

Profit /(loss) attributable to equity holders of the parent

Year ended 31 Dec 2018
29,741

Year ended 31 Dec 2017
(16,672)

Weighted average number of ordinary shares for the purposes of basic earnings per share Effect of employee share schemes Weighted average number of ordinary shares for the purposes of diluted earnings per share

222,946 1,793
224,739

221,804 1,479
223,283

Basic earnings/(loss) per share (pence)

13.34

(7.52)

Diluted earnings/(loss) per share (pence)

13.23

(7.47)

The Directors consider that earnings per share before amortisation and impairment of acquired intangible and transaction related costs provides a more consistent measure of the Group's performance than statutory earnings per share. The calculations of adjusted earnings per share were based on the number of shares as above and are shown in the table below:

Б000s Profit /(loss) attributable to equity holders of the parent Amortisation and impairment of acquired intangibles and transaction related costs (note 6) Tax on amortisation and impairment of acquired intangibles and transaction related costs (note 11) Adjusted profit attributable to equity holders of the parent
Adjusted basic earnings per share (pence)
Adjusted diluted earnings per share (pence)

Year ended 31 Dec 2018
29,741 9,181
(2,205)
36,717

Year ended 31 Dec 2017
(16,672) 55,541
(885)
37,984

16.47

17.13

16.34

17.01

Report and Accounts 2018

Financial statements

13. INTANGIBLE ASSETS

Б000s Cost: At 1st January 2018 Additions Disposals Exchange differences At 31 December 2018

Intellectual property Customer rights relationships

Non Order Trade compete backlog names agreements Software Goodwill

Total

3,563 Г Г
180 3,743

132,916 Г
(2,130) 820
131,606

20,478 Г
(1,274) 56
19,260

9,566 Г
(271) 60
9,355

603 3,224 419,041 589,391

Г

Г

319

319

Г

Г

Г (3,675)

21

75

(853)

359

624 3,299 418,507 586,394

Aggregate amortisation and impairment losses:

At 1st January 2018

3,563

105,071

Amortisation

Г

8,527

Disposals

Г

(2,130)

Exchange differences

180

760

At 31 December 2018

3,743

112,228

Net book value at 31 December 2018

Г

19,378

20,133 222
(1,274) 68
19,149

9,420 50
(271) 60
9,259

111

96

603 2,626 52,245 193,661

Г

345

Г 9,144

Г

Г

Г (3,675)

21

65

411 1,565

624 3,036 52,656 200,695

Г

263 365,851 385,699

Б000s

Intellectual

property

Customer

rights relationships

Non Order Trade compete backlog names agreements Software Goodwill

Total

Cost:

At 1st January 2017

3,859

137,653 21,187 9,889

634

3,418 424,837 601,477

Disposals

Г

Г

Г

Г

Г

Г

(234) (234)

Exchange differences

(296)

(4,737)

(709) (323)

(31)

(194) (5,562) (11,852)

At 31 December 2017

3,563

132,916 20,478 9,566

603

3,224 419,041 589,391

109

Aggregate amortisation and impairment losses:

At 1st January 2017

3,859

Amortisation

Г

Impairment

Г

Exchange differences

(296)

At 31 December 2017

3,563

Net book value at 31 December 2017

Г

97,256 11,442
Г (3,627) 105,071
27,845

20,131 713 Г (711)
20,133
345

9,630 113 Г (323)
9,420
146

634 Г Г
(31) 603
Г

2,238 536 Г (148)
2,626

12,221 Г
40,024 Г
52,245

145,969 12,804 40,024 (5,136)
193,661

598 366,796 395,730

Customer relationships relate to assets acquired in business combinations since 2008 and have remaining useful lives of 1-3 years.

Goodwill
No negative goodwill was recognised in 2018 or 2017. Goodwill acquired in a business combination is allocated at acquisition to the Groups of cash generating units (CGUs) that are expected to benefit from that business combination and as a consequence of the change in segmentation of the Group (see note 4) the allocation to CGUs has been updated since 2017. The carrying amount of goodwill has been allocated as follows:

Report and Accounts 2018

Financial statements

13. INTANGIBLE ASSETS CONTINUED

Б000s Consulting (UK and Ireland) Services (UK) Services (Netherlands) Norway North America AAP Energy

As at 31 Dec 2018
114,021 50,095 10,106 32,897 42,142 81,229 35,361 365,851

As at 31 Dec 2017 as restated
113,666 50,095 10,046 32,787 39,675 84,632 35,895
366,796

The Group tests annually for impairment at 31 October and then considers whether there are any impairment triggers at the balance sheet date. The determination of whether or not goodwill has been impaired requires an estimate to be made of the

Key assumptions
The key assumptions in the value in use calculations are the discount rates applied, the growth rates and margins assumed over the forecast period.

the potential future performance of the business. The medium term comprises the years 2020 to 2023. The average real growth rate used during this period is 3% relative to budgeted performance, although particular years may be higher

value in use of the CGU Groups to which goodwill has been allocated.

Discount rate applied
The discount rate applied to a CGU

or lower than this rate reflecting market conditions.

The value in use calculation includes

represents a pre-tax rate that reflects the The long term growth rate applied to the

estimates about the future financial

market assessment of the time value of perpetuity calculations was between -2.0%

performance of the CGUs. In all cases

money at the end of the reporting period and 2.5% per annum (2017: -5.0% and

the approved budget for the following

and the risks specific to the CGU. The

2.5%) reflecting the average long term EBIT

financial year forms the basis for the

Group bases its estimate for the pre-tax growth rates of the economies in which

cash flow projections for a CGU. The

discount rate on its weighted average

the CGUs are based and our assessment

cash flow projections in the four financial cost of capital (WACC). The inputs to this of the longer term prospects of these

years following the budget year reflect

calculation are a combination of market, businesses. In 2017, probability weighted

110

management's expectations of the

industry and company specific data.

long term growth rates were used in

medium-term operating performance of

assessing the value of impairment to book

the CGU and the growth prospects in the Growth rates

against goodwill allocated to Energy CGU

CGU's market. Thereafter, a perpetuity is applied.

The growth rates applied reflect management's judgement regarding

Group, but in 2018, as there is significant headroom, this was not required.

The assumptions used for the Groups of CGUs are as follows:

Consulting (UK and Ireland) Services (UK) Services (NL) Norway North America AAP Energy Europe (UK and Ireland) Energy EAME Energy NA

Pre tax discount rate

2018

2017

11.6%

Г

12.2%

Г

13.9%

11.5%

12.1%

10.8%

12.3%

10.9%

14.2%

12.8%

15.4%

Г

-

10.8%

-

16.1%

-

12.9%

Medium term growth rate

2018

2017

3.0%

Г

3.0%

Г

3.0%

3.0%

3.0%

3.0%

3.0%

3.0%

3.0%

3.0%

3.0%

Г

Г

3.0%

Г

Г

Г

Г

Long term growth rate

2018

2017

2.1% - 2.5%

-

2.1%

-

2.0%

2.0%

2.3%

2.3%

2.3%

2.3%

2.5%

2.5%

(2.0%)

-

Г

2.1%

Г 0% - (5.0%)

Г 0% - (5.0%)

Summary of results
During the year, all goodwill was tested for impairment and no impairment charge was identified.
For part of 2017, our Energy business was split into North America and European elements and those were managed separately. Consequently, goodwill was tested for two Energy CGUs in 2017.

At the end of 2017 the businesses were recombined into a global Energy business and that has been managed in that way for the whole of 2018. Goodwill has been monitored at an Energy level throughout 2018. Consequently goodwill has been tested on a global Energy basis for 2018.

Sensitivity of results to changes in estimates
The Group's CGUs all have significant headroom. The Group does not consider the change in any one key estimate that would result in a material adjustment to the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities in 2018 to be reasonably possible.

Report and Accounts 2018

Financial statements

14. PROPERTY, PLANT AND EQUIPMENT

Б000s Cost: At 1 January 2018 Additions Disposals Transfers Foreign exchange differences At 31 December 2018
Depreciation: At 1 January 2018 Charge for the year Disposals Transfers Foreign exchange differences At 31 December 2018 Net book value at 31 December 2018

Freehold land and buildings

Alterations to leasehold
premises

10,628 16 Г Г 111
10,755

6,656 426 (774) 142 (78)
6,372

3,371 234 Г Г 33
3,638 7,117

4,163 829 (771) 102 (50)
4,273 2,099

Motor vehicles

Fixtures, fittings,
IT and equipment

3,284 622 (289) Г (100)
3,517

72,660 11,123 (4,570)
(142) (523) 78,548

2,207 450 (289) Г (63)
2,305 1,212

55,143 6,743 (4,312) (102) (501)
56,971 21,577

Total
93,228 12,187 (5,633)
Г (590) 99,192
64,884 8,256 (5,372) Г (581) 67,187
32,005

Б000s Cost: At 1 January 2017 Additions Disposals Foreign exchange differences At 31 December 2017

Freehold land and buildings

Alterations to leasehold
premises

Motor vehicles

Fixtures, fittings,
IT and equipment

Total

10,229

6,360

3,144

69,464

89,197

111

20

427

519

7,675

8,641

Г

(118)

(350)

(4,206)

(4,674)

379

(13)

(29)

(273)

64

10,628

6,656

3,284

72,660

93,228

Depreciation: At 1 January 2017 Charge for the year Disposals Foreign exchange differences At 31 December 2017 Net book value at 31 December 2017

3,040 232 Г 99
3,371 7,257

3,282 1,015 (118)
(16) 4,163 2,493

2,034 498 (301) (24)
2,207 1,077

52,393 6,672 (3,928) 6
55,143 17,517

60,749 8,417 (4,347) 65
64,884 28,344

Report and Accounts 2018

Financial statements

15. SUBSIDIARIES
The Group consists of RPS Group Plc (the parent company incorporated in the UK) and a number of subsidiaries. A list of the Group's subsidiaries, including the name, country of incorporation and proportion of ownership interests is given in Note 6 to the Parent Company's financial statements on page 133.

16. TRADE AND OTHER RECEIVABLES
Б000s Trade receivables Contract assets Prepayments Other receivables

As at 31 Dec 2018
106,509 44,907 10,406 4,596 166,418

As at 31 Dec 2017
114,653 39,001 10,568 5,533
169,755

The Group measures the loss allowance for trade receivables as an amount equal to the lifetime expected credit loss (ECL). This loss is estimated using the Group's history of loss for similar assets, adjusted for the markets and territories that the trade receivable is exposed to. This takes into account current and forecast conditions. The Group has considered the potential impact of Brexit on the ECL and has deemed this to be immaterial given the Group's history of trade receivable recoveries after historical downturns.
Trade receivables and contract assets net of provision for impairment are shown below.

Б000s Trade receivables Provision for impairment Trade receivables net 112
Б000s Contract assets Provision for impairment Contract assets net

As at 31 Dec 2018
111,735 (5,226)
106,509

As at 31 Dec 2017
119,500 (4,847)
114,653

As at 31 Dec 2018
51,531 (6,624) 44,907

As at 31 Dec 2017
44,757 (5,756) 39,001

All amounts shown under trade and other receivables fall due within one year.
The carrying value of trade and other receivables is considered a reasonable approximation of fair value due to their short term nature and the provisions for impairment recorded against them. The individually impaired balances mainly relate to items under discussion with customers.
Certain trade receivables are past due but have not been impaired. These relate to customers where we have no concerns over the recovery of the amount due. The age of financial assets past due but not impaired is as follows:

Б000s Not more than three months past due More than three months past due
No interest is charged on overdue receivables. At the year end the Group's debtor days were 50.

As at 31 Dec 2018
10,462 9,582
20,044

As at 31 Dec 2017
10,740 10,558 21,298

Report and Accounts 2018

Financial statements

Movements in impairment

Б000s As at 1 January 2018 Increase in provision on adoption of IFRS 9 Impairment charge Reversal of provisions Receivables written off during the year as uncollectible Exchange differences As at 31 December 2018

Trade receivables
4,847 353
2,285 (1,634)
(621) (4)
5,226

Contract assets 5,756 296 3,646 (980) (2,082) (12) 6,624

Total 10,603
649 5,931 (2,614) (2,703)
(16) 11,850



As at 1 January 2017

6,038

4,416

10,454

Impairment charge

2,445

5,153

7,598

Reversal of provisions

(2,417)

(1,426)

(3,843)

Receivables written off during the year as uncollectible

(1,161)

(2,354)

(3,515)

Exchange differences

(58)

(33)

(91)

As at 31 December 2017

4,847

5,756

10,603

The carrying amounts of the Group's trade and other receivables are denominated as follows:

Б000s UK Pound Sterling US Dollar Euro Australian Dollar Canadian Dollar Norwegian Krone Malaysian Ringitt Other

As at 31 Dec 2018

As at 31 Dec 2017

64,043

62,475

32,161

33,594

24,677

23,766

27,071

30,499

4,296

2,824

11,977

13,740

113

1,544

2,064

649

793

166,418

169,755

The maximum exposure to credit risk at the reporting date is Б161,822,000 (2017: Б164,222,000).

The concentration of credit risk is limited as the customer base is large and unrelated.

The impact on revenue of projects where work was undertaken in 2017 but related revenue recognised in 2018 was immaterial.

17. TRADE AND OTHER PAYABLES

Б000s Trade payables Accruals Contract liabilities Creditors for taxation and social security Other payables

As at 31 Dec 2018
33,210 38,015 22,931 18,385
5,373 117,914

As at 31 Dec 2017
34,838 41,026 22,199 18,909
6,434 123,406

All amounts shown under trade and other payables fall due for payment within one year. The carrying values of trade and other payables are considered to be a reasonable approximation of fair value due to the short term nature of these liabilities.

Report and Accounts 2018

Financial statements

18. BORROWINGS
Б000s Bank loans US loan notes Bank overdraft Total bank loan, notes and overdrafts Arrangement fees

As at 31 Dec 2018
32,800 56,751 2,581 92,132
(271) 91,861

As at 31 Dec 2017
41,457 55,185
212 96,854
(634) 96,220

Б000s The bank loan, notes and overdrafts are repayable as follows: Amounts due for settlement within 12 months Amount due between one and two years In the third to fifth years inclusive

As at 31 Dec 2018

As at 31 Dec 2017

2,581 32,800 56,751 92,132

212 Г
96,642 96,854

The principal features of the Group's borrowings are as follows:
(i) An uncommitted Б3,000,000 bank overdraft facility, repayable on demand.
(ii) An uncommitted Australian Dollar denominated overdraft facility of AUD 1,500,000 repayable on demand.
(iii)The Group has one principal bank facility: a multicurrency revolving credit facility of Б150,000,000 with Lloyds Bank plc and HSBC Bank plc, expiring in 2020. Term loans drawn under this facility carry interest fixed for the term of the loan equal to LIBOR (or the currency equivalent) plus a margin determined by reference to the leverage of the Group.
114 There were loans drawn totalling Б32,800,000 at 31 December 2018 (2017: Б41,457,000).
The facility is guaranteed by the Company and certain subsidiaries but no security over the Group's assets exists.
(iv)In September 2014 the Group issued seven year non amortising US private placement notes of $34,070,000 and Б30,000,000 with fixed interest chargeable at 3.84% and 3.98% respectively, that are repayable in September 2021. The notes are guaranteed by the Company and certain subsidiaries but no security over the Group's assets exists.
The carrying amounts of short term borrowings approximate their fair values, as the impact of discounting is not significant.
The carrying amounts of our long term borrowings approximate fair value.

Liquidity risk
The Group has strong cash flow and the funds generated by operating companies are managed on a country basis. The Group also considers its long-term funding requirements as part of the annual business planning cycle.

Loan liquidity risk profile
Б000s <1 year 1-2 years >2 but <5 years

2018 5,486 35,364 58,151 99,001

2017 3,093 2,881 100,539 106,513

The liquidity risk profile above shows the expected cashflows in respect of the Group's loan facilities comprising payments of capital and interest assuming that the loan balance at year end remains constant until expiry of the facilities and foreign exchange rates remain constant at the rates existing at the year end.

Report and Accounts 2018

Financial statements

19. DEFERRED CONSIDERATION

Б000s Amount due within one year Amount due between one and two years Amount due between two and five years Amount due after five years

As at 31 Dec 2018
53 77 49 123 302

As at 31 Dec 2017
1,608 Г
26 122 1,756

Deferred consideration relates to payments due to vendors of acquired companies which are due to be made on future anniversaries of the acquisitions.

20. PROVISIONS
Onerous contracts
The provision for property costs relates to onerous operating lease rentals and related costs on vacated property along with loss making contracts and will be utilised within five years.
Warranty
This provision is in respect of contractual obligations and is expected to be utilised within one to two years.
Dilapidations
The dilapidations provision is in respect of reinstatement obligations related to leasehold properties and will be utilised within ten years.

Б000s As at 1 January 2018 Additional provision in the year Utilised in year Released Exchange difference As at 31 December 2018

Onerous

Contracts

Warranty Dilapidations

Total

3,328

1,497

2,440

7,265

115

14

528

521

1,063

(551)

Г

(393)

(944)

(462)

(250)

(102)

(814)

(66)

7

(29)

(88)

2,263

1,782

2,437

6,482

Б000s Due as follows: Within one year After more than one year

As at 31 Dec 2018

As at 31 Dec 2017

2,119 4,363 6,482

2,953 4,312 7,265

The carrying value of the provisions disclosed above is a reasonable approximation of their fair value.

Report and Accounts 2018

Financial statements

21. DEFERRED TAXATION

Б000s At 1 January 2017 (Charge)/credit to income relating to current year (Charge)/credit to income due to change in tax rates Credit to equity for the year Exchange differences At 31 December 2017 Disclosed within liabilities Disclosed within assets Effect of changes in accounting standards (Charge)/credit to income relating to current year (Charge)/credit to income due to change in tax rates Charge to equity for the year Exchange differences At 31 December 2018 Disclosed within liabilities Disclosed within assets

Property, plant and equipment
timing differences
769

Goodwill and
intangible assets

Employment benefits

(6,507)

2,748

Share based payments
(160)

Provisions and other
timing differences
(942)

48

2,720

118

44

(949)

(29)

(2,310)

Г

Г

(26)

(590)

762

(6,687)

840 (10,102)

(78)

3,415

(32)

327

(16) 15 (44) 2,821 751 2,070
338

Г Г (16) (132) (82) (50)
(133)

77
Г 22 (1,792) 253 (2,045) 116
1,749

2
Г (15) 717 285 432

(20)
Г 261 (6,119) (8,351) 2,232

(15)
(149) (108) 2,887 419 2,468

Г
Г Г (265) (290) 25

5
Г 92 170 1,532 (1,362)

Total (4,092)
1,981
(2,278)
15 (654) (5,028) (8,340) 3,312 116
2,249
(28)
(149) 230 (2,610) (6,405) 3,795

From 1 January 2018 the Norwegian tax No deferred tax liability is recognised on Deferred corporation tax assets and

116

rate reduced from 24% to 23%.

temporary differences of Б3,776,000

liabilities are offset where there is a legally

Accordingly deferred tax assets and

(2017: Б3,773,000) related to the

enforceable right to offset current tax

liabilities in Norway have been calculated at unremitted earnings of overseas

assets against current tax liabilities and

the reduced rates of corporation tax which subsidiaries as the Group is able to control when the deferred income taxes relate to

materially reflect the rates for the period in the timing of the reversal of these

the same fiscal authority.

which the deferred tax assets and liabilities temporary differences and it is probable

are expected to reverse. In 2017 the US that they will not reverse in the foreseeable

Federal corporation tax reduced from 35% future. The amount of tax that would be

to 21% and the Norwegian tax rate from payable on the unremitted earnings is

24% to 23%.

Б406,000 (2017: Б402,000).

Report and Accounts 2018

Financial statements

22. SHARE CAPITAL
Ordinary shares of 3p each

as at 31 December 2018

Authorised Number

Authorised Б000s

240,000,000

7,200

as at 31 December 2017

Authorised Number

Authorised Б000s

240,000,000

7,200

Issued and fully paid

Number

Ordinary shares of 3p each

At 1 January

224,817,001

Issued under the Share Incentive Plan

877,492

Issued in respect of the Performance Share Plan

410,803

Issued in respect of the Energy Option Plan

Г

Issued in respect of the Bonus Plan

Г

Admission fees

Г

At 31 December

226,105,296

Б000s Share Capital

2018
Б000s Share Premium

Number

6,745 26 12 Г Г Г
6,783

117,790 1,833 786 Г Г (9)
120,400

223,435,014 654,970 450,058 185,000 91,959 Г
224,817,001

2017

Б000s

Б000s

Share

Share

Capital Premium

6,703 20 13 6 3 Г
6,745

114,353 1,733 1,123 376 213 (8)
117,790

Number Ordinary shares held by the ESOP Trust Ordinary shares held by the SIP Trust

As at 31 Dec 2018
3,237,181
4,619,977

As at 31 Dec 2017
2,726,038
4,314,641

The total number of issued and fully paid shares is inclusive of the shares held in the ESOP and SIP Trusts. These shares are deducted

from equity through the EBT reserve. The ESOP Trust has elected to waive any dividend on the unallocated ordinary shares held.

117

The table below shows options outstanding under the Energy Share Option Scheme at 31 December 2018:

Period exercisable 2018 - 2021

Number 50,000

Exercise price (p)
212.01

Report and Accounts 2018

Financial statements

23. DIVIDENDS
Б000s Amounts recognised as distributions to equity holders during the year: Final dividend for the year ended 31 December 2017 of 5.08p (2016: 5.08p) per share Interim dividend for the year ended 31 December 2018 of 4.80p (2017: 4.80p) per share

Year ended 31 Dec 2018

Year ended 31 Dec 2017

11,358 10,757 22,115

11,308 10,699 22,007

Proposed final dividend for the year ended 31 December 2018 of 5.08p (2017: 5.08p) per share

11,415

11,361

The proposed final dividend for the year ended 31 December 2018 is subject to approval by shareholders at the Annual General Meeting and has not been included as a liability in the financial statements.

24. OPERATING LEASE ARRANGEMENTS

At 31 December the Group's total remaining commitments as lessee under non-cancellable operating leases were as follows:

As at 31 December 2018

As at 31 December 2017

Б000s Within one year In two to five years

Property 11,799 28,871

Other 3,519 4,567

Property 11,703 22,852

Other 3,345 4,233

After five years

8,318 48,988

1 8,087

2,186 36,741

55 7,633

25. RELATED PARTY TRANSACTIONS
118 Related parties, following the definitions within IAS 24, are the subsidiary companies, members of the Board, key management
personnel and their families. Transactions between the Company and its subsidiaries have been eliminated on consolidation and are
not disclosed in this note. The Group considers the Directors to be the key management personnel. There were no transactions within
the year in which the Directors had any interest. The Remuneration Committee Report contains details of Board emoluments.

Report and Accounts 2018

Financial statements

26. NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED CASH FLOW STATEMENT

Б000s Operating profit Adjustments for: Depreciation Amortisation of acquired intangible assets Impairment of goodwill Non-cash movement on provisions Share based payment expense Loss on sale of business assets Loss on sale of property, plant and equipment EBITDAS Decrease/(increase) in trade and other receivables (Decrease)/increase in trade and other payables Cash generated from operations

Year ended 31 Dec 2018
44,860

Year ended 31 Dec 2017
2,926

8,256 9,144
Г (461) 2,338
Г 37 64,174 1,964 (5,779) 60,359

8,417 12,804 40,024
Г 2,700 2,617
86 69,574 (7,584)
1,521 63,511

Interest paid Interest received Income taxes paid Net cash from operating activities

(3,773) 232
(12,330) 44,488

(4,960) 113
(14,920) 43,744

The table below provides an analysis of net bank borrowings, comprising cash and cash equivalents, interest bearing loans and finance leases, during the year ended 31 December 2018.

Б000s Cash at bank

Prepaid

At 31 Dec

arrangement

Foreign

At 31

2017

Cash flow

fees

exchange

Dec 2018

119

15,588

2,416

Г

(18)

17,986

Overdrafts

(212)

(2,369)

Г

Г

(2,581)

Cash and cash equivalents

15,376

47

Г

(18)

15,405

Bank loans and notes

(96,008)

8,891

(363)

(1,800)

(89,280)

(80,632)

8,938

(363)

(1,818)

(73,875)

Б000s Cash at bank Overdrafts Cash and cash equivalents Bank loans and notes Finance lease creditors

At 31 Dec 2016
16,503 Г
16,503 (99,886)
(36) (83,419)

Cash flow (212) (212) (424) 1,424 36 1,036

Prepaid arrangement
fees Г Г Г
(364) Г
(364)

Foreign exchange
(703) Г
(703) 2,818
Г 2,115

At 31 Dec 2017
15,588 (212)
15,376 (96,008)
Г (80,632)

The cash balance at 31 December 2018 includes Б2,164,000 (2017: Б2,917,000) that is restricted in its use either as security or client deposits.

Report and Accounts 2018

Financial statements

27. DEFINED BENEFIT PENSION SCHEME

The Group has two defined benefit pension schemes, arising from attainment of a retirement age of 67. The pensionable salary is

the acquisition in 2013 of the OEC Group. These schemes are

the difference between the current salary of the employee and

closed to new entrants.

the state retirement benefit.

The schemes are administered by a fund that is legally separated from the company. The trustees of the pension fund are required by law to act in the interest of the fund and of all relevant stakeholders in the scheme. The trustees are responsible for the investment policy with regard to the assets of the fund.
Under the plans, the employees are entitled to post-retirement yearly instalments amounting to 66% of pensionable salary on

The schemes expose the Group to actuarial risks such as: investment risk, interest rate risk, longevity risk and salary risk.
The most recent full actuarial valuations of the plans' assets and present value of the defined benefit liabilities were carried out in November 2018 for the two schemes by a qualified actuary.
The principal assumptions used for the purposes of actuarial valuation were as follows:

Discount rate Expected rate of salary increase Inflation

2018 2.60% 2.75% 2.50%

2017 2.30% 2.50% 2.25%

With the exception of the rates of pension increase all principal assumptions are the same for both schemes. The assumed rates of pension increase were 2.5% and 0% (2017: 2.25% and 0.4%).
The assumed life expectations on retirement at age 65 are:

Years Retiring today: Males Females

2018
21.8 25.0

2017
21.8 25.0

This is based on Norway's standard mortality table with modifications to reflect expected changes in mortality.

Amounts recognised in income in respect of these defined benefit schemes are as follows: 120
Б000s
Current service cost Net interest expense Components of defined benefit costs recognised in profit or loss

2018 249 14 263

2017 243 49 292

The service charge for the year has been included in the income statement in administrative expenses. The net interest expense has been included within finance costs.
Amounts recognised in the statement of comprehensive income are as follows:

Б000s Actuarial gains/(losses) arising from: Changes in financial assumptions Movements in payroll tax Remeasurement of the net defined benefit liability

2018
606 71
677

2017
(58) (8)
(66)

The amount included in the balance sheet arising from the Group's obligations in respect of its defined benefit retirement benefit schemes is as follows:

Б000s Present value of defined benefit obligations Fair value of plan assets Net liability arising from the defined benefit obligations

2018 (4,042) 4,022
(20)

2017 (4,389) 3,630
(759)

Report and Accounts 2018

Financial statements

The net liability is reported within the consolidated balance sheet within "other payables". Movements in the present value of defined benefit obligations in the year were as follows:

Б000s Defined benefit obligation at 1 January Current service cost Interest cost Remeasurement (gains)/losses: Actuarial (gains) and losses arising from changes in financial assumptions Reduction in employer's national insurance liability Exchange differences Benefits paid Defined benefit obligation at 31 December
Movements in the fair value of plan assets in the year were as follows:

2018 4,389
249 113
(514) (81) (39) (75)
4,042

2017 4,253
243 86
93 Г
(195) (91)
4,389

Б000s Plan assets at 1 January Remeasurement (gains)/losses: The return on plan assets (excluding amounts included in net interest expense) Actuarial gains arising from changes in financial assumptions Exchange differences Contributions from the employer Benefits paid Administration costs Plan assets at 31 December

2018 3,630
99 92 (5) 288 (75) (7) 4,022

2017 3,475
37 35 (127) 306 (91) (5) 3,630

The major categories and fair values of scheme assets at the end of the reporting period were:

Shares Other investments Short term bonds Term bonds Property Total

2018

2017

121

11.7%

9.7%

0.9%

0.6%

23.5%

22.5%

54.1%

56.7%

9.8%

10.5%

100.0%

100.0%

Report and Accounts 2018

Financial statements

28. FINANCIAL RISK MANAGEMENT

(a) Capital management
The capital of the Group consists of debt, which includes the borrowings and facilities disclosed in note 18, cash and cash equivalents and equity attributable to equity holders of the parent, comprising issued capital, reserves and retained earnings as disclosed in the consolidated balance sheet and note 22. The Group manages its capital to support its strategy, and there were no changes in approach to capital management during the year.
The borrowings are managed centrally and funds are onward lent to operating subsidiaries as required. The Group has a committed Б150 million multi currency revolving credit facility that provides a high

degree of flexibility. There are two financial These loan notes represent the Group's

covenants related to this facility; interest core debt.

cover must be no less than 400% and the

leverage ratio of Group net borrowings

The Group's businesses provide a good

(including deferred consideration) to

level of cash generation which helps

EBITDAS adjusted to include the annualised fund future growth. The Group seeks to

contribution of acquisitions in the year

minimise borrowings by utilising cash

should be no greater than 300%. These

generated by operations that is surplus

covenants are tested regularly and were to the immediate operating needs of the

not breached during the year and have not business and an objective is to maintain a

been since the year end.

minimum level of cash at bank.

Seven year non amortising notes with

(b) Financial instruments

principal of Б30.0 million and $34.1

The Group's financial assets comprise

million were issued in September 2014

cash and trade and other receivables. The

bearing fixed interest at 3.98% and 3.84% Group's financial liabilities comprise bank

per annum, respectively. There are two

loans, deferred consideration and trade

financial covenants associated with these and other payables. It is, and has been

notes that are the same as for the revolving throughout the period under review, the

credit facility above.

Group's policy that no trading in financial

instruments shall be undertaken.

Fair values
The fair value of the financial assets and liabilities of the Group are considered to be materially equivalent to their book value. The classification of financial instruments is shown in the table below.

Б000s

Cash

Trade and other receivables

122

Financial assets

As at 31 Dec 2018
17,986 156,012 173,998

As at 31 Dec 2017
15,588 159,187 174,775

Borrowings Deferred consideration Trade and other payables Financial liabilities

91,861 302
84,799 176,962

96,220 1,756
92,106 190,082

Interest rate and currency risk are the most (c) Interest rate risk

term loans but will consider doing so if

significant aspects for the Group in the

The Group draws down term loans, typically borrowings become significantly larger and

area of financial instruments. It is exposed between one and three months, against longer term. The Group's overdraft bears

to a lesser extent to liquidity risk that is

its revolving credit facility at fixed rates

interest at floating rates. Surplus funds are

reviewed in note 18. The Board reviews and of interest for the term of the loan. The

placed on short-term deposit or held within

agrees policies for managing each of these Group has not entered any contracts to

instant access deposit accounts earning

risks and they are summarised below.

fix interest rates beyond the period of the floating rate interest.

Report and Accounts 2018

Financial statements

Interest rate risk and profile of financial liabilities
The interest rate risk profile of the Group's financial liabilities at 31 December was as follows:

Floating rate

Fixed rate Non interest bearing

Б000s Sterling Euro Australian Dollar Canadian Dollar US Dollar Norwegian Krone Other At 31 December

2018 31,842
Г Г Г Г 3,400 Г 35,242

2017 32,375
Г Г Г Г 8,857 Г 41,232

2018 29,868
Г 213
Г 26,814
26 Г
56,921

2017 30,981
Г 63
Г 25,244
456 Г
56,744

2018 33,513 6,588 15,615 4,343
9,978 14,438
324 84,799

2017 33,459
7,147 19,296
4,122 14,052 13,175
855 92,106

2018 95,223
6,588 15,828 4,343 36,792 17,864
324 176,962

Total
2017 96,815
7,147 19,359
4,122 39,296 22,488
855 190,082

The maturity profile of financial liabilities at 31 December was as follows:

Floating rate

Fixed rate

Б000s Within one year In one to two years In two to five years Over five years

2018 2,581 32,661
Г Г 35,242

2017 212 Г
41,020 Г
41,232

2018 53 77
56,668 123
56,921

2017 1,608
Г 55,014
122 56,744

Non interest bearing

2018 78,717 3,345
2,129 608
84,799

2017 85,250
2,774 2,902 1,180 92,106

2018 81,351 36,083 58,797
731 176,962

Total
2017 87,070
2,774 98,936
1,302 190,082

The weighted average interest rate and term for interest bearing financial liabilities is shown below:

Sterling Australian Dollar US Dollar Norwegian Krone

Fixed and floating rate financial liabilities

Fixed rate financial liabilities

Weighted average period for

Weighted average interest rate % which rate is fixed Г months

123

2018 3.0 3.5 3.8 2.3 3.2

2017 2.8 2.3 3.8 1.9 3.0

2018 33 34 33 16 21

2017 43
104 45 5 44

Cash balances at year end:
Б000s Sterling Euro US Dollar Australian Dollar Canadian Dollar Norwegian Krone Malaysian Ringgit Singapore Dollar Other

As at 31 Dec 2018
261 2,103 2,302 3,837
955 7,044 1,069
122 293 17,986

As at 31 Dec 2017
1,925 1,468 2,306 2,396 1,411 3,731 1,073
344 934 15,588

Report and Accounts 2018

Financial statements

28. FINANCIAL RISK MANAGEMENT CONTINUED
The fair value of the forward foreign exchange contracts held at year end was not material.
Foreign currency sensitivity
Since the Group hedges the majority of its transactional foreign currency exposures, the sensitivity of the results to transactional foreign currency risk is not material.

(e) Credit risk
It is Group policy, implemented locally, to assess the credit risk of new customers before entering contracts. The Group does not enter into complex derivatives to manage credit risk. The Group's exposure to credit risk is limited to the carrying amount of financial assets recognised at the balance sheet date. The Directors consider the Group's financial assets that are not impaired to be of good credit quality including those that are past due. It is Group policy, implemented locally, that receivables are only written off when there is no reasonable expectation of recovery. This may occur if there is objective evidence of a client's financial difficulty, or if enforcement activity has been unsuccessful. See note 16 for further detail on receivables that are past due. The Group's financial assets are not secured by collateral advanced by counterparties. In respect of trade and other receivables, the Group has a broad range of clients, the largest being government agencies and departments, national water companies, multi-national oil companies or substantial utility companies. Infrequently (and generally for administrative reasons) there may be a build up of unpaid invoices. The Group does not have significant credit risk exposure to any single counterparty or Group of counterparties having similar characteristics.
The credit risk in cash and derivatives is limited because the counterparties are banks with high credit ratings assigned by international credit ratings.

29. SHARE-BASED PAYMENTS
Share scheme costs

Б000s

Share Incentive Plan ("SIP")

124

Performance Share Plan ("PSP")

Executive Long Term Incentive Plan ("ELTIP")

Short Term Annual Bonus Plan ("STABP")

Total share scheme costs

A description of each plan is given in accounting policy note 2(e)iii.

Year ended 31 Dec 2018
1,304 640 277 117
2,338

Year ended 31 Dec 2017
1,367 785 295 253
2,700

The following tables set out details of material share schemes activity:

SIP

Year of grant 2015 2016 2017 2018

Number outstanding 31 Dec 2017
463,068 702,879 578,835
Г 1,744,782

New grants Г Г Г
833,623 833,623

Releases (435,899)
(26,398) (19,352)
(6,555) (488,204)

Forfeits (27,169) (63,873) (52,987) (25,732) (169,761)

Number outstanding 31 Dec 2018
Г 612,608 506,496 801,336 1,920,440

Vesting conditions
3 years 3 years 3 years 3 years

Year of grant 2014 2015 2016 2017

Number outstanding 31 Dec 2016
358,406 528,637 800,932
Г 1,687,975

New grants Г Г Г
613,984 613,984

Releases (340,636)
(23,785) (35,535)
(9,584) (409,540)

Forfeits (17,770) (41,784) (62,518) (25,565) (147,637)

Number outstanding 31 Dec 2017
Г 463,068 702,879 578,835 1,744,782

Vesting conditions
3 years 3 years 3 years 3 years

Report and Accounts 2018

Financial statements

PSP
Year of grant 2009 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018

Number outstanding 31 Dec 2017
52,543 41,618 45,315 51,139 66,554 383,118 470,080 337,729
Г 1,448,096

New grants Г Г Г Г Г Г Г Г
431,122 431,122

Releases (34,251) (20,959) (15,147) (15,641) (24,894)
(278,726) (13,364) (7,821) Г
(410,803)

Lapses Г Г
(2,551) (801)
(3,013) (28,066) (35,414) (24,413)
(1,729) (95,987)

Number outstanding 31 Dec 2018
18,292 20,659 27,617 34,697 38,647 76,326 421,302 305,495 429,393 1,372,428

Vesting conditions
3 years 3 years 3 years 3 years 3 years 1, 2 or 3 years 3 years 3 years 3 years

Year of grant

Number outstanding 31 Dec 2016

New grants

Releases

Lapses

Number outstanding 31 Dec 2017

Vesting conditions

2009

83,366

Г

(25,010)

(5,813)

52,543

3 years

2011

60,539

Г

(16,446)

(2,475)

41,618

3 years

2012

68,642

Г

(23,740)

413

45,315

3 years

2013

82,170

Г

(28,393)

(2,638)

51,139

3 years

2014

350,755

Г

(273,872)

(10,329)

66,554

3 years

2015

441,900

Г

(41,473)

(17,309)

383,118 1, 2 or 3 years

2016

526,876

Г

(35,410)

(21,386)

470,080

3 years

2017

Г

352,307

(5,714)

(8,864)

337,729

1,614,248

352,307

(450,058)

(68,401)

1,448,096

125

SIP

F or the purposes of calculating the fair value of conditional shares awarded under the SIP, the fair value was calculated as the market value of the shares at the date of grant as participants are entitled to receive dividends over the three year holding period.

SIP awards

Fair value at measurement date

145.30p - 292.25p

Weighted fair value

216.92p

Holding period

3 years

The Group assumed a 5% annual lapse rated as at the date of grant for the above schemes and all non-market based performance conditions would be satisfied in full (see accounting policy 2(e)iii).

PSP

For the purposes of calculating the fair value of conditional shares awarded under the PSP, the fair value was calculated as the market value of the shares at the date of grant adjusted to reflect that participants are not entitled to receive dividends over the performance period.

PSP awards

Fair value at measurement date

148.81p - 318.65p

Weighted fair value

206.54p

Weighted average exercise price

255.97p

Holding period

3 years

Expected dividend yield

1.83% - 5.52%

Report and Accounts 2018

Financial statements

30. NEW ACCOUNTING STANDARDS
This note explains the impact of the adoption of IFRS 9 `Financial Instruments' and `IFRS 15 Revenue from Contracts with Customers' on the Group's financial statements. New accounting policies have been applied from 1 January 2018 and these are disclosed in note 1 to the accounts.
IFRS 9 `Financial Instruments'
Impact of adoption
IFRS 9 was adopted without restating comparative information, in accordance with the provisions of the standard. The Group does not account using hedge accounting mechanisms, either under IAS 39 or under IFRS 9.
The only financial assets that the Group holds are trade receivables, contract assets, other receivables at amortised cost and cash, and the only financial liabilities that are held are borrowings, trade and other payables and deferred consideration. There is no change to the classification of these assets and liabilities because of the adoption of IFRS 9; they continue to be recorded at amortised cost. These assets and liabilities are held to realise cash flows at maturity. In addition, the Group holds some forward foreign exchange contracts. These are recorded at fair value through profit or loss - there is no reclassification for these contracts either. The business holds these to manage foreign exchange exposures; it is Group policy not to trade in those derivatives.
The only adjustments that have arisen on transition to IFRS 9 relate to the recognition of additional provisions against trade receivables and contract assets which represent the lifetime expected credit losses on those assets. To measure the expected credit losses, trade receivables and contract assets have been grouped based on shared credit risk characteristics, relating to the markets that we operate in. The Group's history of such losses has been low and we do not currently consider the potential impact of Brexit on the recovery of contract assets and trade receivables to be material. The change in valuation of those assets has been recorded as an adjustment through opening reserves.
The loss allowances for trade receivables and contract assets as at 31 December 2017 reconcile to the opening loss allowances as at 1 January 2018 as follows:

Б000's At 31 December 2017, calculated under IAS 39 Amounts restated through opening retained earnings Opening loss allowance as at 1 January 2018, calculated under IFRS 9 126

Contract assets 5,756 296 6,052

Trade receivables
4,847 353
5,200

The loss allowances increased by Б598,000 to Б11,850,000 at 31 December 2018. The reduction would have been Б27,000 higher under IAS 39.

Report and Accounts 2018

Financial statements

Impact of IFRS 9 on retained earnings

Б000's At 31 December 2017 closing retained earnings, calculated under IAS 39 Increase in provision for trade receivables Increase in provision for contract assets Increase in deferred tax assets related to impairment provisions Opening retained earnings 1 January 2018, calculated under IFRS 9

2018 205,143
(353) (296) 128 204,622

IFRS 15 `Revenue from Contracts with Customers'
Impact of adoption
After a detailed review of contracts across the Group's service lines and sectors, no IFRS 15 adjustment was identified. However, the Group has amended its revenue accounting policies to reflect the requirements of the new standard Г see note 1 to the accounts.

31. EVENTS AFTER THE BALANCE SHEET DATE
On 1 February 2019 the Group acquired the business of Corview, an Australian based transport advisory consultancy for a maximum consideration of A$32.0m (Б17.8m), all payable in cash. At completion the vendors received $17.6m (Б9.8m) with A$4.8m (Б2.7m) payable on each of the first, second and third anniversaries of completion. In the year to 30 June 2018, Corview had revenues of A$17.1m (Б9.5m) and adjusted profit of A$5.1m (Б2.8m).
Due to the proximity of the acquisition to the date of signing the accounts, it is not possible to give further information.

127

Report and Accounts 2018

Financial statements

PARENT COMPANY BALANCE SHEET

Б000s Fixed assets: Intangible assets Tangible assets Investments
Current assets: Debtors: - due within one year Cash at bank and in hand
Creditors: amounts falling due within one year: Net current assets Total assets less current liabilities

Notes
4 5 6

As at 31 Dec 2018
251 1,541 353,356 355,148

As at 31 Dec 2017
317 815 361,000 362,132

7

50,525

139

50,664

8

45,733

4,931

360,079

54,388 124
54,512 36,913 17,599 379,731

Creditors: Amounts falling due after more than one year

Provision for liabilities

128

Net assets

9

89,280

10

152

270,647

96,008 172
283,551

Capital and reserves Called up share capital Share premium account Profit and loss reserve Merger reserve Employee trust shares Other reserve Total shareholders' equity

12

6,783

12

120,400

12

76,664

12

21,256

12

(9,801)

12

55,345

270,647

6,745 117,790
83,373 21,256 (8,602) 62,989 283,551

The profit for the year attributable to the shareholders of the Parent Company and recorded through the accounts of the Parent Company was Б6,882,000 (2017 restated: loss of Б29,217,000). These financial statements were approved and authorised for issue by the Board on 21 February 2019. The notes on pages 130 to 138 form part of these financial statements. John Douglas, Director Gary Young, Director On behalf of the Board of RPS Group Plc (company number: 2087786).

Report and Accounts 2018

Financial statements

PARENT COMPANY STATEMENT OF CHANGES IN EQUITY

Б000s (restated)

Share

Share

capital premium

Employee Profit and

Merger

trust

loss

reserve shares reserve

Other reserve

Total

At 1 January 2017

6,703 114,353 21,256 (13,677) 103,642 99,424 331,701

Changes in equity during 2017:

Issue of new shares

42

3,437

Г (1,753) (1,352)

Г

374

Share-based payment expense

Г

Г

Г

Г

2,700

Г

2,700

Transfer on release of shares

Г

Г

Г 6,828 (6,828)

Г

Г

Total comprehensive loss

Г

Г

Г

Г (29,217)

Г (29,217)

Reserves transfer on impairment loss (note 3,6)

Г

Г

Г

Г 36,435 (36,435)

Г

Dividend paid (note 13)

Г

Г

Г

Г (22,007)

Г (22,007)

At 31 December 2017

6,745 117,790 21,256 (8,602) 83,373 62,989 283,551

Changes in equity during 2018:

Issue of new shares

38

2,610

Г (1,858)

(799)

Г

(9)

Share-based payment expense

Г

Г

Г

Г

2,338

Г

2,338

Transfer on release of shares

Г

Г

Г

659

(659)

Г

Г

Profit and total comprehensive income

Г

Г

Г

Г

6,882

Г

6,882

Reserves transfer on impairment loss (note 3,6)

Г

Г

Г

Г

7,644 (7,644)

Г

Dividend paid (note 13) At 31 December 2018

Г

Г

Г

Г (22,115)

Г (22,115)

6,783 120,400 21,256 (9,801) 76,664 55,345 270,647

129

The notes on pages 130 to 138 form part of these financial statements.

Report and Accounts 2018

Financial statements

NOTES TO THE PARENT COMPANY FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

1. ACCOUNTING POLICIES

RPS Group Plc (the "Company") is a

off the cost, less estimated residual value Those fair values were charged to the

company domiciled in England under

of each asset on a straight line basis over income statement over the relevant

the Companies Act. The address of the

their expected useful lives as follows:

vesting period adjusted to reflect actual

registered office is given on page 50. The nature of the Company's operations and its principal activities are set out in the strategic report on pages 7 to 30.
The individual Company financial statements have been prepared under the historical cost convention, modified to include certain items at fair value, and in accordance with Financial Reporting

Alterations to leasehold premises: Life of lease Fixtures, fittings, IT and equipment: 3 to 8 years
All tangible fixed assets are expected to have nil residual value.
Operating leases

and expected vesting levels.
Taxation
Current tax, including UK corporation tax, is provided at amounts expected to be paid (or recovered) using the tax rates and laws that have been enacted or substantively enacted by the balance sheet date.

Standard 102 (FRS 102) issued by the Financial Reporting Council.

Rentals under operating leases are charged on a straight-line basis over the

Deferred tax is recognised in respect of all timing differences that have

The functional and presentational currency of RPS Group Plc is considered to be pounds sterling.

lease term, even if the payments are not made on such a basis. Benefits received and receivable as an incentive to sign an operating lease are similarly spread on a

originated but not reversed at the balance sheet date where transactions or events that result in an obligation to pay more tax in the future or a right to

RPS Group Plc meets the definition of

straight-line basis over the lease term.

pay less tax in the future have occurred

a qualifying entity under FRS 102 and

at the balance sheet date. Timing

has therefore taken advantage of the

Foreign currency translation

differences are differences between the

130

disclosure exemptions available to it

Foreign currency transactions are

Company's taxable profits and its results

in respect of its financial statements.

translated at the rates ruling when they

as stated in the financial statements

Exemptions have been taken in

occurred. Foreign currency monetary

that arise from the inclusion of gains

relation to share-based payments,

assets and liabilities are translated at the and losses in tax assessments in periods

financial instruments, presentation

rates ruling at the balance sheet date.

different from those in which they are

of a cash flow statement, intra-Group

recognised in the financial statements.

transactions and remuneration of key management personnel.

Pension costs
Contributions to the Company's defined

Unrelieved tax losses and other deferred tax assets are recognised only to the

Goodwill
Goodwill arising on the acquisition of businesses, representing any excess of the fair value of the consideration given over the fair value of the identifiable assets and liabilities acquired, is

contribution pension schemes are charged to the profit and loss account in the year in which they become payable.
Share based employee remuneration

extent that, on the basis of all available evidence, it can be regarded as more likely than not that there will be suitable taxable profits from which the future reversal of the underlying timing differences can be deducted.

capitalised and is written off on a straight The Company's employees may benefit

Deferred tax is measured using the tax

line basis over its useful economic life of from a Group operated share based

rates and laws that have been enacted

up to 20 years. Provision is made for

payment arrangement. The fair value of

or substantively enacted by the balance

any impairment.

equity settled awards for share based

sheet date that are expected to apply to

payments is determined at grant and

the reversal of the timing difference.

Valuation of investments
Investments held as fixed assets are stated at cost, less any provision for impairment in value.

expensed straight line over the period from grant to the date of earliest unconditional exercise.
The Group has calculated the fair market

Where items recognised in other comprehensive income or equity are chargeable to or deductible for tax purposes, the resulting current

Tangible fixed assets

value of options using a binomial model and for whole share awards the fair value

or deferred tax expense or income is presented in the same component of

Tangible fixed assets are stated at cost,

has been based on the market value of

comprehensive income or equity as the

net of depreciation and any provision

the shares at the date of grant adjusted to transaction or other event that resulted in

for impairment.

take into account some of the terms and the tax expense or income.

Depreciation is provided on all tangible fixed assets at rates calculated to write

conditions upon which the shares were granted.

Report and Accounts 2018

Employee Share Trusts
The assets, income and expenditure of the SIP and Employee Benefit Trust are incorporated into the Company's financial statements.
The Trusts are used to issue shares under the Group's share schemes, as described on page 98. Cash is loaned to the Trust and then used to subscribe for shares in the Company.
Financial instruments
Disclosures on financial instruments have not been included in the Company's financial statements as its consolidated financial statements include appropriate disclosures.

i Financial assets Trade debtors and other receivables are financial assets that are recognised at fair value on inception and are subsequently carried at amortised cost. They are subject to impairment tests whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that their carrying value may not be recoverable. Impairment losses are taken to the profit and loss account as incurred.
ii Financial liabilities Trade creditors and other payables including bank loans are financial liabilities that are recognised at fair value on inception and are subsequently carried at amortised cost.

2. CRITICAL ACCOUNTING JUDGEMENTS AND KEY SOURCES OF ESTIMATION UNCERTAINTY

In the course of preparing the financial statements, no judgements have been made in the process of applying the Company's accounting policies, other than those involving estimations, that have had a significant effect on the amounts recognised in the financial statements.
Sources of estimation uncertainty
In applying the Company's accounting policies various transactions and balances are valued using estimates or assumptions. Should these estimates or assumptions prove incorrect, there may be an impact on the following year's financial statements. The only source of estimation uncertainty at the end of 2018, that has a significant risk of resulting in a material adjustment to the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities during 2019, relates to the testing for impairment of the Company's investments.
A further impairment of the carrying value of RPS Group Plc's investment in its US sub-Group is reasonably possible in 2019.

The valuation of the investment is most sensitive to the achievement of the 2019 budget. The budget comprises forecasts of revenue, staff costs and overheads based on current and anticipated market conditions that have been considered and approved by the Board. Whilst we are able to manage staff costs, direct costs and overheads, revenue projections are inherently uncertain due to the short term nature of our order book and oil and gas market conditions.
The US business underperformed against budget in 2018 and whilst not probable, it is possible that further underperformance may occur in 2019 if expenditure by our clients reduces. Our US business may exceed budget if market conditions allow. An underperformance against budget may lead to an impairment of this asset.
The investment value associated with the US business at 31 December was Б100,472,000.

Financial statements 131

Report and Accounts 2018

Financial statements

3. PROFIT ATTRIBUTABLE TO SHAREHOLDERS
The 2017 profit has been restated as a result of a change in the treatment of the impairment loss that the company recognised on its investment in its US subgroup. Previously this loss was recognised directly in reserves. It has now been shown as a charge to profit and loss with a corresponding transfer from the other reserve to offset the effect on the profit and loss reserve. There is no impact on 2018 opening reserves. The profit attributable to shareholders for 2017 as previously stated was Б7,218,000. The restated loss for 2017 is Б29,217,000.
No profit and loss account is disclosed by the Parent Company as allowed by Section 408 of the Companies Act 2006.
The remuneration of the auditors for the statutory audit of the Company was Б50,000 (2017: Б50,000).

4. INTANGIBLE ASSETS
Б000s Cost At 1 January 2018 and at 31 December 2018 Amortisation At 1 January 2018 Charge for the year At 31 December 2018 Net book value at 31 December 2018 Net book value at 31 December 2017

Goodwill
2,134
1,817 66
1,883 251 317

5. TANGIBLE ASSETS
132 Б000s Cost or valuation At 1 January 2018 Additions Disposals At 31 December 2018 Depreciation At 1 January 2018 Charge for the year At 31 December 2018 Net book value at 31 December 2018 Net book value at 31 December 2017

Alterations to leasehold
premises
545 54 Г
599
487 18
505 94 58

Fixtures, fittings,
IT and equipment
7,299 1,123 (112) 8,310
6,542 321
6,863 1,447
757

Total
7,844 1,177 (112) 8,909
7,029 339
7,368 1,541
815

Report and Accounts 2018

Financial statements

6. INVESTMENTS
Б000s Subsidiary undertakings Cost At 1 January and 31 December 2018

2018

2017

455,670

455,670

Provisions At 1 January Impairment At 31 December 2018 Net book value at 31 December 2018

94,670 7,644
102,314 353,356

58,235 36,435 94,670 361,000

The Group's investment in its US business was impaired by Б7,644,000 (2017: Б36,435,000). This has been recorded through the profit and loss account. The impact on the profit and loss reserve is offset by a transfer of the same amount from the other reserve. The other reserve represents profits previously recognised in a group reorganisation involving the US business.
Subsidiary undertakings
The principal activity of the majority of our trading subsidiaries is the provision of consulting services.
The following were the subsidiaries during the year. All subsidiaries are held 100% by RPS Group Plc with the exception of Delphi Group Asia PTE Limited where 85% of the ordinary share capital is held.
Shares are held directly by RPS Group Plc except where marked by an asterisk where they are held by a subsidiary undertaking.

Registered Office Registered Office

Country of registration and operation

Country of registration and operation

Australia

1 RPS Advisory Services Pty Ltd

*

133

1 C & B Plant Pty Ltd

*

1 RPS Aquaterra Pty Ltd

*

1 Conics (Brisbane) Pty Ltd

*

1 RPS Australia East Pty Ltd

*

1 Conics (Brisbane) Unit Trust Ltd

*

1 RPS Australia West Pty Ltd

*

1 Conics (Cairns) Pty Limited

*

1 RPS Consultants Pty Ltd

1 Conics (Gold Coast) Pty Ltd

*

1 RPS ECOS Pty Ltd

*

1 Conics (Mackay) Pty Ltd

*

1 RPS Energy Pty Ltd

*

1 Conics (Mining & Infrastructure) Pty Ltd

*

1 RPS Energy Services Pty Ltd

*

1 Conics (Sunshine Coast) Pty Ltd

*

1 RPS Environment and Planning Pty Ltd

*

1 Conics (Sunshine Coast) Unit Trust

*

1 RPS Harper Somers O'Sullivan Pty Ltd

*

1 Conics (Sydney) Pty Ltd

*

1 RPS HSO Subco Pty Ltd

*

1 Conics (Townsville) Pty Ltd

*

1 RPS Manidis Roberts Pty Ltd

*

1 Conics Positioning Pty Ltd

*

1 RPS AAP Consulting Pty Ltd

*

1 Conics Pty Ltd

*

1 Rudall Blanchard Associates Pty Limited

*

1 ECL DM Pty Ltd

*

1 Terranean Mapping Technologies Pty Ltd

*

1 ECL Drilling Management Pty Limited

*

1 Troy Ikoda Australasia Pty Ltd

*

1 ECL Pty Ltd

*

1 Urban Blueprint Pty Ltd

*

1 EHA Pty Ltd

*

1 Vivo Design Pty Ltd

*

1 Everything Infrastructure Consulting Pty Ltd

*

1 Whelans Corporation Pty Limited

*

1 Everything Infrastructure Group Pty Ltd

*

1 Whelans Insites Pty Limited

*

1 Everything Infrastructure Services Pty Ltd

*

1 Geo Mapping Technologies Pty Ltd

*

Brazil

1 Intelligent Infrastructure Pty Ltd

*

2 RPS Consultores do Brasil Ltda

*

1 Manidis Roberts Employee Benefits Pty Ltd

*

1 Massie Cosgrove Pty Ltd

*

Canada

1 Natural Solutions Environmental Consultants Pty Ltd *

3 Petroleum Institute for Continuing Education Ltd

*

1 Newco (Brisbane) Pty Ltd

*

3 Boyd Exploration Consultants Ltd

*

1 Newco (Sunshine Coast) Pty Ltd

*

3 HMA Land Services Ltd

*

1 Pioneer Surveys Pty Ltd

*

3 Maverick Land Consultants 2012 Ltd

*

1 PMM Global Surveys Pty Ltd

*

3 Roland Resources 2012 Inc

*

1 PMM Holdings Pty Ltd

*

3 RPS Canada Ltd

*

1 PMM Sydney Pty Ltd

*

3 RPS Energy Canada Ltd

*

1 RPS APASA Pty Ltd

*

4 Canadian GaiaTech, B.C. ULC

*

Report and Accounts 2018

Financial statements

Registered Office Registered Office

6. INVESTMENTS CONTINUED

Country of registration and operation

England

5 Aquaterra International Ltd

5 Aquaterra UK Limited

5 Basicshare Limited

5 Burks Green & Partners Limited 5 Cambrian Consultants America Limited

5 Cambrian Consultants Limited 5 CgMs Holdings Limited

5 CgMs Limited

5 Clear Environmental Consultants Limited

5 DBK Partners Limited

5 ECL Group Limited

5 ECL Resources Management Limited

5 ECL Technology Limited 5 Emulous Group Limited

5 Emulous Ltd 5 Energy Innovations Limited

5 Exploration Consultants Limited

5 Flow Control (Water Conservation) Limited

5 Geocon Group Services Limited

5 Geophysical Consultants Limited 5 Geophysical Safety Resources Limited

5 Hydrosearch Associates Limited 5 Ichron Limited

5 Isochrone Holdings Limited 5 Knowledge Reservoir (UK) Ltd

134

5 Martindale Holdings Limited

5 Nautilus (SEAA) Limited

5 Nautilus Limited

5 Net Admin Limited 5 Nigel Moor Associates plc

5 Oil Experience Limited 5 Paras Consulting Limited

5 Paras Limited

5 Probablistic Risk Assessments Limited

5 Quad Engineering Limited

5 R W Gregory Limited

5 RPS Business Healthcare Limited

5 RPS Chapman Warren Limited 5 RPS Consultants Ltd

5 RPS Consulting Services Limited 5 RPS Design Ltd

5 RPS Ecoscope Limited

5 RPS Energy Consultants Limited

5 RPS Energy Limited

5 RPS Energy Services Limited 5 RPS Environmental Management Limited

5 RPS Group US Holdings Limited 5 RPS Occupational Health Limited

5 RPS Laboratories Limited 5 RPS Mountainheath Limited

5 RPS Planning & Development Limited

5 RPS Timetrax Limited

5 RPS Trustees Limited

5 RPS US Holdings Limited 5 Rudall Blanchard Associates Group Limited

5 Rudall Blanchard Associates Limited 5 Safety and Reliability Consultants Limited

5 Scott Pickford Limited

Report and Accounts 2018

Country of registration and operation

5 Sherwood House Properties Limited

*

*

5 SRC (Consultants) Limited

*

*

5 Town Planning Consultancy Limited

5 TPK Consulting Limited

*

5 Troy Ikoda Limited

*

*

5 Troy-Ikoda Management Limited

*

*

5 Utility Technical Services Limited

*

5 WTW & Associates Limited

*

5 X-IPEC Limited

*

*

*

Germany

6 Metier Academy GmbH

*

*

*

Gibraltar

7 Geocon Asia Limited

*

*

Ireland

*

8 RPS Consulting Engineers Limited

*

8 RPS Engineering Services Limited

*

8 RPS Environmental Consultancy Limited

*

8 RPS Group Limited

*

*

8 RPS MMA Limited

*

8 RPS Planning & Environment Limited

*

*

8 RPS Properties Limited

*

*

Malaysia

*

9 Cambrian Consultants Asia Sdn. Bhd

*

*

10 Knowledge Reservoir Geoscience & Engineering Sdn. Bhd *

*

11 RPS Consultants Sdn Bhd

*

*

*

Mexico

*

12 Cambrian Consultants CC America, Inc S.de R.L. de C.V. *

*

*

Mongolia

13 Aquaterra East Asia LLC

*

* Netherlands

14 RPS advies-en ingenieursbureau BV

*

*

15 RPS Analyse BV

*

*

14 RPS BV

14 RPS Detachering BV

*

New Zealand

16 RPS Consultants NZ Limited

*

Northern Ireland

17 RPS Ireland Limited

*

*

Norway

18 Delphi AS

*

*

9 Knowledge Reservoir AS

*

9 Knowledge Reservoir Holding AS

*

*

19 Metier AS

*

19 Metier Holding AS

*

*

20 Metier Trondheim AS

*

*

21 Metier Vest AS

*

*

22 OEC Gruppen AS

*

23 RPS Norway AS

*

*

23 RPS Group AS

Financial statements

Registered Office Registered Office

Country of registration and operation
Oman 24 K.R. LLC (Oman)
Papua New Guinea 25 Point Project Management (PNG) Ltd
Scotland 26 OceanFix International Limited 27 RPS Health in Business Limited
Singapore 28 Delphi Group Asia PTE Limited
Sweden 29 Metier AB 29 Metier Academy AB
USA 30 APA USA, Inc 31 Applied Science Associates Inc. 30 Cambrian Consultants America Inc.

Country of registration and operation

30 Espey Consultants, Inc.

*

*

30 Evans Hamilton, Inc.

*

30 GaiaTech Canada, LLC

*

32 GaiaTech Holdings, Inc

*

*

30 GaiaTech, Inc

*

30 Houston Geoscan Inc

*

30 Hydrosearch USA Inc

*

*

33 Iris Environmental

*

*

34 RPS Infrastructure Inc

*

30 Knowledge Reservoir Group Inc

35 Knowledge Reservoir, LLC

*

*

30 Nautilus Holdings LLC

*

30 Nautilus World LP

*

30 Petroleum Institute for Continuing Education USA Inc *

*

30 RPS America Group Inc

*

*

30 RPS Americas Inc

*

30 RPS Group, Inc.

*

30 RPS JDC Inc.

*

*

30 The Geocet Group LLC

*

*

30 The Scotia Group Inc

*

*

Registered Offices

1 512 Wickham Street, Fortitude Valley, Queensland 4006, Australia

17 Elmwood House, 74 Boucher Road, Belfast, BT12 6RZ

135

2 Av. Almirante Barroso 91, Rio de Janeiro, Rio De Janeiro 20031--005, Brazil
3 1200, 700 - 2nd Street SW, Calgary, Alberta, TP2 4V5, Canada
4 1300-777 ST Dunsmuir Vancouver, British Columbia V7Y1K2 Canada
5 20 Western Avenue, Milton Park, Abingdon, Oxfordshire OX14 4SH
6 Frankfurt am Main, Gashaftsanschrift, Marketstrasse 4460388 Frankfurt am Main, Germany
7 Line Group Limited, 57/63 Line Wall Road, Gilbraltar
8 West Pier Business Campus, Old Dunleary Road, Dunlaoghaire, Co Dublin, Republic of Ireland
9 Level 11-2 Faber Imperial Court, Jalan Sultan Ismail 50250, Kuala Lumpur, Malaysia
10 Welhavens Road 5, 4319 Sandines, Sandines, Norway
11 Suite 11-13A, Level 11, Wisma UOA II, Jalan Pinang, 50450 Kuala Lumpur. Malaysia

18 Engelsminnegata, 24, 4008 Stavanger, Norway 19 Hoffsveien 70C, 0377 Oslo, Norway 20 Professor Brochs, Gate 2, 7030 Trondheim, Norway 21 Hinna Park, Bygg D 2.etasje, Jattavagveien 7, 4020 Stavanger, Norway 22 Lysaker Torg 25, 1366 Lysaker, 0219 BAERUM, Norway 23 Olav Vs Gate 4, 0356 Oslo, Norway 24 Al-Kulieah Street, Al-Khuwair 17/2, Building No.741,
Way No. 4508 Muscat, Oman 25 2nd Floor, Brian Bell Plaza, Turumu Street, Boroko, NCD,
Papua New Guinea 26 9 Queens Road, Aberdeen, AB15 4YL 27 Unit 1, Ratho Park, Station Road, Edinburgh, EH28 8QQ 28 Paya Lebar Road 60, 40 Singapore - Hougang, Singapore - Singapore 29 Drottninggatan 71, C, 111 36, Stockholm, Sweden

12 Avenida Paseo de la Reforma No. 404, Pisa 6 - Despacho 602, CoL Juarez, Mexico City, Mexico, FED DISTR. 06600

30 20405 Tomball Parkway, Suite 200, Houston, Texas 77070, USA 31 55 Village Square Drive, South Kingstown, Rhode Island, 02879, USA

13 701 San Business Centre, 8th Khoroo, Sukhbaatar, Ulaanbaatar, Mongolia
14 Elektronicaweg 2, 2628 XG Delft, The Netherlands
15 Minervum 7002, 4817, ZL Breda, The Netherlands
16 50 Customhouse Quay, Wellington Central, Wellington, 6011, New Zealand

32 135 S. La Salle Street, Suite 3500, Chicago, Illinois 60603, USA 33 1432 Webster Street, Suite 302, Oakland, California, 94612, USA 34 1160 Dairy Ashford, Suite 500, Houston, Texas, 77079, USA 35 1209 Orange Street, Wilmington, Delaware, 19801, USA

Report and Accounts 2018

Financial statements

7. DEBTORS
Б000s Amounts falling due within one year: Amounts due from subsidiary undertakings Tax receivable Other debtors Prepayments and accrued income

31 Dec 2018 31 Dec 2017

42,665 2,032 2,729 3,099
50,525

47,828 1,523 2,557 2,480
54,388

8. CREDITORS Г AMOUNTS FALLING DUE WITHIN ONE YEAR

Б000s
Borrowings Trade creditors Amounts due to subsidiary undertakings Other creditors Accruals and deferred income

31 Dec 2018
2,581 3,270 36,646
501 2,735 45,733

31 Dec 2017
212 4,191 29,773
516 2,221 36,913

136

9. CREDITORS Г AMOUNTS DUE AFTER MORE THAN ONE YEAR

Б000s Borrowings: Bank loans US loan notes Arrangement fees
Due as follows: Amount due between one and two years In the third to fifth years inclusive Arrangement fee previously settled
Details of borrowings are disclosed in note 18 to the consolidated accounts.

31 Dec 2018 31 Dec 2017

32,800 56,751
(271) 89,280

41,457 55,185
(634) 96,008

32,800 56,751
(271) 89,280

96,642 Г
(634) 96,008

Report and Accounts 2018

10. PROVISION FOR LIABILITIES
Б000s As at 1 January 2018 Additional provision in the year Utilised in the year As at 31 December 2018
The provisions relate to property and dilapidations provisions. The total provision is expected to be utilised as follows:
Б000s Within one year After more than one year
11. DEFERRED TAXATION
The movement on deferred taxation in the year was as follows:
Б000s Net asset at beginning of year (Charge)/credit to income for the year Net asset at year end
The deferred taxation balances comprise:
Б000s Short term timing differences Depreciation in excess of capital allowances Deferred tax asset Deferred tax is included within other debtors in the balance sheet.

Financial statements

Total 172 42 (62) 152

As at 31 Dec 2018
4 148 152

As at 31 Dec 2017
46 126 172

As at 31 Dec 2018
257

As at 31 Dec 2017
149

(59)

108

198

257

137

As at 31 Dec 2018
27 171 198

As at 31 Dec 2017
62 195 257

Report and Accounts 2018

Financial statements

12. SHARE CAPITAL AND RESERVES

Ordinary shares of 3p each At 1 January 2018 At 31 December 2018

Number

Authorised Value Б000s

240,000,000 240,000,000

7,200 7,200

Allotted and fully paid

Value

Number

Б000s

224,817,001 226,105,286

6,745 6,783

Full details of the share capital of the Company are disclosed in Note 22 to the Consolidated Financial Statements.

The Company's reserves are as follows:

Share premiumPremium on shares issued in excess of nominal value, other than on shares issued in respect of acquisitions when merger relief is taken.

Profit and loss reserve Cumulative net gains and losses recognised in the profit and loss account and statement of changes in equity.

Merger reserve

Premium on shares issued in respect of acquisitions when merger relief is taken.

Employee trust shares Own shares held by the SIP and Employee Benefit trusts.

Other reserves

Non-distributable profit generated on Group reconstruction.

13. DIVIDENDS
Details of dividends paid by the Company are disclosed in Note 23 of the Consolidated Financial Statements.

138

14. COMMITMENTS UNDER OPERATING LEASES

Total future minimum lease payments under non-cancellable operating leases are as follows:

Land and buildings

Other

Б000s Within one year Between one and five years

31 Dec 2018 20 20 40

31 Dec 2017 20 20 40

31 Dec 2018 834 874 1,708

31 Dec 2017 1,212 1,307 2,519

15. DIRECTORS' INTERESTS IN TRANSACTIONS
There were no transactions during the year in which the Directors had any interest.

Report and Accounts 2018

Financial statements

FIVE YEAR SUMMARY

Б000s Revenue Fee income PBTA Net bank debt Net assets Cash generated from operating activities Average number of employees Dividend per share Adjusted basic EPS Adjusted diluted EPS

2018 637,383 574,157
50,162 (73,875) 377,572 60,359
5,556 9.88p 16.47p
16.34p

2017 630,636 562,320
53,941 (80,632) 369,784 63,511
5,340 9.88p
17.13p 17.01p

The Five Year Summary does not form part of the audited financial statements.

2016 594,471 534,296
50,704 (83,419) 411,307 78,253
5,099 9.74p
16.60p 16.51p

2015 566,972 506,110
51,795 (78,779) 364,490 92,628
5,054 9.74p
16.57p 16.47p

2014 572,126 504,959
66,114 (73,180) 384,677 70,772
4,530 8.47p
22.04p 21.92p

139

Report and Accounts 2018

Contact:
RPS Group Plc 20 Western Avenue, Milton Park Abingdon, Oxon OX14 4SH T +44 (0)1235 863206
Registered in England No. 2087786
rpsgroup.com

