Annual Bulletin & Annual Report
2013

4

CONTENTS

Message from the Chairman & CEO

7

1. COMPANY PROFILE

8

1.1 Board of Directors Profile

11

1.2 Companys' Executives Profile

16

1.3 Background-Incorporation

19

1.4 Object-Operation

19

1.5 Outlook

20

1.6 EYDAP NISON S.A.

20

1.7 Area of Service

21

2. CORPORATE GOVERNANCE

24

2.1 Board of Directors: Composition and operation

26

2.2 Shareholders

26

2.3 Control Mechanisms

29

2.4 Risks Management

30

2.5 Tranparency and Disclosure

30

2.6 Corporate Governance Code

31

3 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY

32

3.1 Enviroment

34

3.2 Human resourses

34

3.3 Society

35

3.4 Responsible Business Practice

35

4. KEY FINANCIALS FOR THE GROUP

36

4.1 Key financials for the Group

39

4.2 Consumption Evolution & Breakdown

42

4.3 Stock Information

46

5. ANNUAL FINANCIAL REPORT

48

5.1 Statements of the Members of the Board of Directors

52

5.2 Annual Financial report of the Board of Directors

53

5.3 Financial statements for the period January

86

1st 2013 to December 31st 2013 in accordance with

the international financial reporting standards (IFRS)

of the group and EYDAP SA (The Company)

5.4 Independent Auditors Report

138

5.5 Information according to art. 10 of Law 3401/2005

140

5.6 Financial Data and Information

142

Annual Bulletin & Annual Report 2013 5

6

Dear Shareholders,
The year 2013 was a milestone for the future of EYDAP. The settlement of longterm issues between the Company and the Greek Government and of long outstanding financial claims which were difficult to solve for years and overshadowed the otherwise healthy image of the Company's progress, constitute the beginning of a new era for its evolution.
The initiatives taken, contributed decisively during the year 2013, in the collection of approximately  406 million of overdue receivables from Municipalities and the Greek State, an amount which empowered the cash and cash equivalents of the Company, thus giving the opportunity to make important decisions, such as the payment of debt obligations and the settlement of the long pending labor legal cases.
All of the above contributed to strong financial results. More specifically, the profit after tax amounted to  78 million from  52 million in 2012, recording an increase of 51.4%, thus forming the net profit margin to 23.3% from 14.6% in 2012. Earnings before interest, taxes, and amortization (EBITDA) amounted to  84 million from  114 million in 2012. The earnings before taxes (EBT) amounted to  62 million from  68 million in 2012.
Free of outstanding burdens, we are currently focusing in the implementation of our strategy, which aims at profitable growth to the benefit of our customers, employees and Shareholders as well as that of society in which we operate and develop.
Our goal will be achieved through the effective and efficient operation of the Company, the maximum utilization of new technologies and the implementation of new innovative solutions, the continuous enhancement of human resources and the adoption of pioneering business plans for further development by focusing on the customers and their service.

The magnitude of EYDAP, its achievements and innovations, are the result of the effort, willpower, experience and knowledge of its employees, which constitute the fundamental basis to support our business plan, as they are the driving force for growth and our success in the future.
As the sole provider of integrated water and sewerage services management to 40 % of the population of Greece, with our mission to provide quality and affordable drinking water to a growing number of citizens and to ensure its clean return to the environment through an efficient to process of organic treatment, faithful to the rational use of natural and economic resources, with social awareness and guided by our contribution to the overall well-being and sustainable development, we continue to commit ourselves to : · high level of services to our customers · respect to the environment and sustainability to the society, · high performance towards our Shareholders
Dear Shareholders,
EYDAP's consistency, as always, towards its Shareholders, suggested during the Shareholders General Meeting, after approval from the Board of Directors, the distribution of dividends equal to 50% of the net profits of 2013, amounting to 38 million (0.36 per share) and the distribution of tax free reserves, amounting to 2 million (0.02 per share). The total amount to be distributed to the Shareholders of the Company amounts to 40.5 million (0.38 per share).
I thank you warmly for the unconditional support and trust that you have embraced the management and employees of EYDAP.
Anthony M. Vartholomeos
Chairman & CEO

Annual Bulletin & Annual Report 2013 7

8

1. COMPANY PROFILE

1.1 Board of Directors

Name

Position

Anthony M. Vartholomeos

Chairman & CEO - Executive Member

Evaggelos Palaiologos

Deputy Chairman, Non-Executive Member

Grigorios Zafeiropoulos

Non-Executive Member

Lampros Zografos

Independent, Non-Executive Member

Panteleimon Kamas

Non-Executive Member

Eleftheria Karachaliou

Non-Executive Member

Anastasios Kourtis

Non-Executive Member

Epaminondas Sklavenitis

Non-Executive Member

Ioannis Chondrogiannos

Non-Executive Member

Christos Mistriotis

Non-Executive Member

Panayotis Skoularikis

Non-Executive Member

Emmanouel Aggelakis

Non-Executive Member

Evaggelos Moutafis

Non-Executive Member

From left: Ioannis Chondrogiannos, Evaggelos Moutafis, Emmanouel Aggelakis, Grigorios Zafeiropoulos, Anthony Vartholomeos, Eleftheria Karachaliou, Labros Zografos, Anastasios Kourtis, Epaminondas Sklavenitis, Christos Mistriotis (absent from the photo: Evaggelos Paleologos, Panteleimon amas, Panagiotis Skoularikis). * The Audit Committee is composed of: Labros Zografos-Chairman, Grigorios Zafeiropoulos-Member, Acting Secretary, Epaminondas Sklavenitis-Member
10

Presentation of the Board of Directors
ANTHONY M. VARTHOLOMEOS Chairman & CEO
Antony Vartholomeos was born in Athens in 1957. He is a graduate of the University of Piraeus (1980) and as a Ph.D Candidate, he completed the course of Master's and Doctorate degrees, working on his doctoral dissertation on Finance & International Economy at FORDHAM University of New York (1986).
His career in the banking sector started in the United States of America at the ATLANTIC BANK of New York in 1981, and then at the OLYMPIAN BANK where he worked until 1992. During his 12 years stay in USA, he gained important experience in the banking sector, with specialization in financing, investment, capital markets, real estate development and mortgage securitization and he served as senior and executive manager in various positions.
His return in Greece in June 1992, was combined with his participation in the management team of INTERBANK, with primary responsibility to develop Mortgage Programs. During his four years presence in INTERBANK, he introduced innovative mortgage products, which have enjoyed great success. He also undertook positions of the head of the technology, organization, credit control and financial risk sectors.
In June 1996, he was appointed as a Deputy General Director in EGNATIA BANK, and served as member of the management team, which had as main goal the profitability of the bank after 3 negative financial uses. His presence in this post was combined with continuous profitability, while the bank completed successfully the operational merger with the Bank of Central Greece. He was also member of all of the bank's Executive Committees and Vice-Chairman of EGNATIA Mutual Funds.
In January 2000, he took over the positions of the General Director initially and, later, of the Executive Vice President of the company Euroholdings Capital & Investment Corp. S.A., where, in cooperation with the Board of Directors, he implemented successfully the financial restructuring and the investment plan of the company, as well as complex projects of acquisitions, mergers, spin-offs, funding and liquidity investments. In June 2004, he was elected Executive Member of the Board of Directors of EYDAP S.A.. In May 2005 he took over the position of Chief Executive Officer (CEO) and later he was appointed Chairman of Board of Directors and CEO until his retirement in May 2010. During his tenure in the company, he achieved high growth rates, increased the company's profitability and was responsible for the formulation and implementation of the strategic plan as well as for its ongoing modernization and financial reorganization.
Since 2010, he has worked as a financial consultant while serving as Chairman of PEGASUS SECURITIES S.A. and member of the Board of the Directors of the HELLENIC REPUBLIC ASSET DEVELOPMENT FUND. Since April 2013, he was appointed as Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of EYDAP S.A..
During his career, he has developed new, innovative banking products as well as numerous business projects. He has taught Strategic Planning and Strategic Technology at FORDHAM Graduate Business School and has given lots of lectures on Securitization and Financial Restructuring. He is a member of the Board of Directors of «Konstantinos Karamanlis Institute for Democracy". As a former champion of the National Athletics Teen Team of Greece, he continues to be actively involved in supporting various sporting events and has served as a Board member of the Pan-Hellenic Gymnastics Association.
Annual Bulletin & Annual Report 2013 11

EVAGGELOS K. PALEOLOGOS, Ph.D. Deputy Chairman
Ev. Paleologos was born in Athens in 1958 and is a graduate of Varvakeios Model School having received the "Medal of Excellence" by the Mayor of Athens. He has a B.Sc. and M.Sc. in Civil and Environmental Engineering and a Ph.D. in Hydrology and Water Resources from the University of Arizona. He was employed at the Yucca Mountain project for the burial of the U.S.A. high-level radioactive waste, authoring reports for the Department of Energy and the U.S.A. Congress (1992-1995). He was Professor at the University of South Carolina (1995-2007), founder of the State's Center for Water Research and Policy, for which he served at its Board (1998-2005), member of the Academic and Industrial Board of the State of South Carolina (2002-05), and Board Member of the international organization Global Alliance for Disaster Reduction (2001-2004). Dr Paleologos has received multiple awards that include: the University of South Carolina's 2001 President Award, the "Researchers of Carolina" annual Award (1996-2006), and the South Carolina Research Institute's 1998 "Initializers" Award. In 2007 he returned to Greece as faculty of the Technical University of Crete and in 2011 he became Science Advisor on water issues to the Minister of Environment. He has over 100 publications and reports and is the author of two international monographs.
GRIGOROS ZAFIROPOULOS BoD Audit Committee Member Coordination, Support & Promotion of Local Authorities Issues
Grigoros Zafiropoulos was born in Athens in 1967. He studied law and speaks two foreign languages. He is married with two children. In 1994 he created together with his brother George, one of the first companies in Electronic Indexing in Greece, «ZPM» (Zita Press Monitor). He has long experience in local and regional authorities management. He was a successful member for two terms of the Board of Directors of the municipality of Halandri and for two four-year periods (2002-2010) Mayor of Hanandri. He was member of the BoD of the Association of Communities and Municipalities in the Attica Region (A.C.M.A.R.) and a member of the Association of Municipalities and Communities for Protection and Restoration of Mount Penteli in Attica (SPAP). He was president of PETA SA (information-education local development), an Intermunicipal Development Enterprise of the Local Authorities. He was a member for two terms of the Board KEDKE (Central Union of Municipalities and Communities) and member of the Executive Committee. During the period 2004-2009 he was a Member of the BoD of EYDAP, and since April 2013 he is a Member again. He is a member of the Board of ENPE (Union of Regions in Greece) since 2011 and a Regional Councillor of Attica. He is Deputy Secretary of Nea Dimokratia (political party), responsible for Regional Administration and member of the Political Committee of the Nea Dimokratia. He is a member of the Committee of the Regions of the European Union since 2007 (CoR). He has been a member of the CoR Bureau and member of the Bureau of the European People's Party (EPP) in the CoR. He is a member of the Euro-Mediterranean Conference of Local and Regional Authorities (ARLEM) as representative of the EPP and the CoR.
LAMBROS ZOGRAFOS Chairman of the BoD Audit Committee
Mr. Lambros Zografos was born in 1952 at Nafpakto Aetoloakarnania. After he graduated from the high school of Nafpaktos, he studied to be Electronic Engineer (Technical Education). He served his military service in the army, in the rank of Transmission Operations. In his professional career, he worked in the Hellenic Telecommunications Organization (OTE S.A.) at Messolongi, Patra and Athens as Head of technical department and as Deputy District Manager of Western Greece and the Ionian islands Telecom District of OTE. His main responsibility was the surveillant, technical and financial audit. In addition he was a member of the Board the Water Supply and Sewerage Company of Messolongi. Mr. Zografos is married and has two sons.
12

PANTELEIMON KAMAS
Mr. Panteleimon Kamas was born in Piraeus in 1972. In 1998, he graduated from the Law School of Athens, having a specialization in Civil and Commercial Law as well as borrowers issues. During his professional career, he offered his services to the Technical Chamber of Greece from 2005 to 2010 and continued his career in the National Youth Foundation from 2010 to 2012.
ELEFTHERIA KARACHALIOU
Eleftheria (Teta) Karachaliou has a long time experience in the banking sector and in particular in the areas of corporate and investment banking. She is a manager at Emporiki Bank, while from October 2011 she is occupied as project manager at the Hellenic Republic Asset Development Fund (HRADF). She was been working in the privatisations field since 2000, as a financial advisor to the Special Secretariat of Asset Privatizations (Ministry of Finance), successfully completing plenty of transactions on behalf of the Hellenic State. She holds a  in Economics from Athens University of Economics and Business (AUEB) and an MSc in Economics & Finance from Warwick Business School (UK). She speaks English and Italian and she is a member of the Economic Chamber of Greece. She was born in 1970 and has two daughters.
ANASTASIOS KOURTIS
Anastasios Kourtis was born in 1974. He received his law degree from the law school of the University of Athens and his Master Degree in the subject area of Labor Law at the same University. He is a Supreme Court lawyer. Benefiting from his wide range of practice, he offers his services to individuals, private and public law entities. He has been professor of labor law at the School for Police Officers of the Hellenic Police. He speaks English and Italian.
EPAMINONDAS SKLAVENITIS BoD Audit Committee Member Coordination, Support & Promotion of Local Authorities Issues
Mr. EPAMINONDAS SKLAVENITIS was born in Lefkada in 1950. As a graduate mathematician, he worked as a teacher in a private tutorial and in secondary education as well as a Director in a post-secondary Centre. During his 15-year union career, he was a member of the Board of Greek Federation of Secondary State School Teachers (OLME) and Civil Servants' Confederation (ADEDI) and President of the Center for Studies and Documentation of OLME. He demonstrated rich scientific and research activities at both national and European level. He actively participated in the creation of Centers for Adult Education where he served as Deputy Chairman. In 1995 , he was appointed as a consultant to the Minister of Education, in 1996 as a Director of Deputy Minister to the Prime Minister, in 2009 as a consultant to the Minister of National Defense and the in 2011 as a consultant to the Minister of Finance. In 2000 and 2004, he was nominated for Member of the Parliament on behalf of PASOK in Lefkada, while he was a member of the Central Committee and National Council.
Annual Bulletin & Annual Report 2013 13

IOANNIS CHONDROGIANNOS
Mr. Ioannis Chondrogiannos originates from Leros. He is a graduate of the School of Educational SELETE and graduate -Licensed Engineer - Electrician. During the time period from 1969 to 1995, he worked in the Production Division of Public Power Company (PPC) in the operating steam electric station (SES) of Aliveri. He participated in missions for receiving production units, as at SES at Rhodes and Geothermal Station (GS) at Milos. At the same time, he was responsible for the training of the newly recruited staff, which inspired him to write two educational books with technical content. Mr. Chondrogiannos is married with two children.
CHRISTOS MISTRIOTIS Minority Shareholders Representative
He was born in Athens in 1976. He received a BA in Economics specializing in Econometrics from the University of Kent, Canterbury and Master's degree in Finance from Imperial College in London. He has been employed in brokerage - investment companies and since 2004 he is the Director of Treasury and Financial Risk Management (Treasurer) of a large group.
PANAGIOTIS SKOULARIKIS Minority Shareholders Representative
Panos Skoularikis was born in Athens in January 1972. He graduated from Athens College in 1989 and in 1992 he received a degree in economics from the University of Athens, followed by graduate studies at the London School of Economics from where he received a M.Sc. Economics / Operations Research and M.Phil. Economics / European Studies. He worked at Citibank N.A. in London, in the areas of securities and cash management, while when he returned to Greece in 2001, he was appointed as economic adviser to the Manager of the Agricultural Bank. From 2003 to 2005 he served as Deputy Director of Administration and dealt with the issues of economic profitability of the Bank and the Group ATEbank. In June 2005, under the partial privatization of ATEbank, he undertook the establishment and management of the Bank's investor relations by strengthening contacts and relationships with the domestic and international investment community and institutional investors. On May 2010 he was appointed Director of Strategic Planning, Analysis and Investor Relations of the Bank, while he coordinated the negotiations between the Bank and Troika on the implementation of a comprehensive program of restructuring the Group, under the supervision of the European Competition Commission. Since August 2012, he is a member of Piraeus Bank Group and by February 2013 he was appointed Assistant General Manager with the main responsibilities the monitoring of the commitments and the progress of the restructuring of the Piraeus Bank Group, the MIS and the relationship with Credit Rating Agencies. He is a member of the Board EYDAP SA since July 2010 and has served as Board Member of ATE Mutual Funds. He is married with one daughter and speaks English and French.
14

MANOLIS ANGELAKIS Employees Representative
Manolis Angelakis was born in Athens in 1964, is a graduate of the Kapodistrian University of Athens, and works for EYDAP, as Scientific Personnel since May 1993. Since February 2014 he is a Deputy Director. Mr. Angelakis was President of the «Enosis of Workers' Enosis EYDAP Employees», Board Member of EYDAP's Workers Union, is President of DAKE EYDAP, and on April 2009 has been elected as Employee Representative on the Board of the Directors of EYDAP.
EVAGGELOS MOUTAFIS Employees Representative
He was born in 1960 and is an EYDAP employee since 1984. He has held positions in the union movement, of EYDAP, while from 2000 - 2005 he served as President of OME-EYDAP (Association of EYDAP employees). From 2001 until today, he is a member of the Executive Committee of General Confederation of Greek Workers (GSEE), Deputy Secretary General and since 2006 he holds the position of Organizing Secretary of GSEE.

ELIAS VASILOPOULOS Legal Advisor to the BoD Director of Legal Services

CHRISTINA KONTARATOU BoD Secretary

Annual Bulletin & Annual Report 2013 15

1.2 Company's Executives Profile
Stefanos Georgiadis - xecutive Director, Networks & Operation
Stefanos Georgiadis is a Civil Engineer, graduated from the Technical University of Thessaloniki. He speaks English and French. Since 2010 he has been Executive Director of Networks and Operation. He has the primary responsibility for water sources and external aqueducts, the Water Treatment Plants, the water supply and sewerage networks and the Wastewater Treatment Plants throughout the area of responsibility of the Company. His course in EYDAP is long and successful. He served as Water Supply Manager for about 20 years (1987-2006), with responsibility of water distribution network, reservoirs and pumping stations and systems of surveillance and control. From this position he designed and implemented modern network management applications designed to upgrade the services provided to citizens in view of a proper cost management. Cutting edge technologies were applied for the further use of existing investments and not the unnecessary production of new, in all his areas of responsibility, with protruding issues those of applications in controlling leakage and pressure management of drinking water. In the period from 1996 to 2005 he was Deputy Director of Water Supply Network and from 2006 until 2008 he was Director of this Division. Finally the years 2008-2010 he served as Deputy Executive Director of Networks and Operation both for water supply and sewerage.
George Krampokoukis - xecutive Director, Human Resources and Organisational Functions
George Krampokoukis is Graduate of the Economics Department-University of Piraeus and Post Graduate in Organisation and Administration of Industrial Systems-University of Piraeus and National Metsovio University. He joined EYDAP S.A. in 1984. He has also served as Director at AgrinioMesologgi Interconnected Hospitals and Vice President to Proastion Gas Company S.A. He is a licensed Economist and A Class Tax Accountant. Member of the Economic Chamber of Greece and SOLE-The International Society of Logistics District Greece. He has been Chairman of the EYDAP Scientific Staff (1997-2010).
Ioannis Passios - xecutive Director, Project Development and Production
Mr. Ioannis Passios is the acting General Manager of Project Development and Production for the Athens Water Supply and Sewerage Company (EYDAP) since June of 2010. Mr. Passios is a graduate of the National Technical University of Athens in Civil Engineering and has worked with the company for the last 32 years. As a design engineer, Mr. Passios has undertaken the design studies for numerous major EYDAP water supply projects and has supervised the construction of water treatment plants and special reinforcement works of the open channel sections of the Mornos Raw Water Aqueduct. Mr. Passios has held the positions of Department head, Division chief, Deputy General Manager, and General Manager of a number of technical departments in EYDAP dealing with the planning and implementation of water supply and wastewater infrastructure projects, as well as the operation of major facilities and water and wastewater networks. During the years 2002 to 2004, as General Manager of Networks and Facilities, Mr. Passios successfully coordinated EYDAP's preparation for the Athens 2004 Olympic Games. As the current General Manager of Project Development and Production, Mr. Passios supervises and coordinates the operation of the Divisions of 1) Planning and Development, 2) Infrastructure Design and Implementation, 3) Building Facilities, Real Estate and Energy, 4) Quality and 5) Municipalities Development Relations .
16

George Chavakis - xecutive Director, Financial Services & Control
George Chavakis is a graduate of the University of Athens (Department of Mathematics), Athens University of Economics (Department of Economics) and the Greek Open University postgraduate specialization (MSc) in Applied Economics & Finance and Information Systems. She speaks three foreign languages. He is married and father of two children. He has worked as a Business Consultant and Head of Production at book publishing companies and magazines. Since 1995 he has worked in EYDAP in key managerial positions and is currently Executive Director of Financial Services & Control. He is also a member of the Greek Mathematical Society and the Economic Chamber of Greece.
From left: Kostas Vougiouklakis - Deputy Executive Director Networks & Operation, Athina Saini - Deputy Executive Director Human Resources & Organizational Functions, Lillian Nikolaou- Deputy Executive Director Customer Service and Accounts Management, George Karagiannis - Deputy Executive Director Networks & Operation, Anna Vlassopoulou - Internal Audit Director, Katerina Panagopoulou - Deputy Executive Director Planning & Control, Eleni Dalla - Deputy Executive Director Finance & Control (absent : Miltiades Sarros - Deputy Executive Director Project Development & Production)
Annual Bulletin & Annual Report 2013 17

18

1.3 BACKGROUND ­ INCORPORATION
The Athens Water Supply and Sewerage Company (EYDAP S.A.) is the largest of its kind in Greece. EYDAP S.A. uses state-ofthe-art technology, equipment and facilities to supply water to approximately 4,300,000 residents in the Attica region through an extensive network of almost 2,060,000 water meters and a 9,500 km of water pipes. The sewerage sector serves 3,500,000 residents with sewers spreading at almost 8,500 km.
EYDAP was founded in 1980 under the "Incorporation of a Single Water Supply and Sewerage Company for Greater Athens" Act 1068/1980, pursuant to a merger of the incumbent water supplier in Athens and Piraeus `Hellenic Water Company S.A.' (EEY S.A.), and the `Greater Athens Sewerage Organization' (OAP S.A.).
In 1999, under the "Issues Related to the Athens Water Supply and Sewerage Company and other Provisions" Act 2744/1999, EYDAP S.A. took its present legal form, as all of its major assets were transferred to the company `EYDAP Assets' (Legal Entity under Public Law), thus remaining the property of the State. `EYDAP Assets' is the owner of dams, reservoirs, water towers, pumping stations and all other facilities that allow water to be transferred safely to treatment plants. Pursuant to an agreement signed between EYDAP S.A. and the Greek State in December 1999, EYDAP S.A. continues to operate the said facilities on behalf of `EYDAP Assets'.
In January 2000, EYDAP S.A. was listed on the Main Market of the Athens Stock Exchange.
It should be noted that in 2005 the "State Companies and Organizations (DEKO)" Act 3429/2005 was passed, stipulating specific provisions for such entities. More precisely, publicly held companies (listed on a stock exchange) in which the State holds majority or minority stakes, are not considered as `StateOwned'. Those companies are managed, organized and operate under Companies Act 2190/1920 and "Corporate Governance" Act 3016/2002.
In 2012, the enactment of Law 4053/2012, whereby EYDAP may provide the full range of services specified in the law 2744/1999 also outside its area of responsibility, via subsidiaries and via the signing of framework agreements with local authorities, establishes a new growth framework for the Company,

expanding the market in which it can operate and develop. EYDAP's company-owned headquarters are located in the Municipality of Galatsi, at 156, Oropou str., 111 46, tel.: +30.210-214.4444.
1.4 Object ­ Operations
EYDAP's object is stipulated in l.2744/1999 and its amendments, as described in the Joint Decision of the Ministers of Economy, Finance, Environment, Physical Planning and Public Works. The company's object is:
(a) To provide water-supply and sewerage services, as well as to design, construct, install, operate, manage, maintain, expand and upgrade water-supply and sewerage systems. These activities and projects include the pumping, desalination, processing, storage, transfer, distribution and management of all kinds of water, as a means of serving EYDAP's object. Other activities and projects include the collection, transfer, process, storage, management and disposal of wastewater treatment products.
(b) To provide telecommunications-related, energy-related, and sundry other services, and to exploit the water supply and sewerage system for other parallel objects, such as the deployment of telecommunications-related and energy-related operations, as an exception to the prohibitions of article 11, par. 8 of l.2744/1999 and upon condition that the safe and reliable operation of the system is not jeopardized.
(c) To explore and exploit natural springs and water resources, produce bottled water and sundry other refreshments or beverages that contain water.
(d) To utilize know-how and offer technical support.
(e) To undertake investments related to the scope and object of the company.
Under article 2 of l.2744/1999, EYDAP has been granted the exclusive right to provide water-supply and sewerage services in the geographical area of its jurisdiction for a period of 20 years, commencing on October 25, 1999. It is noted that due to the nature of the product and existing infrastructure, the provision of water-supply and sewerage services is a natural monopoly.
Under l.2939/2001 (Government Gazette 179/06-08-2001),

Annual Bulletin & Annual Report 2013 19

EYDAP continues to be the exclusive client of projects related to the entire water supply system of the Greater Attica region, even after the adoption of l.2744/1999. The said projects include those which are co-financed by EU's Cohesion Fund. EYDAP may retrospectively collect the subsidy provided by the Cohesion Fund, for costs incurred after the adoption of l.2744/1999.
1.5 Strategy-Outlook
Greece is producing one of the highest quality waters of the world. The main water sources and reservoirs of EYDAP, are located in pure areas, free from industrial and agricultural activity, resulting in the natural supply of the Greek capital city with water, which requires minimum consumption of energy. EYDAP, responsibly, with know-how and mainly stable human centric approach, successfully manages for decades the water cycle, which provides to all citizens without discrimination and returns it back to the environment clean. Our vision is to remain the largest and most reliable company in the management of the water cycle, always oriented towards Man and the Environment. Our mission is to provide quality and affordable water to an increasing number of citizens and to return it pure back to the environment through the effective management of all available resources with social sensitivity and with our contribution to social welfare taken as basis. Our strategy is based on achieving a balanced and sustainable development for the benefit of the society, our customers, employees and shareholders and for parties involved. The main keystones of our strategy are: · Increase of the operating efficiency of our Company · Upgrade of the services provided · Expansion of customer base ­ Increase of geographical
coverage · Development of new activities · Take full advantage of human resources · Utilization of technology and innovation · Arrangement of the regulatory and contractual framework
with the Greek State · Strict implementation and compliance with all the quality
and operational standards
To achieve these objectives, EYDAP has developed an integrated program of modernization, which main actions are focused on:
· Adoption of modern techniques of financial planning · Restructuring and simplification of internal and external
processes

· Application of modern techniques for remote monitoring and remote management for efficient network management.
· Implementation of crucial interventions in the network to avoid repeated costly failures.
· Implementation of modern techniques and tools of risk management
· Expansion of e-Government for customer service · Adoption of modern systems for the development and
management of human resources · Implementation of a new cooperation model with the
municipalities · Empowerment of regulatory compliance and obtaining
relevant certifications · Elaboration of business plans for new activities and
expansion in areas outside Attica region.
1.6 EYDAP NISON S.A.
In July 2011, «EYDAP NISON S.A.» was established, in the share capital of which EYDAP S.A. participates at 100%. The scope of the Company is to provide water and wastewater services as well as a variety of activities related to the above, in the Greek islands territory. The aim of this initiative is to exploit the expertise of EYDAP S.A. in order to provide water and sewerage services to the Greek islands.
In January 2013 an amendment that was approved in the parliament, created the legal framework under which it can be entrusted to EYDAP SA or its affiliates, the preparation or commissioning of studies for construction projects related to the activity of the company, as well as the delegation and administration of the implementation of those projects in island regions. EYDAP Nison S.A. is now at the final phase of the completion of the first stage of its development, which refers to an analytical research and setting out of the market needs, in which EYDAP Nison SA will activate and to the examination and specification of solutions proposed to its customers.
EYDAP Nison SA has been activated to the following actions, indicatively:
· The Municipality of Naxos requested counseling for issues of consolidating electrical and mechanical facilities, of the water treatment plant as well as of improving water quality in the reservoirs of the island
· The Municipality of Chios requested an offer for cleaning the pumping stations and parts of sewerage pipes. In addi-

20

tion, the Municipality is completing a study on billing policy development, business plan, water supply and sewerage operating regulation, etc. · The Municipality of Sikinos has obtained financing for conducting studies for two Biological Cleaning Installations, as well as for water supply and sewerage networks, in compliance to an offer submited by EYDAP Nison.
1.7 Area of Service

In March 2013, the BoD of EYDAP S.A., decided the increase of the share capital of EYDAP Nison S.A. by 30,000, while on February 7th 2014 the Extraordinary General Meeting of "EYDAP NISON SA", approved the share capital of "EYDAP NISON SA" by euro 150,000.00. At the same Extraordinary General Meeting, Mr. Leonidas Kairis member of the BoD and General Manager of EYDAP Nison SA was replaced by Mr. Petros Matsoukis.

MUNICIPALITIES AND MUNICIPAL GROUPS WITHIN EYDAP'S AREA OF SERVICE
DIREC T WATER SUPPLY FROM EYDAP BULK WATER SUPPLY TO MUNICIPAL NETWORKS JOINT WATER SUPPLY SYSTEM

MUNICIPALITIES AND MUNICIPAL GROUPS OUTSIDE EYDAP'S AREA OF SERVICE
WATER SUPPLY WITH OR WITHOUT PARTICIPATION OF EYDAP IN THE LOCAL NETWORK OPERATION

Annual Bulletin & Annual Report 2013 21

EYDAP's area of service is the greater metropolitan area of Athens, as determined by l.1068/1980, under which the company has been incorporated. Moreover, under l.2744/1999, EYDAP has the exclusive right to provide water-supply and sewerage services in the geographical area of its jurisdiction. This right is non-transferable and non-delegable, and applies for a period of 20 years. The said duration and its renewal are specified in the Agreement signed between EYDAP and the Greek State. This Agreement was signed in December 1999.
More specifically, EYDAP's area of service covers the following Municipalities and Municipal Groups, either directly (retail) or through bulk water supply:

Municipalities and Municipal Groups within EYDAP's Area of Service
Direct Water Supply from EYDAP
· Ag. Anargiri - Kamatero · Ag. Dimitrios · Ag. Paraskevi · Ag. Varvara · Alimos · Aspropyrgos · Athens · Dafni - Ymittos · Egaleo · Elefsina (Elefsina) · Elliniko - Argiroupoli · Filothei - Psychiko · Galatsi · Haidari · Halandri · Ilion · Ilioupoli · Iraklio · Kallithea · Keratsini - Drapetsona · Kessariani · Korydallos · Lykovrisi - Pefki · Melissia (Penteli) · Metamorphosis · Moschato - Tavros · N. Ionia · N. Penteli (Penteli) · N. Smyrni · Nikea - Ag. Ioannis Rentis · P. Faliro · Papagou - Holargos · Perama · Peristeri · Petroupoli · Philadelphia - Halkidona

· Piraeus · Thrakomakedones (Acharnes) · Voula (Vari ­ Voula ­ Vouliagmeni) · Vouliagmeni (Vari ­ Voula ­ Vouliagmeni) · Vyronas · Zefiri (Fyli) · Zografou
Bulk Water Supply to Municipal Networks (*)
· Anixi (Dionyssos) · Ano Liosia (Fyli) · Dionyssos (Dionyssos) · Drosia (Dionyssos) · Ekali (Kifisia) · Keratea (Lavreotiki) · Kouvaras (Saronikos) · Kropia · Mandra (Mandra ­ Eidyllia) · Marathon (Marathon) · Markopoulo Mesogaias · N. Erythrea (Kifisia) · Peania (Peania) · Rodopolis (Dionyssos) · Spata - Artemida · Vrilissia
Joint Water Supply System (**)
· Acharnes (Acharnes) · Amarousion · Gerakas (Pallini) · Gluka Nera Peania · Glyfada · Kalyvia Thorikou (Saronikos) · Kantza (Pallini) · Kifisia (Kifisia) · N. Peramos (Megareon) · Penteli (Penteli) · Salamina, Kamatero and Selinia (Salamina) · Vari (Vari ­ Voula ­ Vouliagmeni)

22

* Areas serviced by EYDAP via municipal networks. EYDAP is not involved nor is responsible for the operation of these local networks. ** Areas serviced by means of a joint system, i.e. partly covered by EYDAP's network and partly by local private or municipal networks.
Municipalities and Municipal Groups outside EYDAP's Area of Service
Water Supply with or without participation of EYDAP in the local network operation
· Ag. Stefanos, Kryoneri, Stamata (Dionyssos) · Agkistri · Ampelakia except for Kamatero and Selinia (Salamina) · Anavyssos , P. Fokea, Saronida (Saronikos) · Anthousa and Pallini except for Kantza (Pallini) · Egina · Fyli (Fyli) · Lavreotiki, Ag. Konstantinos (Lavreotiki) · Magoula (Elefsina) · Megara (Megareon) · N. Makri, Varnavas, Grammatiko (Marathonas) · Oropos, Kalamos, Malakasa, Afidnes, Kapandriti, Markopoulo Oropou, Polydendri, Sykamino (Oropos) · Rafina - Pikermi · Villia, Erythres, Inoi (Mandra ­ Eidyllia)
Moreover, there is a number of Municipalities, Municipal Groups and Settlements outside EYDAP's geographical jurisdiction, yet serviced by EYDAP through bulk water supply to local authorities and without EYDAP's involvement in the operation of the local networks. Finally, EYDAP supplies water to certain islands that belong to the Cyclades Prefecture, as well as to various towns in Prefectures along the Mornos and Yliki reservoirs.
It should be also noted that under l.2744/1999 and the Joint Decision of the Ministers of Economy, Finance, Environment, Physical Planning and Public Works, EYDAP may also expand its operations to other areas within or outside the Attica region. Before each attempted expansion, EYDAP is required to investigate and ensure the feasibility of the effected investment, as well as to secure all necessary funds.
The enactment of l.4053/2012, whereby EYDAP may provide the full range of services specified in the l.2744/1999 also outside its area of responsibility, through subsidiaries and through the signing of framework agreements with local authorities, establishes a new growth framework for the Company, expanding the market in which it can operate and develop.
To meet its obligation and provide water-supply services in the greater metropolitan area of Athens, EYDAP obtains, under certain agreements, raw water from adequate resources that belong to the Greek State. According to l.2744/1999 and the Agreement that EYDAP signed with the Greek State in December 1999, the cost for this raw water will be set off against the cost incurred by EYDAP for the maintenance and operation of the assets that belong to «EYDAP Assets» (Legal Entity under Public Law).
Annual Bulletin & Annual Report 2013 23

24

2. CORPORATE GOVERNANCE

Corporate Governance
EYDAP is committed to apply Corporate Governance principles throughout its operations. Along these lines, the Company approaches decision-making through business ethics and pledges to uphold the interests of its shareholders and all other related parties.
2.1 Board of Directors
The Board of Directors is the company's highest administrative body. Its main function is to formulate the company's strategy and development policy. In general, the Board of Directors resolves on issues that aim to facilitate the implementation of the company's objects, while it monitors the progress and implementation of the company's operations.
More precisely, the Board of Director is authorized to resolve on any issue that pertains to the administration and representation of the company, as well as on the management of the company's assets. The Board of Directors is not authorized to resolve on issues that according to the law or the company's Articles of Incorporation fall under the exclusive jurisdiction of the General Meeting.
The company's Board of Directors is elected by the General Meeting of Shareholders to a five-year term. The term of the current Board of Directors which was elected during the Ordinary General Meeting of Shareholders on June 28th, 2012 ends on June 2013. Of the board's thirteen members, one is executive - the Chairman & Chief Executive Officer - whereas twelve are non-executive. Of the non-executive members, one member is independent according to the Law.3016/2002.
It should be noted that, apart from the shareholders' representatives that are elected by the General Meeting, the Board of Directors also comprises two representatives of the company's employees and two representatives of minority interests' shareholders.

The members of the Board of Directors may not be related with each other by blood or marriage up to the third degree, nor contractors or suppliers of the company, nor members of a Board of Directors or employees of another company who holds business relations with EYDAP S.A. Nevertheless, the members of EYDAP's Board of Directors may be members of the Board of Directors or employees of an affiliated company. The members of the Board of Directors may, however, be members of the Board of Directors or of an affiliated company.
The Board of Directors convenes at least once a month. In 2013, the Board of Directors met 32 times
2.2 Shareholders
Functioning of Shareholders' General Meeting
According to the Law 2190/1920 and the company's Articles of Incorporation, the General Meeting of shareholders of the Company is the supreme body of the Company, being entitled to decide on any matter in connection with the Company.
The General Meeting of shareholders, convened by the Board of Directors, once every year, within six months at the latest after the end of each business year to approve of annual financial statements of the Company and discharge of the members of the Board of Directors and Auditors from any personal liability. The Board of Directors may also call an extraordinary General Meeting of shareholders, if it so deems advisable.
Sole the General Meeting has authority to decide on the following: a. On any amendment of the Articles of Association; the increase of decrease of the capital of the Company is considered to be an amendment subject to para. 4 of article 8 and para. 5 of article 9 of the Articles of Association; b. On the election of the members of the Board of Directors and the auditors subject to articles 11 and 13 of the Articles of Association;

26

c. On the approval of the annual financial statements of the Company; d. On the appropriation of the annual profits and the approval of the emoluments to members of the Board of Directors; e. On the discharge of the members of the Board of Directors and Auditors from any personal liability; f. On the issue of bond loans of any type, subject to para. 4 of article 9 of the Articles of Association; g. On the merger, division, conversion, revival, extension of the term and dissolution of the Company; h. On the appointment of liquidators. As to the rest, the provisions of article 34, para. 2, of C.L. 2190/20, as applicable, shall apply.
Shareholders rights and method of their exercise
Each share affords its owner the right to one vote at the General Meeting.
In the Shareholders General Meeting anyone who appears as a shareholder in the Dematerialized Securities System which is managed by Athens Stock Exchange S.A. has a right to participate. The proof of shareholders identity is established by the relevant written assurance of the above mentioned organization or by direct electronic connection of the Company with the organization. The person must be a shareholder five (5) days before the General Meeting (record date), and the relevant receipts or the electronic receipts concerning the shareholding capacity must come to the company at the latest the third (3) day before the General Assembly.
The shareholder participates in the General Meeting and votes either in person or via proxies. Each shareholder may appoint up to three (3) proxies. Legal entities may participate in the General Meeting appointing as proxies up to three natural entities. However, if the shareholder owns shares of the company that appear in more than one accounts, he may appoint different proxies. A proxy that acts on behalf of different shareholders may vote differently for each shareholder. The proxy holder is obliged to disclose to the Company, before the commencement of the General Meeting, any fact which might be useful to the shareholders in assessing

whether the proxy holder might pursue any interest other than the interest of the represented shareholder.
A conflict of interest within this context may in particular arise where the proxy holder: a. Is a controlling shareholder of the Company, or is another entity controlled by such shareholder; b. Is a member of the Board of Directors or the management of the Company, or of a controlling shareholder or an entity controlled by such shareholder; c. Is an employee or an auditor of the company, or of a Controlling shareholder or an entity controlled by such shareholder; d. Is a spouse or close relative (of 1st degree) with a natural person referred to in points (a) to (c).
The appointment and reverse of a proxy takes place in writing and is announced to the company at least three (3) days before the date of the General Meeting.
The forms for the appointment and revocation of a proxy holder are available on the Company's website. The appointment form of a proxy holder, completed and signed by the shareholder must be submitted to the Company at least 3 days before the date of the General Meeting. The shareholders are requested to ensure the successful dispatch of the form and receipt thereof by the Company.
The fulfilling of the above mentioned rights (attendance and voting) does not require the prior bound of the shareholders shares or any other procedure that limits the possibility of selling or transferring shares in the time between the record date and the date of the General Meeting.
In the General Meeting only those who are shareholders in the said date have a right to participate in the General Meeting. In case of non-compliance to article 28a of the law 2190/1920, the said shareholder participates in the General Meeting only after its license.

Annual Bulletin & Annual Report 2013 27

Ordinary quorum and majority vote at the General Meeting
A quorum shall be present and the General Meeting may validly transact the business contained in its agenda, when at least fifty one per cent (51%) of the paid-in share capital is represented thereat.
If no such quorum is present at the first meeting, a reiterative meeting shall be held within twenty (20) days as of the day of the cancelled meeting, upon a prior notice of at least ten (10) days, whatever the part of the paid-in share capital represented thereat. All resolutions of the General Meeting are passed by absolute majority of the votes represented at the Meeting.
Qualified quorum and majority vote at the General Meeting
Exceptionally, a quorum shall be present and the General Meeting may validly transact the business contained in the following agenda when two thirds (2/3) of the paid-in share capital are represented thereat: a. Change of the nationality of the Company; b. Change of the object of the corporate business; c. Increase of the shareholders' obligations; d. Share capital increase, except for increases under article 8 (paragraphs 2 and 3), of the Articles of Association or those imposed under provisions of Law or effected by means of capitalization of reserves; e. Share capital reduction; f. Issuance of a bond loan, subject to the provisions of article 9, para. 4, of the Articles of Association; g. Change of the manner of appropriation of profits; h. Merger, division, conversion, revival, term extension or dissolution of the Company; i. Delegation or renewal of power to the Board of Directors for Share Capital increase or issuance of a bond loan pursuant to article 8, para. 2 and 3, and article 9, para. 4, of the Articles of Association; j. In any other case for which the Law and the present Articles of Association stipulate that, for the adoption of a certain resolution by the General Meeting the special qualified quorum provided for in this paragraph is required.
If the quorum specified in the preceding paragraph is not present in the first meeting, a first reiterative meeting shall be held within twenty (20) days as of such first meeting, upon a notice of a

minimum of ten (10) days in advance; such meeting shall form a quorum and may validly transact the business contained in the original agenda if at least one half (1/2) of the paid-in share capital is represented thereat.
If again no such quorum is present, then a second reiterative Meeting shall be held according to paragraph 2 of Article 31 of the Articles of Association; such meeting shall form a quorum and may validly transact the business of the original agenda if at least one third (1/3) of the paid-in share capital is represented thereat.
All resolutions under paragraph 1 of this article are passed by a majority of two thirds (2/3) of the share capital represented in the General Meeting.
Minority shareholders rights
Minority interests' shareholders have the rights as specified by Law 2190/1920
Concisely, the rights of the minority interest holders according to the percentages of representation and deadlines as defined by Law 2190/1920 are: · Request for convocation of Extraordinary General Meeting
of Shareholders · Request for the inclusion of additional items in the Agenda
of the General Meeting · Request for deferment of a resolution of the General
Meeting · Request for the submission of specific information with
respect to company matters, to the extent that these are useful for the actual assessment of the items of the agenda · Request for information on remuneration of Board members and Directors · Request for the submission of information with respect to the course of company affairs and the financial situation of the company. · Request for management control · Request for decision making of agenda items by roll-call vote in the General Meeting of Shareholders
Representation of minority shareholders on the Board
According to the company's Articles of Incorporation, Articles 11 and 36, minority shareholders represented on the Board by

28

two (2) members. The minority shareholders shall be invited by the Board of Directors to a special General Meeting having as sole item on the agenda the election of the Board Members who are entitled to elect. Each shareholder entitled to propose and vote for a single member, irrespective of the number of shares held. The first or the first two majority candidates elected
2.3 CONTROL MECHANISMS
Internal Audit System
The internal audit of the Company is conducted by the Internal Audit Division, which is an independent organization unit referring to the BoD of the Company. The internal audit division is supervised by the Audit Committee of the BoD as instituted by resolution of General Meeting and comprising by three non-executives BoD members one of each is independent in accordance to Law 3016/2002
· Audit Committee.
The authorities and obligation of the Audit Committee are: a. the observation of the procedure of financial information, b. the observation of the efficient operation of the system of internal audit and the system of risk management, as well as the observation of the correct operation of the internal auditors of the company c. the observation of the course of the obligatory check of the financial statements company d. the overview and observation of issues contingent to the existence and preservation of the independence of the auditor especially on what concerns the providing of other services from the auditor
· Internal Audit Division
The Internal Audit Division's object is: · To examine and evaluate the adequacy and efficiency of the
company's Internal Audit System and to ascertain whether this system provides logical assurance regarding: - Compliance with the general functions of the Company
and current legislation - The security of the company's assets - The economical and effective use of resources - The reliability of the financial statements - The reliability and integrity of the information

used in decision-making. · To inform the Management (or those executives who have
been authorized to be responsible for the implementation of corrective actions) for the results of the audit, the opinion that was formed for each of them and their respective contributions made (by the same auditor). · To assess past actions taken in the course of rectifying audit issues previously identified and brought to the attention of the Management.
Among the Department's responsibilities, the following are included:
· Monitoring of the implementation and constant compliance with the company's Bylaws and Articles of Incorporation, as well as with relevant legislation and particular laws which regulate the operations of companies and the stock market.
· Reporting to the company's Board of Directors conflictof-interest issues related to the BoD members or senior executives, which are detected during the performance of the department's duties
The internal audit implements in an independent and objective way the following activities: · Identification and prioritization of business risks · Overview of the Company's activities in order to ascertain
whether they are being implemented in an effective and efficient way, and in accordance to the instructions of the management, the policies and procedures. · Evaluation of the sufficiency and effectiveness of internal control system in all areas of activity and with specified priorities · Overview of the way the assets of the Company are being protected and confirmation of the existence of those data (inventory, counting, etc.). · Assessment of the cost effectiveness and efficiency in the use of resources, and suggestions to the problems that may exist. · Coordination with the work of the external auditors · Evaluation of data processing systems in order to examine whether these systems meet their goals and objectives and whether adequate audit procedures have been incorporated. · Follow up of recommendations from previous audits, for which there have been commitments for corrective actions The Internal Audit Department fulfills its object by inspecting,

Annual Bulletin & Annual Report 2013 29

controlling and evaluating functions and procedures, as well as by bringing relevant findings to attention and providing analyses, evaluations and recommendations that may improve the company's functions
· External audit
The company's regular audit is carried out by certified auditors. To this end, every year, the Ordinary General Meeting of Shareholders approves the appointment of an auditing firm to audit the company's financial statements and business operations over a specific period. EYDAP's Ordinary General General Meeting of Shareholders in June 2013 agreed to assign the regular audit of the 2013 financial statements to the auditing firm DELOITTE ..
2.4 Risk Management
The Company focuses on the effective monitoring and management of potential risks in order to maintain the stability and continuity of its work, as follows:
· In forming a comprehensive framework and proposing strategy, policies and procedures for managing and monitoring the risks that would undertaken by the Company in accordance with the directions of the management.
· The definition, acknowledgment and assessment of the undertaken risks.
· Developing and implementing adjusted tools in relation to the risk of billing of services and education of the organizational units for their use
· In preparation of Crisis Management Plan · In forming a corporate culture of risk management in each
hierarchical level of the Company For the effective application of those tasks, the responsible Division, has access to all the activities of the Company and all data and information necessary for the fulfillment of its tasks

2.5 Transparency and Disclosure
Established procedures
Placing special emphasis on transparency, the Company implements various relevant procedures, which stem from the legislative framework in force:
a) Procedure of regulated information disclosure
A procedure of regulated information disclosure, in accordance with Law 3556/2007, Decision 1/434/3.7.2007 and Circular No.33 of the Hellenic Capital Market Commission concerning information disclosure and transparency requirements for companies which are publicly traded on stock exchanges is applicable. The aim of this disclosure procedure is to inform the investment community and all interested parties, of any significant changes in the company's participations (acquisitions or disposals) in a timely and accurate manner, under Law 3556/2007 and to ensure EYDAP's compliance with applicable laws
b) Procedures within the framework of Law 3340/2005 for the protection of the capital market from
actions of inside information abuse and market manipulation and of Corporate Governance Law 3016/2002.
In enforcing the above Laws, the company has adopted:
Transactions disclosure procedure The persons that carry out managerial duties in the company and persons closely affiliated with those persons should notify the company of transactions conducted on their own account relating to shares issued by EYDAP, derivatives or other financial instruments linked to them
Procedure that deters the improper use of inside information: The persons who possess inside information about the company

30

are forbidden to use this information in order to acquire or dispose, either directly or indirectly, financial instruments of the company to which the information relates.
EYDAP's Corporate Announcements Department is responsible for monitoring the above mentioned procedures and for the company's compliance with the obligations, set by Hellenic Capital Market Commission and Stock Exchange regulatory framework, for publication of regulatory and other information.
Communication with shareholders
Apart from established procedures that ensure transparency, EYDAP has adopted a number of other practices that enhance transparency and dissemination of information to shareholders and investors, such as the:
· Managing and maintaining shareholder records · Servicing and responding to shareholder requests both
individual and institutional, in Greece and abroad related to the exercise of their rights and the payment of dividends · Organizing Company's General Meetings of Shareholders and providing information related to the exercise of their rights and to agenda items. · Preparation and distribution of the Company's Annual Report · Publishing of company-related information on the Company website so that all shareholders and investors can have equal and timely access to information · The release of corporate publications which enhance the continuous flow of information on issues that relate to the company's operation, strategy, targets, and performance · A two-way communication channel between company representatives and the investment community. · Timely and equal dissemination of information on issues related the financial results through, corporate presentations roadshows and investor meetings.

EYDAP's Investor Relations & Shareholders Services Department has the responsibility of timely, accurate and equal service and communication to Shareholders and Investors
2.6 Corporate Governance Code
Following the provisions of institutional framework, the Company compiled the Code of Corporate Governance, which facilitates the formulation of policies and practices of corporate governance according to the specific needs of EYDAP.
The updated version of the Rules is clearly structured to present information relating to corporate governance, internal control system, the assessment and management of operational risks, the organizational structure of the Company as well as the importance of social responsibility that the Company demonstrates as part of its operation.
This Regulation facilitates the formulation of policies and corporate governance practices in order to meet the current operating conditions EYDAP.
The purpose of the regulation is to promote good governance, believing that this will enhance the long-term success and competitiveness of EYDAP. The application of the Rules addressed by the company or its investors as a process that adds value to the company and is not seen as mere law compliance.
EYDAP S.A would greatly benefit by adopting and systematically apply these principles in a fully voluntary basis, which enhances the confidence of our shareholders, employees and other stakeholders as well as improves organizational effectiveness.

Annual Bulletin & Annual Report 2013 31

32

3.CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY

CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY
The commitment to the principles of sustainable development is a primary objective of EYDAP and basic prerequisite for long-term and sustainable business activity. In this context the principles of Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) at each level of its operation are the cornerstone of any planned strategy with emphasis on environmental protection, social welfare, transparency, integrity and the quality of its services.
3.1 ENVIRONMENT
Environmental protection is a key pillar of CSR and in this context EYDAP incorporates procedures and actions to its activity to reduce its environmental footprint. The Company's strategy with regard to environmental protection is implemented with concrete practices in specific fields.
Less energy consumption ­ Lower environmental burden
· Exploitation of the biogas produced at the Wastewater Treatment Plant to generate thermoelectric power.
· Exploitation of the hydraulic energy produced during the transfer of water across aqueducts to generate electric power at small hydroelectric stations.
· Investment in more efficient ­ hence less energy consuming ­ equipment and facilities.
· Sludge treatment and exploitation at Water and Wastewater Treatment Plants.
· Research and planning for reuse of treated water from WWTP in Psyttalia for irrigation and other secondary uses.
Protection of marine life
· Treatment of Athens sewage and wastewater and construction of new treatment facilities.
· Control of materials disposed in the Company's sewerage network.
Protection and optimal use of water resources
· Improvement and upgrade of the Company's water supply network to minimize leakage.
· Gradual water-meters replacement plan.

· Operation of a Central Water Resource Management System.
· Operation of a Geographical Network Information and Management System to ensure proper maintenance of the water supply network and prevent faults and leaks.
Environmental sensitivity and awareness
· Environmental seminars organized by EYDAP for pupils and students across all the education levels. The seminars are attended by approximately 20,000 students every year and free brochures are handed to attendants.
· Website section dedicated to inform the citizens of the need to protect water resources.
· Free brochures to the customers, as an annex to their bills, with information on the proper use of water.
· 3D movie for children, aiming to increase awareness among younger audiences on the protection of the environment and natural resources.
· Online games for children to increase awareness among younger audiences on the proper use of water.
Paper and Batteries recycling procedures
· Systematic promotion of paper and batteries recycling procedures within the Company and adoption of ecological criteria in the procurement system in order to maximize the environmental benefits.
3.2 HUMAN RESOURCES
EYDAP safeguards the best working environment for its employees and aims to maintain the high levels of its qualification and the continuous improvement of its skills, applying new Human Resources (HR) management and development techniques.
For this reason the Company provides:
· Safe working conditions. · Systems for the modernization of HR management and
administration. · Lifelong learning opportunities for employees to develop
their skills and abilities. · Financial support for employees training in the Company

34

training centers or institutions outside EYDAP. · Financial support to employees to cover medical expenses. · Loans to employees to cover emergencies or buy a
computer. · Gifts and various celebrations for the employees' children.
3.3 SOCIETY
EYDAP supports initiatives and actions with a view to social contribution and the promotion of culture in order to improve the development and prosperity of society. More specifically EYDAP:
· Provides special tariffs low billing for vulnerable social groups, such as charities, large families, hospitals and makes favorable settlements for the repayment of excessive bills.
· Supports systematically charitable foundations, charities, health and education services with recognized social action.
· Provides its employees' know - how in areas affected by natural phenomena.
· Supports financially sports clubs and athletes. · Supports scholarships and the scientific work of conferences
covering all disciplines. · Has reproduced the film material from the archives of ULEN
and created historical documentary, which shows the construction of Marathon Dam and other related activities in the third decade of the 20th century. · Has founded the small museum of Marathon Dam with exhibits from the construction of the dam in 1925. · Plans the exhibition of inestimable historical value photographic material through the organization and operation of a documentation center which will be open to visitors. · Supports publishing initiatives of cultural and historical interest.
3.4 RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS PRACTISE
EYDAP commits to performing the whole range of its activities

with transparency, ethics and integrity, ensuring the best quality of services provided and focusing on the customer. Its aim is to implement a continuous improvement process in order to enhance its reputation as company with ethos.
Corporate Governance
· Endorsement of EYDAP Governance Rules and Operation which consists of the merging and updating of the Code of Corporate Governance and the Internal Rules of EYDAP Operation aimed to the most effective operation of Company.
· Representation of minority shareholders and employees in the Board of Directors.
· Internal Audit Committee.
Water Quality
· Daily checks on water derived from three different sampling spots: water reservoirs of Mornos, Yliki and Marathon, water treatment plants and the water supply network.
· ISO EN 17025 accreditation of the Chemical Laboratories at Galatsi and Polydendri and the Microbiology Laboratory.
· Conduct of about 120,000 chemical and microbiological tests annually.
Transparency in Procurement System
· Adoption of policies and procedures for the impartial and transparent operation of procurement systems.
· Operation of electronic data processing.
Customer Care
· Promotion of innovative and flexible processes that will ensure the highest possible level of products and services provided.
· Upgrading e-government applications to ensure a high level of quality and safety of transactions.
· Collaboration with independent organizations such as the Ombudsman and the Consumer Ombudsman.
· Research aimed to monitor customers perceptions on the public image of the Company and the customers satisfaction regarding the services provided.

Annual Bulletin & Annual Report 2013 35

36

4. KEY FINANCIALS

38

4.1 KEY FINANCIALS (for the Group)

amounts in thousands 

2009

2010

2011

2012

2013

TOTAL ASSETS

1.555.791 1.623.931 1.657.737 1.677.283 1.651.105

INVESTED CAPITAL (1)

991.690 1.006.834 1.031.796 986.038

621.790

EQUITY CAPITAL

821.511

830.512

852.097 843.663

950.615

REVENUE

386.174

378.965

358.550 353.344

353.348

OPERATING INCOME (EBITDA)

48.328

63.186

77.564 114.170

84.077

EARNINGS BEFORE INTEREST

AND TAXES ()

23.539

34.699

46.628

79.960

54.072

PRE-TAX PROFIT

18.016

29.828

35.578

68.006

61.740

AFTER TAX PROFIT

5.740

11.341

26.135

51.624

78.160



amounts in thousands 

2009

2010

2011

2012

2013

AFTER TAX PROFIT

PER SHARE

0,05

0,11

0,24

0,48

0,73

DIVIDEND

2.130.000 4.260.000 18.105.000 15.975.000 38.340.000

DIVIDEND PER SHARE (4)

0,02

0,04

0,17

0,15

0,36

NUMBER OF SHARES

106.500.000 106.500.000 106.500.000 106.500.000 106.500.000



2009

2010

2011

2012

2013

COVERAGE

OF FINANCIAL EXPENSES (2)

2,63

3,27

2,94

4,64

6,36

NET DEBT TO EQUITY

0,21

0,21

0,21

0,17

-0,35

NET DEBT TO OPERATING

INCOME (EDITDA)

3,52

2,79

2,32

1,25

-3,91

RETURN ON

INVESTED CAPITAL (3)

1,8%

2,6%

3,6%

6,5%

6,4%

Notes: (1) Invested Capital = Equity plus net debt (2) EBIT to Financial Expenses (3) *(1-) / Invested Capital (4) For the fiscal year of 2012 the company distributed extra amount of 0,05  per share while for 2013
the distribution of extra amount of 0.02  per share from tax free reserves is proposed. (5) The data for 2012 have been reclassified due to the implementation of the new IAS 19 from 1/1/2013

Annual Bulletin & Annual Report 2013 39

EBITDA 2013 (Company) (in thousands )

120.000

114.261

110.000

17.190

100.000 90.000

-4.9%

80.000

11.738 +4.9%

2.183 +87,1%

-30.658 -26,8%

453 +27,0%

83.604

70.000

60.000

 2012

TURNOVER DECREASE

OPEX BEFORE DA INCREASE OTHER EXPENSES INCREASE

OTHER OPERATING REVENUES INCREASE

 2013

Earnings Before Taxes 2013 (Company) (in thousands )
80.000

70.000

68.97

30.658

60.000

50.000

40.000 30.000

-26,8%

8.728 -50,7%

10.894 +206,5%

4.205 -12,3%

-6.830 -10,0%
61.267

20.000

EBT 2012

EBITDA DECREASE

FINANCIAL EXPENSES DECREASE

FINANCIAL INCOME INCREASE

DEPRECIATION AND AMORTIZATION DECREASE

EBT 2013

40

Turnover 2013 (Company) (in thousands )

370.000 350.000

353.345

330.000

310.000

290.000

6.559 -2,8%

270.000

250.000

TURNOVER 2012

WATER SECTOR REVENUES

4.660 -4,1%

217 -84,4%

8.473 -578,3%

-17.190 -4,9%

2.719 +316,2%

336.154

SEWERAGE SECTOR REVENUES

SALES OF STOCK

REVENUES FROM CONSTRUCTIONS FOR
THIRD-PARTIES

REVENUE FROM ELECTRIC POWER
GENERATION

TURNOVER 2013

Operating expenses 2013 (Company) (in thousands )

280.000

260.000

+11.738 +4,9%

240.000 238.254

64.260

220.000

200.000

180.000 160.000

-165,5%

2.594 -6,3%

1.671 +34,2%

282 -0,5%

2.888 +41,4%

1.618 +19,2%

140.000

120.000

OPEX 2012

PROVISIONS

THIRD-PARTY EXPENSES AND FEES

EXPENSES FOR SELF-CONSTRUCTED
ASSETS

UTILITY EXPENSES

RAW MATERIALS AND CONSUMABLES
USED

OTHER EXPENSES

76.039 249.992

+73,4%

PERSONNEL COSTS

OPEX 2013

Annual Bulletin & Annual Report 2013 41

4.2. Consumption Evolution & Breakdown
BREAKDOWN OF BILLED CONSUMPTION PER CUSTOMER CLASS

COMMON CONSUMERS INDUSTRIAL-CORPORATE STATE-LOCAL AUTHORITIES BULK WATER SUPPLY TO LOCAL NETWORKS OTHER

5,4% 20,4%

6% 5,5%

2011
62,7%

4,7% 21,3%

6,1% 5,9%

2012

62,1%

5,3% 20,7%

6,2% 6,8%

2013
61,1%

BREAKDOWN OF WATER SALES INCOME PER CUSTOMER CLASS

2,9% 13,7%

2,3% 14,3%

8,3%
2011
7,4%
67,7%

8,5%
2012
8%
66,9%

2,5% 14%
8,7%
2013
9%
65,8%

BREAKDOWN OF SEWERAGE SERVICES INCOME PER CUSTOMER CLASS

7,1% 6,8%

6,9% 6,3%

7% 6,5%

2011

2012

2013

86%

86,7%

86,3%

42

BREAKDOWN OF SEWERAGE SERVICES INCOME PER CUSTOMER CLASS

COMMON CONSUMERS INDUSTRIAL-CORPORATE STATE-LOCAL AUTHORITIES BULK WATER SUPPLY TO LOCAL NETWORKS OTHER

9,3% 2% 7,9% 7,2%
2011

9,8% 1,6% 8% 7,4%
2012

9,8% 1,6% 8% 7,4%
2013

73,6%

73,2%

73,2%

ANALYSIS OF ANNUAL CHANGE IN BILLED CONSUMPTION PER CUSTOMER CLASS THE CHANGE REFERS TO 2012-2013 IN CM3)

6.000.000

3.000.000 0

1.394.559

3.336.946 1.942.387

-3.000.000

-6.000.000

-9.000.000

-12.000.000

-15.000.000

CONSUMPTION INCREASE OF
OTHER CATEGORY

PLUS: CONSUMPTION INCREASE OF INDUSTRIALCORPORATE CATEGORY

584.503 2.752.443

4.808.450

-2.056.007

11.466.842

MINUS: CONSUMPTION DECREASE OF STATE-LOCAL AUTHORITIES
CATEGORY

MINUS: CONSUMPTION DECREASE OF BULK WATER SUPPLY TO LOCAL
NETWORKS

-13.552.849

-13.552.849

MINUS: CONSUMPTION DECREASE OF
COMMON CONSUMERS CATEGORY

TOTAL CHANGE OF BILLED CONSUMPTION

Annual Bulletin & Annual Report 2013 43

BILLED WATER CONSUMPTION PROGRESS (IN CM3)

350.000.000 300.000.000

346.932.894 337.092.350 336.376.522 334.101.899 324.444.003 326.079.653

300.982.552 306.056.307 306.704.187 310.596.116 312.189.163 318.122.352 313.752.017

312.556.804

250.000.000

200.000.000

150.000.000

100.000.000

50.000.000

0 2000 2001 2002 2003 2004 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013

PERCENTAGE OF NON-BILLED CONSUMPTION PROGRESS (%)

40%

30%

25% 22,8%

24,7%

20%

15%

10%

5%

0% 2000 2001

27,3%

23,2%

2002 2003

23,8%

20,5%

2004 2005

25,1%

19,6%

2006 2007

22,4%

20,4%

2008 2009

22,1%

22,8%

2010 2011

22,8%

24,2%

2012 2013

44

WATER REVENUE PROGRESS (IN )

350.000.000

300.000.000 250.000.000 200.000.000

212.277.179 218.915.306 228.149.988 180.216.825 184.985.006 193.779.928

252.150.843 250.362.006 248.070.455 225.433.408

243.674.355 236.501.015 237.364.352 225.829.789

150.000.000

100.000.000

50.000.000

0 2000 2001 2002 2003 2004 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013

SEWERAGE REVENUE PROGRESS (IN )

140.000.000

120.000.000 100.000.000 80.000.000 60.000.000

54.787.250

60.163.753

67.363.116

75.626.180

78.867.822

92.851.418

115.918.025 115.138.787 112.145.079 110.127.882

104.381.751 103.460.414

102.976.512

89.760.603

40.000.000

20.000.000

0 2000 2001 2002 2003 2004 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013

WATER SALES AND SEWERAGE SERVICES REVENUE PROGRESS IN 

400.000.000 350.000.000 300.000.000 250.000.000

321.001.406 297.783.128 287.903.359 261.143.044 235.004.075 245.148.759

356.532.594 353.822.420 363.988.480 358.813.142 348.646.094 347.492.234

315.194.011

328.806.301

200.000.000

150.000.000

100.000.000

50.000.000

0 2000 2001 2002 2003 2004 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013

Annual Bulletin & Annual Report 2013 45

4.3 Share Information

EYDAP's shares trade in the Athens Stock Exchanges.

Ticker Bloomberg Reuters

EYDAP EYDAP:GA EYDR.AT

Shares Outstanding 106,500,000

Market capitalization 825,375,000 

Closing price

7.75 

Annual High

8.85 

Annual Low

4.65 

(December 31, 2013) (December 31, 2013) (2013) (2013)

EYDAP Stock performance vs Athex Composite, Share price index & FTSE Large Cap in 2013
180
160

140

120 100

80

60

40

20

0 01/2013

02/2013

03/2013

04/2013

05/2013

06/2013

07/2013

08/2013

09/2013

10/2013

EYDAP

FSTE LARGE CAP

ATHEX COMPOSITE SHARE PRICE INDEX

11/2013

12/2013

46

Shareholders' Structure, as of December 31, 2013

Shareholder

% Shares

Number of Shares

Entities

Hellenic Republic Asset

Development Fund

61.33%

65,319,740

1

Piraeus Bank

10.00%

10,648,800

1

Free Float

28.67%

30,531,460

26,221



Total

100%

106,500,000

26,223

PIRAEUS BANK 10,00%
FREE FLOAT 28,67%

HELLENIC REPUBLIC ASSET DEVELOPMENT FUND 61,33%

Historical Dividends and Earnings per Share

Fiscal Year 2001 2002 2003 2004 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013

Earnings after tax (in ) 0,65 0,27 0,36 0,05 0,19 0,31 0,40 0,29 0,05 0,11 0,26 0,44 0,73

Dividend (in ) 0,22 0,10 0,13 0,06 0,07 0,11 0,14 0,13 0,02 0,04 0,17 0,20* 0,38**

*Ordinary dividend 0.15  for 2012 FY earnings & 0.05  extra dividend prior years' earnings. ** Ordinary dividend 0.36  for 2013 FY earnings & 0.02  distribution of tax free reserve (both proposed to General Meeting)

Annual Bulletin & Annual Report 2013 47

48

5. ANNUAL FINANCIAL REPORT
FOR THE PERIOD FROM JANUARY 1, 2013 TO DECEMBER 31, 2013
In accordance with Article 4 of Law 3556/2007
Athens Water & Wastewater Services S.A. REG. No. G.E.M.H. 121578960000 156 OROPOU STR Galatsi

Annual Financial Report
For the Period from January 1, 2013 to December 31, 2013
The attached Annual Financial Report has been compiled according to Law 3556/2007 and its relevant decisions of Capital Market Commission and includes:
a) Statement of members of the Board of Directors b) Annual Board of Directors Management Report c) Annual Financial Statements for the period from January 1, 2013 to December 31, 2013 d) Independent Auditors' Report e) Information according to article 10 of Law 3401/2005 f) Financial Data and Information for the period from January 1, 2013 to December 31, 2013
It is declared that the attached Annual Financial Report is the one has been approved by the Board of Directors of "Athens Water & Wastewater Services S.A." on March 26th, 2014, and is available on the internet, at the web site address www.eydap.gr.

Index

5.1 STATEMENT OF MEMBERS OF THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS

52

5.2 ANNUAL BOARD OF DIRECTORS MANAGEMENT REPORT

53

5.3 ANNUAL FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

85

· GENERAL INFORMATION FOR THE COMPANY

87

· STATEMENT OF INCOME FOR THE FINANCIAL

 YEARS ENDED ON 31ST DECEMBER 2013 & 2012

88

· STATEMENT OF TOTAL COMPREHENSIVE INCOME

FOR THE FINANCIAL YEARS ENDED ON

31ST DECEMBER 2013 & 2012

88

· STATEMENT OF FINANCIAL POSITION OF

 31ST DECEMBER 2013 & 31ST DECEMBER 2012

89

· STATEMENT OF CHANGES IN SHAREHOLDERS'

EQUITY OF 31ST DECEMBER 2013 & 31ST DECEMBER 2012 90

· CASH FLOW STATEMENTS OF 1ST JANUARY -

31ST DECEMBER 2013 & 2012

90

· NOTES ON THE ANNUAL FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

OF 31ST DECEMBER 2013

92

1. ESTABLISHMENT, OPERATIONS AND LEGAL

FRAMEWORK OF THE COMPANY

92

2. NEW STANDARDS, INTERPRETATIONS

AND AMENDMENTS TO EXISTING STANDARDS

93

50

3. SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES

97

4. CRITICAL ACCOUNTING TREATMENTS AND

 IMPORTANT AND KEY SOURCES OF ESTIMATION UNCERTAINTY

106

5. REVENUES

106

6. ALLOCATION OF EXPENSES IN THE OPERATIONS

107

7. DEPRECIATION EXPENSES

109

8. PERSONNEL FEES & EXPENSES (GROUP & COMPANY)

109

9. FINANCIAL INCOME (GROUP & COMPANY)

110

10. FINANCIAL EXPENSES (GROUP & COMPANY)

110

11. INCOME TAX

110

12. EARNINGS PER SHARE

111

13. GOODWILL

111

14. OTHER INTANGIBLES ASSETS (GROUP & COMPANY)

111

15. TANGIBLE ASSETS

112

16. INVESTMENTS IN ASSOCIATES

113

17. INVESTMENTS IN SUBSIDIARIES

113

18. INVESTMENTS AVAILABLE FOR SALE

113

19. LONG-TERM RECEIVABLES (GROUP & COMPANY)

113

20. DEFERRED TAXATION

114

21. MATERIALS, SPARE PARTS & CONCUMABLES (GROUP & COMPANY) 115

22. RECEIVABLES FROM CUSTOMERS, CONSUMERS (GROUP & COMPANY) 115

23. OTHER RECEIVABLES (GROUP & COMPANY)

116

24. CASH AND CASH EQUIVALENTS

117

25. SHARE CAPITAL

117

26. RESERVES

118

27. RETAINED EARNINGS

119

28. BANK LOANS (GROUP & COMPANY)

119

29. LIABILITIES FOR EMPLOYEE BENEFITS (GROUP & COMPANY)

119

30. PROVISIONS FOR PENDING LITIGATION (GROUP & COMPANY)

125

31. INVESTMENT SUBSIDIES AND CUSTOMER

CONTRIBUTIONS (GROUP AND COMPANY)

125

32. CONSUMERS' GUARANTEES

125

33. OPERATING AND OTHER CURRENT LIABILITIES

126

34. EVENTS AFTER THE BALANCE SHEET DATE

126

35. COMMITMENTS AND CONTINGENT LIABILITIES ­ ASSETS

126

36. RELATED PARTY TRANSACTIONS (GROUP & COMPANY)

128

37. AUDITORS' REMUNERATION

128

38. EYDAP FIXED ASSETS «EYDAP L.E.P.L.»

128

39. RISK MANAGEMENT OF CAPITAL

128

40. FINANCIAL RISK MANAGEMENT

129

41. FAIR VALUE ASSESEMENT

130

42. RECLASSIFICATION OF EXPENSES

131

5.4 INDEPENDENT AUDITOR'S REPORT

138

5.5 INFORMATION ACCORDING TO ARTICLE 10 OF LAW 3401/2005

140

5.6 FINANCIAL DATA & INFORMATION

142

Annual Bulletin & Annual Report 2013 51

5.1 STATEMENT OF MEMBERS OF THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS
(According to the article 4 par.2 of the Law 3556/2007)
The Following Members:
1. Antonios Vartholomaios, Chairman of the Management Board and Chief Executive Officer 2. Ioannis Chondrogiannos, Board Member, specially designated for this. 3. Labros Zografos, Board Member, specially designated for this.

According to what is specified in the paragraph 2 of the article 4 of the Law 3556/2007 we hereby declare that from what we know:
a. The Annual Financial Statements of 2012 which were conducted according to the valid International Financial Reporting Standards truly illustrate Assets and Liabilities figures, Net Worth and Income Statement of E.YD.A.P S.A. and all the companies included in the consolidation regarded as total.
b.The Annual Report of the Management Board truly illustrates the position and performance of E.YD.A.P S.A. and all the companies included in the consolidation regarded as total, together with all risks and uncertainties.

Athens, 26 March 2014

The Chairman of the Management Board & the Executive Officer

The Board Member

The Board Member

 Antonios Vartholomaios ID no  543580

Ioannis Chondrogiannos ID no  094411

Labros Zografos ID no  390968

52

5.2 ANNUAL BOARD OF DIRECTORS MANAGEMENT REPORT
Dear Shareholders,
In accordance with article 4 of Law 3556/2007, the paragraph 3 of the article 107 of the c.l. 2190/1920, and the delegated resolutions of the Hellenic Capital Committee of the same Law, we hereby submit the annual Board of Directors' Report for the financial year from 01/01/2013 to 31/12/2013.
The report presents the development, the performance and the position of the Water Supply and Sewerage Company S.A., under the title EYDAP S.A. (hereinafter referred to as the "Company " or " EYDAP ") and the Group, it provides an overview of the signifigant events that took place during the fiscal year 2013 and their affect on the financial statements of the same period, it describes the potential risks and uncertainties, the significant transactions between the Company, the Group and related parties, according to IAS 24 as well as significant events after the end of fiscal year 2013.
Moreover, the report includes the explanatory report of paragraph 7, of article 4 of the Law 3556/2007 and the Corporate Governance Statement.

The fiscal year of 2013 ended with very positive results for EYDAP and marked a milestone as it introduced solutions to accumulated chronic problems that constricted the smooth growth of the Company. Specifically, the chronic problem of the Municipalities overdue debts was successfully arranged by EYDAP since most of the overdue debts were repaid until 31/07/2013. Moreover, EYDAP and the Greek State settled both sides their claims, releasing the Company from the hurdle of accumulated demands from the Greek government. As a result, EYDAP enhanced significantly its cash flow which gave the Company an opportunity to fully repay its loan liabilities and to settle the litigation existing for many years, purifing thus its balance sheet.
The Company has reinforced further its growth, reassuring its dominant position in the Greek water supply and sewerage market, while the companys' philosophy was focused on smart , targeted and rational management, on using the best technology, on the financial payback of the projects, on humancentric and hence customer-oriented management, on the implementation of environmentally friendly processes and on supporting households affected by the economic crisis with a series of actions to their relief .
The driving force of EYDAP, is its human resources that via their know-how and their love for the Company, they force EYDAP to growth.

Annual Bulletin & Annual Report 2013 53

PERFORMANCE & FINANCIAL HIGHLIGHTS FOR THE PERIOD OF 2013
. Review of Operations ­ Water Consumption Progress
In 2013 total water consumption (billed or not) decreased by 2.4% compared to 2012, in relation to the 0.6% increase, from 2011 to 2012. Total water consumption in the years 2010, 2011, 2012 and 2013 was 428,937,600 m3, 420,062,606 m3, 422,483,361 m3 and 412,385,158m3, respectively.
The compound annual growth rate (CAGR) of total water consumption during the period 2001 to 2013 is 0.4%. On the contrary, during the five-year period 2009-2013 is negative and equal to -1.0% annually. Finally, during the three-year period 2011 - 2013 the CAGR is negative and equal to -1.3%.
In 2013 billed consumption decreased by 4.1% over 2012, compared with a 0.5% increase in 2012 compared to 2011. Billed water consumption for the years 2010, 2011, 2012 and 2013 was 334,101,899 m3, 324,444,003 m3, 325,477,095 m3 and 312,556,804 m3 respectively.
The compound annual growth rate (CAGR) of billed water consumption during the period 2001 to 2013 is 0.3% annually. During the five-year period 2009-2013 is negative and equal to -1.5% annually. Finally, during the three-year period 2011 ­ 2013 is negative and equal to -2.2% annually.

Due to the fact that in 2013, as stated above, the billed consumption increased by a larger percentage in relation to the total consumption (4.0% versus 2.4%), an increase of the non-billed consumption occurred. Specifically, in 2013 the non-billed consumption increased by 2.9% over the previous year. In 2012 the non-billed consumption was also increased by 1.5% in relation to 2011.
During the years 2010, 2011, 2012 and 2013 the nonbilled consumption was 94,819,974 m3, 95,602,619 m3 and 96,988,898 m3 and 99,819,003 m3 respectively. The compound annual growth rate (CAGR) of non-billed water consumption during the period 2001 to 2013 is 0.9% annually. During the five-year period 2009-2013 is equal to 0.5% annually. Finally, during the three-year period 2011 ­ 2013 is equal to 1.7% annually.
Additionally, the non-billed to total consumption ratio increased marginally. More specifically, in 2010, 2011, 2012 and 2013 the non-billed to total consumption ratio was formed at 22.1%, 22.8%, 22.9% and 24.2% respectively.
Regarding the main consumer classes, the class of common consumers - which represents the overwhelming majority of customers, and mainly residential customers, decreased by 5.7% compared to 2012, versus 0.5% fall in 2012 compared to 2011. Water consumption of common consumers in the years 2010, 2011, 2012 and 2013 was 209,762,467 m3, 203,477,397 m3, 202,484,911 m3 and 191,018,069 m3 respectively. The compound annual growth rate (CAGR) of consumption in the common consumers' class in the 3-year

54

period 2011 to 2013 is negative and equal to -3.1% annually.
Bulk Water Supply to municipal networks, which represents the second biggest customer class, in 2013 decreased by 6.9% compared to 2012, versus a 4.6% increase in 2012 compared to 2011.
Bulk water supply to municipal networks in the years 2010, 2011, 2012 and 2013 was 67,741,121 m3, 66,285,025 m3, 69,357,487 m3 and 64,549,037 m3 respectively. The compound annual growth rate (CAGR) of consumption in the bulk water supply to municipal networks class in the 3-year period 2011 to 2013 is negative and equal to -1.6% annually.
The industrial consumers' class consumption in 2013 increased by 10.1% compared to 2012, versus a 8.3% increase in 2012 compared to 2011. The industrial consumers' class consumption in the years 2010, 2011,

2012 and 2013 was 18,753,574 m3, 17,714,433 m3, 19,188,857 m3 and 21,131,244 m3 respectively. The compound annual growth rate (CAGR) of the industrial consumers' class consumption in the 3-year period 2011 to 2013 is positive and equal to 4.1% annually.
The consumption of the State-Local Authorities class in 2013 decreased by 3.0% compared to 2012, versus a 2.1% increase in 2012 compared to 2011. The State-Local Authorities consumption in the years 2010, 2011, 2012 and 2013 was 20,600,941 m3, 19,405,206 m3, 19,811,928 m3 and 19,227,425 m3 respectively. The compound annual growth rate (CAGR) of the State-Local Authorities class consumption in the 3-year period 2011 to 2013 is negative and equal to -2.3% annually.
The impact of billed consumption change in each consumer class to the total billed consumption change, which is shaped at -13,522,849 m3, is summarized in the following table:

1. Change in billed consumption from 2012 to 2013
Consumer Class
Common Consumers Industries ­ Corporate Customers State ­ Local Authorities Bulk water supply to local networks Other Total change in billed consumption

Change (in m3)
-11,466,842 1,942,387 -584,503 -4,808,450 1,997,117
-12,920,291

Annual Bulletin & Annual Report 2013 55

During 2011, 2012 and 2013 the consumption classes' breakdown is shown below:
2. Consumption volume percentages

Consumer Class Common Consumers Industries ­ Corporate Customers State ­ Local Authorities Bulk water supply to local networks Other

2013 61.11% 6.76% 6.15% 20.65% 5.32%

2012 62.10% 5.90% 6.09% 21.30% 4.50%

2011 62.72% 5.46% 5.98% 20.43% 5.41%

The following table presents the annual water sales revenue in each consumer class for the years 2011, 2012 and 2013:
3. Water sales income breakdown

Consumer Class Common Consumers Industries ­ Corporate Customers State ­ Local Authorities Bulk water supply to local networks Other

2013 65.83% 8.96% 8.68% 14.01% 2.53%

2012 66.93% 7.98% 8.51% 14.32% 2.27%

2011 67.70% 7.35% 8.35% 13.74% 2.87%

The following table presents the annual water sales and sewerage usage revenue in each consumer class for the years 2011, 2012 and 2013:

4. Water Supply and Sewerage services income breakdown

Consumer Class Common Consumers Industries ­ Corporate Customers State ­ Local Authorities Bulk water supply to local networks Other

2013 72.25% 8.20% 8.16% 9.62% 1.77%

2012 73.19% 7.44% 8.01% 9.78% 1.58%

2011 73.60% 7.16% 7.94% 9.32% 1.98%

The tariff breakdown for the common consumers' class consumption is shown in the following table:

5. Tariff breakdown at the Common Consumers class

Billing Scale (Common Consumers class) 1st Billing scale (1-15 m3 / quarter) 2nd Billing scale (16-60 m3 / quarter) 3rd Billing scale (61-81 m3 / quarter) 4th Billing scale (82-105 m3 / quarter) 5th Billing scale (>105 m3 / quarter)

2013 49.21% 44.06% 2.61% 1.16% 2.96%

2012 48.19% 44.45% 2.83% 1.30% 3.23%

2011 47.63% 44.48% 2.86% 1.31% 3.72%

56

The following table presents the annual billed water sales revenue and the change for the main consumer classes

6. Billed* water sales income / Amounts in 

Consumer Class

2013

2012

Change

%

Common Consumers

148,658,184

158,865,400

-10,207,216

-6.4%

Industries ­ Corporate Customers

20,238,961

18,941,604

1,297,357

6.8%

State ­ Local Authorities

19,597,560

20,192,403

-594,843

-2.9%

Bulk water supply to local networks 31,631,158

33,988,101

-2,356,943

-6.9%

Other

5,703,926

5,376,844

327,082

6.1%

Total

225,829,789

237,364,352

11,534,563

-4.9%

*billed : those for which a bill has been isuued from 01/01/2013 to 31/12/2013

The table 5 shows that only the share of the first billing scale increased marginally. The shares of all other billing scales fell

marginally. Therefore, the consumption share of common consumers' class billed at the minimum billing scale, that is the first

billing scale price, increased. On the contrary, the consumption share billed at other billing scales, higher priced than the first one,

decreased. Consequently, the change in the composition of billed consumption in the common consumers class, combined with

reduced consumption in the same consumers class (-11,466,842 m3 see table 1), led to a decrease in the revenue from water

supply in the common consumers class by  10,207,216 or -6.4% (see table 6).

In the following table, the annual billed revenue from sewerage usage and the respective change for the main consumer classes is presented:

7. Billed* Income from sewerage services / Amounts in 

Consumer Class Common Consumers Industries ­ Corporate Customers State ­ Local Authorities Bulk water supply to local networks Other Total

2013 88,915,033 6,723,268 7,226,691
0 111,520 102,976,512

2012 95,450,052 6,905,692 7,643,383
0 128,755 110,127,882

* billed : those for which a bill has been isuued from 01/01/2013 to 31/12/2013

Change -6,535,019
-182,424 -416,692
0 -17,235 -7,151,370

% -6.8% -2.6% -5.5%
-13.4% -6.5%

Similarly, the following table presents the total annual income from water sales and sewerage use, as well as the respective change for the main consumer classes:

8. Total billed* income from water and sewerage services / Amounts in 

Consumer Class

2013

2012

Change

Common Consumers

237,573,217

254,315,452

-16,742,235

Industries ­ Corporate Customers

26,962,229

25,847,296

1,114,933

State ­ Local Authorities

26,824,251

27,835,786

-1,011,535

Bulk water supply to local networks 31,631,158

33,988,101

-2,356,943

Other

5,815,446

5,505,599

309,847

Total

328,806,301

347,492,234

-18,685,933

* billed: those for which a bill has been isuued from 01/01/2013 to 31/12/2013

% -6.6% 4.3% -3.6% -6.9% 5.6% -5.4%

Annual Bulletin & Annual Report 2013 57

Finally, table 9 presents the average revenue per cubic meter ­ either for water supply or for water supply and sewerage services - for the year 2013, for the main consumer classes:

9. Average billed Income per cubic meter 2013 / Amounts in 

Consumer Class

Water Sales

Water sales & Sewerage services

Common Consumers

0.78

1.24

Industries ­ Corporate Customers

0.96

1.28

State ­ Local Authorities

1.02

1.40

Bulk water supply to local networks

0.49

0.49

Other

0.34

0.34

Total Average Income

0.72

1.05

* billed: those for which a bill has been isuued from 01/01/2013 to 31/12/2013

Because the method of calculation of the average income per cubic meter was changed in 2013, for reasons of continuity we have listed below the above table 9 with the exhibited figures calculated according to the method of calculation in force until 2012:

9. Average billed Income per cubic meter 2013 / Amounts in 

Consumer Class

Water Sales

Water sales & Sewerage services

Common Consumers

0.74

1.19

Industries ­ Corporate Customers

0.91

1.22

State ­ Local Authorities

1.02

1.40

Bulk water supply to local networks

0.49

0.49

Other

0.33

0.34

Total Average Income

0.70

1.02

* billed: those for which a bill has been isuued from 01/01/2013 to 31/12/2013

It is worth noting that while the 20.65% of the billed water is billed as Bulk Water Supply to Local Networks (see table 2), the water sales income from this particular consumer class comes up to 14.01% of the total water sales (see table 3). This is due to the fact that the average revenue per cubic meter of the bulk water supply tariff ( 0.49 - see Table 9), is 32.2% lower than the average revenue per cubic meter of water sales ( 0.72 - see table 9).

. Presentation of the Company's Major Financial Results
For EYDAP, 2013 was a year of extended initiatives with regard to the resolution of long-term pending issues which had rendered the financial transactions, the obligations and the relations between the Company and the Greek State especially inarticulate. The major characteristics of year 2013 were the following:
· Increase of the Company's liquidity and elimination of its bank debt resulting from the collection of the long term overdue receivables from the Greek State and the Local Government

Authorities (OTA). The Free Cash Flows to the Firm accounted for 495.6 mil.  in 2013 versus 64.8 mil.  in 2012.
· The collection of older receivables concerning projects executed by the Company for the account of Ministry of Infrastructure, Transport & Networks (YPOMEDI) and EYDAP Fixed Assets, and the initiation of a new collaboration framework that will not allow for such claims to emerge again. Specifically, the joint ministerial decision D6/2476/3.12.2013 (Gov. Gaz. 3065) of ministers of Finance and of Infrastructure, Transport & Networks arranged the collection of a amount 141.1 mil.  (including VAT) for constructions, until 31.12.12, infrastructure works, flooding protection works, etc. versus the Company's

58

claim of 152.4. mil. . The difference of 11.3 mil.  accounted for 9.2 mil.  following the deduction of VAT and led to reduction of the turnover.
· The receipt of 149 mil.  from the Greek State for the account of OTA and the adoption of strict policies with regard to the payment of their future obligations.
· The continuation and acceleration of cost reduction efforts initiated in the previous years with an emphasis on personnel cost. Salaries and wages in 2013 posted a decrease by 5.2 mil.  (-5.8%) and settled at 83.8 mil.  from 89.0 mil.  in 2012
· The wide use as well as formation of new provisions aiming at the correct depiction of the assets and liabilities arranged during the year as result of the settlement with the Greek State, as well as of the labor related liabilities.
The effect of the provisions on the results of 2013 accounted for approximately  30 million and is analyzed as follows:
a) New provisions for the correct depiction of liabilities regarding the special lump sum account of employees hired until 26.10.99, an amount of approximately  60 mil. b) New provisions for the correct accounting depiction of labor related liabilities, an amount of approximately  30 mil. c) New provisions for doubtful receivables concerning retail customers, an amount of  6 mil. d) Cancellation of provisions for doubtful receivables concerning the Greek State and OTA, amount  66 mil.
With the recorded provisions, the Company is adequately structured to settle, without affecting its future results, pending litigations with pensioners and employees and to serve its mandatory obligations toward its personnel.
·The coordinated restructuring actions of the business activities and effectiveness of the Company and the initiation of a modernization program regarding all Company's operations.
Turnover settled to 336.2 mil.  from 353.3 mil.  in 2012 posting a decrease by 4.9% (-17.2 mil. ).
The largest part of this reduction resulted from the contraction of revenues from construction works for third parties by 9.2 mil. as result of the JMD D6/2476/3.12.2013 (Gov. Gaz. 3065) of the ministers of Finance and of Infrastructure, Transport and Networks. Without the above reduction, turnover would have decreased by

8 mil.  (-2.3%), mainly due to lower revenues from water supply and related services by 6.6 mil.  (-2.8%) and also due to lower revenues from sewerage services by 4.7 mil.  (-4.1%). On the other side, revenues from sale of electric energy increased by 2.7 mil.  (+316%) mainly due to the pricing of previous years' electric energy sales from Evinos hydroelectric project within 2013, at the level of 1.7 mil. . The decrease in consumption is attributed to the lower number of connected households due to the repatriation of economic immigrants, as well as to the per capita consumption due to conservative use of water by the population following the economic crisis.
Total operating expense increased to 280.0 mil.  from 272.5 mil.  in 2012, posting an increase of 7.5 mil.  +2.8%) as compared to 2012. Specifically cost of goods sold in 2013 decreased by 12.2 mil.  (-6%) and settled at 190.6 mil.  from 202.8 mil.  in 2012, whereas in an opposite direction, administrative expenses increased by 11.9 mil.  (+26.8%) and distribution expenses rose by 7.8 mil.  +31%) affected mainly from provisions recorded during the year.
Following the above, Gross Profit declined by 5.0 mil.  (-3.3%) and settled at 145.6 mil.  from 150.6 mil. in 2012. Gross profit margin settled at 43.3% from 42.6% in 2012. It is noted that for the year 2012, prior to the re-classification of the statement of income (due to the application of the revised IAS 19), gross profit margin had settled to 41.4% of turnover, or 1.2% lower than the level due to re-classification.
With regard to the evolution of the different categories of operating expenses, notable changes occurred in personnel fees & expenses (+73.4%) as well as in sundry provisions (-166.5%).
Specifically with regard to the personnel fees and expenses, there was an aggregate increase of 76.0 mil.  and as result they amounted to 179.6 mil.  versus 103.6 mil.  in 2012 (+73.4%). The largest part of this increase is attributed to the provision (recorded in the statement of financial position) for the special lump sum indemnity toward the employees hired until 25.10.99, in accordance with the relevant Collective Labor Agreements which were signed on 2.7.1991, 25.5.1992, 21.06.1995, 06.06.2008, approximately by 60 mil. . It is noted that the article 45 of L. 4179/2013 abolished the Greek State's obligation concerning the coverage of the deficit of the lump sum account. In total, the burden on the Company's results accounted for 60.4 mil. .

Annual Bulletin & Annual Report 2013 59

There was also an increase of 15.2 mil.  in provisions for medical and healthcare benefits. The recognized expense (provision) in the statement of income reached 11.6 mil.  versus a corresponding expense (provision) of -3.6 mil. . The latter had derived from the direct recognition of a negative prior service cost -20.4 mil.  in the cost for the period and was due to the increase in healthcare contributions of the pensioners from 2.55% to 4%. The net cash benefits (benefits minus contributions) of the plan toward the beneficiaries amounted to 7.2 mil.  versus 9.1 mil.  in 2012. In the same pattern, provisions for end of service staff indemnities increased by 4.1

mil. , with the amount recognized in the statement of income at 2.3 mil.  versus -1.8 mil.  in 2012.
With regard to the expense with the second largest change, sundry provisions from 38.6 mil.  in 2012 settled at  -25.7 mil. in 2013. Sundry provisions include provisions for doubtful receivables (-56.7 mil.  in 2013 from 30 mil.  in 2012), provisions for litigations (31.0 mil.  in 2013 versus 8.6 mil.  in 2012) and provisions for obsolete inventories (-24 thous.  in 2013 versus 20 thous.  in 2012).

In thous.  

Provisions for Doubtful Receivables for the Year

Provisions for Litigations for the Year

2005

5,107

8,699

2006

2,689

2,033

2007

3,420

1,218

2008

4,313

-329

2009

2,958

426

2010

12,078

8,103

2011

8,481

11,021

2012

29,133

8,584

2013

-59,953

31,025

From the provisions for doubtful receivables, the provisions for doubtful customers settled at -59.9 mil.  from 29.1 mil.  in 2012, as the Company on 8.10.2013 received from the Greek State for the account of OTA an amount of 146.8 mil.  and for the account of other public entities an amount of 2.6 mil. , based on no. 38560/26.9.2013 Joint Ministerial Decision (Gov. Gaz. 2410) of the Ministers of Finance and of Interior. In view of the reduction by 150 mil.  of the outstanding amount of customers concerning OTA & Public Sector, the Company reviewed and defined its cumulative provision for doubtful receivables at approximately  25.7 mil.

 In thous.  

Balance of Doubtful Customers







2004



2005



2006



2007



2008



2009



2010



2011



2012



2013

(1) 18,181 23,288 25,977 29,397 33,900 35,834 48,049 56,530 85,663 25.710

Balance of Customers prior to Provision for Doubtful Receivables
(2) 184,179 211,183 256,043 275,831 308,748 313,800 339,939 378,545 395,705 228.904

Share
(3)=(1)/(2) 10% 11% 10% 11% 11% 11% 14% 15% 22% 11%

60

The ratio "balance of doubtful customers" over "balance of customer prior to provisions" contracted to 11% from 22%  2012.
The provisions for litigations (expense) posted an increase of 22.4 mil.  and as result total provisions in the balance sheet amounted to 99.0 mil.  in 2013 from 68 mil.  in 2012. It must be noted that with the decision 18275/22-1-2014 of the Board of Directors, a settlement based resolution agreement was reached between the Company and its employees ­ pensioners over historical labor related legal cases (initial claims amounting to  134 million were reduced following a settlement to  64 million). As the above settlement will be implemented within 2014, part of the total provision of 99.0 mil.  has been transferred to other short-term liabilities (amount of 73.2 mil. , including employer contribution cost of approximately 9 mil. ), whereas the remaining amount is recorded in the provisions for pending litigations (25.9 mil. ).
Lower scale changes occurred in other category expenses such as in third party fees and expenses (decrease of 2.6 mil.  or -6.2%), third party benefits (decrease of 0.3 mil.  or -0.6%), sundry expenses (increase of 1.6 mil.  or +19.2%) and materials & consumables (increase of 2.9 mil.  or +41.4%). In addition the cost for self-constructed projects (item that is deducted from the expenses) posted and increase by 1.7 mil.  (+34.2%).
The above developments affected negatively the earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation & amortization (EBITDA), which declined by 30.2 mil.  (-26.4%) and settled at 84.1 mil.  from 114.2 mil.  in 2012. EBITDA margin contracted to 25% from 32.3% in 2012.
Depreciation charges for the year posted a decrease of 12.3% or 4.2 mil.  settling at 30 mil.  from 34.2 mil.  in 2012. The

decrease is due to the increase of the amortization of subsidies and customer contributions by -2.3 mil. .
Earnings before interest and taxes (EBIT) dropped by 26.0 mil.  (-32.4%), settling at 54.1 mil.  from 80.0 mil.  in 2012. EBIT margin declined to 16.1% from 22.7% in 2012.
Financial expenses posted a decrease by 50.7% and settled at 8.5 mil.  from 17.2 mil.  in 2012, whereas financial income increased by 10.9 mil.  and amounted to 16.2 mil.  from 5.3 mil.  in 2012. Of the financial income, an amount equivalent to 9.8 mil.  relates to the repayment of overdue amounts from OTA due to settlement.
During the year, bank debt was fully repaid, versus an amount of 182.3 mil.  at the beginning of 2013. The collection of overdue amounts from the Greek State resulted in the improvement of the cash and cash equivalents which reached 332.0 mil.  at the end of 2013 from 43.1 mil.  at the end of 2012.
Profit before taxes settled at 61.7 mil.  from 68.0 mil.  in 2012 posting a decrease of 9.2%.
The increase of the tax rate from 20% to 26% led to the significant increase of the deferred tax asset by 44.8 mil.  and in combination with the corresponding income tax for the period of 27.4 mil.  resulted into an income tax of -16.4 mil.  (tax benefit).
Net profit after taxes reached 78.2 mil.  from 51.6 mil.  in 2012 posting an increase of 51.4%. Net profit margin settled at 23.3% from 14.6% in 2012.
Net Operating Cash inflows increased significantly and settled at 497.7 mil.  from 61.3 mil.  in 2012. Net Investing Cash outflows reached 10.3 mil.  in 2011 from 8.4 mil.  in 2012.

Finally, Free Cash Flows to the Firm, accounted for 495.6 mil.  from 64.8 mil.  in 2012.

Analysis of the Return on Equity in 5 factors



2013

2012

ROE

8,71%

6,25%

Tax Burden

1,27

0,76

Interest Burden

1,14

0,85

EBIT Margin

16,09%

22,65%

Asset Turnover

0,20

0,21

Leverage

1,86

2,02

ROE=Profit after taxes / Average Shareholders' Equity

Tax Burden = Profit after Taxes / Profit before Taxes

Interest Burden = Profit before Taxes / 

EBIT Margin = EBIT / Turnover

Asset Turnover = Turnover / Average Assets

Leverage = Average Assets / Average Shareholders' Equity

2011 3,19%
0,73 0,76 13,00% 0,22 2,01

The effect from the subsidiary company and the related company on the consolidated accounts is negligible and requires no further analysis.

Annual Bulletin & Annual Report 2013 61

BUSINESS HIGHLIGHTS DURING FISCAL YEAR 2013
Claims against the Local Authorities EYDAP's largest class of customers, after the class of common consumers, both in terms of consumption and in terms of revenue and debts, consists of Municipalities supplied with bulk water supply. The Board of Directors of EYDAP, with its No. 18078/56-2013 decision, has formed the "Relation Development with Local Authorities Division", not only for better monitoring but also for more effective management of this specific customer class. This new Division is responsible to follow the degree of increase of Municipal claims liquidation and it is also centrally monitoring and organizing, at all levels, the cooperation between the Company and the Municipalities, contributing to further development of their relationship, for the benefit of both parties.
Given the unfavorable economic conditions and the incapability of Municipalities to meet the operational requirements of their networks and their financial obligations towards EYDAP, EYDAP aims at the implementation of an extended program of Concession Contracts Networks with Municipalities that own and operate water distribution network. According to that: a) EYDAP will take over the management of the above mentioned network, while the network remains at the property of the Municipality, b) The customers of the Municipalities will enjoy the upgraded services provided by EYDAP and c) Specific Municipalities will have debts settlement, based on a specific repayment timetable.
In this framework, in February 2013, the Management of EYDAP handed the draft concession contracts for the municipal water supply networks, to 7 Mayors in Eastern Attica (Eleusina, Marathon, Markopoulo, Megara, Paiania, Spata and Fili). The Municipality of Eleusina, with the No. 54/2013 Decision of its Town Council, has approved the concession contract with EYDAP for the water distribution network of the Magoula City Section, for a period of 20 years, starting on the date of signature. Accordingly, EYDAP, with the No. 18226/13-11-2013 Decision of its Board of Directors, has approved the expansion of its activity to the Magoula region of the Municipal of Eleusina and the undertaking of the management and operation of the water distribution network of the Magoula City Section, for a period of 20 years. On the 10th of January 2014 the Concession Contract with the Municipality of Eleusina was signed and sent to the competent Ministries in order to issue the Joint Ministerial Decision, as defined by the lying provisions.
Within the framework of relations development with the Municipalities, a consolidation effort has begun for the majority

of their provisions (cash replacement, manhole revelations, etc), as well as an enrollment of the Divisions and the Public Law Legal Entities of the Municipalities, in a way that will facilitate their regular updating in what concerns the progress of their debts, their consumption etc.
Within the framework of the settlement of debts of the Public Sector and the Municipalities to the Water and Sewerage Companies, EYDAP and EYATH, Law 4071 (GG 85A/11-4-2012) introduced the Article 281A in Law 3852/2010, according to which Municipalities and their supervised Legal Entities were subsidized for the repayment of overdue debts, which were created before the 31st of December 2011, against particular credits of the national budget. Derived from these credits in 2013 the amount of 68,565,736.48 was paid to EYDAP through the Deposits and Loans Fund.
Subsequently, with Article 52 of Law 4186 (GG 193A / 09.17.2013) the above provision was amended and credits for the payment of overdue debts, until the 31st of July of 2013, of the Municipalities and their Legal Entities towards to EYDAP were approved. Thereafter, based on the Joint Ministerial Decision 38560/26-9-2013 (GG 2410B) the amount of 149,447,102.49  was paid to EYDAP. The debts of Schools (billing until the 30th of April) rising up to 4,814,161.76 were not included in the above mentioned amount but the Attica Region overdue debt of 799,640.29  was included.
Based on the No.18227/13-11-2013 Decision of the Board of Directors, the Company redefined its attitude towards the Municipalities, setting out a stricter frame of actions in order to prevent the accumulation of new debts in the future. Within this framework, the executives of the Relation Development with Local Authorities Division, in cooperation with the Company Administration and the Legal Services Division, have intensified the pressure put upon those Municipalities that delay their repayments.
Claims against Greek State Fiscal year 2013 marked a milestone as far as the arrangement of the Greek State debt towars EYDAP. In more details:
a) By order of the Ministry of Infrastructure, Transport and Networks, EYDAP collected the amount of  15,927,354.04 from water supply arrears of the Division of construction works for road maintenance until 08/05/2013 b) The article 45 L. 4179/8-82013, defined that the overdue debts until 30.6.2013 of the Greek State towards EYDAP for infrastructure works, water supply construction works on behalf of State Legal Entities, construction and maintenance flood protection works etc, would be determined by a Joint Ministirial

62

Decision of the Ministry of Transport, Infrastructure and Networks and the Ministry of Economics. Any debt that would arise, which would be determined in details and yearly, it would be covered by the special credit set aside in the State Budget for the settlement of outstanding obligations of the General Government under the Economic Policy Program. The claims of EYDAP against the Greek State, as they are included in the company's financial statements regarding the fiscal year of 2012 and have already been approved from the Ordinary General Shareholders Meeting of the 28th of June 2013, are determined to 113,199,696.12 euro (excluding VAT) for construction works of EYDAP Fixed Assets Company, for pumping costs at Viliza-Yliki, for construction and maintenance flood protection works and to 1,935,021.25 euro (VAT included) for invoiced works for the Ministry of Transport, Infrastructure and Networks.
On October 23rd 2013, the Extraordinary General Shareholders Meeting was held, where the main Shareholder of the Company, the Hellenic Republic Asset Development Fund (H.R.A.D.F.), made the following statement: "Pending the issuance of the Joint Ministerial Decision, stipulated from Article 45, L. 4179/2013, which will determine the Greek State's overdue debts towards EYDAP until 31.12.2012, concerning Infrastructure Projects, Construction of Water Supply Works etc., as well as the Company's non-tax liabilities towards the Greek State, it is impossible to decide on the requested by the same provision (Article 45 of L. 4179/2013) relinquishment of EYDAP from all other claims and appeals regarding these requirements. Therefore, we request the convocation of the Company's General Shareholders Meeting again, immediately after the issuance of the Joint Ministerial Decision". Following the above mentioned statement, and since no other shareholder expressed an opinion on the issue of the Agenda, the President declared the end of the meeting.
On December 3rd 2013, the Joint Ministirial Decision no. D 6/2476 (G.G. 3065/03.12.2013-Second Issue) was published, that determined the total amount for payment to EYDAP S.A. to 141,170,647.48 euro (VAT included), which will be paid as long as EYDAP waives from any other claim and appeal regarding these reasons. The same Joint Ministirial Decision, reports the unsettled and off-balance claims of EYDAP against the Greek State, regarding the investment grants of 60% of the Company's investment expenses during 2000-2010, which are reported in the financial statement notes and are estimated at the amound of 293,774,088.1 . It determines also the non-tax liabilities of EYDAP towards the Greek State regarding the provided raw water, at the amound of 294,100,000 . The non-tax liabilities of EYDAP towards the Greek State and the claim of EYDAP

regarding the investment grants, as long as they are unsettled and off-balance until 30/6/2013, according to the article 45 L. 4179/2013, as it was complemented with the section a' of paragraph 1 of article 131 L. 4199/2013, and section b' of paragraph 1 of article 131 L. 4199/2013 are written off both sides, without affecting the equity of the company.
On the 27th of December 2013, the extraordinary shareholders meeting was held, which approved unconditionally by the majority, the stipulated in No 6/2476 Joint Ministerial Decision (GG B' 3065/03.12.2013), as it was finally reprinted due to an error, amounts regarding the determination of their respective claims between the Greek State and EYDAP SA as follows:
a) Overdue debts of the Greek State to EYDAP from infrastructure works, water supply construction works on behalf of Public Entity, construction and maintenance of flood protection works etc, up to 31/12/2012, amounting to 113,199,696.12 plus VAT amounting to 26,035,930.11 (against claims of EYDAP for VAT amount of 38,693,217.82 ), plus the amount of 1,935,021.25 (VAT included) and
b)Non-tax liabilities of EYDAP towards the Greek State, consisting of the price of raw water supplied to EYDAP from the Greek State for the time period from 25/10/2004 to 30/6/2013 and depreciation of other adversarial claims arising from their contract on the 09/12/1999.
Shareholders accepted unconditionally, by majority by 96.44%, of what the aforementioned JMD determines and decided and waived from any other claim and appeal that the article 45 L. 4179/2013 (GG A' 175/08-08-2013) determines.
Development of Activities In February 2013, EYDAP S.A. and the Ministry of Shipping and Aegean signed a Memorandum of Cooperation for providing technical advisory services to the Greek government in the area of integrated management of water and wastewater of the islands. The timetable of the services will be determined within each contract between EYDAP S.A., the Ministry of Shipping and Aegean and the respective municipality.
The scope of this cooperation is not only to solve the longstanding problem of water supply of islands that burden the state budget but also the adaptation of Greece in EU directives on integrated water management, water tariffs and billing of service.

Annual Bulletin & Annual Report 2013 63

Administrative Changes On April 1st, 2013, Mr. Antonios Vartholomeos was elected CEO in replacement of the resigned from this position, Stylianos Stavridis, and from April 30th, 2013, he was also appointed Chairman of the Board of Directors. The new administration proceeded in several changes of executives in the organization chart of the company in order to succeed a more proper functioning and a better development of the human resources.
New Claim Settlement Program EYDAP, having a clear social orientation which is implemented through benefits, arrangements and actions expressing its social sensitivity, applies since June 2013 a new claim settlement program, which includes specific social arrangements to better serve the Greek household which is affected by the crisis.
The program includes among others: 1. Favorable settlement program for the customer that proves financial difficulties and months of delay in the claims repayment, by increasing the installments up to 36, instead of 6 that are currently provided. 2. Simplify of the settlement procedure and rapid approval of requests without the obligations of submitting many supporting documents 3. Establishment of an expert Claim Settlement Requests Evaluation Committee for the immediate assessment and arrangement of customer cases that are found in an awful financial condition or (and) belong to sensitive social groups (years of unemployment, having many children, chronic health problems, etc.). 4. Temporary abeyance of the measures of forced collection, based on the Code for Public Revenue till the 30/6/2014 and up to the amount of 3,000, under the precondition that the debtors will timely attend in order to settle the repayment of their claims in installments, according to the new Company Policy.
Ordinary General Shareholders Meeting The 31st Annual Shareholders' Meeting was held at the premises of the Company in Galatsi on the 28th of June 2013. During the meeting, the shareholders approved, among others, the annual financial statements for the fiscal year 2012 together with the report of the Board of Directors and the Independent Auditors' Report, they ratified the elected Members of the Board of Directors and they approved a dividend distribution of the gross amount of 15,975,000.00 for the year 2012, i.e.  0.15 per share.

Special Shareholders Meeting The Special Shareholders Meeting on behalf of the minority Shareholders was held on the 28th of June 2013 and elected Mr. Panagiotis Skoularikis and Mr. Christos Mistriotis as Members of the Board of Directors of EYDAP S.A.
Extraordinary General Meeting of Shareholders July 2013 On 28 June 2013, the Board of Directors of the company in its 1110th meeting, decided (Resolution No. 18109) the convergence of the Extraordinary General Meeting on July 26th, 2013. The Extraordinary General Meeting decided the amendment of the Articles of Association and in particular the abolition of paragraph 5 of Article 5 of Chapter II of the Codified Articles of EYDAP SA as being contrary to the Law. This paragraph stated that the main shareholder can not allocate more than 49% of the share capital. The Extraordinary General Meeting also approved the the distribution of prior year profits derived from the account "retained earnings" (except for the fiscal year 2012), amounting gross 5,325,000.00, i.e. 0.05 per share gross.
Special Pension Benefit Account (L. 4179/8-8-2013) The Law 4179/8-8-2013 abolished the second and third sections of case b of paragraph 1 of Article 26 of Law 2939/2001. The Company therefore formed a provision for the special compensation to the employees that were recruited until 25.10.1999, of the amount of 59,466,630  as envisaged by the relevant collective labour agreements. The Company collected claims from the Greek State, amounting to 69.8 million , regarding the account of the special compensation to the employees that were recruited until 25.10.1999 (based on the L. 2939/06.08.2001), by offseting the liabilities of payable dividends of 11.4 million euros and the payment by the Greek government of 58.4 million euros on 25.09.2013, following the decision by the Ministry of Infrastructure, Transport and Networks (WSNs: 91-KOH) to cover the deficit of pension benefit account of the company's staff until the 06/30/13.
Social Tariff Since September 23rd and for one year, EYDAP, due to the unfavorable economic conditions that have affected the Greek households, after the unanimous decision of the BoD and within its social responsibility policy and continuing social contribution, has set into effect the Social Tariff.
Specifically, for specific social groups, families with many children, single-parent families, elderlies with low income, a discount up to 60% on water - sewerage bills is set.

64

Internal Rules of Operation -Corporate Governance With a focus on creating an accessible and comprehensive reference system in accordance with Law 3873/2010 the Rules of Corporate Governance and Operation, was composed, was approved by the Board Resolution 18197/23-10-2013 and submitted to the SEC.
This Regulation consists of the merge and update of two older documents: the Code of Corporate Governance and Internal Rules of Operation EYDAP.
By merging the two documents in one, we achieved a single effective dissemination operational concept. The updated version of the Rules is clearly structured to present information relating to corporate governance, internal control system, the assessment and management of operational risks, the organizational structure of the Company as well as the importance of social responsibility that the Company demonstrates as part of its operation.
This Regulation facilitates the formulation of policies and corporate governance practices in order to meet the current operating conditions EYDAP.
The purpose of the regulation is to promote good governance, believing that this will enhance the long-term success and competitiveness of EYDAP. The application of the Rules addressed by the company or its investors as a process that adds value to the company and is not seen as mere law compliance.
EYDAP S.A would greatly benefit by adopting and systematically apply these principles in a fully voluntary basis, which enhances the confidence of our shareholders, employees and other stakeholders as well as improves organizational effectiveness.
Tariff Readjustment On December 16th 2013, the Joint Ministerial Decision of the Ministers of Finance, Infrastructure, Transport and Networks and of Environment, Energy and Climate Change, who accepted the decision of the Board of Directors of EYDAP of March 28th 2013 and decided the tariff readjustment of water supply and sewerage services provided by the company as referred to the J.M.D., was issued in GG B' No. 3188/16-12-2013, setting into effect the adjusted tariff from the date of publication, the 16th of December 2013. The new tariff policy includes reductions in consumption prices, within its social responsibility policy. On December 24th, 2013 EYDAP announced all the charges of the new reformed tariff

EYDAP Nison S.A. The scope of EYDAP Nison S.A. is to provide water services, drainage and rainwater collection as well as a variety of activities related to the above, in the Greek islands territory.
In January 2013 an amendment that was approved in the parliament, created the legal framework under which it can be entrusted to EYDAP SA or its affiliates, the preparation or commissioning of studies for construction projects related to the activity of the company, as well as the delegation and administration of the implementation of those projects in island regions. EYDAP Nison S.A. is now at the final phase of the completion of the first stage of its development, which refers to an analytical research and setting out of the market needs, in which EYDAP Nison SA will activate and to the examination and specification of solutions proposed to its customers.
EYDAP Nison SA has been activated to the following actions, indicatively: · The Municipality of Naxos requested counseling for issues
of consolidating electrical and mechanical facilities, of the water treatment plant as well as of improving water quality in the reservoirs of the island · The Municipality of Chios requested an offer for cleaning the pumping stations and parts of sewerage pipes. In addition, the Municipality is completing a study on billing policy development, business plan, water supply and sewerage operating regulation, etc. · The Municipality of Sikinos has obtained financing for conducting studies for two Biological Cleaning Installations, as well as for water supply and sewerage networks, in compliance to an offer submited by EYDAP Nison.
The Secretariat General for the Aegean and Island Policy is quite interested in the work implemented by EYDAP Nison as well as in the benefits that the General Secretariat would have from a potential collaboration. This interest is indicative of the importance of resolving water supply and sewerage problems in the islander Greece.
In March 2013, the BoD of EYDAP S.A., decided the increase of the share capital of EYDAP Nison S.A. by 30,000.

Annual Bulletin & Annual Report 2013 65

. Modernization of the Operation Sectors
Within 2013 the Company continued the implementation of the actions that had been undertaken the previous years regarding to the modernization of its operation, having as an upper goal the increase of efficiency and the improvement of the quality of services provided to the customers. Analytically, such actions are mentioned bellow per sector:
In the sector of Development of New Activities, it was approved with decision of BoD a new preliminary agreement for the takeover of the management of the water supply networks of the Municipalities. A preliminary agreement has already been signed with the Municipality of Eleusinas and for its implementation the issue of the relevant J.M.D. is expected. The signature of Preliminary Agreement with the Municipalities of Salaminas, Marathonas, and Megareon is expected, while negotiations with other Minicipalties in Attica are conducted. EYDAP is negotiating the takeover of the management of parts of the water supply network of the Municipality of Varis ­ Voulas ­ Vouliagmenis, parts of the water supply network of Municipality of Amarousio and the water supply network of the Region St. George in the Municipality of Aspropyrgos. The progressive incorporation of small private water supply networks in Attica in the ownership of EYDAP is completing. The implementation of sewerage works, according to EYDAP's planning, in the regions of Northern and Eastern Attica, such as Dionisos, Koropi and Paiania, is developing under the responsibility of the Prefecture of Attica and the concerned Municipalities. In addition, the procedure of permitting works in the regions of Pallini and Saronikos is promoting. Finally, sewerage works in the regions of Ampelakia, Selinia and Aianteiou Salaminas are being implemented. The total budget for above mentioned works rises up to the amount of  350 mn and is covered by EU funds and state funding. EYDAP will be the future manager of those works, according to agreements conducting between the Prefecture of Attica and the concerned municipalities. EYDAP has submitted to the Operational Program «Environment and Sustainable Development" () a project proposal for financing for reusing of treated sewages of Psyttaleia and Thriasio Wastewater Treatment Plant for industrial and agricultural uses, reforestation, irrigation of urban green and enrichment of aquifer.
As far as the IT & Technology are concerned, EYDAP in 2013 has proceeded in the implementation of the following activities:
1. In Business and Finance Sector · In April 2013 started the productive operation of the new

ERP cost accounting system (ABM) which was integrated to the ERP platform "SAP - Business One". This new system replaced the previous "SAS-ABM". The project was part of the homogenization and the modernization of the information systems of the company. With this new "cost accounting system" - The parallel entry of basic data in two different systems  is avoided ensuring the data reliability - The, after all, united cost accounting system can be in a  safer, easier and more economical way.
· Since 1/10/2013 the new budgeting system (FM) has been put into operation and it has been integrated to the ERP platform "SAP - Business One". The system includes the following functions: - EYDAP Budget configuration on a Department level - Automatic update of the procurement program - Flexible operation of the sanctioning stages until the
 final budget approval - Comparison of accountably and budgeted data
 per organizational unit. - Data comparison from preceding years The new system replaced the existing budgeting system "SAS-FM" and its implementation within the same platform with the new central ERP ensures the reliability of the  imported data and its complete concurrency with the ERP.
· On the 31/12/2013 the new "Tendering and Reception Committee" operating subsystem was completed and it will be put into productive operation very soon. The new subsystem has been integrated to the ERP platform "SAP Business One" and includes the following functions: - Management of Receipt Committees of material, assets and services - Management Tender Evaluation Committees This new subsystem will accelerate the receipt procedures of goods as well as the tender evaluation procedures, and it will also allow the enrollment of the progress of the above mentioned operations and the direct update of the involved departments.
· In September 2013 started the productive operation of the new subsystem for the "Automation of Bulletins for export materials on subcontracting". The new software is integrated to the platform "SAP - Business One" and it manages effectively, through the sanctioning stages, the materials that are intended to be used in subcontracting. In this way, the export materials are been directly controlled and the involved departments receive more accurate information.

66

· During the last quarter of 2013 started the process for the procurement of Digital Signatures, which will gradually replace the traditional ones, in the frame of implementing, by the company, a new contemporary model of complete electronic management of documents. The gradual use of the Digital Signatures has already started by the beginning of 2014, aiming at using them at every document of the Company.
2. Customer Applications · The process of notifying electronically the customers,
through emails or/and sms, about the issue date of their bill, the execution or not of their standing orders, as well as their increased consumption, has been set into effect. · The management and the preconditions for a settlement have been changed, by a Decision of the Board of Directors. · Specific adjustments have occurred at the technical Actions of interruption and reconnection, by a Decision of the Board of Directors. · The integration of new contracting partners (OPAP agents) for online payment accounts in their agencies is in constant evolution and enrichment. · The new social tariff policy has been set into effect. · The general tariff of the Company has changed. · An add fund for the management of the Municipalities has been realized. · A new screen "Application" gathering all important information for the Operation Centre (1022) from the BCC was created. · An add fund as well as significant adjustments to the BCC were realized for the management of the Municipalities.
3. Geographic Information System (GIS) Sector · The buildings identification between GIS and Customer
System is ongoing and enriched. · The application for the management of water supply
isolation is ongoing and enriched. · An application for the management of "Water supply
Alerts" for the needs of Operational Centre and 1022 was developed. · An application for the management of "Water supply Incidents" for the needs of Operational Centre and 1022 was developed. · An application for the imprinting of "Exterior Aqueducts" was developed and the transference of relative data from a study of the Ministry of Infrastructure, Transport and Networks was achieved. · A supply of 5 authorizations of Smallworld software was realized in order to cover the permanently increasing needs of EYDAP's Departments for accessing the GIS.

· A connection to the GOOGLE MAPS was realized so that the maps can appear in the GIS environment.
· The provision of digital data for the networks inside or outside of EYDAP is continuous.
· The transference of data from the GIS for the operation of a new application of hydraulic analysis in the environment WaterCad was completed.
· Continuous training and support to the GIS users is provided.
4. In the sector of infrastructure & technology · The Server Consolidation at the Datacenter was
implemented with benefits in energy saving and thermic charges as well as in reduction of their operational cost. The infrastructure virtualization was exploited maximizing the flexibility not only in developing new solutions but also in controlling the infrastructure. · The network infrastructures were expanded, with application of satellite circuits in Mornos, Eyinos, Elikonas, Kithaironas as well as 3G connections at the televisual inspection vehicles. · The transition of applications to a new platform Citrix was completed. · A new fax server system was installed with a gradual suppression of the machines and a transition to the electronic system. · The policy of controlling natural access of IT equipment to the company's network was implemented
5. In the telecommunications sector · A transition to a full MPLS network for the biggest part
of the Company was completed, with a simultaneous suppression of engaged circuits resulting the reduction of functional expenses to the of previous ones and the increase of the available width of communication per 4 to 10 times. · The pilot installation and operation of SIP communications was implemented. · The following applications were set into effect: a) One number service & b) Mobility functioning in a platform of IP environment.

Annual Bulletin & Annual Report 2013 67

Regarding customer service, the services provided are fully aligned not only with the excellent quality, the customer demands, the processing time of work and the optimal financial results for the company, but also with our internal and external customers. The main goal for 2013 as well was the fulfillment of the three main dimensions of market success: quality, time, cost. More specifically, the Division of Customer Service:
· Exploits all the information systems available in the Company focusing on the Billing System and Basic Customer Queries Management (BCC), in order to achieve the reduction of time needed to meet customer demands.
· Leverages the electronic communication channel with customers for information regarding the services provided by EYDAP, the processing of customer demands, as well as issues relating to their water supply meter.
· Automatic Payment Systems (APS) have been applied. · Continues the cooperation with the Citizen Service Centres
(KEP), which are an additional channel for customer requests. · Exploits Collections System for liquidation of customer debts. · Ensures the configuration of a friendly environment at the Customer Service Centers. · Continues to work effectively with the authorities «Greek Ombudsman» and «Consumer's Counsel».
The Operations Center - 1022 consists of: a) The call center 1022, b) The «Technology and Documentation Office», c) he «Operations Center Supervisors Body».
1022  1022    ,    The Operation Center ­ 1022 includes two customer service phases, reception and specialized service. The "Reception Phase" aims at offering polite, complete and accurate services. The second phase ("Specialized service") refers to more complicated occasions. In addition, the agents of the specialized services:
· Monitor the qualitative/quantitative performance of the telephone operators and train them in compliance with the Protocol service
· nsure that telephone operators are constantly and fully informed (digital) for the daily feedback / interventions the Athens network, operating events that can cause complaints, or changes in procedures / regulations
· Constantly supply the consumers updating tools (IVR and web site) which are renovated since 2013 (digital maps for water supply deprivation in the web site etc.)
· Constantly support the departments, by identifying the extensive and frequent complaints or requests, the delayed repair works, and by classifying as "urgent" some complaints based on specific criteria (i.e. water deprivation

at a hospital, or appearance of water at the street close to a significant function alarm) by giving maps and statistics through email, etc.
The above mentioned four job activities were intensified since June 2013, after the completion of digital upgrades, disengaging EYDAP employees from the "reception phase" which is now being taken over completely by an external and cheaper associate. In this way, the Department made a determined investment on the experience of EYDAP's employees aiming at increasing the quality of the services provided by 1022 to the external and internal (technical divisions) customers.
Technology and Documentation Office of the Operational Centre Within 2013 the Technology and Documentation Office has pursued its work for designing digital tools for the completion of the «Operational Monitoring System». A brief presentation of these tools was published in the International Journal of IWA with reference to its cover ("Water Utility Management International", December 2013). These tools have been used already either by the Engineers of the Operational Centre and the qualified agents of 1022, usually when the Engineers of the Operational Centre are absents, or/and by the personnel of the relevant technical departments (they have been supplied with the tools and they have received training for using them).
In 2013, the Operational Centre has planned (from the user's side) the following tools, which were put into effect right after their completion by IT Division: · Dynamic mapping classification of isolated roads in the GIS,
automatic archiving of interventions (closing valves) needed to be done (so that they can be easily repeated) · Dynamic web «daily report» of the main events in water supply and sewerage (operational central homepage) · Dynamic web Top10 of the main operational problems of water supply (accountably graphics) · Process monitoring tool «hawk eye» in the GIS (overview of all complaints, alarms and actions of the crews of water supply from above the map with more information and links to reports and graphs as it «zooms in») · Video Manufacturing of drivers for the above tools · Continuous updating and posting of digital work instructions of the Operational Centre engineers. · Daily Update of the relevant departments (via email) for instruments failure and mistakes in limits in telemetry (via Operational Centre engineers and / or Supervisors 1022). In this way and with the excellent cooperation of the Division of Water Supply Network, the limits of SCADA were fully corrected while working with Akl for monitoring SMS tools. · Creation of portal for water supply in thalassa for easy, centralized and permanent access to:

68

- Active alarms - Alarms record - Record of water isolations - Record of complaints - Useful maps (besides GIS) - Manuals - Legislation - Useful numbers inside or outside of EYDAP - Instructions and video applications (created in our department)
· Organizing office for sewerage customer service by creating a calendar page on thalassa «callback» (which solved the communication problems of Sewerage - 1022).
· Create web reports and charts for the external aquaduct of Mornos
Engineers Shifts for Monitoring Operation The Engineers Shifts for Monitoring Operation were formed to support the fault repair departments with 24 alert engineers analysis on the event and the associated operational data. Such a «second eye» in monitoring is not a luxury but a tool even faster and more effective for the feedback of the event, which is the basis of management of our networks.
E -Government Responding to current trends to provide integrated e-government services to citizens, EYDAP currently provides a range of specialized solutions e-government online services that include customer service, e-paying, etc., tailored to the needs of the public, our partners and our shareholders.
Utilizing in all areas of the Company, Information Technologies and Communication, we highlight daily our structures in a platform of transparency and trade facilitation for our customers and partners. Apart from the e-Government services already available, which are accessible through our website, we proceed to further simplify our processes , minimizing the required documentation for each transaction , promoting innovative , flexible and personalized applications that will ensure a better functioning company for the convenience of our employees and of course the highest possible level of services.
Recognizing the importance of this object EYDAP proceeds in the immediate future to institutionalize specific sector in order to further develop e- governance, with a view to ensuring a high level of quality and security of transactions .
Future Outlook Having the exclusive right to provide services of water supply and distribution as well as sewerage services in the Attica region, EYDAP serves 40% of the Greek population.

The natural supply of water in Greece is abundant and the existing infrastructure, which collect and supplies the Attica region with water of high quality, ensure the exceeding needs of the population served. Additionally, the excellent know-how of EYDAP of the integrated management of the water cycle, in combination with the existing expansion opportunities both by geographic expansion (Greek islands and neighboring areas of the region) and by entering new markets and complementary activities (liquid waste water management, environmental recovery of aquifers through integrated management of faulting water systems, etc. ) can provide significant benefits for the Company's growth and sustainability and enhancement of the hydrological cycle.
EYDAP remains committed to the optimal customer satisfaction by maintaining excellent quality of the supplied water and by providing high quality services and also committed to undertake continuous initiatives and actions to protect the environment.
The high cash flow of EYDAP, which was a result of pending financial settlement and collection of overdue debts from the Greek State and local authorities, in conjunction with the strategic options for more effective and efficient operation, for utilization of technology, know-how and human resources, as well as modernization through implementation of innovative and new activities, the Company provides the perspective of sustainable development and sets the base for continuous growth and profitability aiming to the protection of the interests of both shareholders and customers.

Annual Bulletin & Annual Report 2013 69

RISKS AND UNCERTAINTIES
As a result of its operation, the Company is not exposed to any particular financial risks such as Market risks (changes in exchange rate parities, interest rates or market prices) ,credit risk and liquidity risk. The Company's Financial risk management plan is focused on the minimization of their probable negative effects over the Company's financial position.
Risk management is processed by the Company's central financial services department which operates under certain rules

which have been approved by the Board of Directors. The Board of Directors provides guidance and directions for the general and management of specific risks such as the exchange risk, the interest rates risk and the credit risk.
(a) Credit Risk
The Company's exposure with respect to the credit risk it is eliminated to the financial assets which at the reporting date of the Financial Statements are analyzed as follows:

Amounts in  thousands Financial Assets categories

GROUP 31/12/2013 31/12/2012

COMPANY 31/12/2013 31/12/2012

Available for sale financial assets Cash and cash equivalents Trade and other receivables Long-term receivables Investments in associates Investments in subsidiaries Total

1,369 331,967 221,553
5,407 0 0
560,296

1,602 43,106 400,554 147,591
53 -
592,906

1,369 331,941 221,552
5,407 0 60
560,329

1,602 43,072 400,554 147,590
542 60 593,420

The Company reviews its receivables on constant basis either individually or by group and incorporates the respective information in the procedure of the credit audit and incorporates these data in credit control procedures.
Cash and cash equivalents do not bear credit risk because they mainly refer to deposits in banks with adequate credit rating. Trade and other receivables include receivables from private customers which carry the lowest level of loss risk mainly because of the extensive dispersion of claims, while for the receivables from Local Governments, the Company examines the possibility

of collecting the respective due amounts through contract agreements (management of networks and settlements).
None of the Company's financial assets is insured by mortgage or any other form of credit insurance. The available for sale financial items are assessed in their fair value which is their stock market value and thus there are categorized at level 1, according to the clauses of IFRS 7, par. 27B.
Below it is displayed the timetable of the Company's claims based on their maturity:

Amounts in  thousands

CLAIMS BASED ON THEIR MATURITY

2013

Not due 0-1 month 1-6 months 6 months -2 years 2 years -5 years > 5 years Total

PRIVATE

CUSTOMERS 23,396

11,540

29,374

30,190

23,585 16,658 134,743

STATE

2,704

1,304

3,199

1,537

1,850

2,896 13,490

LOCAL

GOVERNMENT 7,150

3,518

13,266

1,690

1,259

1,262 28,145

Total

33,250

16,362

45,839

33,417

26,694 20,816 176,378



2012

Not due 0-1 month 1-6 months 6 months -2 years 2 years -5 years > 5 years Total

PRIVATE

CUSTOMERS 22,321

14,481

25,935

28,229

22,098 12,564 125,628

STATE

2,682

1,629

3,515

6,061

10,159 25,697 49,743

LOCAL

GOVERNMENT 8,359

4,741

19,564

45,461

74,677 60,845 213,647

Total

33,362

20,851

49,014

79,751

106,934 99,106 389,018

70

The book value of the receivables which have been subject to renegotiations of their arrangement receipt on 31.12.2013 and 31.12.2012 stood at  0 million and  72.4 million respectively. With regard to credit risk management, the Department of Collection Enforcement reviews on constant basis and settles via judicial means overdue receivables concerning water supply, utilization rights and property connection rights from retail customers and local government authorities (OTA).
(b) Liquidity Risk The liquidity risk is been managed by the preservation of sufficient cash available for the assurance of bank credits for use .The existing available, unused and approved bank credit

of the Company are adequate in order to confront ant potential shortage of cash. The following table analyses the Company's financial liabilities which are classified in groups according to their expiration date which are calculated according to the time balance from the balance sheet date until the contractual arrangement expiration date in non-discounted figures.

Amounts in  thousandsTIME ANALYSIS OF THE LIABILITIES

2013

0-1 Month 2-3 Months

Debt liabilities -

Suppliers and

other liabilities

76.193

92.762

Total

76.193

92.762

3-6 Months 6-12 Months

-

3.142

6.928 6.928

15.167 18.309

1- 5 years -
71.482 71.482

> 5 years Total - 3.142
230.212 492.744 230.212 495.886

2012 Debt liabilities Suppliers and other liabilities Total

0-1 Month 2-3 Months 3-6 Months 6-12 Months 1- 5 years

22.177

7.815

155.488

-

-

53.647 75.824

17.330 25.145

6.748 162.236

14.795 14.795

91.047 91.047

> 5 years Total - 185.480
205.897 389.464 205.897 574.944

Relations with the Greek State
The Company in line with its foundation law 2744/1999, signed an agreement with the Greek State in 1999 according to which the Greek State undertook the commitment regarding the Company's subsidy from either European Community Funds or the Public Investment Program. The subsidy would be utilized to cover 60% of the Company's capital expenditure need for the maintenance, renovation, improvement or / and expansion of the water supply and sewerage network system for the decade 2000 ­ 2010.
On the other hand, the Greek State claimed from the Company an amount for the crude water which disposed to the Company for the period after 25.10.2004. Specifically according to the article 6 of law 2744/1999, the quantity, quality and the supply method of the crude (non distilled) water will be defined via an agreement between the Company and the Greek State, as it is provided by paragraph 2 or article 2 of L. 2744/1999. The same agreement will define the amount paid from the Company for the crude water collected. The payment will be made to "L.E.P.L. EYDAP Fixed Assets". In execution of the above, in November 1999 the Greek State and the Company signed an agreement, the terms of which (article 15) provided for an agreed price of the crude water only for a 5-year period, namely until 25.10.2014.

As it is analytically described below, the signing of a written agreement - as it is defined in article 15 of the agreement on 9.12.1999 between the Greek State and the Company - which will determine the price paid to "L.E.P.L. EYDAP Fixed Assets" for the crude water collected from 1.7.2013 is pending. In absence of a written agreement, the Company continues from 25.10.2004 and onwards to offset the cost of the collected crude water with the maintenance and operation services it provides for the fixed assets owned by "L.E.P.L. EYDAP Fixed Assets", burdening its annual financial results.
Based on the article 45 of L. 4179/2013 as it was complemented with the article 131 of L. 4199/2013, it was decided that with a joint ministerial decision, the overdue amounts payable to the Company from the Greek State concerning infrastructure works, LEPL water supply construction works, maintenance of flooding protection works, etc. as well as the non tax related overdue amounts payable to the Greek State from the Company concerning the cost of the collected crude water during the period 25.10.2004 ­ 30.6.2013 will be defined.
With joint ministerial decision of 3.12.2013 which was issued according to the above law provisions, it was defined that the

Annual Bulletin & Annual Report 2013 71

overdue amounts payable to the Company from the Greek State concerning investment plan's subsidized expenditures of  294 million for the decade 2000 ­ 2010 as stipulated from the agreement of 9.12.1999 between the Greek and the Company, are offset with equivalent in value non tax related overdue amounts payable to the Greek State from the Company, until 30.6.2013, concerning the cost of the collected crude water for the period 25.10.2004 ­ 30.6.2013.
The same ministerial decision defined also the other obligations of the Greek State concerning infrastructure, construction works, etc. at the amount of  141 million approximately, compared to an amount of  152 million (including VAT) claimed by the Company. With the decision of the Extraordinary General Shareholders'

Meeting on 27th December 2013, the above ministerial decision was accepted, resolving the long-term issue of conflict of claims between the Greek State and the Company. As a result, the Company resigned from any other claim.
In addition, in the context of the settlement of the obligations of the Greek State from OTA, LEPL and General Government entities to the Company, in 2013 overdue obligations of  149 million approximately were fully paid to the Company.
Furthermore, the Greek State paid an overdue amount of approximately  70 million to the Company, concerning the mandatory coverage of the deficit of the special lump sum account for the Company's staff indemnities until 8.8.2013.

RELATED PARTY TRANSACTIONS
The following tables provide an overview of related-party transactions:

Amounts in  thousands

GROUP 31/12/2013 31/12/2012

COMPANY 31/12/2013 31/12/2012

1) Transactions

- Income

66,151

66,961

66,151

- Cost of Goods Sold (cost of construction works)

(2,147)

(1,382)

(2,147)

- Income from non utilized provisions /

(Sundry provisions)

(59,396)

(23,835)

(59,396)

66,961 (1,382)
(23,835)

2) Outstanding amounts

- Long-term receivables

(Projects for third parties)

2,147

112,063

2,147

- Long-term receivables

(Arrangements of Municipalities)

0

30,955

0

- Trade receivables (Local authorities, Greek State)

40,931

165,149

40,931

- Other receivables

(from the Greek State for coverage of deficit

concerning staff indemnities)

0

68,844

0

- Obligation due to non issuance of decision

concerning dividend counterbalance

0

11,388

0

112,063 30,955 165,149
68,844 11,388

72

DIVIDEND POLICY
The Board of Directors of the Company in its convection on March 26th 2014 approved the submitting of the proposal to the Annual Ordinary General Shareholders Meeting, of a dividend, Article 45 of the Code. Law 2190/1920, of the amount of thirtysix cents ( 0.36) per share (a total gross amount of Euro 38,340 million) for the year 2013. The dividend is subject to approval by the Annual General Meeting of Shareholders and is included in the account «Retained earnings».
HUMAN RESOURCES
EYDAP, being a company that manages the most precious natural resource, adopts and applies the principles of Corporate Social Responsibility for the development and the welfare of the society. EYDAP's philosophy has an anthropocentric character which leads to a customer-centered planning that will have the greatest contribution to the society.
The basic philosophy of EYDAP is to provide Knowledge that will enhance the capabilities of EYDAP's human resource so that, through the intracompany optimization, the degree of customer satisfaction will increase. In this framework, the Division of Professional Training and School Academy aims to provide learning opportunities that respond to the objectives and expectations of the trainees aiming not only to the enrichment of their knowledge and the development of their skills but also to the reinforcement of their "loyalty" to the company bringing added value both to the employees and to the company. The educational program covers both the Administrative and the Technical Sector. Within March 2013 many programs that enabled a large number of the employees to be certified in the use of computers from a specified body were implemented, as well as eGovernemnt programs.
In addition, programs of learning of specialized terms in English, adjusted to the requirements of the Company were realized, such as programs of technical terms, IT terms etc. A large number of programs to meet the educational proposals and needs of the different operating sectors of the company were implemented as well.

The educational program is supported by distinguished trainers, internal and external, that have a deep knowledge of their topic that allow them to cover even the most specified educational needs, while its implementation is fully supported by a modern IT application entitled "education".
The number of programs conducted by external partners rose to 139 while those conducted by internal partners were 58. The total number of programs realized in 2013 was 197. The total man-hours of training rose to 29,841 and the total number of trainees was 2,850.
In conclusion, the educational sector of EYDAP in 2013, expresses the company's will to enhance training so as to give employees the capacity to face new professional circumstances and requirements. Thus, by developing its human resource, EYDAP will be able to face market competition.
ENVIRONMENT
EYDAP has taken initiatives to reduce its environmental footprint, through the exploitation of biogas produced at Wastewater Treatment Plants for the production of electrical and thermal energy, through the exploitation of hydraulic energy which is converted into electricity in small hydropower stations along the aqueducts, as well as through the investments in the electromechanical installations of EYDAP for efficient operation and therefore less energy consumption. EYDAP also contributes to the protection of the marine environment through the operation of the wastewater treatment plants and the controls that conducts of the discharges made into sewers and specifically of the industries. At the same time, EYDAP modernize its networks and facilities so as to minimize any leakages, while running the Central Management System of Water Resources and the Geographic Information System & Network Administration for their preventive maintenance and effective treatment of damages and leaks. Equally important is the contribution of the Company in growing environmental consciousness and public awareness, with the educational program that approximately 20,000 students attend per year.

Annual Bulletin & Annual Report 2013 73

RESEARCH & DEVELOPMENT
R&D actions of EYDAP for 2013: The modern providers of water and wastewater services must spot the challenges of the next 10-20 years and undertake actions to develop new technologies. One of these actions is investing (with own resources and / or public financing) in research, technological development and innovation. EYDAP created the Research and Development Department (R & D) in early 2011, having as primary and principal purpose the development and dissemination of knowledge, innovation and extrovert perspective. The aim of the department is to strengthen applied research in order to improve and resolve issues concerning the operation of the Company and to promote actions for: · Acquisition of new knowledge which can be exploited by
the operation departments of the company. · Improving the quality of its services through the use of
new technologies such as reducing the environmental and energy footprint of the organization. · Developing and providing new services for citizens and businesses. · Increasing staff productivity through the introduction of new methods of work (eg open innovation methods). · Reducing operating costs of the company (eg through process automation). · Creating a research center. · Creating the research archive of the company that will include all the results of research applications · Disseminating the scientific knowledge within the company.
During 2013 EYDAP's actions in the R&D field were the following:
1. Research Activity: · Twelve proposals of research projects were submitted for
EU funding, three of those were accepted. These three research projects will start in early 2014.
· Three internal research projects with the following topics were completed: i. Improvement of drinking water treatment ii. Confront quality problems in reservoirs iii. Exploitation of the effectiveness of alternative methods of wastewater treatment and waste
· EYDAP participated in the following EU funded research projects: i «TRUST» on the development and optimization of water and wastewater companies' services ii. «CYANOCOST» on confronting algae growth in reservoirs

2. Development and accreditation of the laboratories of the research center The laboratories of the research center were accredited under ISO17025 in all areas of interest of the company (raw and treated wastewater - waste water reuse, raw and drinking water). Therefore all the test results of the laboratories are considered valid and unambiguously. As part of the company's operation, the laboratories of the research center performed daily test on «internal» customers (within the company) samples and "external" customers samples such as the Environmental Inspectors of the Ministry of Environment. The laboratories of the research center performed more than 13.000 tests during 2013.
3. Create and maintain the research archive of the company For the first time in company's history, the R & D department created the research archive of the company. A significant volume of research projects covering the research activities of the past 20 years were collected. This archive is available to all departments of EYDAP in order to spread scientific knowledge and experience in all areas of the company's interest (water abstraction, water treatment , water quality , wastewater quality and wastewater treatment) . A further objective is to create an electronic library/database accessible to all who will include the results of projects that have been implemented , those that are in progress and the potential of new proposals.
POST BALANCE SHEET EVENTS
EYDAP SA, since the end of 2013, has started an effort to reconcile legal cases of civil actions pending for several years, which were forcing the company to formulate predictions about large sums of money to cover them. On the 16th of December 2013 a Private Settlement Agreement was signed, according to which EYDAP was obliged to pay the amount of euro 55 mn in order to cover pending for several years legal cases, versus to total claims amounting to euro 129.783 mn. This Agreement has never been set into effect and consequently it was repealed me the No 18275/2014 decision of the BoD of EYDAP S.A. A new Private Settlement Agreement was signed on 16/01/2014, according to which, the pending for several years categories of civil actions brought by employees and retired employees ­ about 2,500 cases - for which favorable decisions have been issued, many of which have become final and irrevocable, amounting to euro 134 mn, finally reconciled to the amount of euro 64 mn. This agreement is not expected to have substantial impact on the Company's equity and financial statements, as the adequate provisions that the Company had formed for this purpose until 31/12/2013 will be used. On 31.12.2013, the Company has made a provision with a value of approximately  73 million of which  9 million for approximately associated costs.

74

Finally, on the 29th of December 2014, EYDAP SA decided (BoD Decision No 18290) the cash payment over the increase of share capital of "EYDAP NISON SA" by euro 150,000.00. This decision was confirmed by voting at the Extraordinary General Meeting of "EYDAP NISON SA", on the 7th of February 2014. At the same Extraordinary General Meeting, Mr. Leonidas Kairis member of the BoD and General Manager of EYDAP Nison SA was replaced by Mr. Petros Matsoukis.
STATEMENT OF CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
This Statement covers all of the principles and practices adopted by the Company in order to ensure its efficiency, the interests of shareholders and all other interested parties.
The structure of this Statement of Corporate Governance focuses on the following topics:
Code of Corporate Governance i. Board of Directors and Audit Committee ii. Shareholders' Meeting and Rights iii. Internal Audit and Risk Management iv. Other managerial, supervisory bodies or Committees of the Company
A. Code of Corporate Governance EYDAP has compiled a Corporate Governance Code, which has beem embedded in the Internal Rules of Operation, forming from 23/10/2013 a unified text named as Internal Rules of Corporate Gevernance and Operation of EYDAP S.A. This text, is available to the public at the Company's Headquarters, Shareholder and Investor Relations Department, at 156 Oropou str Galatsi and at the Company's offices, Corporate Announcemetns Department, at 9 Ilision str, Ilisia.
The Company does not apply any practices beyond the provision of the Law.
B. Board of Directors & Audit Committee The Company is managed by the Board of Directors, having an odd number of members which may not exceed thirteen (13) members or be less than seven (7) members. The Board of Directors comprises executive, non-executive and independent non-executive members as per the provisions of articles 3 and 4 of Law 3016/2002 as applicable from time to time.
The General Meeting of Shareholders has authority to determine the number of members of the Board of Directors as well as to increase or decrease such number, always within the limits specified in the Company's Articles of Association. The Board of Directors is composed of:

a. Two (2) representatives of Company employees elected (along with an equal number of alternate representatives) by direct and universal vote; b. Two (2) members representing minority shareholders, elected as provided for in article 36 of the Company's Articles of Association; c. Shareholder representatives, elected by the General Meeting.
The term of office of the Board of Directors' members is five years and is extended until the nomination or election of new directors. Such term extension may not be longer than one year. The members of the Board of Directors can be freely recalled. Such recall and substitution is done by those having the right to elect or nominate. The General Meeting may substitute any of the members of the Board of Directors elected before the end of their term of office. The members of the Board of Directors may be appointed anew or reelected without limitation and may be recalled without limitation. The members of the Board of Directors may not be related by blood or marriage, up to the third degree of relation, and may not be contractors or suppliers of the Company or members of the Board of Directors or employees of an undertaking doing business with the Company. The members of the Board of Directors may, however, be members of the Board of Directors or employees of an undertaking associated with the Company, as per the provisions of article 42e of C.L. 2190/1920
Convocation of the Board of Directors The Board of Directors is called by its Chairman or the Chairman's legal deputy, pursuant to the provisions of the Company's Articles of Association, and holds its meetings at the registered office of the Company. The agenda is presented to the Board of Directors by the Managing Director.
The Board of Directors holds ordinary meetings once each calendar month, and also holds extraordinary meetings if so deemed necessary by the Chairman. The agenda of the Board of Directors' meetings is established by the Chairman and the agenda items are included in the notice to the meeting sent to the directors.
The notice to the meeting is advised to the members of the Board of Directors at least two (2) business days prior to the day of the meeting and shall clearly indicate the agenda items; otherwise, decisions may be adopted only if all members are present or represented at the meeting and no one objects to the passing of decisions. As to the rest, the provisions of article 20 of C.L. 2190/1920, as applicable, shall apply.

Annual Bulletin & Annual Report 2013 75

Quorum - Majority ­ Representation of Members
The Board of Directors is in quorum and may validly transact its business when one half plus one director are present, subject to the provisions of paragraphs 4, 4a and 5 of article 11 of the Company's Articles of Association. To find the number constituting a quorum, any resulting fraction is omitted. At no time can the number of directors attending in person be less than three. The decisions of the Board of Directors are passed by absolute majority of the members present. In case of a tie, the Chairman of the Board of Directors does not have a casting vote. In case the Chairman is absent or prevented from acting, the meeting is presided over by the Chairman's deputy. The meetings of the Board of Directors may be attended by scientific advisors, legal or otherwise, and experts, without the right to vote, as well as by the Director of the Legal Department of the Company, if invited to attend by the Chairman or the Board of Directors, and if the Director of the Legal Department is absent or prevented from acting by another lawyer as instructed by the Chairman of the Board of Directors. All the directors have the right to be advised in writing, by the Chairman and the Managing Director, on the management of the Company and the course of the corporate affairs in general. A director who is absent may be represented by another director, by means of written authorization to this effect. Each director may represent only one absent director.
Minutes are kept for each meeting of the Board of Directors; such minutes are ratified at the same or the next meeting. Copies or extracts of the Minutes are attested by the Chairman or his deputy or by another member of the Board of Directors authorized to this effect under a decision of the Board of Directors. The Minutes of the Board of Directors are entered in a dedicated book kept in a manual or computerized

system and are signed by the Chairman and the directors who attended the meeting. Any refusal by a director to sign the Minutes is entered in the minutes. All directors have the right to have their opinion entered in the Minutes.
Authority and powers of the Board of Directors The Board of Directors is the supreme administrative body of the Company that primarily formulates the corporate growth policy and strategy while supervising and overseeing the management of the corporate property.
The Board of Directors has authority to decide on all matters with respect to the management of the corporate property, the administration and representation of the Company and the corporate business in general, and proceeds with all action and decisions aimed at the fulfillment of the Corporate object; the Board of Directors also monitors the course of the Company and the implementation of its activities. Excepted are those issues and matters which, under the provisions of the Law or the present Articles of Association, fall within the exclusive authority of the General Meeting.
Delegation of power by the Board of Directors The Board of Directors, under the restrictions stipulated by Law and the Articles of Association, may decide to delegate the exercise of its powers or authorities in part to the Chairman or the Managing Director or a member or members of the Board of Directors or Company Managers or employees or third parties.
Information concerning the members of the Board of Directors The members of the Board of Directors for the period from 01/01/2013 to 31/12/2013 were as follows:

a. From 01/01/2013 to 31/03/2013
Stylianos Stavridis, Chairman & CEO, executive Member Dionysios Asimakopoulos, Deputy Chairman, non-executive Member Antonios Antonopoulos, Independent non-executive Member Georgios Kontoroupis, non-executive Member Eleftheria Karahaliou, non-executive Member Antonios Kotsonis, non-executive Member Nikolaos Koumgioumtzis, non-executive Member Epameinondas Sklavenitis, non-executive Member Panagiotis Skoularikis, non-executive Member Christos Mistriotis, non-executive Member Emmanouil Aggelakis, non-executive Member Evagelos Moutafis, non-executive Member
76

b. From 01/04/2013 to 21/04/2013 (election of Antonios Vartholomeos )
Stylianos Stavridis, Chairman, non-executive Member Antonios Vartholomeos, CEO, executive Member Antonios Antonopoulos, Independent non-executive Member Dionysios Asimakopoulos, non-executive Member Georgios Kontoroupis, non-executive Member Eleftheria Karahaliou, non-executive Member Antonios Kotsonis, non-executive Member Nikolaos Koumgioumtzis, non-executive Member Epameinondas Sklavenitis, non-executive Member Panagiotis Skoularikis, non-executive Member Christos Mistriotis, non-executive Member Emmanouil Aggelakis, non-executive Member Evagelos Moutafis, non-executive Member

c. From 22/04/2013 to 29/04/2013 (election of Grigorios Zafeiropoulos, Lambros Zografos, Panteleimon Kamas and Anastasios Kourtis) Stylianos Stavridis, Chairman, non-executive Member Antonios Vartholomeos, CEO, executive Member Lambros Zografos, Independent non-executive Member Eleftheria Karahaliou, non-executive Member Grigorios Zafeiropoulos, non-executive Member Panteleimon Kamas, non-executive Member Epameinondas Sklavenitis, non-executive Member Anastasios Kourtis, non-executive Member Panagiotis Skoularikis, non-executive Member Christos Mistriotis, non-executive Member Emmanouil Aggelakis, non-executive Member Evagelos Moutafis, non-executive Member
d. From 30/04/2013 to 27/06/2013 (election of Antonios Vartholomeos, Evgenia Bournova and Evaggelos Palaiologos) Antonios Vartholomeos, Chairman & CEO, executive Member Evaggelos Palaiologos, Deputy Chairman, non-executive Member Lambros Zografos, Independent non-executive Member Eleftheria Karahaliou, non-executive Member Grigorios Zafeiropoulos, non-executive Member Panteleimon Kamas, non-executive Member Epameinondas Sklavenitis, non-executive Member Anastasios Kourtis, non-executive Member Panagiotis Skoularikis, non-executive Member Christos Mistriotis, non-executive Member Emmanouil Aggelakis, non-executive Member Evagelos Moutafis, non-executive Member Evgenia Bournova, non-executive Member
e. From 28/06/2013 to 31/12/2013 (election of new Members due to expiration of their term) Antonios Vartholomeos, Chairman & CEO, executive Member Evaggelos Palaiologos, Deputy Chairman, non-executive Member Lambros Zografos, Independent non-executive Member Eleftheria Karahaliou, non-executive Member Grigorios Zafeiropoulos, non-executive Member Panteleimon Kamas, non-executive Member Epameinondas Sklavenitis, non-executive Member Anastasios Kourtis, non-executive Member Panagiotis Skoularikis, non-executive Member Christos Mistriotis, non-executive Member Emmanouil Aggelakis, non-executive Member Evagelos Moutafis, non-executive Member Ioannis Hondrogiannos, non-executive Member

Resignation dates of BoD Members and Decisions of General Assembly and BoD for the election of new Members.
a. Resignation dates of BoD Members 17/04/2013 resignation of Antonios Antonopoulos 16/04/2013 resignation of Antonios Kotsonis 13/04/2013 resignation of Georgios Kontoroupis 15/04/2013 resignation of Nikolaos Koumgioumtzis 12/04/2013 resignation of Dionysios Asimakopoulos 30/04/2013 resignation of Stylianos Stavridis
b. Resolutions of General Meeting and BoD for the election of new Members Resolutions of General Meeting · Extraordinary General Meeting of 19th/11/12, election of
Stylianos Stavridis and Elefteria Karahaliou. · 31st Ordinary General Meeting of 28th/06/13, election of
Antonios Vartholomeos, Evaggelos Palaiologos, Lambros Zografos (independent Member), Eleftheria Karahaliou, Panteleimon Kamas, Anastasios Kourtis, Epameinondas Sklavenitis, Grigorios Zafeiropoulos and Ioannis Hondrogiannos. · Special General Meeting of 28th/06/13, election of Panagiotis Skoularikis and Christos Mistriotis.
Resolutions of BoD · 17824/19.11.2012 election of Stylianos Stavridis as
Chairman of BoD and CEO. · 17825/19.11.2012 election of Dionysios Asimakopoulos
as Deputy BoD Chairman. · 17993/01.04.2013 election of Antonios Vartholomeos as
BoD Member. · 17994/01.04.2013 election of Antonios Vartholomeos as
CEO. · 18003/22.04.2013 election of Grigorios Zafeiropoulos,
Lambros Zografos, Panteleimon Kamas and Anastasios Kourtis as BoD Members. · 18023/30.04.2013 election of Antonios Vartholomeos as Chairman of the BoD. · 18024/30.04.2013 election of Evaggelos Palaiologos as Deputy BoD Chairman. · 18104/28.06.2013 election of Antonios Vartholomeos as Chairman of the BoD and CEO. · 18105/28.06.2013 election of Evaggelos Palaiologos as Deputy BoD Chairman.
Number of BoD meetings from 01/01/2013 to 31/12/2013 During the above mentioned time period the BoD held thirty two (32) meetings (1092/16.01.2013 to 1122/20.12.2013)

Annual Bulletin & Annual Report 2013 77

C. Shareholders' General Meeting & Rights
Operation and Powers of the General Meeting The General Meeting of shareholders of the Company is the supreme body of the Company, being entitled to decide on any matter in connection with the Company; its resolutions, passed as prescribed by law, are binding on all shareholders, even absent or dissenting ones. Sole the General Meeting has authority to decide on the following:
a. On any amendment of the Articles of Association; the increase of decrease of the capital of the Company is considered to be an amendment subject to para. 4 of article 8 and para. 5 of article 9 of the Articles of Association; b. On the election of the members of the Board of Directors and the auditors subject to articles 11 and 13 of the Articles of Association; c. On the approval of the annual financial statements of the Company; d. On the appropriation of the annual profits and the approval of the emoluments to members of the Board of Directors; e. On the discharge of the members of the Board of Directors and Auditors from any personal liability; f. On the issue of bond loans of any type, subject to para. 4 of article 9 of the Articles of Association; g. On the merger, division, conversion, revival, extension of the term and dissolution of the Company; h. On the appointment of liquidators. As to the rest, the provisions of article 34, para. 2, of C.L. 2190/20, as applicable, shall apply.
Convocation of the General Meeting The General Meeting of shareholders, convened by the Board of Directors, holds its ordinary sessions at the place where the registered office of the Company is located, once every year, within six months at the latest after the end of each business year.
Exceptionally, the General Meeting may be held at another place located in Greece, upon authorization to this effect by the supervising Authority specifying also the conditions under which such authorization is granted. Such authorization is not required when shareholders representing the entire share capital are present or represented at the Meeting and no one objects to the holding of the General Meeting session and the adoption of resolutions.
The Board of Directors may also call an extraordinary session of the General Meeting of shareholders if it so deems advisable.
The Board of Directors is required to convene the General Meeting upon the requisition of the auditors, within ten (10) days as of the day the requisition was delivered to the Chairman of the Board of Directors, its agenda being as specified in the requisition. The Board of Directors is also required to convene the General Meeting upon the requisition of the (Hellenic) State. In case of refusal by the Board of Directors, the State can convene the General Meeting via the supervising Minister, by a
78

written statement communicated to the Company. When no Board of Directors exists, the General Meeting a) is called by an interim Board of Directors appointed by the competent Court pursuant to article 69 of the Civil Code, or b) is self-called provided all shareholders representing the entire share capital of the Company are present or represented at the relevant session of the General Meeting.
The Company does not provide for shareholders' participation and voting in the General Assembly via electronic or longdistance means.
General Meeting Notice - Agenda The notice to the General Meeting shall specify as a minimum the date and time and the building where the meeting is to be held, as well as the agenda items clearly defined. The General Meeting shall be convened by publication of the relevant notice to the shareholders of the Company, pursuant to the provisions of the Articles of Association and pursuant to the provisions on publication contained in articles 26, para. 2, and 26a of Codified Law 2190/1920 as currently applicable. The notice shall be posted at a conspicuous place in the Company's office, and shall be published as imposed by any applicable provision:
The said notice is published ten (10) clear days in advance in Government Gazette, Bulletin of Corporations and Companies with Limited Liability and twenty (20) clear days in advance in the said daily or weekly political and financial newspapers. In the case of a repeat General Meeting the above time periods set for the publication of the notice are shortened by half and the notice is to be published as above specified. It is noted that non business days are counted in the above stipulated time periods, however the day of publication of the notice to the General Meeting and the day on which the General Meeting session is held are not counted.
Within the same twenty-day (20-day) period the notice is communicated to the Ministry of Finance and the Ministry of Infrastructure, Transport and Networks. Ten (10) days before the date set for the Ordinary General Meeting, any shareholder may obtain from the Company the annual financial statements, as well as the relevant reports by the Board of Directors and the Auditors.
Shareholders rights and method of their exercise Each share affords its owner the right to one vote at the General Meeting.
In the Shareholders General Meeting anyone who appears as a shareholder in the Dematerialized Securities System which is managed by Athens Stock Exchange S.A. has a right to participate. The proof of shareholders identity is established by the relevant written assurance of the above mentioned organization or by direct electronic connection of the Company with the organization. The person must be a shareholder five (5) days before the General Assembly (record date), and the relevant receipts or the electronic receipts concerning the shareholding

capacity must come to the company at the latest the third (3) day before the General Assembly. The shareholder participates in the General Meeting and votes either in person or via proxies. Each shareholder may appoint up to three (3) proxies. Legal entities may participate in the General Meeting appointing as proxies up to three natural entities. However, if the shareholder owns shares of the company that appear in more than one accounts, he may appoint different proxies. A proxy that acts on behalf of different shareholders may vote differently for each shareholder. The proxy holder is obliged to disclose to the Company, before the commencement of the General Meeting, any fact which might be useful to the shareholders in assessing whether the proxy holder might pursue any interest other than the interest of the represented shareholder. A conflict of interest within this context may in particular arise where the proxy holder:
a. Is a controlling shareholder of the Company, or is another entity controlled by such shareholder; b. Is a member of the Board of Directors or the management of the Company, or of a controlling shareholder or an entity controlled by such shareholder; c. Is an employee or an auditor of the company, or of a Controlling shareholder or an entity controlled by such shareholder; d. Is a spouse or close relative (of 1st degree) with a natural person referred to in points (a) to (c).
The appointment and reverse of a proxy takes place in writing and is announced to the company at least three (3) days before the date of the General Meeting.
The forms for the appointment and revocation of a proxy holder are available on the Company's website. The appointment form of a proxy holder, completed and signed by the shareholder must be submitted to the Company at least 3 days before the date of the General Meeting. The shareholders are requested to ensure the successful dispatch of the form and receipt thereof by the Company.
The (Hellenic) State attends the General Meeting represented by the Minister of Finance or his representative authorized in writing by the Minister of Finance. The General Meeting may also be attended, without voting right, by the Minister supervising the Company or his representative authorized in writing by the said supervising Minister. Specifically for the election of the members of the Board of Directors, the State, as a shareholder, is represented at the General Meeting by the Ministers of Economy and the supervising Minister or the official authorized by them.
The fulfilling of the above mentioned rights (attendance and voting) does not require the prior bound of the shareholders shares or any other procedure that limits the possibility of selling or transferring shares in the time between the record date and the date of the General Meeting.
In the General Meeting only those who are shareholders in the said date have a right to participate in the General Meeting. In

case of non-compliance to article 28a of the law 2190/1920, the said shareholder participates in the General Meeting only after its license. Regerding the other rights of shareholders and minority shareholders and how to exercise them, the respective provisions of Law 2190/1920 are applied.
Ordinary quorum and majority vote at the General Meeting A quorum shall be present and the General Meeting may validly transact the business contained in its agenda, when at least fifty one per cent (51%) of the paid-in share capital is represented thereat.
If no such quorum is present at the first meeting, a reiterative meeting shall be held within twenty (20) days as of the day of the cancelled meeting, upon a prior notice of at least ten (10) days, whatever the part of the paid-in share capital represented thereat.
All resolutions of the General Meeting are passed by absolute majority of the votes represented at the Meeting.
Qualified quorum and majority vote at the General Meeting Exceptionally, a quorum shall be present and the General Meeting may validly transact the business contained in the following agenda when two thirds (2/3) of the paid-in share capital are represented thereat: a. Change of the nationality of the Company; b. Change of the object of the corporate business; c. Increase of the shareholders' obligations; d. Share capital increase, except for increases under article 8 (paragraphs 2 and 3), of the Articles of Association or those imposed under provisions of Law or effected by means of capitalization of reserves; e. Share capital reduction; f. Issuance of a bond loan, subject to the provisions of article 9, para. 4, of the Articles of Association; g. Change of the manner of appropriation of profits; h. Merger, division, conversion, revival, term extension or dissolution of the Company; i. Delegation or renewal of power to the Board of Directors for Share Capital increase or issuance of a bond loan pursuant to article 8, para. 2 and 3, and article 9, para. 4, of the Articles of Association; j. In any other case for which the Law and the present Articles of Association stipulate that, for the adoption of a certain resolution by the General Meeting the special qualified quorum provided for in this paragraph is required.
If the quorum specified in the preceding paragraph is not present in the first meeting, a first reiterative meeting shall be held within twenty (20) days as of such first meeting, upon a notice of a minimum of ten (10) days in advance; such meeting shall form a quorum and may validly transact the business contained in the original agenda if at least one half (1/2) of the paid-in share capital is represented thereat.

Annual Bulletin & Annual Report 2013 79

If again no such quorum is present, then a second reiterative Meeting shall be held according to paragraph 2 of Article 31 of the Articles of Association; such meeting shall form a quorum and may validly transact the business of the original agenda if at least one third (1/3) of the paid-in share capital is represented thereat.
All resolutions under paragraph 1 of this article are passed by a majority of two thirds (2/3) of the share capital represented in the General Meeting.
Other Information The information of article 27 paragraph 3 of C.L. 2190/1920 including the invitation, the forms of appointment and revocation of a proxy holder, the procedure of voting by proxy, the draft resolutions for the agenda items, as well as further information regarding the exercise of minority rights of article 39 of C.L. 2190/1920 are available in electronic form on the Company's website (ww.eydap.gr).
D. Internal Audit System & Risk Management
Audit Committee The Company in compliance with the provision of article 37 of Law 3693/2008 has established and Audit Committee.
Composition of the Audit Committee from 01/01/2013 to 31/12/2013 a. From 01/01/2013 to 17/04/2013 BoD Resolution 17453/28.11.2011 Antonios Antonopoulos, Chairman Epaminondas Sklavenitis, Member Christos Mistriotis, Member
b. From 22/04/2013 to 31/12/2013 BoD Resolution 18005/22.04.2013 Lambros Zografos, Chairman Epaminondas Sklavenitis, Member Christos Mistriotis, Member
Resolution of 31st Ordinary General Meeting of 28/06/2013 Reelection of Lambros Zografos as BoD Member and as independent Member. Reelection of Epaminondas Sklavenitis as BoD Member.
Resolution of Special Minority Shareholders Meeting of 28/06/2013 Reelection of Christos Mistriotis as BoD Member.
BoD Resolution 18107/28.06.2013 Lambros Zografos, Chairman Epaminondas Sklavenitis, Member Christos Mistriotis, Member Resolution of Extraordinary General Meeting of 26/07/2013

Ratification of the Members of the Audit Committee based on the BoD Resolution 18107/28.06.2013.
Number of Audit Committee meetings from 01/01/2013 to 31/12/2013 During the above mentioned time period the Audit Committee held four (10) meetings.
The authorities and obligation of the Audit Committee are: a. the observation of the procedure of financial information, b. the observation of the efficient operation of the system of internal audit and the system of risk management, as well as the observation of the correct operation of the internal auditors of the company c. the observation of the course of the obligatory check of the financial statements company d. the overview and observation of issues contingent to the existence and preservation of the independence of the auditor especially on what concerns the providing of other services from the auditor
Mission of the Audit Committee is the insurance of efficiency of the company's proceedings affairs, the control of the credibility of the financial information that is provided to the investing community and the shareholders of the company, the compliance of the company with the laws, the safeguard of investments and assets of the company and the detection and confrontation of the most important risks.
Main characteristics of the Internal Audit System The internal audit of the Company is conducted by the Internal Audit Division, which is an idependent organization unit referring to the BoD of the Company. The internal audit division is supervised by the audit committee of the BoD.
The Internal Audit Division's object is: · To examine and evaluate the adequacy and efficiency of the
company's Internal. Audit System and to ascertain whether this system provides logical assurance regarding: - Compliance with the general functions of the Company and current legislation, - The security of the company's assets, - The economical and effective use of resources, - The reliability of the financial statements, - The reliability and integrity of the information used in decision-making. · To inform the Management (or those executives who have been authorized to be responsible for the implementation of corrective actions) for the results of the audit, the opinion that was formed for each of them and their respective contributions made (by the same auditor). · To assess past actions taken in the course of rectifying audit issues previously identified and brought to the attention of the Management.

80

The Internal Audit Control Division is responsible for: · To monitor the implementation and continuous compliance
with the Internal Operating Regulation and the Articles of Association of the Company, as well as with the general law relating to the Company and especially the law of joint stock companies and brokerage. · To verify the compliance with the commitments contained in the annual reports and the business plan of the Company regarding the use of funds raised from the stock market · To verify the legitimacy of the fees and all manner of benefits provided to the members of the administration with respect to the decisions of the competent bodies of the Company · To control the relationships and transactions between the Company and its affiliated companies within the meaning of article 42 paragraph 5 of the Law 2190/1920, and the relationships of the Company with companies in the capital of which members of the Board of the Company are participating with at least 10% or shareholders with at least 10%. · To monitor and recognize the cases where there is conflict of private interests of board members or directors of the Company with the Company's interests, which are revealed during the performance of its duties (which are stated to the Board of Directors) · To control whether confidentiality is ensured as well as the adequate notification of events such as: decisions on essential alterations in business activities, decisions or agreements concluding or resolving business partnerships or alliances and any essential international initiative, decisions for submitting public offer market etc., as well as whether the preconditions for transactions of liable persons are applicable. · To check whether there is «pre-notification» of certain transactions relating to securities of the Company for such persons as noted in the relevant legislation. · To check whether the obligations of the Shareholders and Investor Relations Department and the Corporate Communications Department are in compliance with the relevant legislation · To check whether the annual report is prepared in accordance with the requirements described in the relevant legislation
The internal audit implements in an independent and objective way the following activities: · Identification and prioritization of business risks · Overview of the Company's activities in order to ascertain
whether they are being implemented in an effective and efficient way, and in accordance to the instructions of the management, the policies and procedures. · Evaluation of the sufficiency and effectiveness of internal control system in all areas of activity and with specified priorities · Overview of the way the assets of the Company are being protected and confirmation of the existence of those data

(inventory, counting, etc.). · Assessment of the cost effectiveness and efficiency in the
use of resources, and suggestions to the problems that may exist. · Coordination with the work of the external auditors · Evaluation of data processing systems in order to examine whether these systems meet their goals and objectives and whether adequate audit procedures have been incorporated. · Follow up of recommendations from previous audits, for which there have been commitments for corrective actions
The way in which internal audit control is performed ensures that there is compliance with international standards of internal audit control and with the Code of Conduct of the Institute of Internal Auditors.
The Director and the staff of the Internal Audit Control Division during the performance of their duties are independent, and they do not come under of any other division of the Company. The Director and the staff of the Internal Audit Control Division are supervised by the Audit Committee.
Internal auditors are appointed by the Board of Directors and they are dedicated to a full-time job. From the Internal Audit Control Division are excluded all members of the Board of Directors, managers who have other responsibilities apart from than the the Internal Audit Control responsibilities or relatives of the above up to the second degree by blood or marriage.
In addition, during the performance of their duties, the Director and the staff of the Internal Audit Control Division (as well as members of the Audit Committee) may examine any documents is absolutely necessary for conducting the audit.
Risk Management The Internal Audit Division, through the procedures mentioned above is responsible for the assessment and management of operational risks that may be undertaken by the Company. The Company focuses on the effective monitoring and management of potential risks in order to maintain the stability and continuity of its work, as follows:
· In forming a comprehensive framework and proposing strategy, policies and procedures for managing and monitoring the risks that would undertaken by the Company in accordance with the directions of the management.
· The definition, acknowledgment and assessment of the undertaken risks.
· Developing and implementing adjusted tools in relation to the risk of billing of services and education of the organizational units for their use
· In preparation of Crisis Management Plan · In forming a corporate culture of risk management in each
hierarchical level of the Company

Annual Bulletin & Annual Report 2013 81

For the effective application of those tasks, the responsible Division, has access to all the activities of the Company and all data and information necessary for the fulfillment of its tasks.
E. Other managerial or supervisory bodies or committees of the Company
No other managerial or supervisory bodies or committees exist at the time.
EXPLANOTARY REPORT Information pursuant to article 4, paragraph 7 of Law 3556/2007 No other managerial or supervisory bodies or committees exist at the time.
Share Capital Structure The Share Capital of the Company currently amounts to sixtythree million nine-hundred thousand euros (63,900,000) and is divided into 106,500,000 shares with a nominal value of sixty eurocents each ( 0.60). The Company's shares are all common shares with voting rights and there are no special classes of shares. Each share incorporates all rights and obligations arising from the Law 2190/1920 (hereinafter Law). The Company's shares are listed for trading on the Athens Stock Exchange. The ownership of each share automatically implies rightfully the owners' acceptance of the terms of the Articles of Association and the legal resolutions of the General Meetings of shareholders, even if the shareholders did not participate in these. The liability of shareholders is limited to the nominal value of their shares. Shareholders participate in the management and profits of the company in accordance with the Law and the Articles of Association.
Restrictions on the Transfer of the Company's Shares The transfer of the Company's shares is carried out as provided by the effective legal framework without restrictions imposed by the articles of incorporation. According to Article 4 of Law 3016/2002, as applicable, the independent non-executive Members of the BoD can not, among other things, own shares by more than 0.5% of the paid up share capital.
Major Direct or Indirect Shareholders, as Provided in Articles 9 to 11 of Law 3556/2007 Significant direct and indirect shareholdings of persons (natural and legal) on the total share capital and total voting rights of the Company as provided in articles 9 to 11 of Law 3556/2007, by 31.12.2013, presented below:.
The Hellenic Republic Asset Development Fund owns 61.33% of the Company's share capital corresponding to 65,319,740 common nominal shares and voting rights and Bank of Piraeus holds 10% of share capital corresponding to 10,648,800 common nominal shares and voting rights.

On 31 December 2013, there were no other shareholders in the Company who have held, acquired or ceded directly or through a third party legal or natural person, more than 5% of the voting rights within the meaning of Articles 9 to 11 of Law 3556/2007.
Shares Conferring Special Control Rights There are no shares that confer to their holders' special control rights, except the right of the minority shareholders to elect in accordance with Articles 11 and 36 of the Company's Articles of Association two Board members through a special meeting convened specifically for this purpose. For convocation and decision on this meeting, the articles of the Articles of Association of the Company and the Law apply according for the convening and deciding on General Meetings. Every shareholder present and voting legally, is entitled to propose and pass a single Board Member regardless of the number of shares held.
Restrictions on Voting Rights At the special meeting of minority shareholders (Articles 11 and 36 of the Company's Articles of Association) the majority shareholder is excluded from attending (former Greek State) and in the General Assembly that elects the remaining members of the Board the participation of minority shareholders is excluded respectively (Article 11 paragraph .2 section c). The Company's Articles of Incorporation do not include any other restrictions on voting rights.
Agreements between Shareholders The Company is not aware of any agreements between its shareholders, which entail restrictions on the transfer of its shares or on the exercise of voting rights associated with its shares.
Provisions Concerning the Appointment and Replacement of the Members of the Board of Directors and the Amendment of the Articles of Incorporation According to Article 11 paragraph 1 & 2 of the Articles of Association, the Company is managed by the Board, with an odd number of Board Members and can not exceed thirteen (13) or be less than seven (7) members The Board of Directors consists of:
· Two (2) representatives of the Company's employees, elected (along with their alternate members) by direct universal suffrage, in accordance with article 17, par.1, of Law 2469/ (Government Gazette A' 38), as in force whenever.
· Two (2) members representing minority shareholders, in accordance with the provisions of article 18, paragraphs 3 and 5 of Codified Law 2190/1920, elected as per the provisions of article 36 hereof.
· Representatives of the shareholders, elected by the General Meeting; shareholders who participated in the Special Meeting provided for in article 36 hereof (concerning the election of the remaining members of the Board) may not participate in the said General Meeting.

82

According to paragraph 4 of Article 11, the elected from the employees two (2) Members, are appointed within two (2) months of their election. Until those employee representatives are appointed, the Board is lawfully constituted and operating without these members. As of their appointment, the said members are included ipso jure in the Board of Directors; if the Board of Directors has already held its inaugural meeting, it convenes again to include the said members.
According to paragraph 4 section (a) of Article 11, non-election, non-appointment or non completion on behalf of minority shareholders, for any reason whatsoever, to nominate their representatives may not prevent the Board of Directors from holding its inaugural meeting, nor from validly convening and resolving; the number of the said representatives is not taken into account in the calculation of majority and quorum. According to paragraph 5 of Article 11, In any event, the Board of Directors may convene and resolve validly without the representatives of employees, if the deadline specified in article 11, par. 4 hereof expires. In such case, their number is not taken into account in the calculation of majority and quorum.
Apart from the above differentiations, the other rules provided by the Articles of Association regarding the appointment and replacement of members of the Board of Directors of the Company, as well as the amendment of the Articles of Association, are no different from the provisions of Law 2190 / 1920, as in force.
Authority of the Board of Directors or Designated Members with Regard to the Issuance of New Shares or Share Repurchase The authority of the Board of Directors with regard to the issuance of new shares is laid down in article 8 of the Articles of Incorporation, which provides for the increase, reduction and amortization of share capital. Paragraphs 1 to 4 of article 8 state the following: 1. In order for the Company to increase its share capital, a resolution of the General Meeting of shareholders which provides for the amendment of the relevant article of the Company's Articles of Incorporation is required; such resolution may only be passed by qualified quorum and majority vote, as per article 31 hereof. 2. (a) Without prejudice to par. 4 of this article, it is expressly stated that by resolution of the General Meeting, subject to the publication formalities stipulated in article 7b of Law 2190/1920, as currently in force, the Board of Directors may be authorized to decide by majority of at least 2/3 of its entire membership, to increase the Company's share capital in whole or in part, through the issuance of new shares, up to the amount of the paid-up capital at the date on which such authority was granted to the Board of Directors. (b) The General Meeting may renew such authority to the Board of Directors for a period that does not exceed five years per renewal; every renewal is effected upon completion of the previous renewal. Such resolution of the General Meeting is

subject to the publication formalities stipulated in article 7b of Law 2190/1920, as currently in force. 3. A share capital increase resolved as per the provisions of paragraph 2 of this article shall not constitute an amendment of the Articles of Incorporation. 4. As an exception to the provisions of paragraph 2 of this article, when the Company's reserves exceed 1/4 of the paidup capital, in order for the Company to increase its share capital, a resolution of the General Meeting reached in accordance with the provisions of article 31 hereof ("Special Quorum and Majority Vote in General Meetings") is always required, pursuant to which the relevant article of the Company's Articles of Incorporation is amended.
With regard to share repurchase, the provisions of Law 2190/1920 apply without modifications.
Important Agreements Effected, Amended or Terminated in Case of Change of Management There are no important Agreements effected, amended or terminated in case of change of management, pursuant to public offering.
Agreements with Members of the Board of Directors or with Employees There are no agreements between the Company and members of the Board of Directors or employees concerning severance pay in case of resignation, unjustified dismissal or termination of tenure or employment due to public offering.

Annual Bulletin & Annual Report 2013 83

Name Antonios Vartholomeos Evagelos Palaiologos Gregory Zafeiropoulos Ioannis Chondrogiannos Lampros Zografos Eleftheria Karachaliou Panteleimon Kamas Anastasios Kourtis Epaminondas Sklavenitis Panayotis Skoularikis Christos Mistriotis Emmanouel Aggelakis Evagelos Moutafis
84

Galatsi, 26 March 2014 The Members of the Board of Directors
Position Chairman & CEO Member Member Member Member Member Member Member Member Member Member Member Member
Exact Copy of No 1128 Minutes of the Board of Directors of 26th of March 2014
The Chairman and CEO
Antonios Vartholomaios

5.3 ANNUAL FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
OF THE FINANCIAL YEAR 1 JANUARY TO 31 DECEMBER 2013 IN ACCORDANCE WITH THE INTERNATIONAL FINANCIAL REPORTING STANDARDS (IFRS) OF THE GROUP AND EYDAP SA (THE COMPANY)
DOMICILE: 156 OROPOU ST., GALATSI SA REGISTRATION NUMBER 44724/06//99/52 G.E.MI. (Greece's General Electronic Commercial Registry) NUMBER 121578960000



CONTENTS
· General Information for the Company · Statement of Income for the Financial Years ended on 31st December 2013 & 2012 · Statement of Total Comprehensive Income for the Financial Years ended on 31st December 2013 & 2012 · Statement of Financial Position of 31st December 2013 & 2012 · Statements of Changes in Shareholders' Equity of 1st January ­ 31st December 2013 & 2012 · Cash Flow Statements of 1st January ­ 31st December 2013 & 2012 · Notes on the Annual Financial Statements of 31st December 2013 The present Financial Statements, pages 83-135 were approved by the Board of Directors on 26 March 2014 and are under the approval of the Annual Shareholders Meeting. The following officers signed the Financial Statements under the permission of the Board of Directors:

Athens, 26 March 2014

The Chairman & Chief Executive Officer

The Member of the Board of Directors

The Director of Financial Services

The Head of Accounting Department



Antonios Vartholomaios

Hondrogiannos Ioannis

ID No.  543580

ID No.  094411







Spyropoulou Eleni ID No  060168 Economic Chamber of Greece Accounting License Reg. No A/22806

Skylaki Lemonia ID NO.  971227 Economic Chamber of Greece Accounting License Reg. No. /17806

86

GENERAL INFORMATION FOR THE COMPANY

Company Name: Distinctive Title: Domiciliation: Date of Establishment: Company Duration: Main Activity: G.E.MI. (Greece's General Electronic Commercial Registry) Number Prefecture: Tax Registration Number: Members of the Board of Directors:
Ending Date of the Current Period: Duration of the Period: Form of Financial Statements (which have been the basis in compiling the condensed financial statements): Date of Approval of Financial Statements (which have been the basis in compiling the condensed financial statements): Chartered Auditors Accountants:
Auditing Company:
Audit Report on the Annual Financial Statements from Chartered Auditor Accountant: Internet address where the Financial Statements are registered::

Athens Water Supply and Sewerage Company S.A. EYDAP S.A. 156 Oropou St. ­ Galatsi 25/10/1999 100 years Water Supply - Sewerage
121578960000 Athens 094079101 Ant. Vartholomaios, Evang. Palaiologos, Elefth. Karachaliou, Grig. Zafeiropoulos, Lambros Zografos, Panteleimon Kamas, Anast. Kourtis, Ioannis Hondrogiannos, Epam. Sklavenitis, Panag. Skoularikis, Christ. Mistriotis, Emman. Aggelakis, Evang. Moutafis 31 December 2013 12 months
Annual
26 March 2014 Nikolaos Sofianos (Reg. No. SOEL 12231) Nikolaos Papadimitriou (Reg. No. SOEL 14271) CHATZIPAVLOU, SOFIANOS & KAMPANIS SA CERTIFIED AUDITORS CONSULTANTS & BUSINESS CONSULTANTS d.t. DELOITTE
Qualified Opinion ­ Matter of Emphasis
www.eydap.gr

Annual Bulletin & Annual Report 2013 87

STATEMENT OF INCOME FOR THE FINANCIAL YEARS ENDED ON 31ST DECEMBER 2013 & 2012

GROUP

COMPANY

Amounts in  thousands

NOTE 31.12.2013 31.12.2012 31.12.2013 31.12.2012



Turnover

5

336.165

353.344

336.154

353.345

Cost of Goods Sold

6

(190.570) (202.750)

(190.569) (202.751)



Gross Profit

145.595

150.594

145.585

150.594

Other Operating Income

5

2.131

1.677

2.131

1.677

General and Administration Expenses

6

(56.258)

(44.381)

(56.232)

(44.366)

Distribution and Selling Expenses

6

(33.196)

(25.347)

(33.196)

(25.347)



Operating Profit

58.272

82.543

58.288

82.558

Other Expenses

(4.200)

(2.507)

(4.689)

(2.507)

Financial Income

9

16.169

5.275

16.169

5.275

Financial Expenses

10

(8.501)

(17.229)

(8.501)

(17.229)

Valuation of Participation in Associate Company

0

(76)



Profit before Taxes

61.740

68.006

61.267

68.097

Income Tax

11

16.420

(16.382)

16.420

(16.385)



Net Profit after Taxes

78.160

51.624

77.687

51.712



Earnings per Share (in )

12

0,73

0,48

-

Proposed Dividend (in )

-

-

0,36

0,15

Dividend from Tax Free Reserve (in )

-

-

0,02

-

STATEMENT OF TOTAL COMPREHENSIVE INCOME FOR THE FINANCIAL YEARS ENDED ON 31ST DECEMBER

2013 & 2012

GROUP

COMPANY

Amounts in  thousands

31.12.2013 31.12.2012 31.12.2013 31.12.2012

Net Profit for the Year

78.160

51.624

77.687

51.712

Valuation of portfolio's equities available

for sale - Other income transferrable

to following years' results

(233)

755

(233)

755

Actuarial profit-losses of defined

benefit plans ­ Other income non

transferrable to following years' results

50.325

14

50.325

14

Total Comprehensive

Income after Taxes

128.252

52.393

127.779

52.481

88

STATEMENT OF FINANCIAL POSITION OF 31ST DECEMBER 2013 & 31ST DECEMBER 2012

Amounts in  thousands

NOTES

GROUP 31.12.2013 31.12.2012

COMPANY 31.12.2013 31.12.2012

ASSETS

NON-CURRENT ASSETS

Goodwill

13

3.357

3.357

3.357

3.357

Other Intangible Assets

14

1.420

1.772

1.420

1.772

Tangible Assets

15

976.641 995.178

976.641

995.178

Investments in Associate Companies

16

0

53

0

542

Investments in Subsidiaries

17

0

0

60

60

Investments Available for Sale

18

1.369

1.602

1.369

1.603

Long-term Receivables

19

5.407 147.591

5.407

147.590

Deferred Tax Assets

20

93.593

66.453

93.593

66.450

Total Non-Current Assets

1.081.787 1.216.006

1.081.847 1.216.552

CURRENT ASSETS

Materials and Spare Parts

21

15.798

17.616

15.798

17.616

Trade Receivables

22

203.194 310.042

203.181

310.041

Other Receivables

23

18.359

90.513

18.371

90.512

Cash and Cash Equivalents

24

331.967

43.106

331.941

43.072

Total Current Assets

569.318 461.277

569.291

461.241

Total Assets

1.651.105 1.677.283

1.651.138 1.677.793



LIABIITIES

SHAREHOLDERS' EQUITY

Share Capital

25

63.900

63.900

63.900

63.900

Share Premium

40.502

40.502

40.502

40.502

Reserves

26

380.302 381.013

380.302

381.013

Retained Earnings (earnings carried forward)

27

465.911 358.248

465.949

358.759

Total Shareholders' Equity

950.615 843.663

950.653

844.174

LONG TERM LIABILITIES

Liabilities for Employee Benefits

29

252.609 258.413

252.609

258.413

Provisions

30

25.854

68.002

25.854

68.002

Investment Subsidies and Customer Contributions 31

204.598 211.379

204.598

211.379

Consumers' Guarantees

32

18.042

17.927

18.042

17.927

Total Long-Term Liabilities

501.103 555.721

501.103

555.721

SHORT-TERM LIABILITIES

Operating Short Term Liabilities

33

82.490

56.576

82.484

56.576

Current Tax Liabilities

11

11.935

8.714

11.935

8.714

Short Term Loans

28

3.142 185.481

3.142

185.481

Other Short Term Liabilities

33

101.820

27.128

101.821

27.127

Total Short-Term Liabilities

199.387 277.899

199.382

277.898

Total Liabilities

1.651.105 1.677.283

1.651.138 1.677.793

Annual Bulletin & Annual Report 2013 89

STATEMENT OF CHANGES IN SHAREHOLDERS' EQUITY OF 31ST DECEMBER 2013 & 31ST DECEMBER 2012

GROUP

2013

Share Share Legal

Other Securities'

Amounts in  thousands

Capital Premium Reserve Reserves Reserves

Equity Balance at

1st January 2013

63.900 40.502 21.547 358.283

1.183

Net Profit for the Period

Tax on reserve

of tax free income 

(478)

Net income recorded

directly in Equity

(233)

Dividends

Equity Balance at

1st January 2013

63.900 40.502 21.547 357.805

950

Results profit Total carried forward Equity

358.248 843.663 78.160 78.160

478

0

50.325 50.092 (21.300) (21.300)

465.911 950.615

2012

Share Share Legal

Other Securities'

Amounts in  thousands

Capital Premium Reserve Reserves Reserves

Equity Balance at

1st January 2012

63.900 40.502 21.547 358.283

428

Net Profit for the Period

Arrangement of Reserves

of Non-Distributed Dividends

Net income recorded directly

in Equity

755

14

769

Dividends

Equity Balance at

31st December 2012

63.900 40.502 21.547 358.283

1.183

Results profit Total carried forward Equity
324.715 809.375 51.624 51.624
(18.105) (18.105) 358.248 843.666

COMPANY

2013

Share Share Legal

Other Securities'

Amounts in  thousands

Capital Premium Reserve Reserves Reserves

Equity Balance at

1st January 2013

63.900 40.502 21.547 358.283

1.183

Net Profit for the Period

Tax on reserve

of tax free income (478)

478

Net income

recorded directly in Equity

(233)

Dividends

Equity Balance at

31st December 2013

63.900 40.502 21.547 357.805

950

Results profit Total carried forward Equity
358.759 844.174 77.687 77.687
0
50.325 50.092 (21.300) (21.300)
465.949 950.653

2012

Share Share Legal

Other Securities' Results profit Total

Amounts in  thousands

Capital Premium Reserve Reserves Reserves carried forward Equity

Equity Balance at

1st January 2012

63.900 40.502 21.547 358.283

428

325.138 809.798

Net Profit for the Period

51.712 51.712

Arrangement of Reserves

of Non-Distributed Dividends

Net income recorded

directly in Equity

755

14 769

Dividends

(18.105) (18.105)

Equity Balance at

31st December 2012

63.900 40.502 21.547 358.283

1.183

358.759 844.174

90

CASH FLOW STATEMENTS OF 1ST JANUARY - 31ST DECEMBER 2013 & 20122

GROUP

COMPANY

Amounts in  thousands

1.1-31.12.2013 1.1-31.12.2012

1.1-31.12.2013 1.1-31.12.2012

Cash Flows from operating activities

Profit before tax

61.740

68.006

61.267

68.097

Plus / minus adjustments for:

Depreciation and amortization

39,642

41,536

39,642

41,536

Amortization of customer contributions

and investment subsidies

(9,637)

(7,326)

(9,637)

(7,326)

Income from securities

(43)

(50)

(43)

(50)

Impairment of investments

5

76

495

0

Provisions for personnel compensation

61,040

(20,287)

61,040

(20,287)

Other provisions

(25,656)

38,603

(25,656)

38,603

Interest and related income

(16,126)

(5,225)

(16,126)

(5,225)

Interest and related expense

8,501

17,229

8,501

17,229

Plus / minus adjustments for changes in working capital accounts or related to operating activities:

(Increase) Decrease

Trade receivables

375,065

(40,566)

375,083

(40,566)

Materials and spare parts

1,842

(1,348)

1,842

(1,348)

Increase (Decrease)

Operating short term liabilities

35,537

(5,409)

35,510

(5,403)

Customers' guarantees

115

150

115

150

Obligations for employees benefits

1,164

622

1,164

622

Minus:

Interest and related expenses paid

(11,103)

(14,991)

(11,103)

(14,991)

Income tax paid

(24,398)

(9,736)

(24,398)

(9,736)

Net Cash Flows from Operating Activities (a) 497,688

61,284

497,696

61,305

Cash flows from investing activities

Dividends received

43

50

43

50

Interest and related income received

7,494

3,929

7,494

3,929

Purchases of tangible assets

(20,028)

(16,467)

(20,028)

(16,466)

Purchases of intangible assets

(725)

(915)

(725)

(916)

Proceeds from customer contributions and subsidies 2,856

4,968

2,856

4,968

Cash collection from liquidation of affiliated company

48

0

48

0

Net Cash Flows from Investing Activities (b) (10.312)

(8.435)

(10.312)

(8.435)

Cash flows from financing activities

Loan repayments

(178,993)

Dividends paid

(19,522)

Net Cash Flows

from Financing Activities (c)

(198.515)

Net increase / (decrease) in cash

and cash equivalents for the period

(a) + (b) + (c)

288.861

Cash and cash Equivalents at the

beginning of period

43.106

Cash and cash Equivalents at the end of period 331.967

(15,372) (16,346) (31.718)
21.131 21.975 43.106

(178,993) (19,522) (198.515)
288.869 43.072 331.941

(15,372) (16,346) (31.718)
21.152 21.920 43.072

Annual Bulletin & Annual Report 2013 91

NOTES ON THE ANNUAL FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OF 31ST DECEMBER 2013
1. ESTABLISHMENT, OPERATIONS AND LEGAL FRAMEWORK OF THE COMPANY
`'Athens Water Supply and Sewerage Company'' (`'EYDAP'' or `'Company) was established in 1980 following the merger between the Hellenic Water Company and the Sewerage Organization of Athens. The Company's Headquarters are located at 156 Oropou Street, Galatsi, pc 111 46, Athens.
The Company operates in the sector of supply and refinement of water, providing as well sewerages services and waste management in region of Attica. In accordance with its Articles of Association, where the operation clauses are referred, EYDAP is responsible for the analysis, construction, establishment, operation, exploitation, maintenance, expansion and renewal of water supply and sewerage installation and networks, within its area of responsibility.
EYDAP provides its water supply services through its 8,446 kilometers water distribution network. The Company also operates four units of water exploitation and refining with a total daily capacity of 1.8 million cubic water meters. The sewerage network has a total length of 6,000 kilometers and it is consisted of the main collectors system and the secondary sewerage network.
Within the company's jurisdiction it is also incorporated the waste water treatment plant (WWTP) of Psitalia, the waste water treatment plant of Metamorphosi as well as the waste management centre of Thriasio.
As of February 28, 2009 after the signing of the deliveranceacceptance protocol by EYDAP and the Ministry of Infrastructure, Transportation and Networks concerning the management of the dehydrated sludge desiccation unit of Psitalia, the company has under its jurisdiction the total facilities of Psitalia sewerage processing centre (Phase A, Phase B, desiccation and CETHE). The company has also the responsibility and management cost (transfer and energy development) of the desiccated product.
The waste water treatment plant (WWTP) in Psitalia also operates as well three Electrical and Thermal Energy Co-production units (ETEC). The one ETEC unit operates with the combustion of natural gas of electrical power 12.9 MWe and thermal power of 17.3 MWth respectively. The other two ETEC units operate with the combustion of biogas of total electrical power of 11.4 MWe (7.14 MWe & 4.25 We) and thermal of 17.2 MWth respectively.

Through operating of the waste water treatment plant (WWTP) in Psitalia, EYDAP has been incorporated in the System of Greenhouse Gas Emission Allowance Trading (December 2012).
EYDAP has also installed and operate four small hydroelectric stations in Kirphi, Eliconas, Kithaironas and Mandra of Mornos Aqueduct locations. In addition it was also completed the construction and it was delivered a small hydroelectric power station in Evinos (power of 820KW).
The Company operates under the authority of the Ministry of Infrastructure, Transportation and Networks and in accordance with the clauses of the Corporate Law 2190/1920 and establishment Law 1068/1980 as amended by Law 2744/1999.
Until the enactment of L 2744/1999 the Company operated as wholly state-owned utility. On 1999 the Hellenic State decided to partially privatize the Company through an Initially Public Offering in Athens Stock Exchange. With respect to this privatization, it was introduced and enacted the 2744/1999 Law, the main clauses of which are as follows:
The legal duration of EYDAP is set to 100 years commencing as of 25th of October 1999, date at which the L 2744/1999 was published. The aforementioned period can be expanded by an individual resolution of the General Assembly.
EYDAP has the exclusive right to provide supply and distribution of water and sewerage services in the Attica region for 20 years commencing as of date of which the L 2744/1999 was published in the Government Gazette. This exclusive right is not transferable and it can be renewed following a written agreement between the Greek State and the Company. By the article 35 par.2 of the law 4053/2012, EYDAP is enabled through its subsidiaries to undertake as well activities outside of its jurisdiction, as effective by the Law 1068/80 as effective through programmatic contracts of the article 100 of the law 3852/2010. At this case the subsidiaries are governed by the same legal and regulatory framework as effective for EYDAP with the exception of the tariffs policy which is defined by the programmatic contracts.
Apart from the amendment resulted from the article 28, paragraph 2 of L. 4053/2012 in the paragraph 6 of article 1 of L. 2744/1999 the following regulatory changes have been made:
With the paragraph 2, of article 1 of legislative act, Gov. Gaz. A 175/07.09.2012, which was ratified with the article 1st of L. 4092/2012, Gov. Gaz.  220/08.11.2012, it is stipulated that the paragraph 10 of article 1 of L. 2744/1999 ( 222) is abolished. Transfers of shares of EYDAP S.A. from the Greek State to Hellenic Republic Asset Development Fund are valid even if they occurred prior to the enactment of the current Law.

92

The Company's articles of association were amended in accordance with the above regulation.
With the article 64 of L. 4150/2013 Gov. Gaz.  102/29.4.2013, the paragraph 5A was added to the article 1 of L. 2744/1999, according to which the following are stipulated: "With joint decision of the Ministers of Development & Competitiveness, of Infrastructure, Transport & Networks, of Marine & Aegean and of other pertinent Ministers, EYDAP SA or subsidiary companies can be assigned with the study or with the assignment of a study with regard to the construction in island areas of projects related to the companies' activities, as well as with the assignment and the execution management of such projects. The decision stipulates special issues, such as the obligations of the Company (EYDAP S.A.) or its subsidiaries, the principal of the project, the financing scheme of the studies and the projects, the pertinent and responsible bodies, and any issue relevant to the application of this paragraph."
For the period 2000 up to 2013 the tariffs of water supply and sewerage services are defined through common decisions made by the Ministry of Infrastructure, Transportation and Networks and the Ministry of Finance, and after taking into account the proposition made by the Company's Board of Directors.
According to article 4 of the L 2744/1999 it has been established Legal Entity of Public Law (L.E.P.L.) under the name `'EYDAP Fixed Assets L.E.P.L.'' ("EYDAP L.E.P.L.") with purpose mainly the management of the operation and maintenance of the dams, the reservoirs and the main transfer channel of water. The Law 2744/1999 refers to the follows:
On October 1999 the dams, the reservoirs and the water supply channels of Marathona and Ilikis' lakes as well as that of Mornos' river which are the main infrastructure installations for the watering of the Attica region have been transferred to EYDAP L.E.P.L., with a decrease of the Special Untaxed Reserve of Equity.
The Greek State through the EYDAP L.E.P.L. is obliged to provide adequate quantities of crude water to the Company in order to be able to meet the demands for water supply.
EYDAP L.E.P.L. is responsible for the proper operation and the maintenance of the dams and watering channels, which have been transferred to it. The aforementioned maintenance has been assigned and is carried out by EYDAP. The annual cost of the maintenance and the proper operation of these installations continues to be counterbalanced against the cost of the crude water, which is provided by the EYDAP L.E.P.L. to the Company. However there is a pending issue with regard to the pricing of the crude water which the Company collects after 30/6/2013.

According to the L 2939/2001, EYDAP continues as well and after the enforcement date of L 2744/1999 ­ to be the carrier of the projects related with the water supply system of the broader area of Athens which were included under the European Cohesion Fund (ECF) by that time and until their completion. EYDAP has the right to receive the subsidies from the ECF, in retrospect, for the amounts spent or to be spent after the enforcement day of L 2744/99.
EYDAP S.A. established on 18th July 2011 (BoD Decision no. 17241/13.05.2011), the company under the name "NISON' WATER SUPPLY & SEWERAGE SOCIETE ANONYME" with the distinctive title "NISON' EYDAP S.A.". EYDAP S.A. participates with 100% in the share capital of NISONS' EYDAP S.A.. As a result, the Company prepares Consolidated Financial Statements since the financial year 2011.
The Company's revenues are cyclical (increased water consumption in summer months) having as a consequence the occurrence of substantial variances from quarter to quarter in its revenues and financial results. Thus, the interim financial results cannot be characterized as indicative for the trend of the whole year but they are indicative provided that they are compared with the respective results of the previous periods.
2. NEW STANDARDS, INTERPRETATIONS AND AMENDMENTS TO EXISTING STANDARDS
Certain new standards, amendments to standards and interpretations have been issued that are mandatory for periods beginning during the current reporting period and subsequent reporting periods. If not stated differently, the amendments are not expected to have material effect on the consolidated financial statements.
The following standards, amendments to standards and interpretations to existing standards are applicable to the Company for periods on or after 1 January 2013:
IAS 1 (Amendment) `Presentation of Financial Statements' The amendment requires entities to separate items presented in other comprehensive income into two groups, based on whether or not they may be recycled to profit or loss in the future
IAS 19 (Amendment) `Employee Benefits' This amendment makes significant changes to the recognition and measurement of defined benefit pension expense and termination benefits (eliminates the corridor approach) and to the disclosures for all employee benefits. The key changes relate mainly to recognition of actuarial gains and losses, recognition of past service cost / curtailment, measurement of pension expense, disclosure requirements, treatment of expenses and

Annual Bulletin & Annual Report 2013 93

taxes relating to employee benefit plans and distinction between "short-term" and "other long-term" benefits. The Company has applied the changes from 1 January 2013, and has also restated and reassessed the comparative figures for 2012.
IAS 32 (Amendment) "Financial Instruments: Presentation" (effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2014). his amendment to the application guidance in IAS 32 clarifies some of the requirements for offsetting financial assets and financial liabilities on the statement of financial position.
IAS 36 (Amendment) "Recoverable amount disclosures for non-financial assets" (effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2014). This amendment requires: a) disclosure of the recoverable amount of an asset or cash generating unit (CGU) when an impairment loss has been recognized or reversed and b) detailed disclosure of how the fair value less costs of disposal has been measured when an impairment loss has been recognized or reversed. Also, it removes the requirement to disclose recoverable amount when a CGU contains goodwill or indefinite lived intangible assets but there has been no impairment.
IAS 39 (Amendment) "Financial Instruments: Recognition and Measurement" (effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2014). This amendment will allow hedge accounting to continue in a situation where a derivative, which has been designated as a hedging instrument, is novated to effect clearing with a central counterparty as a result of laws or regulations, if specific conditions are met.
IFRS 7 (Amendment) "Financial Instruments: Disclosures" The IASB has published this amendment to include information that will enable users of an entity's financial statements to evaluate the effect or potential effect of netting arrangements, including rights of set-off associated with the entity's recognized financial assets and recognized financial liabilities, on the entity's financial position.
IFRS 7 (Amendment) "Financial Instruments: Disclosures" (effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2015): The amendment requires additional disclosures on transition from IAS 39 to IFRS 9. The amendment has not yet been endorsed by the EU.
IFRS 9 `Financial Instruments' (effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2015).

IFRS 9 is the first Phase of the Board's project to replace IAS 39 and deals with the classification and measurement of financial assets and financial liabilities. The IASB intends to expand IFRS 9 in subsequent phases in order to add new requirements for impairment. The amendment has not yet been endorsed by the EU
IFRS 9 "Financial Instruments: Hedge accounting and amendments to IFRS 9, IFRS7 and IAS 39" (effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2015). The IASB has published IFRS 9Hedge Accounting, the third phase of its replacement of IAS 39 which establishes a more principles based approach to hedge accounting and addresses inconsistencies and weaknesses in the current model in IAS 39. The second amendment requires changes in the fair value of an entity's debt attributable to changes in an entity's own credit risk to be recognized in other comprehensive income and the third amendment is the removal of the mandatory effective date of IFRS 9. These amendments have not yet been endorsed by the EU.
IFRS 13 `Fair value measurement' IFRS 13 provides new guidance on fair value measurement and disclosure requirements. These requirements do not extend the use of fair value accounting but provide guidance on how it should be applied where its use is already required or permitted by other standards within IFRSs. IFRS 13 provides a precise definition of fair value and a single source of fair value measurement and disclosure requirements for use across IFRSs. Disclosure requirements are enhanced and apply to all assets and liabilities measured at fair value, not just financial ones.
IFRIC 21 "Levies" (effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2014). This interpretation sets out the accounting for an obligation to pay a levy imposed by government that is not income tax. The interpretation clarifies that the obligating event that gives rise to a liability to pay a levy (one of the criteria for the recognition of a liability according to IAS 37) is the activity described in the relevant legislation that triggers the payment of the levy. The interpretation could result in recognition of a liability later than today, particularly in connection with levies that are triggered by circumstances on a specific date.
IAS 19R (Amendment) "Employee Benefits" (effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 July2014). These narrow scope amendments apply to contributions from employees or third parties to defined benefit plans and simplify the accounting for contributions that are independent of the number of years of employee service, for example, employee contributions that are calculated according to a fixed percentage of salary.

94

IAS 12 (Amendment) `Income Taxes' with regard to Investment Property using the fair value model.
IFRIC 20 `Stripping Costs in the Production Phase of a Surface Mine', applicable only to costs incurred in surface mining activity.
IFRS 1 (Amendment) `Government Loans'. The amendment sets out how a first-time adopter would account for a government loan with a below-market rate of interest during the transition to IFRSs.
Group of standards on consolidation and joint arrangements (effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2014):
The IASB has published five new standards on consolidation and joint arrangements: IFRS 10, IFRS 11,IFRS 12, IAS 27 (amendment) and IAS 28 (amendment). These standards are effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2014. Earlier application is permitted only if the entire "package" of five standards is adopted at the same time. The main provisions are as follows:
IFRS 10 "Consolidated Financial Statements". IFRS 10 replaces all of the guidance on control and consolidation in IAS 27 and SIC 12. The new standard changes the definition of control for the purpose of determining which entities should be consolidated. This definition is supported by extensive application guidance that addresses the different ways in which a reporting entity(investor) might control another entity (investee). The revised definition of control focuses on the need to have both power (the current ability to direct the activities that significantly influence returns) and variable returns (can be positive, negative or both) before control is present. The new standard also includes guidance on participating and protective rights, as well as on agency/principal relationships.
IFRS 11 "Joint Arrangements". IFRS 11 provides for a more realistic reflection of joint arrangements by focusing on the rights and obligations of the arrangement, rather than its legal form. The types of joint arrangements are reduced to two: joint operations and joint ventures. Proportional consolidation of joint ventures is no longer allowed. Equity accounting is mandatory for participants in joint ventures. Entities that participate in joint operations will follow accounting much like that for joint assets or joint operations today. The standard also provides guidance for parties that participate in joint arrangements but do not have joint control.
IFRS 12 "Disclosure of Interests in Other Entities". IFRS 12 requires entities to disclose information, including significant judgments and assumptions, which enable users of

financial statements to evaluate the nature, risks and financial effects associated with the entity's interests in subsidiaries, associates, joint arrangements and unconsolidated structured entities. An entity can provide any or all of the above disclosures without having to apply IFRS 12 in its entirety, or IFRS 11, or the amended IAS 27 or 28.
IAS 27 (Amendment) "Separate Financial Statements". This Standard is issued concurrently with IFRS 10 and together, the two IFRSs supersede IAS 27 "Consolidated and Separate Financial Statements". The amended IAS 27 prescribes the accounting and disclosure requirements for investment in subsidiaries, joint ventures and associates when an entity prepares separate financial statements. At the same time, the Board relocated to IAS 27 requirements from IAS 28 "Investments in Associates" and IAS 31 "Interests in Joint Ventures" regarding separate financial statements.
IAS 28 (Amendment) "Investments in Associates and Joint Ventures". IAS 28 "Investments in Associates and Joint Ventures" replaces IAS 28 "Investments in Associates". The objective of this Standard is to prescribe the accounting for investments in associates and to set out the requirements for the application of the equity method when accounting for investments in associates and joint ventures, following the issue of IFRS 11.
IFRS 10, IFRS 11 and IFRS 12 (Amendment) "Consolidated financial statements, joint arrangements and disclosure of interests in other entities: Transition guidance". (effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2014). The amendment to the transition requirements in IFRSs 10, 11 and 12 clarifies the transition guidance in IFRS 10 and limits the requirements to provide comparative information for IFRS 12 disclosures only to the period that immediately precedes the first annual period of IFRS 12 application. Comparative disclosures are not required for interests in unconsolidated structured entities.
IFRS 10, IFRS 12 and IAS 27 (Amendment) "Investment entities" (effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2014)". The amendment to IFRS 10 defines an investment entity and introduces an exception from consolidation. Many funds and similar entities that qualify as investment entities will be exempt from consolidating most of their subsidiaries, which will be accounted for at fair value through profit or loss, although controlled. The amendments to IFRS 12introduce disclosures that an investment entity needs to make.
· Amendments to standards that form part of the IASB's 2011 annual improvements project. The amendments set out below describe the key changes to IFRSs following the publication in

Annual Bulletin & Annual Report 2013 95

May 2012 of the results of the IASB's annual improvements project. These amendments are effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2013.
IAS 1 "Presentation of financial statements". The amendment clarifies the disclosure requirements for comparative information when an entity provides a third balance sheet either (a) as required by IAS 8 "Accounting policies, changes in accounting estimates and errors" or (b) voluntarily.
IAS 16 "Property, plant and equipment". The amendment clarifies that spare parts and servicing equipment are classified as property, plant and equipment rather than inventory when they meet the definition of property, plant and equipment, i.e. when they are used for more than one period.
IAS 32 "Financial instruments: Presentation". The amendment clarifies that income tax related to distributions is recognized in the income statement and income tax related to the costs of equity transactions is recognized in equity, in accordance with IAS 12.
IAS 34, `Interim financial reporting'. The amendment clarifies the disclosure requirements for segment assets and liabilities in interim financial statements, in line with the requirements of IFRS 8"Operating segments".
Annual Improvements to IFRSs 2012 (effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 July 2014). The amendments set out below describe the key changes to seven IFRSs following the publication of the results of the IASB's 2010-12 cycle of the annual improvements project. The improvements have not yet been endorsed by the EU.
IFRS 2 "Share-based payment". The amendment clarifies the definition of a `vesting condition' and separately defines `performance condition' and `service condition'.
IFRS 3 "Business combinations". The amendment clarifies that an obligation to pay contingent consideration which meets the definition of a financial instrument is classified as a financial liability or as equity, on the basis of the definitions in IAS 32 "Financial instruments: Presentation". It also clarifies that all non-equity contingent consideration, both financial and non-financial, is measured at fair value through profit or loss.
IFRS 8 "Operating segments". The amendment requires disclosure of the judgments made by management in aggregating operating segments.

IFRS 13 "Fair value measurement". The amendment clarifies that the standard does not remove the ability to measure short-term receivables and payables at invoice amounts in cases where the impact of not discounting is immaterial.
IAS 16 "Property, plant and equipment" and IAS 38 "Intangible assets". Both standards are amended to clarify how the gross carrying amount and the accumulated depreciation are treated where an entity uses the revaluation model.
IAS 24 "Related party disclosures". The standard is amended to include, as a related party, an entity that provides key management personnel services to the reporting entity or to the parent of the reporting entity.
· Annual Improvements to IFRSs 2013 (effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 July 2014). The amendments set out below describe the key changes to four IFRSs following the publication of the results of the IASB's 201113 cycle of the annual improvements project. The improvements have not yet been endorsed by the EU.
IFRS 3 "Business combinations". This amendment clarifies that IFRS 3 does not apply to the accounting for the formation of any joint arrangement under IFRS 11 in the financial statements of the joint arrangement itself.
IFRS 13 "Fair value measurement". The amendment clarifies that the portfolio exception in IFRS 13 applies to all contracts (including non-financial contracts) within the scope of IAS 39/IFRS 9.
IAS 40 "Investment property". The standard is amended to clarify that IAS 40 and IFRS 3 are not mutually exclusive.
IFRS 1 "First-time adoption of International Financial Reporting Standards". The amendment clarifies that a first-time adopter can use either the old or the new version of a revised standard when early adoption is permitted.
3. SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES
Statement of Compliance The financial statements have been prepared in accordance with the International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS).
Basis of Consolidation The Consolidated financial Statements of the current as well as of the previous period, include the parent company and its

96

subsidiary "NISONs' EYDAP SA.", whereas in the corresponding period of 2012 the consolidated financial statements included an associate company as well. Subsidiaries are all the companies which are managed and controlled directly or indirectly by the parent company either through the majority holding of the companies' shares to which the investment has been made or through their on the know-how which is provided to them by the Group. Subsidiaries' financial Statements are included in the consolidated financial statements from the date of control accession until the date that the control cease to exist.
During the acquisition of the subsidiary the respective receivables, liabilities as well as any potential liabilities are assessed at their fair value. In case that the cost value is greater than the fair value, the respective difference is recognized as goodwill. At the opposite case, where the cost value is lower than the fair value, the respective difference is credited in the financial results of the acquisition year. Minority interests are displayed at the proportion of the minority at the fair value of the assets and liabilities at which they have been recognized.
Subsidiaries' acquisitions are recognized under the acquisition method. The subsidiaries' financial results which are either acquired or sold during the fiscal year, they are included in the respective consolidated statements respectively from their acquisition date or the date of their disposal.
When is deemed necessary, subsidiaries' financial statements are restated in order for the data to be homogeneous and comparable with the respective data of the remaining companies of the Group. During the consolidation all the intra-group transactions and balances as well as the losses and gains between the companies of the Group are eliminated.
In the Company's financial statements participations in subsidiaries and affiliates are displayed at their cost value deducted by any impairment of their value. The company examines on a yearly basis or whenever there is any indication for impairment occurrence the accounting value of the aforementioned participations compared to the retrieval value on the basis of the higher value between fair value less cost to sell and the value in use.
Investments in associates Associates are those companies on which the Group exercises significant influence but they do not meet the requirements to be treated as subsidiaries. The consolidated financial statements include the Group's share in the profits and losses of the associates, based on the equity consolidation method from the date that the Group obtains significant influence until the date that it ceases to exist such influence. When the Group's share in the losses of an associate exceeds the displayed book value of the investment, the carrying value of the investment is reduced

to nil and the recognition of further losses stops, unless the Group has undertaken liabilities or contingent liabilities of the associate, beyond that arising from its shareholder state. The results stemming from transactions between the companies of the Group and the associates are eliminated to the extent of the investment of the Group in the associates.
In the separate financial statements of the Company, associates are valued at cost and they are subject to impairment audit annually or in interim periods when there are serious indications of impairment occurrence.
Goodwill Goodwill arising from the acquisition of a subsidiary or a jointly controlled entity or other business activity represents the difference between the acquisition cost and the participation of the Company in the net fair value of the identified assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities of the subsidiary or that of the jointly controlled entity or other business activity recognized at the date of acquisition.
Goodwill is initially recognized as an asset at cost and subsequently is measured at cost less any accumulated impairment losses.
For the purpose of impairment testing, goodwill is allocated to each cash-generating unit of the company. Cash-generating units to which goodwill has been allocated are tested for impairment annually, or more frequently when there is an indication that the unit may be impaired. If the recoverable amount of the cashgenerating unit is less than the carrying amount of the unit, the impairment loss is allocated first to reduce the carrying amount of any goodwill allocated to the unit and then to the other assets of the unit proportional based on the carrying amount of the unit's assets. An impairment loss recognized for goodwill is not reversed in a subsequent period.
During the disposal of a subsidiary or a jointly controlled entity or other business activity the defined amount of goodwill is included in the determination of the profit or loss that stems from disposal.
The Company's policy for goodwill arising on the acquisition of an associate is described under `Investments in associates' above.
Revenue recognition Revenue is measured at the fair value of the consideration received or receivable. Revenue is reduced by the estimated adjustments of customers' bills, the price reductions and other relevant downward adjustments.
The water supply and sewerage services are the major sources of income for the Company. Income from water supply are calculated on the basis of the consumed quantities and the price list in effect. Income from sewerage services are calculated as

Annual Bulletin & Annual Report 2013 97

percentage on the value of the consumed water. The Company invoices the water consumption mainly on quarterly basis, via measurements, whereas with regard to the non invoiced consumption up to the ending date of the period of the financial statements, the Company proceeds with an accounting record of an accrued income, which is based on historical consumption data of the Company's customers for the non invoiced period.
Provision of services Revenue stemming from service provision they are recorded based on the stage of the contract's completion.
Income from dividend and interest The income stemming from participations' dividends are recorded when it has been finalized the right for their receipt by the shareholders. Interest revenue is recorded based on proportional timing with respect to the unpaid capital and the effective real interest rate which is the interest rate at which they are discounted the future cash receipts which are expected to be received throughout the usable life of the asset in order to be offset with the net book value of the asset.
Rental income Rental income from investment properties is recognized on a straight-line basis over the term of the relevant lease. (see also "Leasing" below)
Construction contracts Where the outcome of a construction contract can be estimated reliably, revenue and costs are recognized based on the stage of the contract's completion by the reference date of the financial statements, measured based on the proportion of the real conventional for the executed project until the timing of the financial position over the total conventional costs which are estimated at the respective date for the completion of the project, except in the case where this is not representative of the completion stage.
Variations from the initial contract, claims and incentive payments are included to the extent that they have been agreed with the client.
In case where the outcome of a contract for projects' construction cannot be estimated reliably, the conventional revenue are recognized to the extent where the realized conventional cost are estimated to be retrieved. The conventional costs are recognized at the financial results of the fiscal year during which they occur. When it is probable that the total conventional cost will exceed the total conventional revenue, the expected loss is recognized

immediately at the results. Leasing Leases are classified as finance leases whenever according to the terms of the lease they are transferred substantially all the risks and benefits stemming from the ownership of the lease to the lessee. All the other leases are classified as operating leases.
The Company as lessor The amounts that are due from the lessees under finance leases are recorded as receivables at the amount of the Company's net investment in the leases. Finance lease income is allocated to the fiscal periods so as to reflect a constant periodic rate of return on the Company's net investment outstanding in respect of the leases.
Rental income from operating leases is recognized on a straightline basis over the term of the relevant lease agreement. Initial direct costs which incur during the negotiation and the arrangement of the operating lease are added to the carrying amount of the leased asset and they are recognized on a straightline basis over the lease term.
The Company as lessee Assets held under finance leases are recognized as assets of the Company at their fair value at the inception of the lease or, if it is lower, at the present value of the minimum lease payments. The corresponding liability to the lessor is included in the financial position report as a liability from the financial leasing.
Lease payments are apportioned between financing charges and reduction of the lease obligation so as to achieve a constant rate of interest burden on the remaining balance of the liability. Finance charges are charged directly on the financial results, unless this specific cost can be attributed directly to an individual asset, case where this is capitalized in accordance with the Company's general policy governing the borrowing costs (see below). Contingent rentals are recognized as expenses in the periods in which they incur.
Operating lease payments are recognized as an expense on a straight-line basis over the lease term, except where another systematic basis is more representative of the time pattern in which economic benefits from the leased asset are consumed. Contingent rentals arising under operating leases are recognized as an expense in the period in which they incur.
In case that lease incentives are received within the context of the lease agreement, the respective incentives should be recorded as a liability. The aggregate benefits of incentives are recorded

98

as a reduction of the lease expense according to the straight-line basis, unless another systematic basis is more representative of the time pattern in which economic benefits from the leased asset are consumed.
Foreign currencies The financial statements of the Company are presented in the currency of the economic environment in which the entity operates (its operating currency), which is the Euro. During the compiling of the financial statements of the company, transactions in currencies other than the entity's operating currency (foreign currencies) are recorded at the rates of exchange prevailing at the dates of the transactions. On each financial statements report date, monetary items denominated in foreign currencies are retranslated at the rates prevailing on the financial statements report date. Non-monetary items which are estimated at fair value and they are denominated in foreign currencies are retranslated at the rates prevailing at the date when the fair value was determined. Non-monetary items that are measured in terms of historical cost in a foreign currency are not retranslated. Exchange differences are recognized in the financial result of the period in which they arise except for: · exchange differences which are related to assets under
construction for future use in the production, which are included in the cost of those assets and they are regarded as an adjustment to the interest costs on foreign currency borrowings; · exchange differences in hedging transactions of certain foreign currency risks and · exchange differences on monetary items receivable from or payable to a foreign operation for which settlement is neither planned nor likely to occur, which form part of the net investment in a foreign operation, and which are recognized in the foreign currency translation reserve and recognized in profit or loss on disposal of the net investment. Goodwill and fair value adjustments arising on the acquisition of a foreign operation are treated as assets and liabilities of the foreign operation and translated at the closing rate.
Borrowing costs The borrowing costs at all cases burden the financial results of the fiscal year during which they occur.
Subsidies Subsidies are not recognized until there is reasonable assurance that the Company will comply with the clauses that govern them and that the subsidy will be received.

State subsidies whose primary condition is the purchase or the construction, or by any other way the acquisition of non-current assets are recognized as deferred income in the balance sheet and they are transferred to the operating result on a systematic and rational basis during the useful life of the related asset.
Other subsidies are recorded on a systematic basis at the income of the respective periods during which there has to be made the matching of these subsidies with the respective costs. State subsidies which are received as compensation for expenses or losses which have already incurred or for the purpose of providing immediate financial support to the Company with no future related costs are recognized in the results of the period during which they become receivable.
The Company receives subsidies from the European Union (E.U.) the Greek State and the Organization of Local Government for the financing of specific projects. Furthermore EYDAP's customers are required to participate in the initial network connection cost (supply, distribution network, connections pipes, etc) or in the upgrade/expansion of the Company's networks. Subsidies and customers' contributions are deferred and amortized into income, over the period necessary to match them with the related costs that they are provided to compensate, with the amortizing rate equal to the depreciation rate of the respective assets. The aforementioned income is presented as a subtraction from the depreciation expense at the financial statements.
State subsidies for the training of the personnel are recognized in the financial results within the periods that are required for the matching with the related expenses and they are presented as a deduction from them.
Retirement benefit costs Contributions to defined staff indemnities benefit schemes are recognized as an expense when employees have provided services entitling them to the contributions.
For defined benefit retirement plans, the cost of providing benefits is determined using the Projected Unit Credit Method, with actuarial valuations being carried out on each financial position statement's date. Actuarial gains or losses are directly recognized in the total comprehensive income for the period during which they occur, and are not transferred to the income statement of a following period. Prior service cost is recognized immediately to the extent that the benefits are already vested, otherwise are amortized on a straight-line basis over the average period until the benefits become vested.

Annual Bulletin & Annual Report 2013 99

The retirement benefit obligation recognized in the financial position statement at the time of the indemnity represents the present value of the defined benefit obligation after taking into account the adjustments for the unrecognized actuarial gains and losses and unrecognized past work experience cost reduced by the fair value of scheme's assets.
Any asset resulting from this calculation is limited to unrecognized actuarial losses and past working experience cost, plus the present value of available refunds and reductions in future contributions to the scheme.
Taxation Income tax expense represents the sum of the current tax payable and the deferred tax.
Current tax The current tax payable is based on taxable profit for the year. Taxable profit differs from profit as reported in the income statement because it excludes items of income or expense that are taxable or deductible in other years and in addition it further excludes items that are will never be taxed or exempted. The Company's liability for the current tax is calculated using the effective tax rates or those who have been enacted by the financial statements report date.
Deferred tax Deferred tax is recognized on differences between the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities of the financial statements and the corresponding tax bases which are used for the calculation of the taxable profit. Differed tax is recorded by applying the balance sheet liability method. Liabilities from deferred tax are generally recognized for all the taxable temporary differences and deferred tax assets are generally recognized for all deductible temporary differences to the extent that it is probable that taxable profits will be available against which those deductible temporary differences can be utilized. Such assets and liabilities are not recognized if the temporary difference arises from goodwill or from the initial recognition (other than in a business combination) of other assets and liabilities in a transaction that does not affects neither the taxable profit nor the accounting profit. Deferred tax liabilities are recognized for all the taxable temporary differences associated which arise from investments in subsidiaries and associates, and participations in joint ventures, with the exception of the cases where the Company is able to control the reversal of the temporary difference and it is probable that the temporary difference will not be reversed in the foreseeable future. Deferred tax assets arising from deductible temporary differences associated with such investments and

participations are only recognized to the extent that it is probable that there will be sufficient taxable profits against which they could be utilized the benefits of the temporary differences and they are expected to be reversed in the foreseeable future.
The carrying amount of deferred tax assets is reviewed at each balance sheet date and is been reduced to the extent that it is no longer probable that sufficient taxable profits will be available to allow all or part of the asset to be recovered.
Deferred tax assets and liabilities are measured according to the tax rates that are expected to be effective in the period at which the asset will be liquidized or the liability will be settled, based on effective tax rates or are effective by the balance sheet date. The measurement of deferred tax liabilities and assets reflects the tax results that will follow based on the way that the Company expects, at the reporting date, to recover or settle the carrying amount of its assets and liabilities.
Deferred tax assets and liabilities are offset when there is a legally enforceable right to set off current tax assets against current tax liabilities and when they are related to income taxes levied by the same taxation authority and the Company intends to settle its current tax assets and liabilities on a net basis.
Current and deferred tax for the period Current and deferred tax are recognized as an expense or income in the financial results, except when they are related to items credited or debited directly to equity, case where the tax is also recognized directly in equity, or where they arise from the initial recognition of a business combination. In the case of a business combination, the tax effect is taken into account in calculating goodwill or in determining the excess between the acquirer's interest in the net fair value of the acquired business identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities over cost of the company.
Property, plant and equipment Land and buildings held for use in the production or sale of goods or services, or for administrative purposes, are displayed on the financial statement report at their acquisition cost less any subsequent accumulated depreciation and subsequent accumulated impairment losses. Properties under construction for production, rental or administrative purposes, or for purposes not yet determined, are carried at cost, less any recognized impairment loss. Cost includes the compensation of professionals.
Depreciation of these assets, on the same basis as other property

100

assets, commences when the assets are ready for their intended use. Land owned by the Company is not depreciated. The water supply and sewerage networks as well as the antipollution projects, waste processing centers, fixtures and equipment are stated at cost less accumulated depreciation and any accumulated impairment losses. Depreciation is charged against the results so as to decrease the cost or the value of the assets, with the exception of the land and properties under construction, over their estimated useful lives, using the straight-line method. The estimated useful lives, residual values and depreciation method are reviewed at end of each year, with the effect of any changes on the estimates to be calculated on a prospective basis.
Assets held under finance leases are depreciated over their expected useful lives on the same basis as the owned assets or, based on the term of the relevant lease term in case it is shorter.
The gain or loss arising from the disposal or the retirement of a property, plant and equipment item is determined as the difference between the sales proceeds and the net book value of the asset and it is recognized in the profit and loss account.
Intangibles assets
Intangible assets acquired separately Intangible assets acquired separately are reported at cost less accumulated amortization and accumulated impairment losses. Amortization is charged on a straight-line basis over their estimated useful lives of the tangible assets. The estimated useful life and the amortization method are reviewed at the end of each annual reporting period, with the effect of any changes in estimates being accounted on a future basis.
Internally-generated intangible assets ­ research and development expenses Expenditure on research activities is recognized as an expense in the period in which it incurs.
An internally-generated intangible asset arising from development (or from the development phase of an internal project) is recognized if, and only if, all of the following can be proven:
· the technical feasibility of completing the intangible asset so that it will be available for use or sale;
· the intention to complete the intangible asset and use or sell it; · the ability to use or sell the intangible asset · the intangible asset to be able to generate probable future

economic benefits. · the availability of adequate technical, financial and other
resources for the completion of the development and the utilization or sale of the intangible asset and · the ability to measure reliably the expenditure attributable to the intangible asset during its development.
The amount initially recognized for internally-generated intangible assets is the sum of the expenditure which arise from the date when the intangible asset first meets the recognition of the criteria listed above. Where it is not possible to recognize internally-generated intangible asset, development expenditure is charged to the profit and loss statement in the period in which it incurs.
Subsequent to the initial recognition, internally-generated intangible assets are reported at cost less accumulated amortization and accumulated impairment losses, on the same basis as intangible assets acquired separately.
Intangible assets acquired in a business combination Intangible assets acquired in a business combination are identified and recognized separately from goodwill where they satisfy the definition of an intangible asset and their fair values can be measured reliably. The cost of such intangible assets is their fair value at the acquisition date.
Subsequent to initial recognition, intangible assets acquired in a business combination are reported at cost less accumulated amortization and accumulated impairment losses, on the same basis as intangible assets acquired separately.
Impairment of tangible and intangible assets excluding goodwill On the financial statements report date, the Company reviews the carrying amounts of its tangible and intangible assets to determine whether there is any indication that those assets have suffered an impairment loss. If any such indication occurs, the recoverable amount of the asset is estimated in order to determine the extent of the impairment loss (if any). Where it is not possible to estimate the recoverable amount of an individual asset, the Company estimates the recoverable amount of the cash flow-generating unit to which the asset belongs.
When a reasonable and consistent basis of allocation can be identified, corporate assets can also be allocated to individual cash flow-generating units, or otherwise they are allocated to the smaller group of cash flow-generating units for which a reasonable and consistent allocation basis can be identified.

Annual Bulletin & Annual Report 2013 101

Intangible assets with indefinite useful lives and intangible assets not yet available for use are tested for impairment annually, and whenever there is an indication that the asset may be impaired.
Recoverable amount is the higher between the fair value deducted by the sale costs and the value in use. In assessing value in use (of the asset), the estimated future cash flows are discounted to their present value using a pre-tax discount rate that reflects the current market assessments of the time value of money and the risks related to the asset.
If the recoverable amount of an asset (or cash flow-generating unit) is estimated to be less than its carrying amount, the carrying amount of the asset (cash flow-generating unit) is reduced to its recoverable amount. An impairment loss is recognized immediately in the profit and loss account. Where an impairment loss subsequently is reversed, the carrying amount of the asset (cash flow-generating unit) is increased to the revised estimate of its recoverable amount, so as the increased carrying amount does not exceed the carrying amount that would have been determined if there had not been recognized any impairment loss for the asset (or a cash flowgenerating unit) in prior years. A reversal of an impairment loss is recognized immediately in the profit and loss account.
Inventories Inventories are recorded at the lower value between the acquisition cost or the production cost and the price at which the Company can purchase (current purchase price) or produce (current production price) during the reporting period of the financial statements.
Provisions Provisions are recognized when the Company has a present obligation (legal or constructive) as a result of a past event, it is probable that the Company will be required to settle the obligation, and a reliable estimate can be made of the amount of the obligation.
The amount recognized as a provision is the best estimate of the consideration required to settle the present obligation on the financial statements report date, taking into account the risks and uncertainties surrounding the obligation. Where a provision is measured using the cash flows estimated to settle the present obligation, its carrying amount is the present value of those cash flows. When part or all of the economic benefits required to settle a provision are expected to be recovered from a third party, the receivable is recognized as an asset when it is practically certain that reimbursement will be received and the amount of the receivable can be measured reliably.

Onerous contracts Present obligations arising under onerous contracts are recognized and measured as a provision. An onerous contract is considered to occur where the Company has a contract under which the unavoidable costs of meeting the obligations under the contract exceed the economic benefits expected to be received under it.
Restructurings A restructuring provision is recognized when the Company has developed a detailed formal plan for the restructuring and has raised a valid expectation, to those been affected, that it will carry out the restructuring by starting the implementation of the plan or announcing its main features to those been affected by it. The measurement of a restructuring provision includes only the direct expenditures arising from the restructuring, which necessarily stem from the restructuring and simultaneously are not associated with the ongoing activities of the entity.
Warranties Provisions for warranty costs are recognized at the date of the sale of the relevant products, according to the management's best estimates for the expenditure required to settle the Company's obligation.
Financial assets Investments are recognized and written off on the date of the trade where the purchase or sale of an investment is performed based on a contract whose terms require delivery of the investment within the timeframe established by the market concerned, and they are initially measured at the fair value, net of transaction costs.
Financial assets are classified into the following specified categories: financial assets as `at fair value through profit or loss' (FVTPL), `held-to-maturity investments', `available-forsale' (AFS) financial assets and `loans and receivables'. The classification depends on the nature and purpose of the financial assets and it is determined at the time of the initial recognition.
Method of Effective interest rate The effective interest rate method is a method based on which it is calculated the amortized cost of a financial asset and it is allocated the interest income over the relevant period. The effective interest rate is the rate that exactly discounts the estimated future cash receipts (including all the commissions paid or received as they are an inextricable part of the effective interest ,transactions costs plus other additional fees or discounts) through the expected life of the financial asset, or a shorter period where it is deemed as appropriate.

102

Income is recorded on the profit and loss account by utilizing the effective interest rate basis except from those financial assets which have been identified as "at the fair value through the profit and loss" (FVTPL).
Financial assets at FVTPL Financial assets are classified as at FVTPL where the financial asset is either held for sale or it is designated as at FVTPL. A financial asset is classified as held for trading if: · it has been acquired principally for the purpose of selling in the near future; or · it is a part of an identified portfolio of financial instruments that the Company manages jointly and for that there is a recent actual pattern of short-term profit-taking; or it is a derivative that is not designated and effective hedging instrument.
A financial asset other than a financial asset held for sale can be designated as at FVTPL upon initial recognition if: · such designation eliminates or significantly reduces an inconsistency which refers to the measurement or the recognition that would otherwise arise; or · the financial asset forms a part of a group of financial assets or financial liabilities or both, which is under management and its performance is evaluated based on its fair value, in accordance with the Company's documented risk management or investment strategy, and information about the grouping is provided internally on that basis; or · it forms part of a contract containing one or more embedded derivatives, and IAS 39 permits to the entire combined contract (asset or liability) to be designated as at FVTPL.
Financial assets at FVTPL are stated at fair value and any resultant gain or loss is recognized in the profit and loss statement. The net gain or loss recognized in the profit and loss statement incorporates any dividend or interest earned on the financial asset. The fair value is determined in the manner described in note 41.
Held-to-maturity investments Bills of exchange and debentures with fixed or determinable payments and fixed maturity dates that the Company has the positive intent and the ability to hold to maturity are classified as held-to-maturity investments. Held-to-maturity investments are recorded at amortized cost using the effective interest rate method less impairment, with revenue recognized at the profit and loss account on an effective yield basis.
Available for sale (AFS) financial assets Listed shares and listed redeemable bonds held by the Company and traded in an active market are classified as being AFS and are stated at fair value. Fair value is determined in the manner described in note 41. Gains and losses arising from changes in

the fair value are recognized directly in equity in the investments revaluation reserve with the exception of the impairment losses, the interest calculated using the effective interest rate method and the foreign exchange gains and losses on monetary assets, which are recognized directly in profit the loss account. When the investment is disposed or it is identified as impaired, the cumulative gain or loss previously recognized in the investments revaluation reserve is included in the profit and loss account of the period. Dividends on AFS equity instruments are recognized in profit or loss when it is finalized the Company's right to receive payments from the shareholders.
The fair value of AFS monetary assets denominated in a foreign currency is determined in the respective foreign currency and it is translated at the spot rate at the financial statements report date. The change in fair value attributable to translation differences that result from a change in the amortized cost of the asset is recognized in profit or loss while other changes are recognized in the equity.
Loans and receivables Trade receivables, loans, and other receivables that have fixed or determinable payments that they are not traded in an active market are classified as `loans and receivables'. Loans and receivables are measured at their initial recognition at fair value and subsequently at amortized cost using the effective interest rate method less any impairment. Interest income is recognized by applying the effective interest rate method, except for short-term receivables where the recognition of interest would be immaterial.
Impairment of financial assets Financial assets, other than those at FVTPL, are assessed for indications of impairment on each financial statements date. Financial assets are impaired where there is objective evidence that, as a result of one or more events that occurred after the initial recognition of the financial asset, the estimated future cash flows of the investment have been impacted. For financial assets carried at amortized cost, the amount of the impairment is the difference between the asset's carrying amount and the present value of the estimated future cash flows, discounted at the initial effective interest rate. The carrying amount of the financial asset is reduced by the impairment loss directly for all the financial assets with the exception of trade receivables where the carrying amount is reduced through the use of a provision account. When a trade receivable is uncollectible, it is written off against the provision account. Subsequent recoveries of amounts previously written off are transferred in benefit of income statement. Changes in the carrying amount of the provision account are recognized in the profit and loss account.

Annual Bulletin & Annual Report 2013 103

With the exception of AFS equity instruments, if, in a subsequent period, the amount of the impairment loss decreases and the decrease can be related objectively to an event occurring after the impairment it was recognized, the previously recognized impairment loss is reversed through profit or loss to the extent that the carrying amount of the investment at the date that the impairment is reversed does not exceed the amortized cost that would have been estimated if the impairment was not recognized. In respect of AFS equity securities, any increase in the fair value subsequent to an impairment loss it is recognized directly in the equity.
Financial liabilities and equity instruments issued by the Company
Classification as debt or equity Debt and equity instruments are classified as either financial liabilities or as equity in accordance with the substance of the contractual arrangement.
Equity instruments An equity instrument is any contract that evidences a residual interest in the assets of an entity after deducting all of its liabilities. Equity instruments are recorded with the product of the receipts, net of direct issuance costs.
Compound Financial instruments The component parts of compound instruments are classified separately as financial liabilities and equity in accordance with the substance of the contractual arrangement. At the issuance date, the fair value of the liability component is estimated using the prevailing market interest rate for a similar non-convertible instrument. This amount is recorded as a liability on an amortized cost basis until it is eliminated through its conversion or until its maturity date. The equity component is determined after the deduction of the liability component from the fair value of the compound instrument as a whole. This amount is recognized and included in equity, net of income tax effects, and it is not re-measured at a subsequent date.
Financial guarantee contract liabilities Financial guarantee contract liabilities are measured initially at their fair values and subsequently they are measured at the higher between: · the amount of the obligation under the contract, as determined in accordance with IAS 37 "Provisions, Contingent Liabilities and Contingent Assets"; and · the amount initially recognized deductible by, when it is deemed necessary, the cumulative amortization recognized in accordance with the revenue recognition policies.

Financial liabilities Financial liabilities are classified as either financial liabilities at FVTPL or as other financial liabilities.
Financial liabilities at Fair Value Through Profit and Loss Account (FVTPL) Financial liabilities are classified as at FVTPL when the financial liability is either held for sale or if it is designated as a FVTPL.
A financial liability is classified as held for sale if: · it has been incurred principally for the purpose of repurchasing in the near future; or · it is a part of an identified portfolio of special financial instruments that the Company manages jointly and for this there is a recent actual pattern of short-term profit-taking; or · it is a derivative that is not designated and effective as a hedging instrument.
A financial liability other than a financial liability held for sale may be designated as at FVTPL upon initial recognition if: · such designation eliminates or significantly reduces an inconsistency which refers to the measurement or recognition that would otherwise arise; or · the financial liability forms part of a group of financial assets or financial liabilities or both, which is managed and its performance is evaluated on a fair value basis, in accordance with the Company's documented risk management or investment strategy, and information about the grouping is provided internally on that basis; or · it forms part of a contract containing one or more embedded derivatives, and IAS 39 permits to the entire combined contract (asset or liability) to be designated as at FVTPL. Financial liabilities at FVTPL are stated at fair value, and any resultant gain or loss is recognized in the profit and loss account. The net gain or loss recognized in profit or loss incorporates any interest paid on the financial liability. Fair value is determined based on the way described in note 41.
Other financial liabilities Other financial liabilities, which include as well borrowings, are initially measured at fair value, net of transaction costs. Other financial liabilities are subsequently measured at amortized cost using the effective interest rate method, with interest expenses recognized on an effective yield basis. The effective interest rate method is a method based on which is been calculated the amortized cost of a financial liability and the interest expense is been allocated over the relevant period. The effective interest rate is the rate that exactly discounts the estimated future cash payments through the expected life of the financial liability, or, in a shorter when deemed necessary.

104

Deletion-Cease-Discontinuance of recognition The Company deletes a financial liability only when it has been paid, cancelled or expired.
Cash and cash equivalents Cash and cash equivalents comprise of cash on hand and deposits, and other short-term highly liquid investments that are easily converted to a known amount of cash and subject to an insignificant risk of changes in their value.
Sectors of Operations The basic operations of the Company (water supply, sewerage services and others) are not subject to different risks and returns .As a result the company did not proceed to the presentation of notifications with respect to the sectors of operations. It is clarified that the Company operates in one geographical region (Attiki Metropolitan area). The policy and the decision making is common for the operating sectors of the Company.
Voting of Law 4053/2012 The voting of Law 4053/2012, whereby EYDAP is able to provide the full range of services specified in the law 2744/1999 as well as outside areas of the Company's responsibility, through its subsidiaries and through the conclusion of programmatic contracts with local government, establishes a new development framework for the Company, expanding the market in which EYDAP can operate and develop.
Transfer of 61.33% share of the Greek State to the «Development Fund of the State's Private Property S.A." According to the N. 195/2011 (GG 2501/B') Decision of Restructuring and Privatization Inter-ministerial Committee (RPIC) and on 27.1.2012 relevant notification there have been transferred from the Greek State 29,074,500 shares of EYDAP SA, and equal number of voting rights, ie 27.30% of share capital to the Development Fund of the State's Private Property S.A. Subsequently, after the N206/2012 (GG 1363) Decision of Restructuring and Privatization Inter-ministerial Committee (RPIC) and the relevant notification on 11.5.2012, there have been transferred from the Greek State 36,245,240 shares of EYDAP S.A. and equal number of votes, corresponding to 34.033% of the Company's share capital to the Development Fund of the State's Private Property S.A. The result of the aforementioned transactions was that the Development Fund of the State's Private Property S.A. participates in the Company's share capital by 61.33%. It is noted that the percentage of the Greek State in the share capital of EYDAP S.A. is consequently formed to 0.00%. The Greek State controlling 100% of the Development Fund of the State's Private Property S.A. controls indirectly the voting rights.

4. CRITICAL ACCOUNTING TREATMENTS AND IMPORTANT AND KEY SOURCES OF ESTIMATION UNCERTAINTY
During the preparation of the financial statements in accordance with the accounting policies of the Group, as they are presented in note 3, it is essential for the management to proceed with judgments, estimations and assumptions with regard to the book value of the assets and the liabilities, which are not obvious from other sources of information. The estimations and the relevant assumptions, are based on past empirical evidence, estimations of specialized external advisors as well as other related factors. The actual results may differ from these estimates.
The estimates and the subjective assumptions are reviewed on constant basis. The revisions of accounting estimates are recognized in the period of occurrence, if such affect only the particular period or in future periods as well.
The accounting judgments which have been made by the management during the application of the Group's accounting policies and which significantly affect the financial statements of the company and the group are the following:
1. The provision for contingent doubtful customer receivables (Greek State, public utilities, local government authorities, retail customers) 2. Contingent obligations of the Company toward the Greek State (maintenance cost of the assets of LEPL "EYDAP Fixed Assets", cost price of the crude water) 3. Provisions concerning four defined benefit plans for the personnel 4. Provisions for pending judicial cases relating to labor issues
Furthermore the management reviews annually, in terms of assumptions and estimations, the following: 1. Economic life and repurchase values of the depreciated tangible assets and the amortized intangible assets. 2. Income tax which incorporates the provision for the current income tax and the provision for additional taxes and incremental charges for tax unaudited years. 3. Recoverability of deferred tax receivables.

Annual Bulletin & Annual Report 2013 105

5. REVENUES
The Company's revenues are analyzed as follows:

GROUP

COMPANY

Amounts in  thousands

31/12/2013 31/12/2012

31/12/2013 31/12/2012

REVENUES

Revenues from water supply and related services

229,248

235,798

229,238

235,798

Revenues from sewerage services

110,305

114,965

110,305

114,965

Revenues from constructions for third parties

2,147

1,465

2,147

1,465

Turnover reduction due to sale of projects to third parties

(9,155)

(9,155)

Revenues from electric power sale

3,579

860

3,579

860

Inventory Sales

40

256

40

256

Total Turnover

336.165

353.344

336.154

353.345

Other Operating Revenues

2,131

1,677

2,131

1,677

Financial Income

16,169

5,275

16,169

5,275

Total Revenues

354,465

360,296

354,454

360,296

The reduction by  17.2 million approximately is mainly due to:
The reduction in: · Revenues from water consumption and revenues from the use of sewer channels, new supplies and related water and sewerage
infrastructure works, by  11.22 approximately. · Income from construction works for the Greek State by an amount of  9.2 million approximately. The reduction resulted from the
arrangement of the joint ministerial decision D6/2476/3.12.2013 (Gov. Gaz. 3065) of the ministers of Finance and of Infrastructure,
Transport & Networks.
The increase in: · income from sale of electric energy by  2.7 million approximately.

106

6. ALLOCATION OF EXPENSES IN THE OPERATIONS

6.1 The expenses accounts (by nature) have been allocated in the cost of goods sold and in the operations of administration and distribution as follows:

GROUP 31/12/2013 Amounts in  thousands Third-party expenses and fees Cost of Self-Constructed Assets Total  Personnel Fees & Expenses Third-party provisions Depreciation and amortization Various Provisions Sundry Expenses Raw materials and consumables Cost of Self-Constructed Assets Total B Total ( + )

Cost of Goods Sold Distribution Expenses Administration Expenses

47,665

792

3,932

(13,501)

-

-

34.163

792

3.932

115.869

24.806

38.970

29.075

5.964

8.773

28.019

481

1.505

(25.657)

6.724

829

2.479

8.940

324

599

(6.564)

156.406

32.404

52.326

190.570

33.196

56.258

Total 52,389 (13,501) 38.888 179.645 43.812 30.005 (25.657) 10.032 9.863 (6.564) 241.136 280.024

31/12/2012 Amounts in  thousands Third-party expenses and fees Cost of Self-Constructed Assets Total  Personnel Fees & Expenses Third-party provisions Depreciation and amortization Various Provisions Sundry Expenses Raw materials and consumables Cost of Self-Constructed Assets Total  Total ( + )

Cost of Goods Sold 50.298 (12.041) 38.257 53 .650 34.343 31.093 38.603 5.498 6.199 (4.893) 164.493 202.750

Distribution Expenses 448 448
16.155 7.040
647 -
748 309
24.899 25.347

Administration Expenses 2.763 2.763 33.798 2.713 2.470 2.170 467 41.618 44.381

Total 53.509 (12.041) 41.468 103.603 44.096 34.210 38.603 8.416 6.975 (4.893) 231.010 272.478

Annual Bulletin & Annual Report 2013 107

COMPANY 31/12/2013 Amounts in  thousands Third-party expenses and fees Cost of Self-Constructed Assets Total  Personnel Fees & Expenses Third-party provisions Depreciation and amortization Various Provisions Sundry Expenses Raw materials and consumables Cost of Self-Constructed Assets Total  Total ( + )

Cost of Goods Sold Distribution Expenses Administration Expenses

47.664

792

3.918

(13.501)

-

-

34.163

792

3.918

115.869

24.806

38.970

29.075

5.964

8.765

28.019

481

1.505

(25.657)

6.724

829

2.475

8.940

324

599

(6.564)

156.406

32.404

52.314

190.569

33.196

56.232

Total 52.374 (13.501) 38.873 179.645 43.804 30.005 (25.657) 10.028 9.863 (6.564) 241.124 279.997

31/12/2012 Amounts in  thousands Third-party expenses and fees Cost of Self-Constructed Assets Total  Personnel Fees & Expenses Third-party provisions Depreciation and amortization Sundry Provisions Sundry Expenses Raw materials and consumables Cost of Self-Constructed Assets Total  Total ( + )

Cost of Goods Sold 50.298 (12.041) 38.257 53.651 34.343 31.093 38.603 5.498 6.199 (4.893) 164.494 202.751

Distribution Expenses 448 448
16.155 7.040
647 0
748 309
24.899 25.347

Administration Expenses 2.762 2.762 33.800 2.703 2.470 2.164 467 41.604 44.366

Total 53.508 (12.041) 41.467 103.606 44.086 34.210 38.603 8.410 6.975 (4.893) 230.997 272.464

The fluctuation (increase) of expenses as compared to the previous year is attributed via the following accounts: · Personnel fees and expenses, which mainly include: 1. The creation of a provision, for the first time, concerning the special lump sum indemnity to the employees hired by the Company until 25/10/1999, in accordance with the Collective Employment Agreements signed on 2.7.1991, 25.5.1992, 21.06.1995,  06.06.2008, by  60.4 million approximately. It is noted that the article 45 of L. 4179/2013 abolished on 8.8.2013 the mandatory coverage of the above lump sum indemnity account's deficit from the Greek State. 2. The other valuations of employee benefits in accordance with the revised IAS, which were altered by an amount of  19.5 million as presented in note 8.
· Various provisions which include: 3. The provision concerning litigations cases which was altered by an amount of  22.4 million approximately. It is noted that the Company applies the BoD decision no. 18275/22.01.14, according to which claims from employees of  134 million approximately were reduced to  73.2 million approximately (including the employer's contribution cost of  9 million approximately). 4. The cancellation of a provision for doubtful receivables, which was altered by an amount of  86.7 million approximately, due to the collection from the Greek State and the Local Government Authorities of an amount of  149.5 million approximately, based on the joint ministerial decision no. 38560/26.9.2013 (Gov. Gaz. 2410) of the ministers of Finance and Infrastructure, Transport & Networks.

108

7. DEPRECIATION EXPENSES

Depreciation expenses of fixed assets are recorded on the basis of fixed assets' economic life, via the straight line depreciation

method as follows::

I. WATER SUPPLY NETWORKS

YEARS

Water Supply Reservoirs

50

Primary Water Supply Pipelines

45

Secondary Water Supply Pipelines

45

Distribution Networks, External and Internal Pumping Stations

10-45

Storage tanks ­ Water Treatment Plants

25-50

II. SEWERAGE NETWORKS

Heavy Infrastructure and Primary Collection Units

50

Secondary Pipelines

40

External Branches

25

Electromechanical Installations

15-30

I. Waste Water Treatment Plants and r&d Centers

Waste Water Treatment R&D Centers

20

Waste Water Treatment Plants

20

IV. OTHER

Furniture & Fixture

5

Computer Hardware

1-4

Transportation Vehicles

5-7

Mechanical Equipment

7

Buildings

40

The amounts recorded in the financial statements are analyzed as follows:

GROUP

Amounts in  thousands

31/12/2013 31/12/2012

Depreciation of tangible assets

38.565

39.208

Amortization of software

& first installation expenses

1.077

2.328

Amortization of investment subsidies

and customer contributions

(9.637)

(7.326)

Total

30.005

34.210

COMPANY

31/12/2013 31/12/2012

38.565

39.208

1.077

2.328

(9.637) 30.005

(7.326) 34.210

8. PERSONNEL FEES & EXPENSES (GROUP & COMPANY)

Amounts in  thousands Salaries and Wages Social Security Contributions Provision for staff indemnity L. 2112 Provision for Special One-Off Indemnity for employees hired up to the date 25/11/1999 Provision for Special One-Off Indemnity for employees hired after the date 25/11/1999 Provisions for Healthcare Beneficiaries Total (note 6)

31/12/2013 83,763 21,350 2,269
60,412
235 11,616 179.645

31/12/2012 88,959 19,989 (1,848)
0)
83 (3,577) 103.606

Total number of employees in the Company as of 31st December 2013 and 2012 settled at 2,477 and 2,512 respectively. The Company, applying the clauses of Law 4024/2011, has adjusted accordingly the personnel fees and expenses.

Annual Bulletin & Annual Report 2013 109

9. FINANCIAL INCOME (GROUP & COMPANY)
Amounts in  thousands Interest from Customers Dividends Other Income Total

31/12/2013 6.376 43 9.750 16.169

31/12/2012 4.586 50 639 5.275

The change in other income is mainly due to payment of settlements from municipal authorities to the Company.

10. FINANCIAL EXPENSES (GROUP & COMPANY)
The financial expenses of the Company, amounting to  8,501 thous. and  17,229 thous. on 31st December 2013 and 2012 respectively, mainly concerned interest from loans granted to the Company from credit institutions.

11. INCOME TAX
The income tax of the current year represents the sum of the current income tax, the deferred taxation, the tax provision for the unaudited financial years as well as the tax audit differences, and is analyzed as follows:

Amounts in  thousands Corresponding Income Tax Provision for additional tax for the year Minus: Utilization of previous year's provision Tax audit / compliance differences of article 82, L. 2238/1994 Deferred Taxation Total

GROUP

31/12/2013 31/12/2012

27,405

18,842

1,533

747

(748)

(918)

214

179

(44,824)

(2,468)

(16.420)

16.382

COMPANY

31/12/2013 31/12/2012

27,405

18,842

1,533

747

(748)

(918)

214

179

(44,824)

(2,465)

(16.420)

16.385

The income tax for the current period derived as follows:
Amounts in  thousands Corresponding Income Tax Income tax calculated with the tax rate in effect (20% & 26%) Provision for additional tax for the year Minus: Utilization of previous year's provision Tax audit / compliance differences Additional tax (from tax free reserve and income from leases) Difference of deferred tax from the tax adjustment of fixed assets Change in tax rate from 20% to 26% Tax on non deductible expenses Total

GROUP

31/12/2013 31/12/2012

61,740

68,006

16,052 1,533 (748)
214

13,601 747 (918) 179

483

4

0 (19,935) (14,019) (16.420)

(2,943) -
5,712 16.382

COMPANY

31/12/2013 31/12/2012

61,267

68,097

15,929 1,533 (748)
214

13,619 747 (918) 179

483

4

0 (19,935) (13,896) (16.420)

(2,943) -
5,697 16.385

The amount of the income tax obligation accounted for  11,935 thous. and  8,714 thous. respectively on 31/12/2013 and 31/12/2012.

With the adjustments emanating from the clauses of L. 4110/23.01.2013 and for the financial years starting from 1.1.2013 and onwards, an increased tax rate for legal entities was enacted (from 20% to 26%). The above tax rate change affected positively the results of the current financial year via the deferred tax, by  19,935 thous. approximately, and correspondingly affected the asset account "Deferred Tax Assets" which settled at  93,593 on 31.12.2013.

The Company has not been tax audited for the years 2008, 2009 and 2010. For the years 2011 and 2012 the Company was audited with regard to its tax compliance from its legal auditors, in accordance with the article 82 of L.2238/1994.

The financial statements include a relevant adequate provision for the additional taxes and incremental amounts which may be possibly charged with the tax audit completion of the unaudited financial years and the year 2013. NISONs' EYDAP SA has not formed a relevant provision due to its limited business transactions.

110

12. EARNINGS PER SHARE
The basic earnings per share are calculated by dividing the net profit of the period attributable to ordinary shareholders with the weighted average number of ordinary shares in issue during the period. Profits are defined as profits/losses from continuing operations of the Company. It is noted that in the current year, as well as in the previous one, there were no discontinued operations. There were no convertible bonds or other potentially dilutive convertible securities during the periods reported in the accompanying financial statements, so there is no calculation of any diluted earnings per share.

Earnings attributable to ordinary shareholders (in  `000) Weighted Average of outstanding shares Earnings per share ­ Basic in 

31/12/ 2013 78.160
106.500.000 0,73

GROUP 31/12/ 2012 51.624 106.500.000 0,48

The Board of Directors of the Company during its meeting on 26.3.2014 approved the submission of a proposal to the Ordinary General Shareholders' Meeting concerning the distribution of dividend, of article 45 of Cod. Law 2190/1920, amounting to thirty six cents ( 0.36) per share (total gross dividend at  38.34 million) for the financial year 2013. The dividend is subject to approval from the Ordinary General Shareholders' Meeting and is included in the balance of the account "Retained Earnings (earnings carried forward)".

13. GOODWILL
The goodwill of  3,357 thous. on 31st December 2013 concerns the amount paid in excess for the acquisition of Elefsina, Aspropyrgos and Lykovrisi networks as compared to the networks' net replacement cost, which was valued at the time of the acquisition. The cash generating units and consequently the goodwill of the networks, are under review for possible impairment in their values on annual basis, or periodically, provided that the events or the changes of conditions indicate that such impairment could be justified. The valuation audit of the goodwill from the acquisition of networks derived no loss due to impairment. The impairment audit was performed by the Financial Planning and Control Department of the Company in December 2013.

More specifically: In order to settle its claims against certain local government authorities (OTA), the Company signed contracts with three municipalities (Aspropyrgos and Elefsina during the 2nd half of 2003 and Likovrisi in 2nd half 2006) for the transfer of ownership of their water supply networks. In the context of the above contracts, water supply networks of 327 kilometers were transferred to EYDAP. The networks service, via 26,786 connections, 65,000 inhabitants approximately of the particular municipalities, which are now added to the Company's customer base. The acquisition of the network of Aspropyrgos Municipality accounted for  2,749 thous. and was settled by offsetting an equal debt to the Company. The appraisal of the network in replacement cost, which was performed by the Company's technical department and was in agreement with the corresponding estimates of the Municipality's technical department, amounts to  2,192 thous. The acquisition of the network of Elefsina Municipality accounted for  1,800 thous. and was settled by offsetting a debt of  1,500 thous. to the Company and via a payment of  300 thous. from the Company to the municipality. The appraisal of the network in replacement cost, which was performed by the Company's technical department and was in agreement with the corresponding estimates of the Municipality's technical department, amounts to  681 thous. The acquisition of the network of Likovrisi Municipality accounted for  2,271 thous. and was settled by offsetting an equal debt to the Company. The appraisal of the network in replacement cost, which was performed by the Company's technical department and was in agreement with the corresponding estimates of the Municipality's technical department, amounts to  590 thous.

14. OTHER INTANGIBLES ASSETS (GROUP & COMPANY)
Acquisition Cost on 31st December 2012 Additions Balance on 31st December 2013 DEPRECIATION 31st December 2012 Depreciation for the Year Total Depreciation on 31st December 2013 Net Value 31st December 2012 31st December 2013

20.930 725
21.655
(19.158) (1.077) (20.235)
1.772 1.420

Other intangible assets concern expense for the purchase of software, which is expected to generate future benefits to the Company. The expense is recorded as intangible asset and depreciated in three years.

Annual Bulletin & Annual Report 2013 111

15. TANGIBLE ASSETS

The Company, applying the provisions of IFRS 1 "First-time adoption of IFRS", utilized the exception concerning the recording and valuation of property assets during the compilation of the Transitional Balance Sheet to the IFRS on 1 January 2004. In this context, the Company treats the adjusted value of its property assets as deemed (implied) cost for the purposes of the compilation of the Transitional Balance Sheet to the IFRS on 1 January 2004. Specifically for the transition to IFRS, the Company recorded the self-utilized property assets at fair values based on studies performed by independent valuators. These fair values constituted the deemed cost for the compilation of the Balance Sheet.

The changes in fixed assets of the Group and the Company for the financial years 2013 and 2012 are presented in the table below:

2013 Machinery & Water Supply Sewerage Motor Prepayments Total

Land & Mechanical Network & Networks & Vehicles & & Constructions

Buildings Equipment consumption Biological Furniture in Progress

Amounts in  thousands meters Treatment

Non-Depreciated Value

on 1st January 2013

275.721

2.907

291.490 335.742 3.586

85.732 995.178

Additions

311

249

4,335 20,265 1,545

18,898 45,603

Reductions/Transfers

-

(4)

-

- (1,987)

(25,577) (27,568)

Deprecation Reverse Entry

-

6

-

- 1,987

- 1,993

Depreciation of the Year

(2,669)

(854)

(17,919) (15,408) (1,715)

- (38,565)

Non-Depreciated Value

on 31/12/2013

273.363

2.304

277.906 340.599 3.416

79.053 976.641



1/1/2013:

Cost

296,519

19,154

467,672 465,283 49,353

85,732 1,383,713

Accumulated Depreciation (20,798) (16,247) (176,182) (129,541) (45,767)

- (388,535)

   275.721

2.907

291.490 335.742 3.586

85.732 995.178



31/12/2013

Cost

296,830

19,410

472,008 485,548 48,813

79,053 1,401,662

Accumulated Depreciation (23,467) (17,106) (194,102) (144,949) (45,397)

- (425,021)

Net Non-Depreciated Value 273.363

2.304

277.906 340.599 3.416

79.053 976.641

2012 Machinery & Water Supply Sewerage Motor Prepayments Total

Land & Mechanical Network & Networks & Vehicles & & Constructions

Buildings Equipment consumption Biological Furniture in Progress

Amounts in  thousands meters Treatment

Depreciated on

1st January 2012

277.488

3.192

303.223 310.531 4.075

119.410 1.017.919

Additions

1,167

587

6,543 40,243 1,605

16,503 66,648

Reductions/Transfers

434

(3)

32 (121)

(50,181) (49,839)

Deprecation Reverse Entry

(434)

3

(32)

121

- (342)

Depreciation of the Year

(2,934)

(872)

(18,276) (15,032) (2,094)

- (39,208)

Non-Depreciated

on 31/12/2012

275.721

2.907

291.490 335.742 3.586

85.732 995.178

1/1/2012:

Cost

294,918

18,570

461,097 425,040 47,869

119,410 1,366,904

Accumulated Depreciation (17,430) (15,378) (157,874) (114,509) (43,794)

- (348,985)

Net Non-Depreciated Value 277.488

3.192

303.223 310.531 4.075

119.410 1.017.919



31/12/2012

Cost

296.519

19.154

467.672 465.283 49.353

85.732 1.383.713

Accumulated Depreciation (20.798) (16.247) (176.182) (129.541) (45.767)

- (388.535)

Net Non-Depreciated Value 275.721

2.907

291.490 335.742 3.586

85.732 995.178

112

16. INVESTMENTS IN ASSOCIATES

The investments in associate companies include the Company's participation in "Gas Company of Suburbs SA (EAP)". In February 2003, the joint venture "EYDAP ­ AKTOR ­ ELLINIKI TECHNODOMIKI TEV" was awarded by Gas Distribution Company (EPA) of Attica the project "Natural gas connections for household and small scale business consumption" in the northern part of Attica as well as in a large part of the Municipality of Athens. For this purpose, the company "Gas Company of Suburbs SA (EAP)" was established, in which EYDAP participates with 35%.

With the decision of EAP's General Shareholders' Meeting on 4.5.2012, it was unanimously approved the resolution of the company and its subsequent liquidation from 1.6.2012. On 17.6.2013, the final liquidation balance sheet as of 31 May 2013 was approved as well as the termination of the company's liquidation procedure.

The amount from the liquidation settled at  494 thous. and  5 thous. for the Company and the Group respectively.
17. INVESTMENTS IN SUBSIDIARIES
On 18th July 2011, with the BoD decision 17241/13.05.2011, EYDAP SA established a company under the name "NISON Water Supply and Sewerage S.A." with distinctive title NISON EYDAP SA, which has a share capital of  60,000 fully owned by EYDAP SA.

The subsidiary plans to activate in the areas of water supply, sewerage, irrigation, and rain water collection in Greece's islands. The subsidiary possesses limited business activity until today.
18. INVESTMENTS AVAILABLE FOR SALE

Fair Value (EYATH)

31/12/2013 1.369

31/12/2012 1.602

The investment presented in the above table concerns the Company's participation in EYATH, a company listed on the Athens Exchange. This investment provides EYDAP with the ability to collect income from dividends and potential capital gains.

The depicted value of this equity is based on the official quoted price of the Athens Exchange as of the reporting date of the Financial Statements.

19. LONG-TERM RECEIVABLES (GROUP & COMPANY)
The account is analyzed in the attached financial statements as follows:

Amounts in  thousands
Long Term Receivables from Local Government Authorities Personnel Loans (Note 21) Payroll Deductions Third Party Works Guarantees (Public Power Corp., Real Estate) Total

GROUP 31/12/2013 31/12/2012

0 2.248
317 2.147
695 5.407

30.955 1.777 2.122 112.063
674 147.591

COMPANY 31/12/2013 31/12/2012

0 2.248
317 2.147
695 5.407

30.955 1.777 2.122 112.063
673 147.590

Long Term Receivables from Local Government Authorities (OTA) The Company, in the context of its activities, supplies with (distilled or crude) water various local government authorities (OTA), which utilize their own distribution networks and invoice their citizens. The Company, after 8.10.2013, received from the Greek State on behalf of OTA an amount of  146.8 million approximately, part of which was recorded in the long-term receivables, based on no. 38560/26.09.2013 joint ministerial decision (Gov. Gaz. 2410) of the Ministers of Finance and Interior.

Payroll Retentions The account "Payroll Retentions" concerns the long term part of the arranged cash facilities to the personnel following the adjustment of the payroll cost in line with the requirements of L. 4024/2011.

Annual Bulletin & Annual Report 2013 113

Construction Works for Third Parties (Group and Company) The account in the attached financial statements is analyzed as follows:

Amounts in  thousands Ministry of Infrastructure, Transport and Networks Received Subsidies / Advances
EYDAP Fixed Assets L.E.P.L. Received Subsidies / Advances
Total

31/12/2013 936 0 936
1.211 0
1.211 2.147

31/12/2012 66.998 (1.022) 65.976 100.097 (54.010) 46.087 112.063

The Company, in accordance with its foundation law 2744/1999, signed a contract with the Greek State in 1999 to undertake the construction of flood protection infrastructure for the account of the former Ministry for the Environment, Planning and Public Works (currently named as Ministry of Infrastructure and Networks) as well as to undertake projects for the upgrade and expansion of water supply technical installations, which have been transferred to the L.E.P.L. "EYDAP Fixed Assets". With the joint ministerial decision no. D6/2476/3.12.2013 (Gov. Gaz. 3065) of the ministries of Finance and of Infrastructure, Transport and Networks, the payment of an amount  139.24 million (including VAT) was defined. This amount refers to a receipt on 31.12.2013 concerning Greek State's obligation, up until 31.12.2012, for construction of infrastructure and flood protection projects, etc. The total claim of the Company for the particular projects was set to an amount of  151.89 million approximately.

20. DEFERRED TAXATION

Amounts in  thousands Description

2012

2013

Opening

(Burden)/ Ending

((Burden)/ (Burden)/ Ending

Balance

Benefit in Balance

Benefit in Benefit in Balance

01.01.2012 Period's Results 31.12.2012 Period's Results Equity 31.12.2012

Expensing of intangible assets Inventory impairment Obligation for employee benefits Provisions for doubtful receivables Other provisions for risks and expenses Customer and municipalities contributions Depreciation differences due to adjustment of economic life Income and expenses accrued Deferred tax in Tax Reserve due to revaluation of real estate assets Other deferred taxation items

17 454 38,288 3,108 9,917 12,864
(4,607) (1,909)
3,265 2,584 63,981

9 4 (3,949) 1,717 (105)
232 23
2,943 1,595 3,689

26 458 34,339 3,108 11,634 12,759
(4,375) (1,886)
6,208 4,179 66,450

8 131 26,321 933 11,556 3,405

(17,681) -

(1,484)

-

1,835

-

1,863

-

255

-

44,824 17,681

35 589 42,978 4,041 23,190 16,164
(5,859) (51)
8,071 4,434 93,593

The debit entry for deferred income taxes (expenses for the year ­ deferred tax liability) in the income accounts, includes the temporary tax differences mainly deriving from recorded revenues ­ profits which will be taxed in the future. The credit entry for deferred income taxes (income for the year ­ deferred tax receivable), mainly includes temporary tax differences deriving from provisions, which are tax deductible at the time of the realization of the corresponding expenditure in following time periods.

With the adjustments emanating from the clauses of L. 4110/23.01.2013 and for the financial years starting from 1.1.2013 and onwards, an increased tax rate for legal entities was enacted (from 20% to 26%). The above tax rate change affected positively the results of the current financial year via the deferred tax, by  19,935 thous. approximately, and correspondingly affected the asset account "Deferred Tax Assets" which settled at  93,593 on 31.12.2013.

114

21. MATERIALS, SPARE PARTS & CONCUMABLES (GROUP & COMPANY)
The account in the attached financial statements is analyzed as follows:

Amounts in  thousands Consumables and Spare Parts Provision for Obsolete Inventory Total

31/12/2013 18.065 (2.267) 15.798

31/12/2012 19.908 (2.292) 17.616

Inventories are utilized in the Company's networks (maintenance and expansion).

22.RECEIVABLES FROM CUSTOMERS, CONSUMERS (GROUP & COMPANY)
The account in the attached financial statements is analyzed as follows:

Amounts in  thousands Retail customers and users Municipalities, Greek State, Public Utilities
Accrued, Non-Invoiced, Income
Minus: Provision for doubtful receivables

GROUP

31/12/2013 31/12/2012

130,688

121,626

41,635

221,172

172.323

342.798

56.581

52.907

228.904

395.705

(25.710)

(85.663)

203.194

310.042

COMPANY

31/12/2013 31/12/2012

130,675

121,625

41,635

221,173

172.310

342.798

56.581

52.907

228.891

395.705

(25.710)

(85.663)

203.181

310.041

The majority of retail customers (household users) are charged every three months based on indications provided by water meters. Non-invoiced income concerns water supply and sewerage services between the date of the last measurement and the ending date of the financial year. The above income had not been invoiced as of 31/12/2013.

On 16/12/2013 (Gov. Gaz. 3188) based on a joint Decision of the Ministers of Finance and Networks, the pricing lists of water supply and sewerage services were readjusted.

The statement of the provision for doubtful receivables which have been recorded for estimated non-recoverable amounts from water supply and sewerage services, is analyzed as follows:

Amounts in  thousands Opening Balance Provisions for the Period Ending Balance

31/12/2013 85.663 (59.953) 25.710

31/12/2012 56.530 29.133 85.633

The provision for doubtful receivables has been calculated via empirical estimates for past years defaults, statistical data over the collectability of accounts and other parameters concerning the ability for collection of receivables.

The Company calculates incremental charges over mature payable amounts based on a monthly rate of 1%, which is not recorded in the accounts and is monitored as a non-accounting item. This rate is equivalent with the incremental percentage rate of overdue payments to the Greek State and is defined following decision of the Ministry of Finance. From 8.10.2013, the Company received from the Greek State on behalf of local government authorities an amount of  146.8 million approximately, and on behalf of other public entities an amount of  2.6 million approximately, based on no. 38560/26.9.2013 Joint Ministerial Decision (Gov. Gaz. 2410) of the ministers of Finance and Interior.

As result of the reduction of the outstanding amount from local government and public authority invoices by  150 million approximately, the Company adjusted the cumulative provision for doubtful receivables to the amount of  25.7 million approximately.

Annual Bulletin & Annual Report 2013 115

23. OTHER RECEIVABLES (GROUP & COMPANY)

The account is analyzed as follows:

GROUP

Amounts in  thousands

31/12/2013 31/12/2012

Loans and advances to personnel

5.349

7.165

Advances to subcontractors and suppliers

538

538

Receivable concerning Greek State's participation

in the mandatory coverage of the deficit

of the special lump sum account

258

68.844

Sundry advances

2.719

1.698

Receivables due to refund of social security contributions

1.100

4.399

Receivables due to personnel's training programs

1.354

999

Other receivables

3.542

4296

Receivables concerning retention amounts

from pensioners' health care contributions

3.499

2.574

Total

18.359

90.513

COMPANY

31/12/2013 31/12/2012

5.349

7.165

538

538

258 2.719 1.100 1.354 3.554
3.499 18.371

68.844 1.698 4.399
999 4.295
2.574 90.512

The outstanding amounts of other receivables include provision for doubtful receivables of  4,162 thous. on 31/12/2013 and  867 thous. on 31/12/2012.

Loans and Advances to Personnel: The company provides the personnel with zero interest loans, short-term payroll advances, cash facilities and long-term interest bearing loans. Following the full repayment of its debt obligations, the Company, from November 2013 uses the interest rate of Greek State's 3-month Treasury Bill for the interest calculation of its loans. The amount of  5,349 thous. does not include the long-term part of loans granted to personnel, which at 31 December 2013 amounted to  2,248 thous., and the long-term part of the installments of the withholding amount, from the personnel's payroll account, which at 31 December 2013 accounted for  317 thous. and was included in the long-term receivables (Note 19).

Greek State's participation in the mandatory coverage of the deficit of the special lump sum account: The amount concerns Greek State's obligation based on L. 2939/6.8.2001 to cover the deficit of the special lump sum account for end of service indemnity, for employees hired by the Company until 25th October 1999.

The statement of part of the indemnities undertaken by the Greek State, is the following:

Amounts in  thousands Accumulated deficit opening balance Compensation settlements Employees' retentions Receipt for the Greek State (article 52, L. 4186/2013) Offsetting entry / Greek State's dividend and the Account (decision issued by the Greek State) Accumulated deficit receivable from the Greek State closing balance

1.1.-31.12.2013 68.844 1.922 (769)
(58.351)
(11.388)
258

1.1.-31.12.2012 62.433 7.842 (1.431)
0
0
68.844

1. With the voting of article 52, L. 4186/17.9.2013, the Company received  58.4 million approximately on 25.9.2013, concerning the coverage obligation of the account from the Greek State, until 30.06.2013. The obligation in effect concerns an overdue amount payable from the Greek State from 1.7.2013-8.8.2013 (publication date of L. 4179/2013). 2. On 5.7.2013, the prot. no. 2/64497/0025 Decision of the General Directorate of Treasury and Budget was issued, counterbalancing the obligations with dividends payable of an amount of  11.4 million approximately.

116

24. CASH AND CASH EQUIVALENTS

The account is analyzed as follows:
Amounts in  thousands Cash at hand Sight and time deposits Total

GROUP

31/12/2013 31/12/2012

389

492

331.578

42.614

331.967

43.106

COMPANY 31/12/2013
363 331.578 331.941

31/12/2012 492
42.580 43.072

The sight and time deposits carry floating interest rates based on the level of the deposit and the interest charged period. The current value of the above sight and time deposits approaches their accounting value due to the floating interest rates and their short-term maturities. Sight deposits do not include amounts of  5,058 thous. and  1,677 thous. of overdue check payables on 31 December 2013 and 2012 respectively, which have been recorded in the account of other short-term liabilities (Note 33). Interest income from bank deposits is recognized via the principle of accrued income, and is included in the financial income.

25. SHARE CAPITAL
EYDAP was established in 1980 pursuant to Law 1068/1980 and following the merger of the two water and sewerage utilities of Athens at the time, with the company names Hellenic Water Supply Company and the Sewerage Organization of Athens.
The initial share capital of the Company settled at  130,502 and was based on the valuation of assets and liabilities of the merged entities according to the clauses of Law 1068/1980.
In 1992, the share capital amounted to  1,253,507 consisting of 213,566,282 common shares with a nominal value of  5.87 per share. The share capital increase took place pursuant to Law 1914/1990 following a new valuation of the Company's net worth in view of significant number installations, which were contributed by the Greek State to the Company at the time, and following the capitalization of liabilities towards the State.
The Shareholders General Meeting on 30 June 1998 approved an additional increase of the Company's share capital by  6,845 via the capitalization of investment subsidies that had been collected up to 31 December 1997. Following the above increase, the Company's share capital amounted to  1,260,352 consisting of 214,732,544 common shares with a nominal value of 5.87 (two thousands drachmas) per share.
In 1999, due to the Company's listing on the Athens Exchange and according to Law 2744/1999, its share capital was set at  58,694 consisting of 100,000,000 common shares with a nominal value of  0.59 (two hundred drachmas) per share. According to the same Law, the remaining amount of  1,201,658 of the share capital was converted to a `'Special Non Taxable Reserve'', which was among others decreased by the net amount of fixed assets, which were transferred to «EYDAP Fixed Assets» at no cost. In December 1999, 6,500,000 new ordinary shares were issued at a nominal value of  0.59 (two hundred drachmas) per share and were allocated through an initial public offering for the Company's

listing on the Athens Exchange. As a result, the Company's share capital as of December 31, 2000 had amounted to  62,509 thous. consisting of 106,500,000 common shares with a nominal value of  0.59 (two hundred drachmas) per share.
In May 2001, EYDAP decided to denominate its share capital into Euro, through the increase of the nominal value per share from  0.59 to  0.60, and the amount of  1,391 of the above share capital increase was transferred from the "Share Premium Account". Thus, the share capital of the Company on 31 December 2012 and 31 December 2011 was equivalent to  63,900 thous. consisting of 106,500,000 common shares with a nominal value of  0.60 per share.
No change occurred in the Company's share capital during the current as well as the previous financial year. According to the no. 195/2011 (Gov. Gaz. 2501/B') Decision of the Inter-ministerial Committee for Asset Restructuring and Privatization (DEAA) and the relevant notification as of 27.1.2012, 29,074,500 shares of EYDAP SA, and an equal number of voting rights representing 27.30% of the Company's share capital, were transferred from the Greek State to the Hellenic Republic Asset Development Fund (HRADF). In an following stage with the no. 206/2012 (Gov. Gaz. 1363) Decision of the Inter-ministerial Committee for Asset Restructuring and Privatization (DEAA) and the relevant notification as of 11.5.2012, 36,245,240 shares of EYDAP SA, and an equal number of voting rights representing 34.033% of the Company's share capital, were transferred from the Greek State to the Hellenic Republic Asset Development Fund (HRADF). As a result, HRADF holds 61.33% of the Company's share capital. It is noted that Greek State's participation in the share capital of EYDAP now accounts for 0.00%. The Greek State, by controlling 100% of the Hellenic Republic Asset Development Fund SA, controls indirectly the above voting rights.

Annual Bulletin & Annual Report 2013 117

26. RESERVES

The account in the financial statements is analyzed as follows:
Amounts in  thousands Legal reserve Special Non-Taxable Reserve of Law 2744/99 Reserve from Non-Taxable Income Reserve from Specially Taxed Income Other reserves Total

31/12/2013 21.547 352,078 2,040 3,687 950 380.302

31/12/2012 21.547 352,078 2,518 3,687 1,183 381.013

Legal reserve: According to the Greek commercial law (Article 44, L. 2190/1920), companies are required to transfer at least 5% of their annual net profits to a legal reserve until this reserve becomes equivalent with the 1/3 of the paid up share capital. The particular reserve is not distributable and the purpose of its creation is to cover future losses. On 31/12/2011, the Company covered the required by law legal reserve as percentage of its total paid up share capital.

Special Non-Taxable Reserve of Law 2744/99: The Special Non-Taxable Reserve was formed with the Company's listing on the Athens Stock Exchange (ASE) in financial year 1999, from the denomination of the Company's share capital at the time to the euro equivalent of  1,201,658. Based on the clauses of L. 2744/99, the initial balance of the reserve:

· Was reduced with the net, non-depreciated, value of the facilities which were granted to EYDAP LEPL at no consideration. · Was decreased with the various amounts of provisions which were recorded in the Company's accounting books during its list on
ASE.
· Was increased with the surplus value deriving from the revaluation of the installations and networks that remained in the possession of the Company.
· And was increased with the transfer of the account "Profit/loss carried forward" which was recorded in the Balance Sheet of 31 December 1998.

In accordance with the L. 2744/99, the reserve was classified as "Special Non-Taxable Reserve" at its creation and was not subject to any taxation.

Reserves from non-taxable or for special purpose taxed income They refer to income from interest which is either non-taxable or has been taxed via an amount withheld at source. In case of distribution, these reserves are subject to taxation.

In the current phase, the Company intends to distribute, via approval of the Ordinary General Shareholders' Meeting of 30.04.2013, the reserve from non taxable income in accordance with the tax provisions of article 72, L.4179/2013. The change in the current year concerns the taxation of the amount  2,518 thous. based on tax rate of 19% as it is required.

Other Reserves The decrease in the share price of EYATH on 31/12/2013 (portfolio available for sale), resulted to the corresponding decrease of other reserves.

118

27. RETAINED EARNINGS
The account in the financial statements is analyzed as follows:
Amounts in  thousands Balance at 01.01.2012 Dividends Paid Net Income directly recorded in Equity Net Profit for the Year 2012 Balance at 01.01.2013 Dividends Paid Net Profit for the Year 2013 Tax of Reserve Net Income directly recorded in Equity Total 31.12.2013

GROUP 324.715 (18,105)
14 51,624 358,248 (21,300) 78,160
478 50,325 465.911

COMPANY 325.138 (18,105) 14 51,712 358,759 (21,300) 77,687 478 50,325 465.949

28. BANK LOANS (GROUP & COMPANY)
The account in the financial statements is analyzed as follows:
Amounts in  thousands Bank Loans Greek State Loans Total

31/12/2013 0
3.142 3.142

31/12/2012 182.339 3.142 185.481

Until 16/10/2013, the Company had repaid its entire debt obligations and as result no bank debt existed as of 31/12/2013. The debt was immediately or within a year payable and was included in the short term liabilities.

The accrued interest of loans as of 31/12/2013 and 31/12/2012 amounted to  0 and  215 thous. respectively, and were included in the outstanding amount of the debt obligations.

29. LIABILITIES FOR EMPLOYEE BENEFITS (GROUP & COMPANY)
The Company and the Group apply from 01.01.2013 the revised IAS 19 and retroactively from 01.01.2012 in accordance with the IAS 8 "Accounting Policies, Changes in Accounting Estimates and Errors". The fundamental change emanating from the new standard, thus implying a change in accounting principle, is the direct recognition of the actuarial gains and losses as well as of the prior service cost deriving from defined benefit plans. No transfer of the above items, based on the margin principle, is allowed, as it was the case with the previous IAS 19. The account in the financial statements is analyzed as follows:

Amounts in  thousands Provision for staff indemnity due to retirement Healthcare coverage of personnel Special one-off indemnity (personnel hired prior to and after 25-10-1999) Total

31/12/2013 26,424 161,937 64,248 252.609

31/12/2012 28,758 224,147 5,508 258.413

The Company has placed in effect a medical and healthcare plan covering its entire personnel, pensioners and their protected members. In addition, the Company retains an account for staff indemnity due to retirement and two plans of special one-off compensation for personnel hired prior to or after 25/10/1999.

The actuarial valuation of the liabilities was compiled by independent valuators in accordance with the requirements of the revised IAS 19.

Annual Bulletin & Annual Report 2013 119

a. Provision for employees' end of service indemnity The statement of the provision for employees' end of service indemnity for the years ending on 31 December 2013 and 2012 is the following:

PERIOD

1/1/-31/12/13 1/1/-31/12/12

Amounts recognized in the balance sheet

Present value of liabilities

26.424

28.757

Fair value of the plan's assets

-

-

Net liability recognized in the balance sheet

26.424

28.757

Amounts recognized in the results

Cost of current employment

1,401

1,144

Net interest on the liability / (asset)

869

1,106

Total admin. cost recognized in the account of results

-

-

Ordinary expense in the account of results

2,269

2,250

Recognition of prior service cost

-

(4,098)

Cost of curtailment / settlements / service termination

-

-

Total expense in the account of results

2,269

(1,848)

Change in the present value of the liability

Present value of liability at the beginning of period

28,757

26,155

Cost of current employment

1,401

1,144

Interest cost

869

1,106

Employee contributions

-

-

Benefits paid from the plan

-

-

Benefits paid from the employer

(2,306)

(3,889)

Cost of curtailment / settlements / service termination

-

-

Cost of prior service at the period

-

(4,098)

Actuarial loss / (profit) ­ financial assumptions

(1,551)

4,059

Actuarial loss / (profit) ­ demographic assumptions

-

-

Actuarial loss / (profit) ­ evidence from the period

(746)

4,280

Present value of liability at the end of period

26.424

28.757

The expected benefits (not discounted) from the plan over the following period are estimated at  2,608 thous.

The major actuarial assumptions utilized for the calculation of the relevant provisions for employees' end of service indemnity are the

following:

Actuarial assumptions Discount rate Inflation Future salary increases
Duration of obligations

2013 3,39% 1,75% 2014-16: 0%, 2017+:1,75% 10,50

2012 3,17% 2,00% 2013-15: 0%, 2016+: 3,5% 12,53

120

b. Medical and Healthcare Plan The Company covers the medical and healthcare expenses of its employees, pensioners and their protected members based on the provisions of its internal regulation which is in effect. The plan is financed, in part, from the employees' and pensioners' contributions. The relevant liabilities of the Company arising from the medical and healthcare plan were estimated through an actuarial study which was performed for the years 2013 and 2012.

The statement of the provision for medical and healthcare benefits during the financial years 2013 and 2012 is the following:

PERIOD

1/1-31/12/13

1/1-31/12/12

Amounts recognized in the balance sheet

Present value of liabilities

161,937

224,147

Fair value of the plan's assets

-

-

Net liability recognized in the balance sheet

161.937

224.147

Amounts recognized in the results Cost of current employment Net interest on the liability / (asset) Total admin. cost recognized in the account of results Ordinary expense in the account of results Recognition of prior service cost Cost of curtailment / settlements / service termination Total expense in the account of results

2,873 7,746
10,619
10.619

3,115 11,735
14,850 (20,380)
(5.530)

Change in the present value of the liability

Present value of liability at the beginning of period

224,147

Cost of current employment

2,873

Interest cost

7,746

Employee contributions

-

Benefits paid from the plan

-

Benefits paid from the employer

(7,161)

Cost of curtailment / settlements / service termination

-

Cost of prior service at the period

-

Actuarial loss / (profit) ­ financial assumptions

(10,112)

Actuarial loss / (profit) ­ demographic assumptions

-

Actuarial loss / (profit) ­ evidence from the period

(55,556)

Present value of liability at the end of period

161.937

248,187 3,115 11,735 (9,103) -
(20,380) 42,186
(51,592) 224.147

PERIOD Adjustments Adjustments in liabilities due to change of assumptions Empirical adjustments in liabilities Empirical adjustments in assets Total actuarial gain / (loss) in the Equity Other adjustments made in the Equity Total amount recognized in the Equity

1/1-31/12/13
10,112 55,556
65,668
65.668

1/1-31/12/12
(42,186) 51,592
9,406
9.406

The expected benefits (not discounted) from the plan over the following year are estimated at  7,333 thous.

The major actuarial assumptions utilized for the calculation of the relevant provisions for the medical and healthcare benefits are the following:

Actuarial assumptions Discount rate Inflation Future salary increases
Duration of obligations

2013 3.70% 2.10% 2014-16: 0%, 2013-15: 0%, 15.82

2012 3.53% 2.40% 2017+:1.75% 2016+: 3.5% 17.00

Annual Bulletin & Annual Report 2013 121

c. Special lump sum account for employees hired after 26.10.1999 With regard to the employees hired after October 25th, 1999, the Company has the obligation to fully repay the relevant indemnities, in accordance with the employment law and the collective employment agreement.

PERIOD

1/1-31/12/13

Amounts recognized in the balance sheet

Present value of liabilities

4.266

Fair value of the plan's assets

(5.083)

Net liability recognized in the balance sheet

(816)

1/1-31/12/12
5.508 (4.434) 1.074

Amounts recognized in the results

Cost of current employment

203

83

Net interest on the liability / (asset)

32

(11)

Total admin. cost recognized in the account of results

-

-

Ordinary expense in the account of results

235

72

Recognition of prior service cost

-

11

Cost of curtailment / settlements / service termination

-

-

Total expense in the account of results

235

83

Change in the present value of the liability

Present value of liability at the beginning of period

5,508

Cost of current employment

203

Interest cost

194

Employee contributions

374

Benefits paid from the plan

-

Benefits paid from the employer

-

Cost of curtailment / settlements / service termination

-

Cost of prior service at the period

-

Actuarial loss / (profit) ­ financial assumptions

(2,024)

Actuarial loss / (profit) ­ demographic assumptions

-

Actuarial loss / (profit) ­ evidence from the period

11

Present value of liability at the end of period

4.266

3,748 83 181 322 11
1,143 -
20 5.508

Change in the value of assets 

Value of plan's assets at beginning of period

4,434

Expected return on assets

162

Contributions from the employer

-

Contributions from employees

374

Benefits paid from the plan

-

Expenses

-

Asset adjustment (via Equity)

-

Actuarial (loss) / gain

112

Value of plan's assets at the end of the period

5.083

3,812 193 322 107
4.434

PERIOD Adjustments Adjustments in liabilities due to change of assumptions Empirical adjustments in liabilities Empirical adjustments in assets Total actuarial gain / (loss) in the Equity Other adjustments made in the Equity Total amount recognized in the Equity

1/1-31/12/13
2,024 (11) 112
2,125 -
2.125

1/1-31/12/12
(1,143) (20) 107
(1,056) -
(1.056)

The expected contributions and benefits (not discounted) from the plan over the following year are estimated at  354 thous. and  98 thous. respectively.

122

The major actuarial assumptions utilized for the calculation of the relevant provisions for the special lump sum account for employees hired after 26.10.1999, are the following:

Actuarial assumptions Discount rate Inflation Future salary increases 2013-15: 0%, Duration of obligations

2013 3.72% 1.75% 2014-16: 0%, 2016+: 3.5% 15.75

2012 3.55% 2.00% 2017+:1.75%
17.99

d. Special lump sum account for employees hired until 25.10.1999 With the voting of article 45 of L. 4179/2013, which abolished the clauses of article 26 of L. 2939/2001 concerning the mandatory coverage of the account's deficit from the Greek State, the Company's Management proceeded with an actuarial study in order to
estimate for the first time the relevant provision for employees' indemnity.

PERIOD Amounts recognized in the balance sheet Present value of liabilities Fair value of the plan's assets Net liability recognized in the balance sheet Amounts recognized in the results Cost of current employment Net interest on the liability / (asset) Total admin. cost recognized in the account of results Ordinary expense in the account of results Recognition of prior service cost Cost of curtailment / settlements / service termination Total expense in the account of results Change in the present value of the liability Present value of liability at the beginning of period Cost of current employment Interest cost Employee contributions Benefits paid from the plan Benefits paid from the employer Cost of curtailment / settlements / service termination Cost of prior service at the period Actuarial loss / (profit) ­ financial assumptions Actuarial loss / (profit) ­ demographic assumptions Actuarial loss / (profit) ­ evidence from the period Present value of liability at the end of period

1/1-31/12/13
59,982 (515)
59,467
375 719
1,094 59,319
60.413
375 719 525 (3,039)
59,319 2,997 (914) 59.982

Change in the value of assets Value of plan's assets at beginning of period Expected return on assets Contributions from the employer Contributions from employees Benefits paid from the plan Expenses Asset adjustment (via Equity) Actuarial (loss) / gain
Value of plan's assets at the end of the period

1/1-31/12/13 -
3,029 525
(3,039) -
515

PERIOD

1/1-31/12/13

Adjustments

Adjustments in liabilities due to change of assumptions

(2,997)

Empirical adjustments in liabilities

914

Empirical adjustments in assets

Total actuarial gain / (loss) in the Equity

(2,083)

Other adjustments made in the Equity

Total amount recognized in the Equity

(2.083)

The expected contributions and benefits (not discounted) from the plan over the following year are estimated at  4,723 thous. and  5,238 thous.

respectively.

Annual Bulletin & Annual Report 2013 123

The major actuarial assumptions utilized for the calculation of the relevant provisions for the special lump sum account

for employees hired until 26.10.1999, are the following:

Actuarial assumptions

2013

Discount rate

3.22%

Inflation

1.75%

Future salary increases

2014-16: 0%,

2017+:1.75%

Duration of obligations

9.27

Sensitivity analysis of results The results of the valuation are dependent on the assumptions (financial and demographic) of the actuarial study. The actuarial liability (BDO) as of 31/12/2013 for each plan based on the following sensitivity analysis scenarios is presented below:

Provision for employees' end of service indemnity L. 2112/20:

Sensitivity scenario

DBO on 31/12/13 (in euro)

25,164,800

-4.8%

Discount rate -0.5%

27,779,735

Inflation +0.5%

27,628,184

Inflation -0.5%

25,234,800

Remuneration increase +0.5% (from 2017)

26,505,913

Remuneration increase -0.5% (from 2017)

26,308,989

Expected survival +1 year

26,435,636

Expected survival -1 year

26,412,153

% Deviation from the Base Scenario Discount rate +0.5%
5.1% 4.6% -4.5% 0.3% -0.4% 0.0% 0.0%

Medical and Healthcare services:

Sensitivity scenario

DBO on 31/12/13 (in euro)

151,255,618

-6.6%

Discount rate -0.5%

173,910,524

Inflation +0.5%

175,254,852

Inflation -0.5%

149,946,467

Remuneration increase +0.5% (from 2017)

161,518,973

Remuneration increase -0.5% (from 2017)

162,349,936

Expected survival +1 year

166,778,741

Expected survival -1 year

157,223,299

% Deviation from the Base Scenario Discount rate +0.5%
7.4% 8.2% -7.4% -0.3% 0.3% 3.0% -2.9%

Special Account of employees

hired from 26.10.1999

Sensitivity scenario

DBO on 31/12/13 (in euro)

3,959,486

-7.2%

Discount rate -0.5%

4,602,728

Inflation +0.5%

4,127,870

Inflation -0.5%

4,417,638

Remuneration increase +0.5% (from 2017)

4,668,868

Remuneration increase -0.5% (from 2017)

3,908,025

Expected survival +1 year

4,256,675

Expected survival -1 year

4,276,631

% Deviation from the Base Scenario Discount rate +0.5%
7.9% -3.2% 3.5% 9.4% -8.4% -0.2% 0.2%

Special Account of employees

hired until 25.10.1999

Sensitivity scenario

DBO on 31/12/13 (in euro)

57,360,329

-4.4%

Discount rate -0.5%

62,784,538

Inflation +0.5%

58,916,157

Inflation -0.5%

61,019,774

Remuneration increase +0.5% (from 2017)

62,778,868

Remuneration increase -0.5% (from 2017)

57,340,834

Expected survival +1 year

60,034,158

Expected survival -1 year

59,924,367

% Deviation from the Base Scenario Discount rate +0.5%
4.7% -1.8% 1.7% 4.7% -4.4% 0.1% -0.1%

124

e. EYDAP Employees' Auxiliary Pension Fund (TEAP EYDAP) The Company's personnel is insured with regard to the obligatory auxiliary pension, in TEAP EYDAP, which was part of a merger with other auxiliary pension funds, forming TAYTEKO, a separate legal entity.

With the article 44, paragraph 3 of law 3996/2011 from 1/10/2011, the unit of employees' auxiliary pension fund EYDAP TEAP of the auxiliary insurance arm of TAYTEKO (Insurance Fund of Banking and Public Utility Employees) merged with the ETEAM (Unified Supplementary Insurance Fund for Employees).

The Company has no obligation to cover any deficits of the Auxiliary Fund, and consequently it is deemed that no such obligation arises in the future.

30. PROVISIONS FOR PENDING LITIGATION (GROUP & COMPANY)
The account in the financial statements is analyzed as follows: Amounts in  thousands Provisions for pending litigations with employees - pensioners Provisions for civil litigations Total

31/12/2013 3.197 22.657 25.854

31/12/2012 47.919 20.083 68.002

As of 31.12.2013, the lawsuits for civil cases against the Company accounted for  97.3 million. The lawsuits concerned indemnities for damages from flooding (due to pipeline fractures or rainfalls), or cases involving various counterparty suppliers and sub-contractors with regard to violation of contractual terms. Furthermore, there are pending legal cases for employment differences of  22.6 million approximately. With regard to contingent losses from the above legal cases, provided that these cases become irrevocably resolved, the Company has formed provisions of  25.9 million on 31.12.2013 and of  68 million on 31.12.2012. The provisions are deemed as adequate. The significant change of  42,148 thous. approximately, concerns the transfer of provisions on 31.12.2013 for pending litigations with employees and pensioners into the account "Operating and other short-term liabilities" as it is presented in note 33.

31. INVESTMENT SUBSIDIES AND CUSTOMER CONTRIBUTIONS (GROUP AND COMPANY)

The account in the financial statements is analyzed as follows:

Amounts in  thousands

31/12/2013

31/12/2012

Opening Value:

Investment Subsidies

227,500

225,691

Customer Contributions

102,918

101,870

330.418

327.562

Accumulated Depreciation

Investment Subsidies

(85,076)

(78,110)

Customer Contributions

(40,744)

(38,073)

(125.820)

(116.183)

Net (Non Depreciated) Value

Investment Subsidies

142,424

147,582

Customer Contributions

62,174

63,797

204.598

211.379

The Company receives subsidies from the European Union, through the Greek State, in order to finance certain projects. Furthermore, the Company's customers (including the public sector and the local government authorities) are required to participate in the financing scheme of the initial network development cost (meters, network connections, etc.) or its upgrade.

The above subsidies and customer contributions are accounted at the time of receipt and are recorded in the Statement of Financial Position in the long-term liabilities. These amounts constitute deferred income and are depreciated on the basis of the economic life of the relevant assets, at the time their operation commences. The amortization of subsidies and customer contributions are deducted from the depreciation of fixed assets in the statement of income.

32. CONSUMERS' GUARANTEES
The amounts of  18,042 thous. on 31/12/2013 and of  17,927 thous. on 31/12/2013 concern customer guarantees for the use of the water meter, paid at the time of water supply connection. The above guarantees are paid back (free of interest) upon request from the customer for termination of the water supply connection. The above guarantees have been recorded in nominal value, and not at fair value, initially, and in a following stage in their net (non depreciated) cost, since they can be claimed from the customers at any time.

Annual Bulletin & Annual Report 2013 125

33. OPERATING AND OTHER CURRENT LIABILITIES
The account in the financial statements is analyzed as follows:

Amounts in  thousands Suppliers Withheld Taxes Payable Social Security Contributions and Other Items Customer Advances Dividends Payable Operating Short-Term Liabilities

GROUP

31/12/2013 31/12/2012

28,934

30,828

46,860

8,761

3,976

3,430

2,586

2,061

136

11,496

82,492

56,576

COMPANY

31/12/2013 31/12/2012

28,926

30,828

46,860

8,761

3,976

3,430

2,586

2,061

136

11,496

82,484

56,576

Pending Litigations with Employees and Pensioners Checks Payable Collections for Third Parties Provision for Non-Utilized Vacation Leave Personnel Compensation Other Short-Term Liabilities Short-Term Customer Guarantees Other Short-Term Liabilities

73,173 5,058 1,171 5,861 1,330 9,823 5,404 101.820

0 1,677 1,320 5,288 4,295 9,194 5,354 27.128

73,173 5,058 1,171 5,861 1,330 9,824 5,404 101.821

0 1,677 1,320 5,288 4,295 9,193 5,354 27.127

In execution of the decision 18275/22.01.2014 of the BoD, a private agreement was signed between the Company and its employees ­ pensioners, according to which the historical claims of employees and pensioners that had reached a court of law, amounting to  134 million, were reduced following a settlement to approximately  73.2 million, of which  9.02 million concerns an additional employer's contribution charge. The payment of this amount has already started in the financial year 2014. The Company has not been tax audited for the financial years 2008, 2009 and 2010. For the years 2011 and 2012, the Company was audited by its legal auditors, in accordance with the article 82 of L. 2238/1994. The financial statements include an adequate provision for additional taxes of  6.1 million as well as incremental charges that may be charged at the time of the final audit of the tax unaudited years and the year 2013. The outstanding amount of the operating and other liabilities approaches their fair value.

34. EVENTS AFTER THE BALANCE SHEET DATE
1. Pending Legal Cases With the decision 18275/22-1-2014 of the Board of Directors, a settlement based resolution agreement was reached between the Company and its employees ­ pensioners over historical labor related legal cases (initial claims amounting to  134 million were reduced following a settlement to  64 million). The Company has formed a provision of  73 million (including the employer contribution cost of  9 million) as of 31.12.2013.
2. Share Capital Increase of NISONS' EYDAP The Board of Directors, at its 1,124th meeting, on 29.01.2014 approved the share capital increase of the subsidiary company NISON EYDAP SA by  150 thous. The payment of the amount occurred on 14/03/2014 via a deposit in the subsidiary's bank account.
Apart from the above, there is no other event which significantly affects the financial structure or the business course of the

Company from 31/12/2013 until the approval date of the financial statements from the Company's Board of Directors.
35.COMMITMENTS AND CONTINGENT LIABILITIES ­ ASSETS
Contingent liabilities are not recorded in the financial statements but they are disclosed, provided that the possibility of an outflow of resources incorporating financial benefits is minimal.
1. Relations with the Greek State The Company in line with its foundation law 2744/1999, signed an agreement with the Greek State in 1999 according to which the Greek State undertook the commitment regarding the Company's subsidy from either European Community Funds or the Public Investment Program. The subsidy would be utilized to cover 60% of the Company's capital expenditure need for the maintenance, renovation, improvement or / and expansion of the water supply and sewerage network system for the decade 2000 ­ 2010. On the other hand, the Greek State claimed from the Company

126

an amount for the crude water which disposed to the Company for the period after 25.10.2004. Specifically according to the article 6 of law 2744/1999, the quantity, quality and the supply method of the crude (non distilled) water will be defined via an agreement between the Company and the Greek State, as it is provided by paragraph 2 or article 2 of L. 2744/1999. The same agreement will define the amount paid from the Company for the crude water collected. The payment will be made to "L.E.P.L. EYDAP Fixed Assets". In execution of the above, in November 1999 the Greek State and the Company signed an agreement, the terms of which (article 15) provided for an agreed price of the crude water only for a 5-year period, namely until 25.10.2004.
As it is analytically described below, the signing of a written agreement - as it is defined in article 15 of the agreement on 9.12.1999 between the Greek State and the Company - which will determine the price paid to "L.E.P.L. EYDAP Fixed Assets" for the crude water collected from 1.7.2013 is pending. In absence of a written agreement, the Company continues from 25.10.2004 and onwards to offset the cost of the collected crude water with the maintenance and operation services it provides for the fixed assets owned by "L.E.P.L. EYDAP Fixed Assets", burdening its annual financial results.
Based on the article 45 of L. 4179/2013 as it was complemented with the article 131 of L. 4199/2013, it was decided that with a joint ministerial decision, the overdue amounts payable to the Company from the Greek State concerning infrastructure works, LEPL water supply construction works, maintenance of flooding protection works, etc. as well as the non tax related overdue amounts payable to the Greek State from the Company concerning the cost of the collected crude water during the period 25.10.2004 ­ 30.6.2013 will be defined.

294 million for the decade 2000 ­ 2010 as stipulated from the agreement of 9.12.1999 between the Greek and the Company, are offset with equivalent in value non tax related overdue amounts payable to the Greek State from the Company, until 30.6.2013, concerning the cost of the collected crude water for the period 25.10.2004 ­ 30.6.2013.
The same ministerial decision defined also the other obligations of the Greek State concerning infrastructure, construction works, etc. at the amount of  141 million approximately, compared to an amount of  152 million (including VAT) claimed by the Company. With the decision of the Extraordinary General Shareholders' Meeting on 27th December 2013, the above ministerial decision was accepted, resolving the long-term issue of conflict of claims between the Greek State and the Company. As a result, the Company resigned from any other claim.
In addition, in the context of the settlement of the obligations of the Greek State from OTA, LEPL and General Government entities to the Company, in 2013 overdue obligations of  149 million approximately were fully paid to the Company.
Furthermore, the Greek State paid an overdue amount of approximately  70 million to the Company, concerning the mandatory coverage of the deficit of the special lump sum account for the Company's staff indemnities until 8.8.2013.
2. Commitments concerning Non Executed Contracts The Company's commitments which concern expansions, improvements and maintenance of networks and installations, electrical and thermal energy production unit installations, etc., accounted for  119 million approximately on 31.12.2013 (versus  72 million on 31.12.2012).

With joint ministerial decision of 3.12.2013 which was issued according to the above law provisions, it was defined that the overdue amounts payable to the Company from the Greek State concerning investment plan's subsidized expenditures of 

3. Letters of Guarantee The Company has issued letters of guarantee for liability insurance of  855 thous. on 31/12/2013.

Annual Bulletin & Annual Report 2013 127

36. RELATED PARTY TRANSACTIONS (GROUP & COMPANY)
The following tables provide an overview of related-party transactions:

Amounts in  thousands

GROUP 31/12/2013 31/12/2012

COMPANY 31/12/2013 31/12/2012

1) Transactions

- Income

66,151

66,961

66,151

- Cost of Goods Sold (cost of construction works)

(2,147)

(1,382)

(2,147)

- Income from non utilized provisions /

(Sundry provisions)

(59,396)

(23,835)

(59,396)

66,961 (1,382)
(23,835)

2) Outstanding amounts

- Long-term receivables

(Projects for third parties)

2,147

112,063

2,147

- Long-term receivables

(Arrangements of Municipalities)

0

30,955

0

- Trade receivables (Local authorities, Greek State)

40,931

165,149

40,931

- Other receivables

(from the Greek State for coverage of deficit

concerning staff indemnities)

0

68,844

0

- Obligation due to non issuance of decision

concerning dividend counterbalance

0

11,388

0

112,063 30,955 165,149
68,844 11,388

The transactions with the Greek State and Local Government Authorities concern revenues of water supply, invoiced and accrued, as well as accrued income from the construction cost for the account of Ministry of Infrastructure, Transport and Networks and "EYDAP Fixed Assets LEPL".

37. AUDITORS' REMUNERATION
Amounts in  thousands Auditors remuneration for auditing the annual accounts Other fees Total fees

31/12/2013 78 135 213

31/12/2012 100 40 140

38. EYDAP FIXED ASSETS «EYDAP L.E.P.L.»
The Public Entity was established at the time of the Company's IPO aiming at transferring the ownership of the water dams and basins of Marathon, Mornos, Yliki and Evinos from EYDAP to PE. It is noted that until the approval date of the financial statements by the Board of Directors, the total ceded assets have not been transferred to EYDAP L.E.P.L., which have a total net book value of  657 million approximately.

39. RISK MANAGEMENT OF CAPITAL
The company manages its capital by such way that the continuation of its operation is ensured while it will maximize the returns of its shareholders through the improvement of the relationship between shareholders equity and debt. The Management of the Company examines the capital structure on a constant basis, the cost of capital and the risks associated with every category of capital. According to the guidance provided by the Management the Company offsets the total capital structure through the payments of dividends as well as through short-term debt.

128

The management of the Group overviews the capital structure of the Group within regular time intervals. Within the context of the above review it is estimated the cost of capital and the respective risks for every category of capital. The respective ratio has as follows:

Leverage ratio

GROUP

COMPANY

Amounts in  thousands

31/12/2013 31/12/2012 31/12/2013 31/12/2012

Borrowings

3,142

185,481

3,142

185,481

Cash and cash equivalents

(331,967)

(43,106)

(331,941) (43,072)

Net Debt

0

142,375

0

142,409

Total Equity

950,615

843,663

950,653

844,174



Net Debt to Equity Ratio

0

16,15%

0

16,15%

40.FINANCIAL RISK MANAGEMENT

As a result of its operation, the Company is not exposed to any particular financial risks such as Market risks (changes in exchange rate parities, interest rates or market prices) ,credit risk and liquidity risk. The Company's Financial risk management plan is focused on the minimization of their probable negative effects over the Company's financial position.

Risk management is processed by the Company's central financial services department which operates under certain rules which have been approved by the Board of Directors. The Board of Directors provides guidance and directions for the general and management of specific risks such as the exchange risk, the interest rates risk and the credit risk.

(a) Credit Risk

The Company's exposure with respect to the credit risk it is eliminated to the financial assets which at the reporting date of the

Financial Statements are analyzed as follows:

GROUP

COMPANY

Financial Assets categories

31/12/2013 31/12/2012 31/12/2013 31/12/2012

Available for sale financial assets

1,369

1,602

1,369

1,602

Cash and cash equivalents

331,967

43,106

331,941

43,072

Trade and other receivables

221,553

400,554

221,552

400,554

Long-term receivables

5,407

147,591

5,407

147,590

Investments in associates

0

53

0

542

Investments in subsidiaries

0

-

60

60

Total

560.296

592.906

560.329

593.420

The Company reviews its receivables on constant basis either individually or by group and incorporates the respective information in the procedure of the credit audit and incorporates these data in credit control procedures. Cash and cash equivalents do not bear credit risk because they mainly refer to deposits in banks with adequate credit rating. Trade and other receivables include receivables from private customers which carry the lowest level of loss risk mainly because of the extensive dispersion of claims, while for the receivables from Local Governments, the Company examines the possibility of collecting the respective due amounts through contract agreements (management of networks and settlements).

None of the Company's financial assets is insured by mortgage or any other form of credit insurance. The available for sale financial items are assessed in their fair value which is their stock market value and thus there are categorized at level 1, according to the clauses of IFRS 7, par. 27B.

Annual Bulletin & Annual Report 2013 129

Below it is displayed the timetable of the Company's claims based on their maturity:

Amounts in  thousands

CLAIMS BASED ON THEIR MATURITY

2013

Not due 0-1 month 1-6 months 6 months -2 years 2 years -5 years > 5 years

PRIVATE

CUSTOMERS 23,396

11,540

29,374

30,190

23,585

16,658

STATE

2,704

1,304

3,199

1,537

1,850

2,896

LOCAL

GOVERNMENT 7,150

3,518

13,266

1,690

1,259

1,262

Total

33.250

16.362

45.839

33.417

26.694

20.816



2012

Not due 0-1 month 1-6 months 6 months -2 years 2 years -5 years > 5 years

PRIVATE

CUSTOMERS 22,321

14,481

25,935

28,229

22,098

12,564

STATE

2,682

1,629

3,515

6,061

10,159

25,697

LOCAL

GOVERNMENT 8,359

4,741

19,564

45,461

74,677

60,845



33.362

20.851

49.014

79.751

106.934

99.106

Total
134,743 13,490
28,145 176.378
Total
125,628 49,743
213,647 389.018

The book value of the receivables which have been subject to renegotiations of their arrangement receipt on 31.12.2013 and 31.12.2012 stood at  0 million and  72.4 million respectively. With regard to credit risk management, the Department of Collection Enforcement reviews on constant basis and settles via judicial means overdue receivables concerning water supply, utilization rights and property connection rights from retail customers and local government authorities (OTA).

(b) Liquidity Risk

The liquidity risk is been managed by the preservation of sufficient cash available for the assurance of bank credits for use .The existing

available, unused and approved bank credit of the Company are adequate in order to confront ant potential shortage of cash.

The following table analyses the Company's financial liabilities which are classified in groups according to their expiration date which are

calculated according to the time balance from the balance sheet date until the contractual arrangement expiration date in non-discounted

figures.

TIME ANALISIS OF THE LIABILITITES

2013

0-1 Month 2-3 Months 3-6 Months 6-12 Months 1- 5 years > 5 years Total

Debt liabilities 

-

-

3.142

-

-

3.142

Suppliers and

other liabilities 76.193

92.762

6.928

15.167

71.482 230.212 492.744

Total

76.193

92.762

6.928

18.309

71.482 230.212 495.886

2012

0-1 Month

Debt liabilities 22.177

Suppliers

and other liabilities 53.647

Total

75.824

2-3 Months 3-6 Months

7.815

155.488

17.330 25.145

6.748 162.236

6-12 Months 1- 5 years > 5 years

-

-

-

14.795 14.795

91.047 91.047

205.897 205.897

Total 185.480
389.464 574.944

41. FAIR VALUE ASSESEMENT
The fair value of the financial items which are traded in active markets (stock exchanges),(i.e. derivatives, stocks, bonds, mutual funds).is assessed based on their published prices which are effective on the financial statements reporting date.
The fair value of financial items which are not traded in active markets is assessed by the utilization of valuation techniques and assumptions which are based on market data on the Financial Statements reporting date.
The nominal value minus provisions of bad debts is estimated that approximates their real value. The real values of the financial liabilities for presentation purposes in the financial statements are calculated based on the present value of their future cash flows, applying the effective interest rate which is available for the Company for utilization of similar financial items.

130

42. RECLASSIFICATION OF EXPENSES

Due to the application of the new IAS 19 "Employee Benefits" with regard to the direct recognition of the actuarial gains and losses, certain accounts of the comparative periods, in the statement of income, statement of total comprehensive income, statement of changes in equity, statement of financial position, and cash flow statement, have been reclassified. The Company and the Group apply from 01.01.2013 the revised IAS 19 and retroactively from 01.01.2012 in accordance with the IAS 8 "Accounting Policies, Changes in Accounting Estimates and Errors". The changes which occurred affected positively the released financial results and the statement of comprehensive income of 2012 after taxes by an amount of  4,869 thous. and  4,885 thous. respectively, and affected negatively the shareholders' equity of 31.12.2011 and 31.12.2012 by the amounts of  42,720 thous. and  37,837 thous. respectively.

STATEMENT OF INCOME

GROUP

COMPANY

Amounts in  thousands

31 December 2012 31 December 2012 31 December 2012 31 December 2012

As published As re-classified

As published As re-classified

Turnover

353,344

353,344

353,344

353,345

Cost of Goods Sold

(207,159)

(202,750)

(207,159)

(202,751)



Gross Profit

146.185

150.594

146.185

150.594

Other Operating Income

1,677

1,677

1,677

1,677

General and Administration Expenses

(45,437)

(44,381)

(45,420)

(44,366)

Distribution and Selling Expenses

(25,976)

(25,347)

(25,976)

(25,347)



Operating Profit

76.449

82.543

76.466

82.558



Other Expenses

(2,507)

(2,507)

(2,507)

(2,507)

Financial Income

5,275

5,275

5,275

5,275

Financial Expenses

(17,229)

(17,229)

(17,229)

(17,229)

Valuation of Participation

in Associate Company

(76)

(76)

-



Profit before Taxes

61.912

68.006

62.005

68.097



Income Tax

(15.159)

(16.382)

(15.162)

(16.385)



Net Profit after Taxes

46.753

51.624

46.843

51.712

Number of Shares

106.500

106.500

Earnings per Share

for the Period (in )

0,44

0,48

GROUP

As published

2012

  . 

Share Share Legal

Other Securities' Results profit Total

Capital Premium Reserve Reserves Reserves carried forward Equity

Equity Balance at

1st January 2012

63.900 40.502 21.547 358.283

428

367.437 852.097

Net Profit for the Period

46.753

46.753

Arrangement of Reserves

of Non-Distributed Dividends

Net income recorded

directly in Equity

755755

Dividends (18.105) (18.105)

Equity Balance at

31st December 2012 63.900 40.502 21.547 358.283 1.183

396.085 881.500



Annual Bulletin & Annual Report 2013 131

As re-classified

2012

Amounts in  thousands

Share

Share

Legal

Other Securities' Results profit Total

Capital Premium Reserve Reserves Reserves carried forward Equity

Equity Balance at

63.900 40.502 21.547 358.283

428

324.715 809.375

Net Profit for the Period

51.624 51.624

Arrangement of

Reserves of

Non-Distributed Dividends

Net income recorded

directly in Equity

755

14

769

Dividends(18.105) (18.105)

Equity Balance at

31st December 2012 63.900 40.502 21.547 358.283

1.183

358.248 843.666

COMPANY

As published

2012

Amounts in  thousands

Share

Share

Legal

Other Securities' Results profit Total

Capital Premium Reserve Reserves Reserves carried forward Equity

Equity Balance at

1st January 2012

63.900 40.502 21.547 358.283

428

367.858 852.518

Net Profit for the Period

46.843 46.843

Arrangement of Reserves

of Non-Distributed

Dividends

Net income recorded

directly in Equity

755755

Dividends(18.105) (18.105)

Equity Balance at

31st December 2012 63.900 40.502 21.547 358.283

1.183

396.596 882.011

As re-classified

2012

mounts in  thousands

Share

Share

Legal

Other Securities' Results profit Total

Capital Premium Reserve Reserves Reserves carried forward Equity

Equity Balance at

1st January 2012

63.900 40.502 21.547 358.283

428

325.138 809.798

Net Profit for the Period

51.712 51.712

Arrangement of

Reserves of Non-

Distributed Dividends

Net income recorded

directly in Equity

755

14

769

Dividends(18.105) (18.105)

Equity Balance at

31st December 2012 63.900 40.502 21.547 358.283

1.183

358.759 844.174

132

CASH FLOW STATEMENT

GROUP

COMPANY

As published As re-classified

As published As re-classified

Amounts in  thousands

1.1-31.12.2012 1.1-31.12.2012 1.1-31.12.2012 1.1-31.12.2012

Cash Flows from operating activities

Profit before tax

61,912

68,006

62,005

68,097

Plus / minus adjustments for:

Depreciation and amortization

41,536

41,536

41,536

41,536

Amortization of customer contributions

and investment subsidies

(7,326)

(7,326)

(7,326)

(7,326)

Income from securities

(50)

(50)

(50)

(50)

Impairment of investments

76

76

0

0

Provisions for personnel compensation

(14,195)

(20,287)

(14,195)

(20,287)

Other provisions

38,603

38,603

38,603

38,603

Interest and related income

(5,225)

(5,225)

(5,225)

(5,225)

Interest and related expense

17,229

17,229

17,229

17,229

Plus / minus adjustments for changes

in working capital accounts

or related to operating activities:

(Increase) Decrease

Trade receivables

(40,564)

(40,566)

(40,566)

(40,566)

Materials and spare parts

(1,348)

(1,348)

(1,348)

(1,348)

Increase (Decrease)

Operating short term liabilities

(5,409)

(5,409)

(5,403)

(5,403)

Customers' guarantees

150

150

150

150

Obligations for employees benefits

622

622

622

622

Minus:

Interest and related expenses paid

(14,991)

(14,991)

(14,991)

(14,991)

Income tax paid

(9,736)

(9,736)

(9,736)

(9,736)

Net Cash Flows from

Operating Activities (a)

61.284

61.284

61.305

61.305

Cash flows from investing activities

Dividends received

50

50

50

50

Interest and related income received

3,929

3,929

3,929

3,929

Purchases of tangible assets

(16,467)

(16,467)

(16,466)

(16,466)

Purchases of intangible assets

(915)

(915)

(916)

(916)

Proceeds from customer

contributions and subsidies

4,968

4,968

4,968

4,968

Cash collection from liquidation

of affiliated company

0

0

0

0

Net Cash Flows from

Investing Activities (b)

(8.435)

(8.435)

(8.435)

(8.435)

Cash flows from financing activities

Loan repayments

(15,372)

(15,372)

(15,372)

(15,372)

Dividends paid

(16,346)

(16,346)

(16,346)

(16,346)

Net Cash Flows from

Financing Activities (c)

(31,718)

(31,718)

(31,718)

(31,718)

Net increase / (decrease) in

cash and cash equivalents

for the period (a) + (b) + (c)

21,131

21,131

21,152

21,152

Cash and Cash Equivalents

at the beginning of period

21,975

21,975

21,920

21,920

Cash and Cash Equivalents

at the end of period

43,106

43,106

43,072

43,072

Annual Bulletin & Annual Report 2013 133

STATEMENT OF FINANCIAL POSITION

GROUP

Amounts in  thousands

31 December 2012

31 December 2012

31 December 2011 31 December 2011

As published

As re-classified

As published

As re-classified

ASSETS

NON-CURRENT ASSETS

Goodwill

3,357

3,357

3,357

3,357

Other Intangible Assets

1,772

1,772

3,185

3,185

Tangible Assets

995,178

995,178

1,017,919

1,017,919

Investments in Associate Companies

53

53

130

129

Investments Available for Sale

1,602

1,602

847

848

Long-term Receivables

147,591

147,591

136,024

136,024

Deferred Tax Assets

56,994

66,453

53,303

63,983

Total Non-Current Assets

1,206,547

1,216,006

1,214,765

1,225,445

CURRENT ASSETS

Materials and Spare Parts

17,616

17,616

16,288

16,288

Trade Receivables

310,042

310,042

322,012

322,012

Other Receivables

90,513

90,513

82,120

82,121

Current Tax Receivables

-

-

577

576

Cash and Cash Equivalents

43,106

43,106

21,975

21,975

Total Current Assets

461,277

461,277

442,972

442,972

Total Assets

1.667.824

1.677.283

1.657.737

1.668.417

LIABIITIES

SHAREHOLDERS' EQUITY

Share Capital

63,900

63,900

63,900

63,900

Share Premium

40,502

40,502

40,502

40,502

Reserves

381,013

381,013

380,258

380,258

Retained Earnings (earnings carried forward) 396,085

358,248

367,437

324,718

Total Shareholders' Equity

881.500

843.663

852.097

809.378

LONG TERM LIABILITIES

Liabilities for Employee Benefits

211,117

258,413

224,690

278,090

Provisions

68,002

68,002

59,418

59,418

Investment Subsidies

and Customer Contributions

211,379

211,379

213,737

213,737

Consumers' Guarantees

17,927

17,927

17,777

17,777

Total Long-Term Liabilities

508.425

555.721

515.622

569.022

SHORT-TERM LIABILITIES

Operating Short Term Liabilities

56,576

56,576

56,743

56,743

Current Tax Liabilities

8,714

8,714

0

0

Short Term Loans

185,481

185,481

201,674

201,673

Other Short Term Liabilities

27,128

27,128

31,601

31,601

Total Short-Term Liabilities

277,899

277,899

290,018

290,017

Total Liabilities

1,667,824

1,677,283

1,657,737

1,668,417

134

COMPANY

Amounts in  thousands

31 December 2012 31 December 2012

As published

As re-classified

ASSETS

NON-CURRENT ASSETS

Goodwill

3,357

3,357

Other Intangible Assets

1,772

1,772

Tangible Assets

995,178

995,178

Investments in Associate Companies

542

542542

Investments in Subsidiaries

60

6060

Investments Available for Sale

1,602

1,602

Long-term Receivables

147,590

147,590

Deferred Tax Assets

56,991

66,450

Total Non-Current Assets

1.207.092

1.216.551

CURRENT ASSETS

Materials and Spare Parts

17,616

17,616

Trade Receivables

310,042

310,042

Other Receivables

90,512

90,512

Current Tax Receivables

-

- 577

Cash and Cash Equivalents

43,072

43,072

Total Current Assets

461,242

461,242

Total Assets

1.668.334

1.677.793

LIABIITIES

SHAREHOLDERS' EQUITY

Share Capital

63,900

Share Premium

40,502

Reserves

381,013

Retained Earnings (earnings carried forward) 396,596

Total Shareholders' Equity

882.011

63,900 40,502 381,013 358,759 844.174

LONG TERM LIABILITIES

Liabilities for Employee Benefits

211,117

258,413

Provisions

68,002

68,002

Investment Subsidies and

Customer Contributions

211,379

211,379

Consumers' Guarantees

17,927

17,927

Total Long-Term Liabilities

508.425

555.721

SHORT-TERM LIABILITIES

Operating Short Term Liabilities

56,576

56,576

Current Tax Liabilities

8,714

8,714

Short Term Loans

185,481

185,481

Other Short Term Liabilities

27,127

27,127

Total Short-Term Liabilities

277,898

277,898

Total Liabilities

1,668,334

1,677,793

31 December 2011 As published
3,357 3,185 1,017,919 542
60 848 136,023 53,302 1.215.235
16,288 322,015 82,120
576 21,920 442,920 1.658.155
63,900 40,502 380,258 367,858 852.518
224,690 59,418
213,737 17,777 515.622
56,740 0
201,674 31,601 290,015 1,658,155

31 December 2011 As re-classified
3,357 3,185 1,017,919
848 136,023 63,981 1.225.915
16,288 322,015 82,121
21,920 442,920 1.668.835
63,900 40,502 380,258 325,138 809.798
278,090 59,419
213,737 17,777 569.023
56,740 0
201,673 31,601 290,014 1,668,835

Annual Bulletin & Annual Report 2013 135

ALLOCATION OF EXPENSES IN THE OPERATIONS

GROUP (as published)

31/12/2012

Amounts in  thousands

Cost of Goods Sold

Third-party expenses and fees

50,298

Cost of Self-Constructed Assets

(12,041)

Total 

38.257

Personnel Fees & Expenses

58,059

Third-party provisions

34,343

Depreciation and amortization

31,093

Sundry Provisions

38,603

Sundry Expenses

5,498

Raw materials and consumables

6,199

Cost of Self-Constructed Assets

(4,893)

Total 

168.902

Total ( + )

207.159

Distribution Expenses 448 448
16,784 7,040
647 -
748 309
25.528 25.976

Administration Expenses 2,763 2.763 34,854 2,713 2,470 2,170 467 42.674 45.437

Total 53,509 (12,041) 41.468 109,697 44,096 34,210 38,603 8,416 6,975 (4,893) 237.104 278.572

GROUP (as re-classified) 31/12/2012 Amounts in  thousands Third-party expenses and fees Cost of Self-Constructed Assets Total  Personnel Fees & Expenses Third-party provisions Depreciation and amortization Sundry Provisions Sundry Expenses Raw materials and consumables Cost of Self-Constructed Assets Total  Total ( + )

Cost of Goods Sold 50,298 (12,041) 38.257 53,650 34,343 31,093 38,603 5,498 6,199 (4,893) 164.493 202.750

Distribution Expenses 448 448
16,155 7,040
647 -
748 309
24.899 25.347

Administration Expenses 2,763 2.763 33,798 2,713 2,470 2,170 467 41.618 44.381

Total 53,509 (12,041) 41.468 103,603 44,096 34,210 38,603 8,416 6,975 (4,893) 231.010 272.478

COMPANY (as published) 31/12/2012
Amounts in  thousands Third-party expenses and fees Cost of Self-Constructed Assets Total Personnel Fees & Expenses Third-party provisions Depreciation and amortization Sundry Provisions Sundry Expenses Raw materials and consumables Cost of Self-Constructed Assets Total  Total ( + )

Cost of Goods Sold 50,298 (12,041) 38.257 58,059 34,343 31,093 38,603 5,498 6,199 (4,893) 168.902 207.159

Distribution Expenses 448 448
16,784 7,040
647 -
748 309
25.528 25.976

Administration Expenses 2,762 2.762 34,854 2,703 2,470 2,164 467 42.658 45.420

Total 53,508 (12,041) 41.467 109,697 44,086 34,210 38,603 8,410 6,975 (4,893) 237.088 278.555

136

COMPANY (as reclassified) 31/12/2012 Amounts in  thousands Third-party expenses and fees Cost of Self-Constructed Assets Total  Personnel Fees & Expenses Third-party provisions Depreciation and amortization Sundry Provisions Sundry Expenses Raw materials and consumables Cost of Self-Constructed Assets Total  Total ( + )

Cost of Goods SoldDistribution Expenses Administration Expenses

50,298

448

2,762

(12,041)

-

-

38.257

448

2.762

53,650

16,155

33,800

34,343

7,040

2,703

31,093

647

2,470

38,603

0

-

5,498

748

2,164

6,199

309

467

(4,893)

-

-

164.493

24.899

41.604

202.750

25.347

44.366

Total 53,508 (12,041) 41.467 103,606 44,086 34,210 38,603 8,410 6,975 (4,893) 230.996 272.463

INCOME TAX

Amounts in  thousands

GROUP

31.12.2012

31.12.2012

As published

As re-classified

Corresponding Income Tax

18,843

18,842

Tax of unaudited period 2012, 2013 747

747

Minus: Utilization of provision of year 2011 (918)

(918)

Tax audit differences

179

179

Deferred Taxation

(3,692)

(2,468)

Total

15.159

16.382

COMPANY

31.12.2012

31.12.2012

As published As re-classified

18,843

18,842

747

747

(918)

(918)

179

179

(3,689)

2,465

15.162

16.385

LIABILITIES FOR EMPLOYEE BENEFITS (GROUP & COMPANY)

The account is analyzed as following:

31.12.2012

31.12.2012

As published

As re-classified

Amounts in  thousands

Provision for staff indemnity

due to retirement

17,285

28,757

Healthcare coverage of personnel

188,110

224,147

Special one-off indemnity

L. 2939/6-8-01 no. 26

5,722

5,509

tal

211.117

258.413

31.12.2011 As published

31.12.2011 As re-classified

18,516 201,048
5,126 224.690

26,155 248,187
3,748 278.090

Annual Bulletin & Annual Report 2013 137

5.4 INDEPENDENT AUDITOR'S REPORT

Independent Auditor's Report
To the Shareholders of ATHENS WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE S.A.
Report on the Company Stand-Alone and Consolidated Financial Statements We have audited the accompanying Company stand-alone and consolidated financial statements of ATHENS WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE S.A. (The Company) and the group ATHENS WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE which comprise the Company stand-alone and consolidated statement of financial position as at December 31, 2013, and the Company stand-alone and consolidated statements of profit and loss account and comprehensive income, changes in equity and cash flow for the year then ended, as well as a summary of significant accounting policies and other explanatory notes.
Management's Responsibility for the Company StandAlone and Consolidated Financial Statements Management is responsible for the preparation and fair presentation of these Company stand-alone and consolidated financial statements in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards as these have been adopted by the European Union, and for such internal control as management determines is necessary to enable the preparation of Company stand-alone and consolidated financial statements that are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error.
Auditor's Responsibility Our responsibility is to express an opinion on these Company stand-alone and consolidated financial statements based on our audit. We conducted our audit in accordance with the International Standards on Auditing. Those standards require that we comply with ethical requirements and plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance whether the Company stand-alone and consolidated financial statements are free from material misstatement.

An audit involves performing procedures to obtain audit evidence about the amounts and disclosures in the company stand-alone and consolidated financial statements. The procedures selected depend on the auditor's judgment, including the assessment of the risks of material misstatement of the company stand-alone and consolidated financial statements, whether due to fraud or error. In making those risk assessments, the auditor considers internal control relevant to the entity's preparation and fair presentation of the company stand-alone and consolidated financial statements in order to design audit procedures that are appropriate in the circumstances, but not for the purpose of expressing an opinion on the effectiveness of the entity's internal control. An audit also includes evaluating the appropriateness of accounting policies used and the reasonableness of accounting estimates made by management, as well as evaluating the overall presentation of the company stand-alone and consolidated financial statements. We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our audit opinion.
Opinion In our opinion, the accompanying Company stand-alone and consolidated financial statements present fairly, in all material respects, the financial position of the Company and the group ATHENS WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE as of December 31, 2013, and of their financial performance and their cash flows for the year then ended in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards as these were adopted by the European Union.
Matter of Emphasis We draw your attention to the fact that as it is further explained in note 35.1 of the financial statements, long outstanding claims raised both by the Company and the Greek State against each other, have been settled in 2013 through legislation and ministerial decisions on one hand and on the

138

other hand through the resolution taken of December 27, 2013 by the Extraordinary General Assembly of shareholders. However, an agreement on the cost of the unprocessed water supply to the Company after June, 30 2013 is still pending. The Company continues to offset the cost of the unprocessed water supply against the cost of services that the Company provides for the maintenance and operation of the water saving and water transfer fixed assets owned by the State Entity "Fixed Assets E.YD.A.P Company". Our audit opinion does not include a qualification regarding the issue above.

Report on Other Legal and Regulatory Requirements a) The Annual Consolidated Directors' Report includes a Corporate Governance Statement does provide the information required according to the provisions of paragraph 3d of Article 43a and paragraph 3st of Article 107 of the Codified Law 2190/1920. b) We have agreed and confirmed the content and consistency of the Annual Consolidated Directors' Report to the accompanying Company stand-alone and consolidated financial statements according to the provisions of the articles 43a, 108 and 37 of the Codified Law 2190/1920.

Athens, March 26, 2014 The Certified Public Accountants

Nicos Sofianos Reg. No SOEL: 12231

Nicos Papadimitriou Reg. No SOEL: 14271

Hadjipavlou Sofianos & Cambanis S.A. Assurance & Advisory Services Fragoklisias 3a & Granikou Str, 151 25 Maroussi Reg. No (ICPA (GR)): E 120

Annual Bulletin & Annual Report 2013 139

5.5 INFORMATION ACCORDING TO ARTICLE 10 OF LAW 3401/2005

The following Announcements/Notifications have been sent to the Daily Official List Announcements and are posted to the Athens Exchange website as well as to Company's website www.eydap.gr.

17/01/2013 19/02/2013 01/03/2013 28/03/2013 29/03/2013 29/03/2013 01/04/2013 02/04/2013 09/04/2013 11/04/2013 23/04/2013 01/05/2013 21/05/2013 22/05/2013 230/5/2013 30/05/2013 30/05/2013 31/05/2013 04/06/2013 05/06/2013 06/06/2013 10/06/2013 28/06/2013 28/06/2013 01/07/2013

IN FRIENDLY CLIMATE THE MEETING WITH JOURNALISTS 2013 FINANCIAL CALENDAR SHARE CAPITAL INCREASE EYDAP NISON S.A. REPLY TO THE CAPITAL MARKET COMMISSION EYDAP REDUCES WATER RATES FY 2012 RESULTS CORPORATE ANNOUNCEMENT CORPORATE ANNOUNCEMENT FINANCIAL ANALYSTS' ANNUAL BRIEFING COMPANY PRESENTATION TO THE REPRESENTATIVES OF THE CAPITAL MARKET REPLACEMENT OF BOARD OF DIRECTORS MEMBERS REPLACEMENT OF BOARD OF DIRECTORS MEMBERS CORPORATE ANNOUNCEMENT CORPORATE ANNOUNCEMENT CORPORATE ANNOUNCEMENT INVITATION TO ORDINARY SHAREHOLDERS MEETING INVITATION TO SPECIAL SHAREHOLDERS MEETING Q1 2013 KEY FIGURES & RESULTS ERROR CORRECTION CORPORATE ANNOUNCEMENT INVITATION TO THE SHAREHOLDERS ORDINARY GENERAL MEETING CORPORATE ANNOUNCEMENT SPECIAL SHAREHOLDERS MEETING RESOLUTIONS RESOLUTIONS OF THE ORDINARY SHAREHOLDERS MEETING 2012 DIVIDEND PAYMENT

140

030/7/2013 03/07/2013 05/07/2013  05/07/2013 09/07/2013 12/07/2013 26/07/2013 26/07/2013 26/07/2013 30/07/2013 31/07/2013 30/08/2013 02/10/2013 09/10/2013 23/10/2013 25/10/2013 18/11/2013 29/11/2013 05/12/2013 06/12/2013 11/12/2013 17/12/2013 24/12/2013 27/12/2013 31/12/2013

RESOLUTIONS AND VOTING RESULTS OF SPECIAL SHAREHOLDERS MEETING 2013 RESOLUTIONS OF THE 31ST ANNUAL SHAREHOLDERS' GENERAL MEETING CLARIFICATIONS FOR THE DISTRIBUTION OF RETAINED EARNINGS OF PRIOR YEARS PROPOSAL TO THE EXTRAORDINARY GENERAL SHAREHOLDERS' MEETING INVITATION TO THE SHAREHOLDERS' EXTRAORDINARY GENERAL MEETING ANNOUNCEMENT PURSUANT TO LAW 3556/2007 - DISCLOSURE OF CHANGE IN VOTING RIGHTS ANOUNCEMENT 2013 FINANCIAL CALENDAR UPDATE DISTRIBUTION OF PRIOR YEARS PROFITS RESOLUTIONS OF THE ETXRAORDINARY SHAREHOLDERS MEETING RESOLUTIONS OF THE EXTRAORDINARY SHAREHOLDERS MEETING_CORRECT REPETITION RESOLUTIONS AND VOTING RESULTS EXTRAORDINARY GENERAL MEETING 2013 H1 2013 RESULTS INVITATION TO THE SHAREHOLDERS' EXTRAORDINARY GENERAL MEETING CORPORATE ANNOUNCEMENT RESOLUTION OF THE EXTRAORDINARY SHAREHOLDERS MEETING OCTOBER 2013 CONCLUSION OF ORDINARY TAX AUDIT FOR FISCAL YEAR 2012 AND TAX CERTIFICATE ISSUANCE CORPORATE ANNOUNCEMENT 9M 2013 KEY FIGURES & RESULTS CORPORATE ANNOUNCEMENT INVITATION TO THE SHAREHOLDERS' EXTRAORDINARY GENERAL MEETING INVITATION TO THE SHAREHOLDERS EXTRAORDINARY MEETING CORRECT REPETITION CORPORATE ANNOUNCEMENT CORPORATE ANNOUNCEMENT RESOLUTIONS OF THE EXTRAORDINARY SHAREHOLDERS MEETING VOTING RESULTS OF THE EXTRAORDINARY SHAREHOLDERS MEETING 2013

Annual Bulletin & Annual Report 2013 141

5.6 Financial Data and Information

ATHENS WATER AND SEWERAGE COMPANY S.A. (E.Y.D.A.P) Company's Number in the General Electronic Commercial Registry : 121578960000, Oropou 156 -11146 Galatsi FINANCIAL DATA AND INFORMATION FOR THE PERIOD FROM 1st January 2013 to 31 December 2013 (in terms of article 135 of Law 2190, for companies publishing annual financial statements in accordance with IAS/IFRS)

The information and financial data below provide general information about the financial position and the results of EYDAP S.A.(the Company) and the Group. Therefore, we recommend the reader, before making any investment decision or proceeding to any transaction with the Group or the Company to visit the Company's website where the full year financial statements according to International Financial Reporting Standards together with the auditor's report, are presented.

COMPANY PROFILE 

Prefecture:

Athens 

Company's web Site

www.eydap.gr

Members of the Board of Directors:

«A. Vartholomaios, E. Palaiologos, L. Zografos, E. Karachaliou, Eleftheria Karachaliou*, 

Panteleimon Kamas*, Anastasios Kourtis*, Epaminondas Sklavenitis*, Panayotis Skoularikis*,

Christos Mistriotis*, Emmanouel Aggelakis*, Evagelos Moutafis*, (*Non- Executive Members)

P. Kamas, A. Kourtis, I. Chondrogiannos, E. Sklavenitis, P. Skoularikis, C. Mistriotis, 

E.Aggelakis, E. Moutafis, G. Zafeiropoulos.

Date of Approval of Financial Statements:

March 26, 2014

The Certified Auditors:

N.Sofianos SA D No 12231

N.Papadimitriou SA D No 14271

Auditing Company:

Deloitte Hatzipaulou, Sofianos & Kampanis 

Public Accountants and Business Consultants SA D No 120

Type of Auditor's Report Unqualified Opinion-Emphasis of matter



STATEMENT OF FINANCIAL POSITION 

Amounts in  thousand

GROUP

COMPANY

31.12.2013

31.12.2012

31.12.2013

31.12.2012

ASSETS

Tangible assets

976.641

995.178

976.641

995.178

Intangible assets

1.420

1.772

1.420

1.772

Other non current assets

103.726

219.056

103.786

219.602

Inventories

15.798

17.616

15.798

17.616

Trade Receivables

203.194

310.042

203.181

310.041

Other current assets

350.326

133.619

350.312

133.584

TOTAL ASSETS

1.651.105

1.677.283

1.651.138

1.677.793

EQUITY AND LIABILITIES

Share capital

63.900

63.900

63.900

63.900

Other Equity Items

886.715

779.763

886.753

780.274

Total Equity (a)

950.615

843.663

950.653

844.174

Liabilities for employee benefits

252.609

258.413

252.609

258.413

Investment subsidies and Consumers' participation

204.598

211.379

204.598

211.379

Provisions/Other long-term liabilities

43.896

85.929

43.896

85.929

Short- term Loans

3.142

185.481

3.142

185.481

Other Short- term liabilities

196.245

92.418

196.240

92.417

Total liabilities (b)

700.490

833.620

700.485

833.619

TOTAL EQUITY AND LIABILITIES (a)+(b)

1.651.105

1.677.283

1.651.138

1.677.793

DATA FROM STATEMENT OF COMPREHENSIVE INCOME

Amounts in  thousand

GROUP

1.01-31.12.2013

1.01-31.12.2012

Turnover

336.165

353.344

Gross profit

145.595

150.594

Profit before tax, financial, and investment results

54.072

79.960

Profit before tax

61.740

68.006

Profit after tax (A)

78.160

51.624

Other comprehensive income, net of tax (B)

50.092

769

Total Comprehensive income for the period (A+B)

128.252

52.393

Attributable to 

Shareholders

78.160

51.624

Diluted earnings per issued share (in euro)

0,7295

0,4856

Proposed dividend per share (in )

-

-

Proposed Dividend from Tax Free Reserve per share (in )

-

-

Profit before tax, financial, investment results

and depreciation and amortization

84.077

114.170

142

DATA FROM STATEMENT OF COMPREHENSIVE INCOME

Amounts in  thousand

COMPANY

1.01-31.12.2013

1.01-31.12.2012

Turnover

336.154

353.345

Gross profit

145.585

150.594

Profit before tax, financial, and investment results

53.599

80.051

Profit before tax

61.267

68.097

Profit after tax (A)

77.687

51.712

Other comprehensive income, net of tax (B)

50.092

769

Total Comprehensive income for the period (A+B)

127.779

52.481

Attributable to 

Shareholders

77.687

51.712

Diluted earnings per issued share (in euro)

-

-

Proposed dividend per share (in )

0,36

0,15

Proposed Dividend from Tax Free Reserve per share (in )

0,02

-

Profit before tax, financial, investment results

and depreciation and amortization

83.604

114.261

STATEMENT OF CHANGES IN EQUITY

Amounts in  thousand

GROUP

COMPANY

31.12.2013

31.12.2012 31.12.2013 31.12.2012

Equity balance at the beginning of the year

(01.01.2013 and 01.01.2012 )

843.663

809.375

844.174

809.798

Profit of the year, after tax

78.160

51.624

77.687

51.712

Net income directly charged to equity

50.092

769

50.092

769

Comprehensive income after tax

128.252

52.393

127.779

52.481

Distributed Dividends

(21.300)

(18.105)

(21.300)

(18.105)

Equity balance at the end of the year

(31.12.2013 and 31.12.2012 )

950.615

843.663

950.653

844.174

STATEMENT OF CASH FLOWS 

Amounts in  thousand

GROUP

COMPANY

31.12.2013

31.12.2012 31.12.2013 31.12.2012

Cash Flows from operating activities

Profit before tax

61.740

68.006

61.267

68.097

Plus / minus adjustments for:

Depreciation and amortization

39.642

41.536

39.642

41.536

Amortization of customers' contributions and subsidies

(9.637)

(7.326)

(9.637)

(7.326)

Investment income

(43)

(50)

(43)

(50)

Impairment of investments

5

76

495

0

Provisions for personnel compensation

61.040

(20.287)

61.040

(20.287)

ther Provisions

(25.656)

38.603

(25.656)

38.603

Interest and related income

(16.126)

(5.225)

(16.126)

(5.225)

Interest and related expense

8.501

17.229

8.501

17.229

Plus / minus adjustments for changes

in working capital accounts

or related to operating activities:

(Decrease) Increase in :

Trade Receivables

375.065

(40.566)

375.083

(40.566)

Materials and spare parts

1.842

(1.348)

1.842

(1.348)

Increase (Decrease) in :

Liabilities

35.537

(5.409)

35.510

(5.403)

Consumers' guarantees

115

150

115

150

Liabilities for employees benefits

1.164

622

1.164

622

Minus:

Interest and related expenses paid

(11.103)

(14.991)

(11.103)

(14.991)

Income tax paid

(24.398)

(9.736)

(24.398)

(9.736)

Net cash flows from operating activities (a)

497.688

61.284

497.696

61.305

Annual Bulletin & Annual Report 2013 143

Cash Flows from investing activities

Purchase of tangible assets

(20.028)

(16.467)

(20.028)

(16.466)

Purchase of intangible assets

(725)

(915)

(725)

(916)

Proceeds from customers' contributions and subsidies

2.856

4.968

2.856

4.968

Interest and related income received

7.494

3.929

7.494

3.929

Dividends received

43

50

43

50

Acquisition of subsidiaries

48

0

48

0

Net cash flows from investing activities (b)

(10.312)

(8.435)

(10.312)

(8.435)



Cash Flows from financing activities

Loans repayments

(178.993)

(15.372)

(178.993)

(15.372)

Dividends paid

(19.522)

(16.346)

(19.522)

(16.346)

Net cash flows from financing activities ( c )

(198.515)

(31.718)

(198.515)

(31.718)

Net (decrease) increase in cash

and cash equivalents (a) + (b) + (c)

288.861

21.131

288.869

21.152

Cash and cash equivalents, at the beginning of the year

43.106

21.975

43.072

21.920

Cash and cash equivalents, at the end of the year

331.967

43.106

331.941

43.072

ADDITIONAL DATA AND INFORMATION 1. The number of employees, for Group and Company, at 31 December 2013 was 2,477 (31 December 2012: 2,512).  2. The unaudited by the tax authorities fiscal years for the Company and the Group's subsidiary are presented in detail in the note 33 of the annual financial statements.  3. The provisions formed by the Company until 31 December 2013 concern: a) Lawsuits for civil cases against the Company of a total amount  97.3 million, mainly relating to indemnities for damages from water flooding (due to pipelines fractures and rainfalls), and to lawsuits from various counterparty suppliers and sub-contractors for violation of contractual terms. b) There are also pending litigations for labor differences of  22.6 million approximately. Against the losses which may arise if the above (a and b) pending litigations become irrevocably resolved, EYDAP has formed provisions of total amount  25.9 million on 31 December 2013 versus  68 million on 31 December 2012, which are deemed as adequate. c) In execution of the decision 18275/22.01.2014 of the BoD, a private agreement was signed between the Company and its employees ­ pensioners, according to which the historical claims of employees and pensioners that had reached a court of law, amounting to  134 million, were reduced following a settlement to approximately  64.2 million plus an amount of  9 million concerning adjunctive charges. d) Tax unaudited years  6.1 million on 31 December 2013 versus  4.9 million on 31 December 2012 and e) Other provisions for doubtful receivables and obsolete inventories of  27.9 million on 31 December 2013 versus  87.9 million on 31 December 2012.» 4. a) In the current year 2013, based on regulatory arrangements and the decision of the General Shareholders' Meeting of the Company, long-term claims of the Company against the Greek State were resolved. Detailed analysis is presented in the note 35, par. 1 of the financial statements. b) The note 38 of the financial statements presents that until the approval date of the annual financial statements from the Board Directors, the total property assets assigned to L.E.P.L. "EYDAP Fixed Assets" of net book value of  657 million approximately have not been transferred.» 5. Transactions during the fiscal year 2013 and balances as of 31 December 2013 with related parties, as defined in IAS 24, are as follows:

i) Income ii) Expenses iii) Receivables iv) Dividend liability v) Remuneration and compensation of Board Members and senior executives

GROUP

2013 66.151 2.147 40.931
-
136

2012 66.961 1.382 308.167 11.388
188

COMPANY

2013 66.151 2.147 40.931
136

2012 66.961 1.382 308.167 11.388
188

6. In current year, an expense of  233 thous. concerning the change in the fair value of assets available for sale and actuarial profits of  50,235 thous. after taxes from defined benefit plans in accordance with the revised IAS 19, were recorded in the statement of total comprehensive income. 7. Until the approval date of the annual financial statements, with the exception of the subjects presented in note 4, no other material events exist which may significantly affect the asset structure or the activities of the Group and the Company, as they were recorded on 31.12.2013. 8. Apart from EYDAP, the consolidated financial statements include NISON EYDAP S.A. with domicile in Athens. EYDAP holds 100% of the company's share capital. NISON EYDAP S.A. was consolidated according to the full consolidation method and as a result no minority rights have been recorded. In comparison with the previous comparative year, the current year does not consolidate a company which had been consolidated via the net worth method, due to liquidation this company. 9. The Company and the Group apply from 1.1.2013 the revised IAS 19 with retroactive application from 1.1.2012 in accordance with IAS 8. Detailed presentation exists in note 42 of the financial statements. The changes which occurred affected: a) positively the published statement of income and of total comprehensive income by amounts of  4,869 thous. and 4,885 thous. respectively, and b) negatively the published shareholders' equity on 31.12.2011 and 31.12.2012 by amounts of  42,720 thous. and  37,837 thous. respectively.   

144

10. The matter of emphasis of the Certified Auditors are the following: "We draw your attention to the fact that as it is further explained in note 35.1 of the financial statements, long outstanding claims raised both by the Company and the Greek State against each other, have been settled in 2013 through legislation and ministerial decisions on one hand and on the other hand through the resolution taken of December 27, 2013 by the Extraordinary General Assembly of shareholders. However, an agreement on the cost of the unprocessed water supply to the Company after June, 30 2013 is still pending. The Company continues to offset the cost of the unprocessed water supply against the cost of services that the Company provides for the maintenance and operation of the water saving and water transfer fixed assets owned by the State Entity "Fixed Assets E.YD.A.P Company". Our audit opinion does not include a qualification regarding the issue above."

Athens, March 26, 2014

The Chairman of the Management Board The Member of the BoD

The Director of the Economic Department The Chief Accountant Supervisor

and Chief Executive Officer





 



Antonios Vartholomaios ID no  543580

Chondrogiannos Ioannis ID no  094411

Spyropoulou Eleni ID No  060168

Skylaki Lemonia ID No  971227



Economic Chamber of

Economic Chamber of Greece



Greece Accounting

Accounting



License Reg.No A/22806

License Reg.No A/17806



Annual Bulletin & Annual Report 2013 145

