ANTENA 3 GROUP
2011 Annual and Corporate Responsibility Report

Contact details
Antena 3 Group Communication Department Av. Isla Graciosa nº 13 San Sebastián de los Reyes 28703 Madrid By e-mail: comunicacion@antena3tv.es responsabilidadcorporativa@antena3tv.es www.grupoantena3.com www.fundacionantena3.es By telephone: (+ 34) 91 623 05 00 By fax: (+ 34) 91 654 92 04
This Annual Report was approved by Antena 3 de Televisión, S.A. Board of Directors on 22nd February 2012.
antena 3 group

Index
Letter from the President  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 2 Letter from the CEO  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 6 Main figures of Antena 3 Group 10  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  The year's highlights 12  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  Antena 3 Group 22  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  Television 56  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  Radio 82  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . Multimedia 92  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  Advertising  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 104 Human Resources 118  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  Society 138  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  The Environment .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 158 Annexes 172  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 

2011 annual and corporate responsibility report

1

[ The merger with La Sexta will generate interesting
synergies and new business opportunities that will make us more competitive and
profitable. ]
José Manuel Lara

Letter from the President

2011 was a very intense year and, at the same time, extremely satisfactory on several different levels. Each one of the companies and divisions that compose the Antena 3 Group registered significant growth, evidencing our high degree of competitiveness in all the areas where we are present. In television and radio, we increased our audience, while in advertising we outpaced the market; and all of the initiatives carried out in the multimedia and film production areas have surpassed our expectations. This privileged situation has given us the opportunity to enter into a merger agreement with La Sexta that I consider a success. In short, even though the crisis continued to negatively impact the advertising market, it did

not prevent us from closing the year, once again, stronger and more profitable.
2011 was shaped by a highly important development in the television industry. In December we signed a merger agreement by which La Sexta would be absorbed by Antena 3 Group, transforming the landscape of the Spanish audiovisual market and consolidating our position as the leading operator.
The agreement, which was highly satisfactory for both parties, entailed the delivery to La Sexta shareholders of an initial stake of 7% in the new company and an additional stake of up to 7%,

2011 annual and corporate responsibility report

3

phased in gradually and in function of compliance during the 2012-2016 period with a series of objectives related to the results of the new Group.
The execution of the merger and the complementary agreements is contingent on obtaining the pertinent regulatory authorizations and approval from competition authorities. Approval of the operation will be submitted to the approval of the General Shareholders' Meeting.
With the incorporation of La Sexta's television offerings, the new Antena 3 Group adds a leading TV player to its strong presence in other markets such as radio, advertising and film: a total of eight channels that meet the demands of both spectators and advertisers, with complementary and varied programming.
I believe that the whole can be superior to the sum of parts. This is the case here. The merger with La Sexta gives us the opportunity to be much bigger than what the union of two channels might suggest. Our new position will generate interesting synergies and new business opportunities that will make us more competitive and profitable. Being great is not just a question of size, but also of strength.

The merger by absorption with La Sexta also says a great deal about our management team. In 2011 we worked intensely to reach this merger agreement, which we consider historic, both because of its size, and because it has unfolded in the best possible way for both parties. The market concurred with this assessment.
In an environment in which the advertising market has once again posted negative figures, with across-the-board drops in all the sectors, and in which new competitors have appeared after the merger of Telecinco with Cuatro, ANTENA 3 GROUP closed the year as one of the companies that has best withstood the crisis, registering similar figures to last year. Net Profit came in at 93.4 million Euros. Net Revenues stood at 805.2 million euros, and EBITDA came in at 124.4 million euros, with a sales margin of 15.5%.
Antena 3 maintained its commitment to shareholders and will pay out more than 80% of the net profit in dividends.
This has all been made possible by the Group's excellent team of professionals. They are the means through which we can offer a new concept of television that we believe in and that makes us

4

antena 3 group

proud. Over the course of 2011 we have reinforced our brand positioning and increased our market and audience share. This is an exceptional performance, especially in such a short period of time.
The construction of a brand is a long process and requires changing viewers' perceptions, a process that can take some time. In our case, the values that define us ­ such as respect for the viewer and trust in our content ­ has already attracted new viewers and more advertisers. This is our qualitative advantage.
For the Antena 3 Group, Corporate Responsibility is not merely the latest fad, but forms an integral part of our business model. Therefore, a key part of our Mission is to win the trust of our stakeholders; our Vision entails making a valuable and positive contribution to society; and our Values, to embody quality and commitment.
The 2010-2013 Corporate Responsibility Master Plan, which defines the lines of action needed to put Antena 3 Group at the forefront of CR, has already achieved a degree of compliance of over 76%, even though there is still another year before said plan is finalized.
Furthermore, the approval of the Code of Conduct by the Antena 3 Group's Board of Directors, heralds a new phase in the company's organizational culture. This document is fundamental for providing guidance to employees, executives and members of the Group's management bodies in all of their actions. The Code is perfectly integrated with the rest of the policies, values, and principles in force in the organization, and will also allow us to be more efficient.
We go into 2012 with the belief that we are in the best position to continue growing as a group, especially now, since following the absorption of La Sexta we will face the enormous challenge of carrying out the integration of both companies while remaining the communications leader in Spain and Europe.

Letter from the President
[ In television we have reinforced our brand positioning and increased our market and audience share. ]
[ Antena 3 Group is one of the companies that has best withstood the crisis, registering turnover that was similar to the previous year. ]

2011 annual and corporate responsibility report

5

[ Under a common strategy, the new channels that will be integrated in
the Group will retain their identifying characteristics, thereby joining the most varied offering on the Spanish market. ]

Letter from the CEO

Antena 3 Group's merger by absorption with la Sexta, the details of which were successfully finalised at the end of the year, probably marks the beginning of the most important period in the company's history, in which we will be able to consolidate a leading position in the audiovisual sector.
Antena 3 Group will become the largest communication company in Spain: two large television channels, six theme channels, two radio stations, all of which are continually growing, and will require a great deal of effort to manage. Furthermore, we have a presence in the advertising market through ATRES Advertising, in film through Antena 3 Films; and in internet through ANTENA 3 Multimedia. This merger also clearly represents an opportunity to continue developing our business model from a position of strength, which should result in higher profitability for each of the businesses that compose our new group, and of course, for our shareholders.
Although the execution of the merger is still pending the authorizations of the regulatory and competition authorities, as well as its approval by the General Shareholders' Meeting, we are already developing the lines of action that will implement

the total integration of the two companies. This is a highly complex endeavor that will require us to operate at the same level as the other large communications groups in Europe.
Under a common strategy, the channels that will join the Group will retain their identifying characteristics, thereby joining the most varied offering on the Spanish market. In the same manner that we invest in our current portfolio of channels, we intend to enhance the capacity of La Sexta and its theme channels to generate new and larger audiences with the aim of offering advertisers global audiences in a high quality audiovisual environment.
If it were not for the crisis, this probably would have been one of the best years ever for Antena 3. Nevertheless, we have the satisfaction of being, once again, the company in the media sector that has been best able to adapt to the recession, in an environment that has been in constant flux and a sector that is especially vulnerable to the current economic situation. Our growth rates have outpaced those of the market because advertisers recognized the quality and variety of our television and radio offerings, which outweigh mere quantitative considerations.

6

antena 3 group

Silvio González
7

[ Our growth rates have outpaced those of the
market because advertisers recognize the quality and variety of our television and radio offerings, which
outweigh mere quantitative considerations. ]

[ It is a rare that a channel meets with success in practically 100% of its premieres, like Antena 3 has. ]

As a result, Antena 3 Group has obtained excellent results against the backdrop of a weak economy and a downturn in the advertising market. Furthermore, the merger of Telecinco with Cuatro has created a competitor that is larger than us.
The Group's Net Revenues stood at 805.2 million euros, a very similar figure to what was posted in 2010, despite the 6% drop registered in the sector, evidencing sustained growth that outpaces the market. EBITDA came in at 124.4 million euros, with a sales margin of 15.5%. Lastly, Net Profit added up to 93.4 million Euros.
Antena 3 Television also obtained strong results in a year which saw TV advertising decline by about 10%. The company was able to maintain its sales at practically the same level as the year before, and was able to increase its market share by three points.
In 2011, Antena 3 consolidated its television model based on quality. Our identity has been defined by concrete actions, i.e., the content we broadcast. In this regard, over the course of the year, a large number of different formats have been incorporated on our programming line-up, representing all the genres and suitable for all audiences. This, combined with the commercial potential of Atres

Advertising, has underpinned the good financial results presented in this statement. This year, ATRES Advertising, our exclusive advertising operator successfully embarked on a bold initiative to guarantee advertisers greater coverage, which led to it being recognized as the best company in the sector.
It is a rare that a channel meets with success on practically 100% of its premieres. But this is what happened at Antena 3, and I feel especially proud because we have been able to obtain this success while respecting the viewer, and offering the advertisers the security of knowing that their brand is surrounded by quality content.
As a result, and despite the growing fragmentation, which has already reached 34.5% of market share, Antena 3's family of channels ended 2011 with a 1.3 point increase in its audience to reach 17.1%. In general, all the new channels have registered increases, which show that our investment policy, which has been in place since they began, has borne fruit.
Onda Cero, commercial leader in profitability per listener, is the private radio that grew most, with a 5.6% increase in its audience, which reinforces its second place ranking in this segment's rank-

8

antena 3 group

Letter from the CEO

ing. These results evidence the success of its programming, which remains committed to continuity, balance and respect for all opinions. Similarly, Europa FM showed the most growth out of the music broadcasters.
In light of these excellent results, it can be said that Onda Cero and Europa FM have set clear benchmarks in the Spanish radio sector. They are among the most listened-to stations and - more importantly ­ have gained the trust and a closer relationship with their audiences.
We continue to pay attention to new forms of watching television, and I'm not just talking about viewing TV on a computer, tablet or mobile handset, but also to what is known as connected television, an unstoppable phenomenon that will not take long to sweep across Spain, and for which we are prepared. In fact, we have made exclusive agreements with the main television manufacturers with the aim of offering our content and applications adapted to this new technology that joins internet with television.
Antena 3 Multimedia had a record year in 2011 in all the areas in which it operates: as a broadcaster of its own content, and in the creation of vertical channels, the generation of applications for smartphones and tablets, and its massive presence on different social networks. Antena 3 is the leader in the consumption of audiovisual content via the internet in Spain.
With regard to our investment in Spanish film, we have had another outstanding year. The nine films premiered by Antena 3 Films in 2011 have collected almost half the revenue of all the films made in our country. In addition to box office success, our productions have won important prizes and critical acclaim.

Of the numerous activities undertaken in 2011 in the area of Corporate Responsibility, I'd like to underscore the new El Estirón initiative, which has been added to other highly successful initiatives rolled out such as Ponle Freno and Hazte Eco. The aim of El Estirón is to increase awareness and sensitize Spanish society, especially parents and educators, about the importance of teaching youth good eating habits and promoting physical activity.
Meanwhile, Fundación Antena 3 has prepared a new strategic plan laying the groundwork for its social welfare programs. This commendable initiative highlights the company's commitment to the renewal and the continual improvement of its activities.
We can safely say that we know what we want and how to get it. And most importantly, viewers ­ and advertisers ­ have a clear understanding of what they can expect from us. In the coming years we will continue building a great multimedia communications group, that over time will become larger, more profitable and competitive.
[ Fundación Antena 3 has prepared a new strategic plan laying the groundwork for its social welfare programs. ]

2011 annual and corporate responsibility report

9

Main figures of Antena 3 Group

Continuing the trend started in 2009, this report includes in a unified manner, information on Antena 3 Group's business (economic and market), and social and environmental information.
This fact is yet another demonstration of the commitment assumed by the company to fully integrate Social Responsibility into its business model.

A summary of the Group's main results, broken down by the three aforementioned areas, is as follows: economic, social and environmental.
Throughout this annual report, all information related to Corporate Responsibility has been highlighted in green.

Main figures of Antena 3 Group

Economic Total net revenues (Millions of ) EBITDA (Millions of ) Net profit (Millions of ) Distributed economic value (Millions of ) Economic assistance received from the Pubic Administrations (Millions of ) Advertising efficiency ratio (adults) Advertising efficiency ratio (individuals) Number of advertisers Average audience share Antena 3 Television (%) Average audience share Neox (%) Average audience share Nova (%) Average audience share Nitro (%) Share Onda cero (%) Share Europa FM (%) Number of Onda Cero listeners Number of Europa FM listeners Number of videos hosted on www.antena3.com (monthly average-millions)

2009 703.9
81.1 60.7 490.6
2.7 1.61 1.59 19,521 16.6 1.2 0.7
­ 18.3
7.2 2,257,000 1,173,000
13.4

2010 807.7 156.9 109.1 558.6 10.8 1.81 1.80 17,998
11.7 2.2 1.5
­ 19.0
7.7 2,323,000 1,455,000
26.3

2011 805.2 124.4
93.4 638.1
11.6 1.81 1.81 17,964 11.5 2.7 1.5
1.4 20.3
8.1 2,454,000 1,579,000
52.9

Social Child programming broadcast hours Accumulated captioning hours Number of employees Investment in training () Training hours per employee Antena 3 Group donations to the Foundation () Infractions of the Self-regulation Code Opportunity cost of the broadcast of free television spots for social advertising () Opportunity cost of the broadcast of free radio slots for social advertising ()

2009 767 3,878 2,071 1,002,338
29 500,000
2 ­ ­

2010 1,689 7,196 1,942 333,923
34 500,000
3 ­ ­

2011 2,509 10,491 1,849 424,858
29,5 360,000
2 3,715,759 1,735,430

Environmental White paper consumption (pages) Toner and cartridge consumption (units) Fluorescent light consumption (units) Solid urban waste (tons) Gas consumption (m3) Unleaded gas oil consumption (liters) Electrical consumption (Kwh) Water consumption (liters) Greenhouse gas emission (ton of CO2 equivalents) Environmental investment (thousands )

2009 7,165,000
901 1,580
375 13,064 423,861 19,534,953 49,371 4,316.32 80.53

2010 6,595,000
886 1,673
363 12,442 520,878 19,716,406 52,449 2,095.06 105.30

2011 6,117,500
791 1,695
352 10,270 420,040 19,400,980 46,856 2,680.31 148.54

2011 annual and corporate responsibility report

11

Pablo Motos, host of El Hormiguero 3.0, at the entrance
of Grupo Antena 3 headquarters.

The year's highlights

Financial Results

Antena 3 Group has obtained some good results against a backdrop of a downturn in the advertising market and weakness on the macroeconomic level.
· The Antena 3 Group's net income amounted to 805.2 million euros (vs. 807.7 million euros in 2010)
· EBITDA came in at 124.4 million Euros, a sales margin of 15.5%.
· Net profit added up to 93.4 million Euros. · The distributed economic value was 638.1 mil-
lion Euros

Million Euros

Antena 3 Group

805.2

638.1

Television Division
Antena 3 television also obtained strong results, outperforming the market in a year where TV advertising declined by about 10%.
· Net income from the Television Division reached 669.6 million euros.
· EBITDA amounted to 103.3 million euros, resulting in a sales margin of 15.4%.
Radio Division
Onda Cero continues reinforcing its position in the Spanish radio sector. In 2010 it increased its number of listeners by 66,000 ­ a figure that was doubled in 2011.
· In 2011 the Radio Division registered a net income of 89.4 million Euros.
· EBITDA amounted to 18.8 million Euros (sales margin 21.0%).

124.4 93.4

Net income

EBITDA

Net profit

Distributed economic
value

The year's highlights

2011 Milestones

Antena 3 and La Sexta agree to a merger
La Sexta and Antena 3 signed a merger agreement by which La Sexta would be absorbed by ANTENA 3 GROUP, radically changing the landscape of the Spanish television and audiovisual market, and consolidating Antena 3 Group's position as the benchmark operator.
Antena 3, a year of big hits
Antena 3 has positioned itself as the channel with a strong, unique personality, thanks to a television model that prioritizes quality, variety, and responsibility. During 2011, there were new successful offerings into the programming grid which kept building and reinforcing such new television model. The results have been excellent: growth that outpaced the market, an increase in audience share, despite rising fragmentation, and the unanimous recognition of Antena 3 as the most innovative and most highly valued channel.

Larger audiences despite the increased fragmentation
The Antena 3 Group ended 2011 with audience growth of 1.3 points, an increase that allowed its family of channels, comprising Antena 3, Neox, Nova and Nitro, to close the year with a 17.1% market share.
Out of the large television channels, Antena 3 TV, with a 11.5% share, posted the best figures for the full-year period, and the one that has grew the most in the second half, over half a point (0.6%).
The theme channels, Neox, Nova and Nitro continue growing
Neox ended December as the sixth most watched national channel, for the second consecutive month. Furthermore, last year it grew 0.5 to 2.7%, a performance that made it the leader among the private themed channels, and even surpassed La 2's record. For the full-year period, Nova (1.5%) was able to consolidate its results and Nitro (1.4%) grew a point, making it the most watched channel out of the ones that were launched this season.
These results are the fruits of the Group's commitment to continue investing in its channels to give them a strong personality through the programming of premium content, specifically designed for each one of them.

14

antena 3 group

2011 annual and corporate responsibility report

15

Antena 3 News 1, the leading private news show
Antena 3 News has once again become the news benchmark, with the First Edition program the most watched private news broadcast, Monday through Friday, as Monday to Sunday as well as on the weekend.
For the seventh year running, Matías Prats has been rated the television personality with the best image, according to the GECA image index.
Antena 3 consolidates its family television model
Following the success at the end of 2010 of the motto, Antena 3 pone and its communication campaign, in December 2011, the TV channel launched a new initiative called Pongamos que. The spot is a massive musical production in which the channel's top personalities send a clear message of optimism for 2012, and offer the spectator their spirited contribution: A happy, varied, entertaining and quality television experience.
For yet another year, Antena 3 TV has been rated as the most innovative and most highly valued channel, an assessment extended to Neox and also to the news programs and their hosts, according to the GECA image index.

This study also highlighted that Antena 3 TV "offered the best national series of the commercial channels, with the actors of the highest quality, as well as the best game shows of all the TV channels."
In addition, Antena 3 TV received the Quality Prize in the XII edition of the TV Academy's Prizes.
The highest success rate for television premieres
2011 was a year of premieres for Antena 3's family of channels. Entertainment programs, such as Tu Cara me Suena, El Hormiguero 3.0, and Otra Movida for Neox, have triumphed with audiences. In addition, the channel rolled out the El Barco and Gran Hotel series, and the gameshows, Atrapa un Millón and Ahora Caigo. In a market where about 80% of new television programs meet with

El Homiguero 3.0. Making of Gran Hotel. Jury of Tu Cara me Suena talent show.

16

antena 3 group

The year's highlights

2011 annual and corporate responsibility report

17

Sceen of El Barco.

failure, Antena 3 set a new record, across all the genres, with a nearly 100% success rate.
Antena 3 afternoons are successfully revamped
Antena 3 TV started 2011 with important changes in the afternoon and early evening. Bandolera and El Secreto de Puente Viejo have boosted the channel's performance by two points in the early afternoon.
Entertainment, the new prime time focus
2011 has also meant the revamping of the prime time slots, with the recovery of genres such as gameshows and variety shows.
The tremendous success of Tu Cara me Suena, Atrapa un Millón and Ahora caigo also represents a triumph for Antena 3's new television concept, which is based on entertainment for every type of audience.

"Gran Hotel", the best fiction premiere with 20%
With an average audience of 3,719,000 viewers and an audience share of 20%, Gran Hotel has become the breakout series, and the best fiction premiere in the second half of the year. These are a few of the stars of Antena 3 TV `s great library, which also includes top shows such as El Barco, the most watched of the year, Los Protegidos and Hispania.
The best ideas with the best professionals
Antena 3 stands out for its capacity to attract the best ideas, and the most outstanding professionals. They are, without doubt, what gives credibility to the channel's television model. Just a few names suffice to show its excellence: Pablo Motos, Javier Sardá, Paula Vázquez, Arturo Valls, Florentino Fernández, Belén Rueda, Matías Prats, Susanna Griso, Carlos Sobera, Amaia Salamanca, Manel Fuentes, Maxi Iglesias, Karlos

18

antena 3 group

The year's highlights

Arguiñano, Antonio Garrido, Jaime Cantizano, Sandra Daviú, Gloria Serra, Marta Hazas, Lluís Homar, Paco Tous and Jesús Olmedo, and many others.
Shareholder remuneration: more than 80% of net profit
Antena 3 continues to maintain its shareholder remuneration policy and will pay out more than 80% of the net profit in dividends. This means that Antena 3 offers one of the highest dividend yields in the sector.
Onda Cero, commercial leader in profitability per listener
For yet another year, Onda Cero is leader in profitability per listener. With a 5.6% increase in its audience, it has reinforced its second place position in

this segment's ranking. According to the General Media Report (Estudio General de Medios) from the end of November, Antena 3 Group's generalist radio station had an audience of 2,454,000 listeners, 131,000 more than for the same period the previous year.
Meanwhile, 2011 was the first year in which Europa FM was able to break the barrier of 1.5 million listeners, with an absolute audience of 1,579,000 listeners. Furthermore, it is the music station that grew most in percentage terms last year.
Atres Advertising, the best exclusive advertising operator
The exclusive advertising operator of Antena 3 has promised to return 5% of the campaigns' costs if it does not succeed in obtaining a better rating or greater coverage with the same GRPs. A year ago all the companies met the standards guaranteed. Advertisers showed their confidence in the Group's commercial model, rating Atres Advertising as the best exclusive advertising operator, according to the Media Scope study carried out by the Grupo Consultores.

Florentino Fernández and Arturo Valls.

2011 annual and corporate responsibility report

19

Furthermore, the "Foro de Comerciales de la Publicidad" declared Antena 3 the best "Support in the television category" and the "Advertising support with the best marketing".

ers, while its Vision entails making a valuable and positive contribution to society, and its Values, to embody quality and commitment.

New year of records for Antena 3 Multimedia
Antena 3 is the leader in the consumption of audiovisual content via the internet in Spain, thanks to its strategy based on exploiting video, and the success of Modo Salón, the online platform for viewing series' episodes and complete programs, that has surpassed 3 million users who have watched over 500 million videos.
Meanwhile, antena3.com, closed 2011 with an average of 8,933,000 unique users, 40% higher than the figure registered in 2010.
Antena 3 Films collects 40% of total film box office proceeds
In 2011 Antena 3 Films premiered a total of nine feature films, which represented 40% of the Spanish film industry's box office proceeds. The success of the film productions has been repeated year after year, and it would be no exaggeration to say that the Group's contribution is a key element in the development of the Spanish film industry.

Easily complying with the 2010-2012 Corporate Responsibility Master Plan
The CR Master Plan, approved in 2010, with a three year window for its application defines the lines of action needed to put Antena 3 Group at "the forefront of Corporate Responsibility in the Spanish audiovisual sector". In 2011, the Plan has progressed more than expected, and has already achieved a degree of compliance of over 76% in only the first two years of the implementation period.
The Code of Conduct by the Antena 3 Group marks a new phase in the company's organizational culture.
The approval of the Code of Conduct by the Antena 3 Group's Board of Directors, marks a new phase in the company's organizational culture. This document is a fundamental tool for providing guidance to employees, executives and members of the Group's management bodies in all of their actions. Furthermore, the Code is perfectly integrated with the rest of the policies, values, and principles in force in the organization.

Antena 3 Group incorporates Corporate Responsibility in its Mission, Vision and Values
The company has reinforced the integration of corporate responsibility in its organization. A key part of its Mission is to win the trust of stakehold-

El Estiron: a new addition to the Ponle Freno, Hazte Eco and Vive Conectado initiatives
El Estirón is the new Corporate Responsibility initiative being rolled out by Antena 3 Group to

20

antena 3 group

The year's highlights

increase awareness and sensitize Spanish society, especially among parents and educators, about the importance of teaching youth good eating habits and promoting physical activity, in order to avoid health problems caused by child obesity.
The Antena 3 Foundation designs its new Strategic Plan
After five years of hard work and in the spirit of constant renewal and improvement, the Antena 3 Foundation has designed a new strategic plan in order to optimize the possible synergies with the Group and to become the leading foundation in the audiovisual sector.

Images corresponding to Ponle Freno race, El Estirón and the online platform Modo Salón.

2011 annual and corporate responsibility report

21

Antena 3 Group

Mission, Vision and Values

The Mission, Vision and Values of ANTENA 3 Group have been revised, in 2011, in order to adapt and respond to the full integration of CR into the organization's operations, becoming a key part of the Group's raison d'être.
Mission
Broadcast of varied, innovative and high quality news and entertainment offerings that respond to our stakeholders in order to win their trust and thereby ensuring the leadership position and sustainability of the Group.
Vision
To be the leading multimedia communications group and to make a valuable and positive contribution to the society in which we operate
Values
Commitment: We strive to make a valuable contribution to society, creating campaigns to raise awareness about social issues, that resolve problems, and generate positive change.
Quality: We work to ensure the continuous improvement of our activities, developing excellent products - in terms of both their form and content - aimed at meeting the needs and expectations of our audiences.

Creativity: We promote the creative development of our employees, promoting artistic freedom and innovative thinking, and respecting the democratic and cultural values of society.
Long term vision: We are working towards creating a leading corporate project in the audiovisual sector that seeks to face the future by making it.
Innovation: We promote the creation of new ideas, products, services that contribute value to the company and society.
Leadership: To motivate and guide our collaborators in order to promote their development and that of the organization, transmitting energy and inspiring confidence to help the organization reach its business targets.
Working as a team: To foster a culture based on establishing relationships founded on trust and respect between the employees and the Company. We promote their autonomy and participation in the decision-making process, basing our management style on the principles of delegation and responsibility.

24

antena 3 group

Antena 3 Group

Planeta de Agostini Group: 44.58% Treasury stock: 5.98% UFA FILM: 20.49% Free-float: 28.95%

Shareholder structure.

Shareholder structure
The Antena 3 Group is a multimedia group headed by Antena 3 Television. It has traded on the Spanish stock exchange since 2003 and its main shareholders are Spanish and European communications companies.
The Planeta de Agostini Group
This group is the result of the strategic alliance between the Planeta Group and De Agostini. Its goal is to reinforce its leadership in the publishing world, in new economic sectors and especially in audiovisual media.
The Planeta Group: A Spanish multimedia publishing and communications Group, leader in content production for the Spanish speaking market. It holds a privileged position with respect to its competitors: it is the top Spanish publishing group and the seventh in the world.

The De Agostini Group: Multinational Italian group with activity in the publishing market, in the content production and distribution for television and cinema, and in the financial and insurance sectors. It is present in 30 countries and publishes in 13 different languages.
RTL Group 1
With 40 television channels and 32 radio broadcasters in 10 countries, it is the leader in the European Entertainment market. It broadcasts more than 9,500 hours of television every year in the 57 countries it is present in. At present, it is broadcasting or in the production phase of over 300 programs all over the world. Each day, more than 200 million viewers all over the world watch an RTL television channel.
There have been no significant changes made to either the shareholder structure or to other important aspects for the company during this period.
1UFA FILM UND FERNSEH GMBH UNIPERSONAL (RTL- Berstelmann Group).

2011 annual and corporate responsibility report

25

Composition of the Board of Directors and its Committees

The Board of Directors is the company's most important representative, administrative, management and oversight body in the company. It is responsible for determining the overall direction and objectives, for which reason it carries out and exclusively assumes responsibilities related to strategy (to orient and implement the company's policies), oversight (to control management duties) and communication (to serve as the intermediary for shareholders and investors).

The Board of Directors approves the company's Corporate Governance policies. This policy is based on the principles of transparency and respect for the Rules and Recommendations of Corporate Governance, through the application, interpretation and constant review of the applicable laws and rules, in both general terms and ones that are specific to the Group.

Antena 3 Group

Mr. José Manuel Lara Bosch
Chairman

Mr. Maurizio Carlotti Mr. Silvio González

Vice President

Moreno

Chief Executive Officer

Mr. Nicolás Abel Bellet de Tavernost
Board Member

Mr. Mauricio Casals Aldama Board Member

Ms. Aurora Catá Sala Board Member

Mr. José Creuheras Margenat
Board Member

Mr. Marco Drago Board Member

26

antena 3 group

Ms. María Entrecanales Franco
Board Member

Mr. Elmar Heggen Board Member

Mr. Pedro Ramón y Cajal Agüeras Board Member

Mr. Luis Gayo del Pozo Secretary

Mr. Manuel de la Viuda Fdez. de Heredia
Deputy Secretary

2011 annual and corporate responsibility report

27

Board of Directors
Name Mr. José Manuel Lara Bosch Mr. Maurizio Carlotti Mr. Silvio González Moreno Mr. Nicolás Abel Bellet de Tavernost Mr. Mauricio Casals Aldama Ms. Aurora Catá Sala Mr. José Manuel González Mr. Marco Drago Ms. María Entrecanales Franco Mr. Elmar Heggen Mr. Pedro Ramón y Cajal Agüeras Mr. Luis Gayo del Pozo Mr. Manuel de la Viuda Fdez. Heredia
1 R epresenting UFA FILM UND FERSEH GMBH UNIPERSONAL 2 Representing GRUPO PLANETA-DE AGOSTINI, S.L.

Position Chairman Vice President Chief Executive Officer Board member Board member Board member Board member Board member Board member Board member Board member Non Director Secretary Non Director Deputy Secretary

Type Executive Executive Executive Proprietary1 Proprietary2 Independent Proprietary2 Proprietary2 Independent Proprietary1 Independent ­ ­

The Board of Directors has several specialized committees, which are as follows:
Executive Committee
All the powers of the Board, except those which cannot be delegated, are delegated in the Executive Committee.
Its members are appointed with the favorable vote of two thirds of the Board of Directors. The number of members that may comprise this committee at any given time is decided upon by the Board, which must take into account its own size, the optimal functioning and maximum efficiency of the Committee, as well as the number of members comprising the rest of the Committees.
The Executive Committee is comprised of the following: the Chairman of the Board of Directors, when he is a member of the Committee, and the CEO. At present, the Vice-president of the Board also forms a part of this Committee.

In 2011, the Executive Committee met 10 times.

Name Mr. José Manuel Lara Bosch Mr. Maurizio Carlotti
Mr. Silvio González Moreno Mr. Nicolas Abel Bellet de Tavernost Mr. Marco Drago Mr. Luis Gayo del Pozo

Position
Chairman
Board member
Board member
Board member
Board member
Secretary

Type Executive Executive Executive Proprietary Proprietary

Audit and Control Committee
The Audit and Control Committee's function is to serve as the main advisor to the Board of Directors in the analysis and review of the annual accounts each year and of the periodic financial reports, as well as to supervise the preparation of the financial reporting. It is also responsible for periodically reviewing operations between the company and

28

antena 3 group

Antena 3 Group

its most significant shareholders and for receiving direct and periodic information from the company's auditors (internal and external).

The Audit and Control Committee is currently composed of four Board members.

All members of the Committee are external Board members, although senior executives and managers may attend meetings when the Committee expressly agrees to their presence. In addition, external auditors may attend their meetings, when it is requested that they explain the conclusions reached in the course of their work.

In 2011, this Committee met 6 times.

Name
Mr. Pedro Ramón y Cajal Agüeras
Mr. Elmar Heggen
Ms. Aurora Catà Sala
Mr. José Creuheras Margenat
Mr. Manuel de la Viuda Fdez. de Heredia

Position Chairman Vice-chairman Board member Board member
Secretary

Type Independent Proprietary Independent Proprietary

It is composed of five board members. All of them are external and were chosen by the Board of Directors from among their members, taking into account the specific circumstances of the company to determine their number and also taking into account the knowledge, expertise and experience of the Board members and the members of the Committee.

In 2011, this Committee met once.

Name

Position

Ms. María Entrecanales Franco

Chairwoman

Mr. Nicolas Abel Bellet de Tavernost

Vice-president

Mr. Mauricio Casals Aldama

Board member

Mr. José Creuheras Margenat

Board member

Mr. Pedro Ramón y Cajal Agüeras

Board member

Mr. Luis Gayo del Pozo Secretary

Type Independent Proprietary Proprietary Proprietary Independent

Appointment and Remuneration Committee
Among other functions, this committee is responsible for reporting all the resolutions adopted by the Board concerning the appointment or removal of Board members to the General Shareholders' meeting, and for supervising compliance with the corporate governance rules and reporting on the appointments and removals of senior executives that the CEO proposes to the Board. It also has a key role in establishing the remuneration policy as well as in monitoring the application of same. In addition it is responsible for preparing the annual remuneration report for the Board of Directors.

2011 annual and corporate responsibility report

29

Antena 3 Group's corporate structure

Antena 3 de Televisión S.A.

Antena 3 Juegos S.A.U. 100%

Música Aparte, S.A.U. 100%

Antena 3 Eventos S.L.U. 100%

I3 Televisión S.L. 50%

Antena 3 Multimedia S.L.U. 100%

Guadiana Producciones S.A.U. 100%

Atres Advertising S.L.U. 100%

Televisao Independiente S.A. 0,002%

Antena 3 Films S.L.U. 100%

Vnews Agencia de Noticias S.L. 100%

Movierecord Cine S.A.U. 100%

Gestión Audiovisual de Canarias S.L. 20%

Unipublic S.A. 51%

100%

Organizaciones Deportivas y Culturales Unipublic S.A.U. 100%

Videoreport Canarias S.A.

20%

30%

Antena 3 Canarias S.L.U.

30%

30%

Antena 3 de Televisión Colombia S.A. 55%

Cordina Planet S.L. 50%

40%

Canal 3 de Televisión de Colombia S.A.

2%

Hola Televisión América S.L. 50%

Uniprex S.A.U.* 100%

For more information regarding the companies in ANTENA 3 GROUP, please consult www.grupoantena3.com * Before Publicidad 3, S.A.U.

30

antena 3 group

Antena 3 Group

Management structure
Corporate Structure
Chief Executive Officer Mr. Silvio González General Secretary Mr. Luis Gayo Chief Financial Officer Mr. Antonio Manso General Counsel Mr. Manuel de la Viuda Regulatory and Institutional Relationships Ms. Carmen Rodríguez Audit and Processes Monitoring Mr. Fernando Costi Director of Communication Mr. Ignacio Mata Director of Strategy Mr. Javier Nuche

Television Division
General Manager Mr. Javier Bardají Director of Information Services Ms. Gloria Lomana
Radio Division
President of Uniprex Mr. Javier González Ferrari General Manager Mr. Ramón Osorio
Advertising Division
General Manager ­ Atres Advertising Mr. Eduardo Olano
Multimedia Division
General Manager Mr. José Manuel González-Pacheco
Film Division
President ­ Antena 3 Films Mr. Mikel Lejarza
Antena 3 Foundation and CR
Executive Director Ms. Carmen Bieger

2011 annual and corporate responsibility report

31

Antena 3 in the stock market

2011 was a tough year for the Spanish equity market. In addition to registering a negative performance, it went through some difficult moments due to the sovereign debt crisis and the turbulence in the financial sector, which were closely linked. The IBEX closed the year at 8,566.3 points, representing a drop of 13.1% with respect to the close of 2010. Antena 3's share price closed at 4.65, a 33.1% decrease on the previous year.
The rest of the European stock markets registered similar performances. The Paris CAC 40 fell 16.9% (closing the year at 3,159.8 points); the German DAX ended the year at 5,898.3, closing the year down 14.7%; The London FTSE fell 5.5%, closing the year at 5,572.3 points. The Eurostoxx 50 index, which includes the 50 largest companies in Europe, fell 17.5% closing the year at 2,316.5 points.
Meanwhile, in the United States, the main indices went up in 2011. The Dow Jones gained 5.5%; the S&P stayed flat, while the Nasdaq posted a 2.7% gain.
For the Spanish economy, 2011 was slightly better than the previous year. In 2010, the GDP fell 0.1%, while in 2011 the economy registered 0.7% growth. However, the weakness of domestic demand (derived in part from the downward adjustment to public spending), the deterioration in the outlook for the European economy, and the rekindling of the sovereign debt crisis put a damper on economic activity, choking off credit flows and increasing uncertainty.
Furthermore, unemployment is rising: in 2011 21.6% of the active population was unemployed, and according to FUNCAS (Savings Bank Foundation) in 2012, this figure will increase to 23.7%.

Household consumption has stagnated at 0% in 2011, and according to FUNCAS, will return to negative rates in the coming quarters, which should lead to a 1.9% decline for 2012 as a whole.
In this environment, FUNCAS expects a drop in 2012 GDP of 1.7%; the Bank of Spain, with a more pessimistic outlook, expects a decline of 1.5%.
Shareholder remuneration: 80% of net profit
The ANTENA 3 share price fell 33.1% in 2011. The company's market capitalization at the end of 2011 stood at 981.67 million.
All of this against a backdrop in which the advertising market once again presented negative figures. In 2010 the entire media market grew 4.0% in line with TV, while in 2011 the figures deteriorated, the total media market decreased 6.0% to 5,505.1 million. TV advertising, meanwhile, registered a 9.5% decrease in year-on-year terms to 2,237.2 million.
In this environment, and despite the weak market performance, Antena 3 maintained its commitment to shareholders and will pay out more than 80% of the net profit in dividends.
Share capital
As of 31 December 2011, the share capital of Antena 3 reached 158.3 million, represented by 211,112,800 shares with a nominal value of 0.75

32

antena 3 group

Antena 3 Group

STOCK FIGURES Share Capital (millions of ) Number of shares Market Capitalization at the closing price (millions of ) Share price at 31/12 (/share) Maximum (/share) Minimum (/share) Price Weighted Average (/share) Average trade volume (in shares) Average trade volume (in )
Source: Fininfo

2011 158.3 211,112,800
981.7
4.65 7.81 3.75 5.79 649,000 3,757,710

Shareholder and investor relations
Both the Investors Relations Department and the Shareholder Office are in charge of disseminating the most relevant news and of informing investors of market developments and financial forecasts.
In 2011, the Investor Relations Department was very busy. It attended 18 conferences in different European cities, meeting 180 individual investors through one-to-ones, and has organized 7 road shows, visiting more than 60 investors in their offices.
More than 65 meetings have taken place at Antena 3, both one-to-ones and reverse road shows (brokers bringing investors to Antena 3): 45 with investors, 12 with sector analysts and seven with service providers.
The Investor Relations department has held 200 conference calls with investors and analysts to discuss current news, market events and financial model revisions.

In total, close to 500 contacts have been established with the financial community throughout the year.
Furthermore, in order to facilitate quick access to clear information, the web page www.grupoantena3.com has a specific section where relevant events, financial results and other news of interest are published.
Other means of obtaining information are also available: investors may contact the company by email to ir@antena3tv.es, and non-institutional investors may do so via oficinadelaccionista@ antena3tv.es.

2011 annual and corporate responsibility report

33

Corporate governance

duct, which was approved by the Board of Directors on 30 November 2011.

ANTENA 3 GROUP's Corporate Governance actions are determined by the following rules:
· Company Bylaws · Board of Directors' rules. · General Shareholders Meeting's rules. · Internal Code of Conduct in matters related to
securities markets. · Code of Conduct.
The Antena 3 Group has not limited itself to complying with the requirements established in these regulations, but also contributes and participates in an active matter in their definition. It is a member of the Association of Spanish Broadcasters, where it is a development partner. This Association's aims include the following:
· Contribute to the development of the high standards for Corporate Governance best practices in listed companies.
· Promote measures to improve communication between companies and their shareholders, as well as with other investors.
· Maintain a relationship based on dialogue and cooperation with the Administration and, especially, with the CNMV (Spanish Securities Market Commission).
Furthermore it has a Regulatory Compliance Committee, which is headed by the General Secretary and the Secretary of the Board of Directors, and also includes the Head of Legal Services, the CFO, the Head of Internal Auditing, the Head of Human Resources and the Head of Operations, who are responsible for overseeing, coordinating and managing this area, having being delegated these competencies by both the Internal Code of Contact for Matters Related to the Securities Market, and Antena 3 Group' Internal Code of Con-

Changes to the corporate governance rules in the 2010-2011 period
The current texts of the Company Bylaws and of the aforementioned rules were prepared, on the whole, when Antena 3 held its initial public offering in 2003.
Since then, these texts have been subject to certain changes (especially the Board rules) to adapt them to the new laws that have appeared in the "Unified Good Governance Code and complementary recommendations aimed at the Government, the CNMV and Spanish Financial Institutions".
Among these reforms, we would highlight the following:
1.Royal Legislative Decree 1/2010 of 2 July that approves the consolidated text of the Spanish Companies Law.
2.Law 7/2010, of 31 March, General Law on Audiovisual Communication,
3.Law 2/2011 of 4 March, on Sustainable Economy, which has implications for both Securities Market Law and the Spanish Companies Law.
4.Law 25/2011, of 1 August, partial reform of the Spanish Companies law and the incorporation of Directive 2007/36/CE, of the European Parliament and of the Council of 11 July, on the exercise of certain rights of shareholders in listed companies.
For this reason, in 2011, the General Secretary and the Board carried out a comprehensive legal and methodological analysis of these reforms, both from the point of view of corporate law and Corporate Governance, and from the perspective

34

antena 3 group

Antena 3 Group

of the experience accumulated over the years and the degree of compliance with the Recommendations contained in the aforementioned Unified Good Governance Code.
This review resulted in an ambitious and complete proposal to modify the Company Bylaws and Regulations, in order to adapt them to the new laws and to include the company's best practices and the recommendations of the Unified Good Governance Code, which are not mentioned in an explicit manner in the current corporate texts, but which are being applied by ANTENA 3 GROUP.
All these rules are expected to be approved by the competent bodies (Board of Directors or General Shareholders' Meeting) in the first quarter of 2012, and will enter into force once the legally required notification of the CNMV occurs, and the filing, if necessary with the Mercantile Register.

Corporate Responsibility
ANTENA 3 GROUP views Corporate Responsibility (CR) as a management model that prioritizes sustainability and social progress, voluntarily responding to the needs and expectations of its stakeholders.
Therefore, corporate responsibility is integrated into each and every one of the Group's activities. The company puts its communications media at the service of society, placing a special emphasis on ensuring that its information and content are responsible, protecting the most vulnerable members of its audience and guaranteeing access and transparency.

Committed to transparency
Since the listing of Antena 3 TV shares, all of ANTENA 3 GROUP's corporate governance rules have been made available on the Company's webpage (www.grupoantena3.com), in the Shareholder and Investor Relations section, which contains all the information submitted to the CNMV (financial reports, significant events, significant shareholdings, shareholders' agreements, etc.), in addition to other documents that the Company believes could be of interest to its shareholders.
In addition, in 2011 the Group published, via communications to the CNMV, the required information concerning financial information, General Shareholders' Meetings and resolutions, Board of Directors' agreements, presentations for analysts and investors, etc.

2011 annual and corporate responsibility report

35

CR management model

Mission

Policy

Vision Values

Master Plan

Corporate Responsibility
Model

Improvement, communication
and transparency

Strategy
MANAGEMENT

Define and roll out model

Monitoring and dialogue with Stakeholders

Corporate Responsibility
Committee

Corporate Responsibility Policy

Legal, economic, social and

Application of principles of transparency, independence and
respect for laws in force.

environmental compliance.
Mechanisms to avoid incidents of corruption, bribery or fraud.

Appointment and remuneration

committee that monitors compliance with CR Policy.

Legal compliance

Corporate governance

Transparency

Verified and truthful information, governed by the principle of balance and
impartiality.

Responsible resource

management and

maximizing energy

efficiency.

Respect for the

environment

Supervision

CR strategy approved by Board of
Directors.
CR committee supervises
implementation of policy.

Corporate

Responsibility

Set up channels of communication to know their demands and expectations.

Dialogue with stakeholders

Policy

Responsible content

Dissemination of content regarding
sustainability.
Independence with respect to contents and in accordance

with the Group's values.

Responsible

management of

Human rights

providers

Minimize supplies and contracts.
Fairness and transparency in awarding contracts.
Sustainability criteria included in all purchases.

Public policies
We make our knowledge of the audiovisual sector available to Regulators and Public

Special protection for minors that participate in the Group's contents.
Battle against domestic violence.

Organisations.

Participation in sector forums.

36

antena 3 group

Antena 3 Group

Corporate Responsibility management model
The Mission, Vision and Values of ANTENA 3 Group were revised in 2011, to adapt and respond to the full integration of CR in the organization.
The principles of the Mission that guides Corporate Responsibility are manifested through a specific policy that determine the general lines that ANTENA 3 GROUP must follow in certain areas, such as legislative compliance, good governance, transparency, human rights, the environment and dialogue with stakeholders, among others (see chart page 36).
The CR Policy is reflected in the specific aims and actions contained in the Corporate Responsibility Master Plan that covers the 2010-2012 period.
Lastly, in order to implement the Mission, Values, and Values, as well as the CR Policy and CR Master Plan, ANTENA 3 GROUP has created the following internal CR systems:
· Corporate Responsibility Committee (CR) · Dialogue with Stakeholders · Code of Conduct · Active commitment to CR · Comprehensive CR scorecard
Cross-sectional integration
The Committee on Corporate Responsibility was set up at the end of 2009 with the aim of strengthening the cross-sectional nature and importance of Corporate Responsibility in Antena 3 Group.
In order to give the Committee a global vision of the organization and to work in an effective manner, it is composed of representatives of the main areas of the Group:

· Human Resources · Operational management · Antena 3 Foundation · Corporate responsibility · Radio content · Advertising and advertisers · Internal auditing · Investor relations · Television content · Marketing and audiences · News content
The responsibilities of the CR Committee include:
Functions of the Corporate Responsibility Committee
Contribute to the implementation of the Corporate Social Responsibility Policy.
Promote, supervise and report on actions related to the Master Plan.
Monitor compliance with external commitments assumed in relation to social responsibility.
Collaborate in the identification of, and dialogue and cooperation with the different Stakeholders.
In 2011 the Corporate Responsibility Committee has continued working on the implementation of the CR Master Plan, and on the definition of the new initiatives that respond to the needs of stakeholders and for this reason it held two meetings during the year.
2010-2012 Master Plan
In 2010, the ANTENA 3 GROUP launched the Corporate Responsibility Master Plan, with the aim of reinforcing the coherence between the public commitment of the company to Corporate Responsibility and its implementation in all the areas of the business.

2011 annual and corporate responsibility report

37

WE COMMUNICATE
IN A RESPONSIBLE
MANNER

ANTENA 3 GROUP'S IDENTIFYING SIGNS IN CR

WE TRUST OUR EMPLOYEES

COMMITMENT TO ETHICS, INTEGRITY AND RISK
MANAGEMENT

WE KNOW HOW TO LISTEN

WE INNOVATE IN BUSINESS AND IN OUR PROCESSES

STRATEGIC OBJECTIVES

LINES OF ACTION AND TRACKING INDICATORS

Since the approval of the CR Master Plan, the company has worked to "make ANTENA 3 GROUP the benchmark for Corporate Responsibility in the Spanish audiovisual sector". This work is reflected in the "identifying characteristics of the Group" through which its strategic aims are defined.
In 2011 progress continued on the implementation of the Plan, obtaining a degree of compliance
of 76 % for all the actions scheduled for the period up to
2012.
Dialogue with Stakeholders
The Stakeholders are the people, organizations and institutions that affect or are affected by the decisions of the Company. Based this premise, one of the key elements of Corporate Responsibility for ANTENA 3 GROUP is transparency and dialogue with its main Stakeholders, with the double aim of:

· Knowing their legitimate needs, expectations and interests.
· Adequately responding to these interests and reliably transmitting the information.
ANTENA 3 GROUP's stakeholders have been identified, prioritizing target groups that programming is aimed towards (audience, advertisers, shareholders, employees and suppliers) but also including those to which the Group has a social commitment (regulatory bodies, competition authorities, and the social environment).
Advertisers i Audience i Society i Employees Competitors i Regulatory bodies Providers i Shareholders
Priority stakeholders for ANTENA 3 Group.
ANTENA 3 GROUP currently has various dialogue channels, which are complemented with participation in various sector forums and involvement in civil society initiatives. Similarly, the Group is involved in different sector-based forums ("In defence of the audiovisual sector" in page 53) and initiatives of civil society which provide an interchange of experiences and knowledge.

38

antena 3 group

Antena 3 Group

Antena 3 Group's meeting with stakeholders in 2011.

STAKEHOLDERS Advertisers
Audiences
Society
Employees
Competitors and Regulatory Bodies Suppliers Shareholders and investors

 Periodic informative meetings  M onthly newsletter with the latest news from ATRES ADVERTISING.  Advertiser satisfaction survey  Consulting service for advertisers regarding the latest changes to audiovisual legislation.
 Webpages www.antena3.com, www.ondacero.es, www.europafm.es.  Facebook, Twitter, Tuenti and YouTube.  Blogs and videoblogs.  D igital video encounters.  Qualitative research to determine audiences' tastes. Discussion groups, surveys and expert panels.  Audience participation in certain program content: "Tienes la última Palabra" of Antena 3 news or "Tú haces
Espejo Público".  `Zona 3.  H abbo.  T eletext.
 Suggestion mailbox for the Fundación Antena 3: fundacion@antena3tv.es.  The PONLE FRENO Platform: www.ponlefreno.com.  E-mail: responsabilidadcorporativa@antena3.es.  Focus groups with external stakeholder groups.  Corporate Responsibility section on the ANTENA 3 GROUP webpage.  Virtual press office.  Press releases through the Communication Division, and press conferences.
 Breakfast with the CEO.  Emails.  Bulletin board.  Corporate intranet.  Quarterly results presentation.  MD3 internal magazine (new channel 2011).  W histleblower channel related to noncompliance with the Code of Conduct (new channel 2011).
 S ector forums.  M embership in associations such as UTECA, IMPULSA and ACT.  P articipation in CATSI.  M eetings with the Administration.
 P eriodic meetings of the Purchasing department with suppliers.  E mails.
 C onferences, meetings and road shows organized by the Investor Relations department.  P ress office. oficinadelaccionista@antena3tv.es.  E mail for investors: ir@antena3tv.es.  Company webpage: www.grupoantena3.com.  A nnual reports, Corporate Responsibility and Corporate Governance reports.

2011 annual and corporate responsibility report

39

To reinforce the information from the defined communications channels, periodic focus groups are organized in which representatives of each of the different stakeholder groups participate. The aim of these meetings is to actively involve them in the development of the CR strategy of ANTENA 3 Group, learning about their impressions, demands,

expectations and identifying relevant matters and areas that could be improved for future projects.
The last focus group, held December 2011, had the participation of all of ANTENA 3 GROUP's stakeholders.

Announcers Audience

Sara Díez Fernández, Marketing Manager of Central Lechera Asturiana. Tono Irisarri, member of the Advisory Committee of IC Media and Board Member of Compromiso Empresarial.

Producers Company/Clients

Carmen Fuente Cobo, Vice President of IC Media and Assistant Director of Communications Degrees at the Centro Universitario Villanueva.
Ramón Campos, Executive Producer ofBambú Producciones.
José Luis Lupiañez, member of the Spanish Confederation of Students' Parents (CEAPA) of Castilla la Mancha.

Luis Carbonell, President of the Catholic Confederation of students' Parents (CONCAPA). Corporate Responsibility
Jesús Cañizares, Sustainability Manager at AENOR.
David Álvarez, Secretary of the Instituto Universitario de Desarrollo y Cooperación and Associate Professor at the Information Science Faculty of the UCM.
Focus Group Participants held in December 2011.

40

antena 3 group

Antena 3 Group

During the Focus Group, the attendees analyze the different issues, such as the perception of the ANTENA 3 GROUP and its television model, the connection and dialogue with stakeholders, the feedback and complaint channels and the company's social involvement. Important conclusions are drawn from this dialogue with stakeholders, which help guide ANTENA 3 GROUP future actions, and which are shown below:

Strong points
Corporate Responsibility is fully integrated into Antena 3 Group.
There had been a major change in Grupo Antena 3' programming model in which a clear bet is being made on quality, responsible content.
Antena 3 Group is considered to be "friendly and to inspire trust".

Areas for improvement
Greater integration of CR campaigns in the content of the Group's media.
In terms of social commitment, new challenges have been identified for the coming years.
Implementation of a procedure to manage complaints and suggestions.

For 2012 a Focus Group is planned for employees, the results of which will complement the information gleaned from the rest of the Groups and will help define the new initiatives aimed at improving the workplace climate.
Code of conduct
In 2011, ANTENA 3 GROUP developed an Internal Code of Conduct, a component of Corporate Responsibility that encompasses and reflects the policies, values and principles in force in the organization.

The Code, which is approved by the company's Board of Directors, following the favorable report of the Audit and Control Committee, is a fundamental tool for providing guidance to employees, executives and members of the Group's management bodies in all of their actions.
The Board of Directors, through the Regulatory Compliance Committee (RCC), is responsible for directing and supervising compliance with the Code, as well as adopting the appropriate measures for ensuring its continuous improvement and updating.
Furthermore, the RCC is also responsible for tracking and supervising the new regulations, including the self-regulation in relation to audiovisual material that is established in the General Law on Audiovisual Communication.
Antena 3 Group is currently evaluating measures that may be necessary to increase knowledge about its Code of Conduct among its stakeholders
To guarantee compliance with the Code of Conduct, the Group has launched a "Whistleblower channel" which allows all the employees of the Group to report, in a simple and anonymous manner, actions they believe to be inappropriate and which do not comply with the Code, or any other regulation that may be applicable. This channel can also be used by workers to voice doubts or propose improvements in the control systems currently in force in the Group, thereby achieving the triple objective of prevention, control and clarification of questions related to the Group's values.

2011 annual and corporate responsibility report

41

Active commitment
The dialogue with Stakeholders implies participation in different national and international forums and initiatives, thanks to which ANTENA 3 GROUP can share their experiences in Corporate Responsibility with other organizations. Furthermore, these activities constitute a superb opportunity to exchange and discuss the best practices of other companies that are leaders in sustainability, both in the audiovisual sphere and other sectors.
· Collaboration with the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI). Since 2009, the company has collaborated on the preparation of the first Communications Media Sector Supplement which is being backed by the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI). This will serve as the basis for the future preparation of Corporate Responsibility Reports in this sector. ANTENA 3 GROUP is the only Spanish communications media company that has attended all the work sessions aimed at drafting the principles of transparency and communication that must be reported on by communications media companies. Leading companies in the audiovisual world, such as BBC, Bertelsmann, Vivendi, The Guardian, Grupo Clarín and Australian Broadcasting Corporation form a part of this working group.
· Support for the Global Compact. In 2011, the company ANTENA 3 GROUP renewed its membership for the fourth consecutive year in the Spanish Global Compact Network, and confirmed its support for the ten principles that

the Compact promotes. This adhesion is yet another example of the company's commitment to manifesting values such as respect for human and labor rights, the environment and the battle against corruption and bribery, in all aspects of its business. · Member of the FTSE-4Good Ibex. For the fourth consecutive year, the ANTENA 3 GROUP forms a part of the FTSE-4Good Ibex, which is comprised of leading companies that meet good standards of practice in corporate social responsibility.
Corporate Responsibility Scorecard
With the aim of monitoring ANTENA 3 GROUP's performance with regards to Social Responsibility, the company has defined and implemented a series of indicators that track the performance of the areas that have the most impact on Corporate Responsibility, such as:
· Economic sustainability · Human Resources · Society · Environment
The continuous measurement of these indicators allow for the rollout of concrete actions to ensure the continuous improvement of the ANTENA 3 GROUP's responsible and sustainable performance. The results, trends and development of each of these measurement tools can be found throughout this report.

42

antena 3 group

Antena 3 Group

SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY SCORECARD 2011 Results

Human Resources

Environment

­ % Women 49.7%. ­ F ull-time contract: 81%. ­ T urnover rate: 4.3%. ­ T raining hours per employee: 23.3. ­ S eriousness of accidents: 0.81. ­ Investment in training (): 424,858 euros.

­ E nergy consumption in Antena 3 Group: 10,493 Kw / employee.
­ W ater consumption: 25.3 m3 / employee.
­ P ercentage of recycled paper: 62%.
­ G reenhouse gas emissions: 1.45 tn of CO2 equivalent/ employee.
­ E nvironmental investment: 149,000 euros.

Economic sustainability

Society

­ N et revenues: 805.2 millions of euros.

­ D egree of Compliance with Corporate Responsibility Master Plan: 76%.

­ D istributed economic value: 638.1 millions of euros.
­ F inancial assistance from governments: 11,533 euros.

­ A ntena 3 Group revenue contributed to the Foundation: 360,000 euros.
­ O pportunity cost of the broadcast of free spots for NGO campaigns: 5,451,189 euros.

Corporate Responsibility Goals 2012
In 2012 the ANTENA 3 GROUP will continue to deploy the tools necessary to strengthen its position as a responsible and sustainable company. The main challenges facing the Group next year include the following:
· Complete the implementation of the Corporate Responsibility Master Plan in order to reach 100% compliance.
· Improve the communication channels for the Corporate Responsibility Strategy
· Continue to include the new management and reporting criteria for communications media set forth in the Global Reporting Initiative sector guide.

Quality: continuous improvement
In 2009, the Antena 3 Group implemented a Quality Management System, applicable to program production and recording processes and program and advertising broadcasts for all their television channels.
The Quality Management System is based on four main tenets:
· Identifying and controlling incidents that could occur during said processes.

2011 annual and corporate responsibility report

43

· Carrying out a continuous analysis of information related to incidents related to the quality of the implicated processes and systems.
· Action plan design. · Constant rollout of improvements in pro-
cesses to increase their quality.
Detection of incidents
Classifications
Identifying cause
Action plan
Identification and control of incidents
Incidents related to the production, recording and broadcast processes for content and advertising may be of two types:
1.Incidents that have "on air" effects, i.e. those that have an impact on the signal for channels that are distributed to spectators.
2. Incidents with no "on air" effects, i.e. those that do not affect the broadcast
Thanks to the Quality System, a process has been established by which all the incidents (with or without effects on broadcasts), are detected, and classified based on standardized categories, and lastly, analyzed individually to determine the cause (equipment, software, human error) and establish measures to ensure that such incidents are reduced or eliminated going forward.

Incidents have been reduced by more than 50% since Quality
System was implemented.
These measures have two purposes:
· Eliminate the root cause of the incidents, in such a way that they do not recur.
· Implement improvements in processes that entail the introduction of more controls in the processes in question, thereby reducing the probability that new incidents occur.
To carry out this identification and categorization of quality incidents, there is a Quality Software Program, through which all the areas involved in the production, recording and broadcast of content and advertising must enter, on a daily basis, all the incidents that may have occurred in these processes. This identification and categorization paves the way for the analysis and improvement plans described below.
Continuous analysis of incidents
Information related to the Quality System is reported monthly to the Executive Team through a Quality Report.
This monthly report includes all incidents, whether or not they affected broadcasts. The most important incidents are identified, their cause is explained, and follow-up actions and plans to prevent future recurrences are detailed.
The accompanying graph shows how the Quality System has steadily reduced incidents, year after year.

44

antena 3 group

Antena 3 Group
incidents evolution in antena 3 group

2009 2010 Jan 1011

Mar 2011

May 2011

Jul 2011

Sep 2011

Nov 2011

Improvement Plans
The Quality Committee forms a part of the Quality Management System. This Quality Committee has periodic meetings in which the most important incidents are analyzed and the action plans of each area are shared, and next steps are determined. In addition proposed improvements are put forward for the Quality System.
The Quality Committee is composed of representatives of all the areas that are affected by the processes entailed in the Quality System, thereby ensuring the most complete information when making decisions:
· Auditing and Processes · Programming · Content· Production · News· Technical · Operating Resources · Broadcast · Marketing· Commercial

The Quality Committee holds between 6 and 8 meetings a year.
In 2011, the Action Plan for Quality was based on establishing actions that improved the following processes and tools of the Group:
 System for broadcasting subtitled content.  B roadcasting process.  General equipment and software  Process for receiving advertising and promotional material  Broadcast continuity systems  Control and Monitoring process for the Coverage Service  Audio service.  Process of Broadcasting Advertising Campaigns

2011 annual and corporate responsibility report

45

Type of risk

Strategy and context

Internal processes

Corporate and reputational

Risks associated with operation and processes

Risks associated with regulatory compliance

Risks related to information in decision making processes

Risks related to external image

Risks related to financial reporting

The Risk Map of Antena 3 Group.

46

antena 3 group

Antena 3 Group

Processes: controlling risks and implementing improvements
The main new development in 2011 was the inclusion, due to its critical importance, of reputational risk, with the aim of guaranteeing respect for the law and voluntary compliance with the principles and values of the ANTENA 3 GROUP.
· Risks associated with regulatory compliance, such as that related to the General Law on Audiovisual Communication (LGCA), the Law on Advertising, and the broadcasting of advertising content or laws related to environmental compliance.
· Risks associated with the broadcasting of programming that is not in line with the ethical values of the Group.
ANTENA 3 GROUP, with the aim of controlling the main risks associated with processes and in order to implement improvements to reduce these risks, carried out a series of reviews and action plans can be summarized as follows:
· Financial control: Financial evaluation, compliance with policies, regulatory and procedural controls and cost controls.
· Implementing processes. Monitoring indicators associated with the auditing process.
· Risk map: Based on the risks identified by the organization, the critical points are evaluated and improvements are proposed to reduce or eliminate these risks
An Improvement Plan is prepared based on the review and analysis of processes. In 2011, the main actions included in the Improvement Plan were the following:

 Evaluation of the Internal Control System for Financial Information
 Introduction of Improvements in the Management and Approval Process for Contracting Proposals
 Implementation of Action Plans for Corporate Quality System
 E nhancement of control mechanisms for guaranteeing final product
 Review and Improvement of main Financial Processes
 Implementation of all the Control and Service Management Procedures
 Financial review of subsidiaries that are not audited by external auditors
 E xecution of operating audits of Group areas and audits of broadcast programs
Provider management
ANTENA 3 GROUP's commitment is not limited to internally applying its values and principles of ethical actions, but also to working to ensure that these values are applied by its main providers, reinforcing and expanding the Group's value chain. With this aim, the company informs and encourages providers to follow good practices directly related to human, environmental, and labor rights.
The ANTENA 3 GROUP distinguishes between two types of providers
· Production and distribution companies which supply fiction and entertainment content.
· Other goods and services suppliers.

2011 annual and corporate responsibility report

47

Number of distributors who operate with ANTENA 3 GROUP
43
35

Antena 3 has doubled the number of its national providers
with respect to 2010.

20 14

17 18

2009

2010

2011

Total Spain

Total abroad

Production and distribution companies
The Third Party Production Department is charged with managing broadcast rights for all those broadcasts not produced exclusively for Antena 3 Televisión. In 2011, 189 proposals for third party production were generated, 54% for domestic distribution companies and 46% to foreign companies.
Due to the new need for programming to reinforce the identity of complementary channels and the launch of the Nitro channel in August 2010, the number of national distributors with which it has closed deals doubled with respect to 2010 and the number of foreign distributors went from 18 to 43. Modern Family (Neox), The Pacific (Nitro) and Pesadilla en la Cocina (Nova) are three examples of leading series that have been acquired specifically for broadcast on these channels.

The number of production companies that have collaborated on the production of programs has decreased as a result of a change in the programming line-up vis á vis the previous year and the stability of same, although we would highlight that there has been an increase in both the number of programs produced and the number of fiction series.

Production Companies collaborating with Antena 3 Television

2009 2010 2011

Number of production companies collaborating to produce programs 20 23 16 for Antena 3 Television

Number of different programs produced

39 40 42

Production Companies collaborating with Antena 3 Television on FICTION SERIES
Number of production companies collaborating to produce fiction series for Antena 3 Television
Number of series produced

2009 2010 2011

7

6

9

10

9 16

1,306 programs and 625 series' episodes produced in 2011.

48

antena 3 group

Tender proposals generated 189
137 95

Antena 3 Group

Purchasing expenses ( Mn)

55.0

49.5

49.5

2009

2010

2011

2009

2010

2011

Other product and service providers
The Purchasing Department is in charge of optimizing the ANTENA 3 GROUP's relationships with its suppliers and contractors. In 2011 purchase were carried out amounting to 55.0 millions of euros, with the consequent positive impact on suppliers' balance sheets.
The Madrid Region represents 73.1% of the Purchasing Department's total awarded contracts in

2011, Catalonia 9.8%, with the remaining regions governments accounting for 13.2%; other countries make up 3.9%. The increase in purchasing in 2011 was due to investment in technology to replace obsolete equipment.
Bearing in mind the magnitude of these figures and the importance of selecting the best suppliers, ANTENA 3 GROUP has established a specific contracting system, whose main phases are summarized in the following flow chart.

contracting system Flow

Criteria of management,
bidder and purchasing

Technical, economic and commercial
criteria

Sign CSR commitment

Notification of need to make
purchase

Issue award conditions

Receive offers

Assess offers

Award contract

Track purchase

INTERNAL AUDIT

2011 annual and corporate responsibility report

49

Extract of the letter notifying ANTENA 3 GROUP providers that been awarded a contract

The design of this process ensures compliance with the following conditions:
· Technical quality: At the beginning of the contracting process, and for each purchase or contract, the minimum quality criteria required are established for all suppliers. If the supplier does not meet these criteria, it cannot be contracted, even if, in economic terms, its bid is more attractive. Price is important but does not outweigh other values.
Furthermore, more important or high value purchases, (of over 50,000) must be approved by the Technical Purchasing Committee, composed of the CEO, the Director of Internal Auditing, the Financial Director and the Director of Management Control.
· Transparency: The same information will always be provided to all suppliers participating in the tender process so that they compete under identical conditions. After the contract is awarded, all the suppliers will be informed of the outcome of the tender process.

· Environmental Responsibility: In all the tenders, the suppliers will be required to have measures in place to minimize the environmental impact of the activities to be carried out. In addition, every time a need to acquire new technological equipment is detected, it will be selected according to criteria based on minimizing the space occupied by said equipment, and low energy consumption. This is called "green purchasing" criteria. In 2011, "green purchasing" criteria were used in the purchase of the following equipment:  6 5 servers 76 Pc´s. 60 Laptops. 61 printers.
· Social Responsibility: A key requirement established for all the production companies and product and service providers is the signing of a Corporate Responsibility Clause in all the contracts. This clause guarantees compliance with certain basic rights for its workers, such as:

50

antena 3 group

Antena 3 Group

 Equal opportunity..  N on-discrimination Safe and healthy conditions in the work-
place This clause, that could appear superfluous in
a democratic country governed by the rule of law and with legal guarantees, is quite relevant when the supplier is located in a country in which basic environmental, social, and labor rights are not respected. · Controlled process: We would highlight that the management process for purchasing is periodically submitted to a series of internal audits. To date, there have been no incidents registered or complaints, confirming the transparency and reliability of the system.
Regulatory compliance
ANTENA 3 GROUP not only complies with and encourages the respect of the laws in force, but also, to the degree possible, seeks to improve existing legislation, as evidenced by the numerous activities discussed in this report whose implementation was not required by law, but rather, driven by the free and voluntary decision of the ANTENA 3 GROUP
The influence of the communications media on today's society is irrefutable, whether its effects are felt only on a single individual or on an entire group. Therefore, it is especially important to have an efficient legal framework in place, and to ensure compliance through all appropriate means.
In Spain, all television media is subject to intense regulation. Especially notable are Law 7/2010 of 31 March, General Law on Audiovisual Communication (LGCA), for which compliance is currently

supervised by the Secretary of State for Telecommunications and by Sociedad de la Información (SETSI).
These bodies must verify compliance with applicable regulations, whether legal, universally applicable to all the operators, or specific because they are contained in the self-regulation Codes subscribed to by Antena 3 and the companies in its Group.
This control is in effect for all phases of the cycle: From the moment the content is chosen/created (verifying the information, ensuring compliance with the classification by age, making it accessible to viewers that are disabled, etc.); when it is programmed in the line-up (respecting protected slots, quantitative limits and rules on advertising breaks, rules for electoral periods); and until when they can be broadcast (complying with the regulations regarding visual and audio notices in the television broadcast, informing the user of the programming ahead of time, etc.)
Furthermore, the different administrations and public bodies (SETSI, CMT, etc.), in exercising their respective competencies, may request information in order to monitor compliance with the applicable regulations by A3TV and its group companies, in its condition as the owner of the licenses to provide audiovisual services, for both television and radio.
One of the ANTENA 3 GROUP's primary aims is to ensure compliance with the regulations and rules in force in all of the businesses and operations of its companies.

2011 annual and corporate responsibility report

51

The Department of Regulatory Matters and Institutional Relations is responsible for promoting the interests of the company in regulatory processes. It is responsible for analyzing the possible impact of new regulations and for monitoring the company's regulatory framework.
In addition to complying with the aforementioned regulations, ANTENA 3 GROUP is in constant dialogue with the Operators, Public Administrations and consumer organizations and associations. Dialogue with the stakeholders forms a part of ANTENA 3 GROUP's Corporate Responsibility strategy.

Number and type of violations
All the violations are related to the Self-regulation Code, which is voluntary, not legal, regulation. Over the course of the last several years, the number of these incidents has remained stable, and of small magnitude, as can be seen in the following graph:
Number of Self-regulation Code violations
3

2

2

In 2011, violations of the Self-regulation Code were due to the following causes:
· Broadcast during a reinforced protection time slot, of a film classified as inappropriate for children under 13 years-old.
· Presentation of a serious emotional conflict, without a positive resolution, in a reinforced protection time slot.
The number of disciplinary actions and violations related to non-compliance with marketing regulations is shown in the table below:

No. of disciplinary actions
No. of infractions

2009

2010

2011

4

11*

7

15

43*

26

(*) The data related to the number of disciplinary actions and violations has been changed with respect to Reports of previous years, since in 2011, two disciplinary actions by the Secretary of State of Telecommunications and the Sociedad de la Información have been revoked as a result of the two verdicts handed down by the Courts of Judicial Review.

Of the seven disciplinary actions included in this category, (noncompliance with marketing regulations), one of them corresponds to commercial communications via SMS and the rest to commercial communications via television.
In 2011, Antena 3 de Televisión, S.A. was not subject to any disciplinary actions from the National Competition Commission, for monopolistic practices or practices that inhibit free competition. Nor was the company subject to any disciplinary action related to the obligation to inform users of the programming line-up.

2009

2010

2011

52

antena 3 group

Antena 3 Group

Fines due to regulatory non-compliance
The fines incurred as the result of non-compliance with laws and regulations are as follows:

Television advertising ()
Advertising in other media()
TOTAL

2009 493,781

2010 696,232

2011 761,899

0 64,702 493,781 760,934 *

50,000 811,899

(*) The data related to the number of disciplinary actions, violations and fines has been changed with respect to Reports of previous years, since in 2011, two disciplinary actions by the Secretary of State of Telecommunications and the Sociedad de la Información have been revoked as a result of the two verdicts handed down by the Courts of Judicial Review, which declared the two disciplinary actions taken in 2010, which resulted in fines of 57,750 and 187,500, null and void. In 2011, there were no violations of the obligation to inform users of the programming line-up.

The cause for the sanctions levied last year are as follows:
· The disciplinary actions related to the broadcast of advertising via television were due to non-compliance with regulations applicable to television operators governing the maximum

time for advertising slots during daytime television or limits per hour, and limits on how much advertising may be included in the programming line-up. · In the advertising in other media section, the fine imposed by the Spanish Data Protection Agency was included, due to the content of commercial communications via SMS in a campaign carried out by a specialized technological platform that was specifically contracted for this purpose
In defence of the audiovisual sector
ANTENA 3 GROUP has a pro-active attitude towards legislative changes and trends in the audiovisual sector. Therefore, and with the aim of debating and having a positive influence on the development of public policies that affect the sector, it participates in numerous forums and associations that defend the sector's interests.

2011 annual and corporate responsibility report

53

In this regard, we would highlight the work carried out by ANTENA 3 GROUP, focused on raising awareness about the legal vacuum in the General Law on Audiovisual Communication regarding the sending of free messages related to issues of a philanthropic, social or public service nature. This work resulted in the approval of the following additional clause:
"Public service announcements or those of a philanthropic nature that are disseminated freely are not considered advertising."
This new clause allows ANTENA 3 GROUP to once again offer NGO's and non-profit organizations different advertising slots, both on its television channels and on its radio stations, with the aim of giving them a voice and promoting campaigns to raise awareness.
These are some of the main associations in which ANTENA 3 GROUP participates:

Unión de Televisiones Comerciales Asociadas UTECA.

The Associated Union of Commercial Television Stations, La Unión de Televisiones Comerciales Asociadas (UTECA), was founded by Antena 3 Television and Telecinco. Currently, it is made of the six national private channels. As a member of UTECA, Antena 3 Television is an active participant in the elaboration of laws and regulations affecting the audiovisual, advertising and intellectual property sectors, among others.

Association of Commercial Television in Europe (ACT).

Antena 3 Television is a member of the ACT, an association created by the main private audiovisual groups in Europe to defend their rights before the competent EU organisms. Antena 3 Televisión participated in this forum in 2011, working on, among other things, various actions related to the review of the implementation of regulations concerning public subsidies, and in preparation for the future Directive on the collective management of intellectual property rights.

Council for Telecommunications and the Information Society (CATSI).
Association for the AutoRegulation of Commercial Communications (Autocontrol).
Spanish Association of Commercial Radiobroadcasters (AERC). Catalan Radio Association (ACR).
Association of Spanish Broadcasters.

In its capacity as a member of CATSI, Antena 3 Televisión had an influence on the reports of the Permanent Committee of this body. These preliminary reports are mandatory in the approval process for regulations that affect the telecommunications and audiovisual communication sector.
As an active member, it collaborates in order to better meet both regulatory advertising and competency requirements, expanding the guarantees of advertisers, TV stations and above all, consumers.
As a member of these associations, Onda Cero defends the interests of the radio sector.
Antena 3 is a development partner of the Association, through which it seeks to raise the standards for Good Corporate Governance, creates working groups to analyze regulatory projects and maintains a constant dialogue with the CNMV.

54

antena 3 group

Antena 3 Group

As a result of its participation in these associations and other work forums, in 2011 ANTENA 3 GROUP had a key role in developing the following public policies:

Process of freeing up the spectrum for the digital dividend. High Definition Television. General Law on Audiovisual Communication.
Support for Spanish cinema.
Financing of Public Television.

In 2011 the process of freeing up the spectrum for the awarding of the "digital dividend" began. Thanks to the initiative of Antena 3, during its development, national operators were able to aggregate their broadcasts in two digital "multiplexes", which has allowed the four channels operated by ANTENA 3 GROUP to maintain their broadcasts in parallel with the simultaneous broadcast on the main channel with HD technology. This process should be completed before 1 January, 2015, when each national license will make available a complete "multiplex" which will facilitate operating decisions.
After the entering into effect on 1 May, 2010 of the General Law on Audiovisual Communication (LGCA), Antena 3 Televisión participated very actively in the preparation of its development guidelines, thereby increasing the legal security of operators and viewers.
The LGCA and the regulatory process has resulted in a flexibilization of the obligatory investment quotas which requires television station operators to earmark 5% of annual income for financing full-length features and made for TV movies, so that now a significant portion of this quota can be covered by the production of exclusively made-for-TV products, such as fiction series. However, TV stations have maintained their position and remain against obligatory investment quotas. Antena 3 Televisión believes that the Constitutional Court, the body that the Supreme Court has requested render a judgment on the constitutionality of said obligatory quota, decides in favor of the thesis of the private operators. Meanwhile, the efforts of Antena 3 have resulted in the recognition that promotions on a TV channel of feature films produced with the financing of this television channel should not be considered advertising, which will make it viable to promote Spanish film more efficiently.
The ban on obtaining revenues from broadcasting commercial communications went into effect on 1 January, 2011. This ban was brought about through Law 8/2009, on the Financing of Corporación RTVE. Antena 3 Television has always believed that public television should obtain its credibility and strength through its public service and not through advertising sales, creating television for the citizens and not advertisers. Therefore, it applauds the decision to eliminate advertising from RTVE. Antena 3 Televisión is actively working, both on an individual level, and as a member of UTECA, to rationalize the public television sector in its totality. To this end, Antena 3 has been very active in UTECA in the preparation and dissemination of a comprehensive report/proposal for autonomous television stations in Spain, which was presented in September 2011. This report/proposal established a set of key factors for rationalizing the expenses of public television stations that would allow greater efficiency and savings and adapt the content of public TV stations to their specific public service function, thereby differentiating them from purely commercial television.

Reforms relative to the management of intellectual property rights.

The Antena 3 Group is working to obtain regulatory reforms that will demand transparency from the collective entities managing intellectual property rights, establishing objective, equal and adequate criteria in the prices these entities may demand for the rights they manage. These efforts are supported by a report on the collective management of intellectual property rights in Spain, published by the National Competition Commission, which is in total agreement with the thesis defended by Antena 3 Televisión and Defense of Competition, and requested that the Government carry out, as urgently as possible, the legislative initiatives that end the constant abuse of the management bodies; the jurisprudence of the Supreme Court, and the petitions of the Social and Economic Council and the State Council, which have handed down rulings, all of which request a rapid reform to the Intellectual Property Law that sets in place rules for collective management while protecting the rights of the owners, respecting the rights of the users.

2011 annual and corporate responsibility report

55

Television
Manel Fuentes at "Tu Cara me Suena" set, the hit show of the year.

[ Out of all the large television
channels, Antena 3 maintained its audience figures best during the full-year period, and also grew the most in the second half. ]

A great year for Antena 3
Antena 3 TV has positioned itself as the channel with a strong, unique personality, thanks to a television model that prioritizes quality, variety and responsibility. During 2011, there were new successful offerings into the programming grid which kept building and reinforcing such new television model. The results have been excellent: growth that outpaced the market, an increase in audience share, despite rising fragmentation and the unanimous recognition of Antena 3 as the most innovative and most highly valued channel.
The hit show Tu Cara me Suena; the entertainment offerings El Hormiguero 3.0, combined with the leading national fiction show on private television, El Barco and Gran Hotel, and the successful gameshows, Atrapa un Millón and Ahora Caigo, were ANTENA 3 TV's most notable triumphs in 2011.

Antena 3 TV started 2011 with important changes in the afternoon and early evening. First, Bandolera and El Secreto de Puente Viejo have boosted the channel's performance by two points in the early afternoon. Then came Atrapa un Millón and Ahora caigo. With these, Antena 3 TV has reinvented the afternoon programming and revitalized the gameshow genre in the daytime hours, after having brought it back in the prime time programming, where it has been extremely competitive.
The increase in audience in the afternoon slot is even greater from Monday to Friday for the ANTENA 3 GROUP channels in aggregate, posting a 4.5 rise. At the end of the year, not a single minute of the broadcast in the afternoon and early evening hours is the same as last year, and in total five hours of programming have been renewed from Monday to Friday.
Neox, Nova and Nitro are the most appreciated channels in their respective segments. Nova is the leader in the female segment, Nitro leads among

58

antena 3 group

Television

males and Neox is the clear leader within the DTT offer and among young adults.
Audience at 4:00pm - 9:00pm time slot 15%

Atrapa un Millón.
2011 has also meant the revamping of the prime time slots, with the recovery of genres such as gameshows and variety shows. Furthermore, there have been new offerings in fiction, which not only feature new titles, but new genres, such as suspense and science fiction.

7.5%

0%

DEC 2010

DEC 2011

Quality and variety

In 2011, Antena 3 launched a television model that was new and innovative, based on the diversity and quality of its formats, which are aimed at every type of audience. Programs that deliberately avoid sensationalism and that have had an excellent reception from both viewers and advertisers.

2011 annual and corporate responsibility report

59

Making of Pongamos que spot.

Following the success at the end of 2010 of the motto, Antena 3 pone and its communication campaign, in December 2011, the TV channel launched a new initiative called Pongamos que. The spot is a massive musical production in which the channel's top personalities send a clear message of optimism for 2012, and offer the spectator their spirited contribution: A happy, varied, entertaining and quality television experience.
Antena 3 thereby positions itself as a channel with an identifiable personality with clearly marked limits on contents. A television model that prioritizes talent, creativity, responsibility as a means of communicating, and entertainment for the entire family.

As a result, Antena 3 TV has been rated as the most innovative and most highly valued channel, an assessment extended to Neox and also to the news programs and their hosts, according to the GECA image index. In fact, Matías Prats has been rated the television personality with the best image for the seventh year running.
The GECA index also highlighted that Antena 3 TV "offered the best national series of the commercial channels, with the actors of the highest quality, as well as the best gameshows of all the TV channels."

60

antena 3 group

Television

The television channel that best maintained its audience levels

2011 was a good year for audience figures. Out of the large television channels, Antena 3, with a 11.5% share, maintained its figures best during the full-year period, and grew the most in the second half, over half a point (0.6%).

In a context of diversified offerings and increased fragmentation, which has already reached 34.5% of the market (4.5 points higher than in 2010), the Antena 3 Group's television division ended 2011 with audience growth of 1.3 points, an increase that allowed its family of channels, comprising Antena 3, Neox, Nova and Nitro, to close the year with a 17.1% audience share.

During prime time, the highest consumption slot, ANTENA 3 GROUP won 1.2 points, increasing its audience share to 16.9%. Like the previous year, it was the leading Group among young audiences, obtaining an average audience share of 23.8% in this segment. Antena 3 TV was also the leader in this group, with a share of 12.7%, while Telecinco registered a 12.1% share and La 1 an 8.9% share.

With respect to the theme channels that comprise the Group, Neox ended December as the sixth most watched channel, for the second consecutive month, and grew 0.5% points last year, to 2.7%, a figure which made it the leader among the private theme channels. Overall for the year, Nova (1.5%) was able to consolidate its results and Nitro (1.4%) grew one point, becoming the most watched channel out of the recent theme channels launched this season.

The best-in-class tv channel

12.3% 11.3%

15.3% 14.4%

14.0% 14.0%

6.9% 5.7%

6.5% 5.4%

+ 1.0

- 0.9

- 0.0

- 1.1

- 1.1

ANTENA 3

La1

T5

Cuatro

La Sexta

01/09/2010 to 31/12/2010

01/09/2011 to 31/12/2011

Antena 3 closed 2011 with strong growth, and as the only generalist channel that improved its audience in the initial part of the 2011-12 season with respect to the same period in 2010 (12.3% vs. 11.3%). Source: Kantar Media. Spain. Individual totals.

2011 annual and corporate responsibility report

61

The highest number of television successes
Antena 3 opened the 2011-12 season not only as the channel with the largest increase in audience numbers, but also as the channel with the most successful premieres, with new launches in almost all the genres. In fact, all the new incorporations in the line-up have been able to garner the support of viewers and revamp the current panorama of generalist television with formats aimed at the entire family.
"Tu cara me suena", hit show of the year
Tu Cara me Suena was another Antena 3 TV success in the entertainment genre.
Week after week, the program hosted by Manel Fuentes has steadily climbed in the ratings, becoming the hit show of the year and a talent show leader, registering an average of 2,932,000 viewers and an audience share of 19%. After

starting with a 14% share and a little more than 2 million viewers, since its sixth episode, its share has not dropped below 20% and it ended the first season with nearly four million viewers and 25.9% of the audience.
"Atrapa un Millón y "Ahora Caigo", hit gameshows
In the entertainment area, audiences have been enthusiastic about Antena 3 TV's new offerings in 2011. We would particularly highlight its two hit gameshows Atrapa un Millón and Ahora Caigo.
These are innovative formats that are further complemented by the success of La Ruleta de la Suerte. The gameshow hosted by Jorge Fernández obtained an average audience share of 18.2% and over 1 million viewers in 2011, and widened its leadership with its nearest competitor, Tele cinco, which it was already beating in its time slot by 2.7 points.

THE UNSTOPPABLE CLIMB OF "TU CARA ME SUENA"

14.0%

13.8%

16.0%

16.1%

18.5%

21.6%

20.0%

21.3%

21.4%

25.9%

26-SEP-11 05-OCT-11 12-OCT-11 19-OCT-11 26-OCT-11 02-NOV-11 09-NOV-11 16-NOV-11 23-NOV-11 30-NOV-11

62

antena 3 group

[ "Tu Cara me Suena" was the hit show of the year, with an average audience share of 19%. ]
Tu Cara me Suena, Bandolera and Ahora Caigo.

Television

On 4 February, Atrapa un Millón premiered on prime time with 14.8% and 2,690,000 viewers, occupying the first position in its time slot. From its premiere to the end of the year, it registered an average of 14.6% and 2,303,000 viewers. The gameshow won the Premio Ondas for best entertainment program.
Its prime time success led Antena 3 TV to premiere the format in a daytime version, with the same strong results. It was so successful, in fact, that since April, it had an average audience share of 14.8% and 1,481,000 viewers.

Five months afterwards, on 6 July, Antena 3 TV put Ahora Caigo on prime time. In its 13 broadcasts, it achieved an average audience share during prime time of 13.7% and 2,044,000 viewers. Mirroring the performance of Atrapa un Millón, the gameshow helmed by Arturo Valls also premiered a daytime version on 22 August, obtaining a 15.8% share and 1,520,000 viewers. Since its premiere, it grew over 3.5 points evidencing its upward trend.

2011 annual and corporate responsibility report

63

Antena 3 News 1, the leading private news show
In 2011 Antena 3 News has once again become the news benchmark, with the First Edition program the most watched private news broadcast, Monday through Friday, as Monday to Sunday as well as on the weekend.
The news program headed by Vicente Vallés and Mónica Carrillo, is the most watched private news broadcast, with an average of 1,876,000 viewers (14.2%).

"Espejo Público", the morning show that is growing fastest
Espejo Público was the morning show that grew most (0.7 points) reaching an average of 13.5%. The best data point of the year, 19.8%, was registered on 19 October, the edition that featured, among other things, an exclusive interview with the parents of Madeleine McCann.
Lastly, the new news show "Equipo de Investigación" on Friday nights had over 1.2 million viewers, winning a 12% audience share, in its new late night weekday slot.

Susanna Griso.

Television

ANTENA 3 News, the news program benchmark
14% 1,836,000 12,9%
1,686,000

8,4% 783,000

6,5% 688,000

First edition Monday to Sunday
14.2% 13.9% 1,876,000 1,851,000

8.7% 821,000

6.4% 672,000

First edition Monday to Friday
13.8% 1,730,000

10% 1,258,000
7.6% 691,000

6.7% 736,000

First edition weekends

[ The news program headed by Vicente Vallés and Mónica Carrillo, is the most watched private news broadcast, with an average of 1,876,000 viewers (14.2%). ]

Two major house bets: "El Hormiguero 3.0" and "Otra Movida"
In the entertainment genre, Antena 3's family of channels made two major bets in its 2011 programming: El Hormiguero 3.0, during prime time on Antena 3; and Otra Movida, in the afternoon slot at Neox.
In Pablo Motos' new chapter with Antena 3, the program obtained an average of 12.1% audience share, and 2,356,000 viewers, which makes it the most watched program on the private channels in its time slot and the leader in audiences under 35-years old.
In 2011, it aired the most watched show in its history, which occurred on November 16th with the visit of Justin Bieber, a program that reached an average of 3,308,000 viewers.
On 8 August, Neox premiered the first major bet for the evening time slot on the new channels, Otra Movida. The new program presented by Florentino Fernández, Anna Simon and Dani Martínez was very well received by audiences. In fact, it's the best premiere in the history of DTT, with 6.4% audience share and 758,000 viewers. Its broad-

2011 annual and corporate responsibility report

65

[ "Otra Movida", presented by Florentino Fernández, was the best
premiere in the history of DTT. ]

cast on Neox led to an improvement of 0.9 points in the Monday to Friday slot, making it a leader among young people (12.5%).
Meanwhile, during the morning hours at Antena 3, we would highlight the strong performance of Karlos Arguiñano en tu cocina which, following the change to its morning slot, obtained an average audience share of 12.1% and 437,000 viewers.
"El Barco" and "Gran Hotel" lead the fiction offerings
Antena 3 TV has a long record of triumphs in national fiction shows, and this year its productions have once again met with great success. El Barco maintains its excellent performance and became the most watched show of the year on the private channels, with over 3.5 million spectators and an audience share of 18.9% .
In the first season it obtained 20.6% and 4,132,000 viewers, while in the second it reached 17.1% with an average of 2,966,000 viewers. Furthermore, several episodes of El Barco were among the top ten broadcasts of the year. The most watched broadcast was the premiere episode, with 4,769,000 viewers and a 23.4% audience share. Among young people between 13 and 24 years old this share rose to 36%.
With an average audience of 3,719,000 viewers and an audience share of 20%, Gran Hotel has become the breakout series and the best fiction premiere in the second half of the year. In the first season, it obtained an audience share of 18.6%, with an average of 3,365,000 viewers. It was the

leader in its time slot and had an especially notable performance with adult audiences between 45-54, with a 21.9% share, and a 19.5% share for viewers between 55 and 64 years old.
Los Protegidos was the third most watched series of the year on Antena 3. Its second season, aired between January and April of 2011, had average viewership of over 3 million (3,021,000) and a 15.1% audience share. Its success among children (29.8%) and youth segments (34.1%) was particularly noteworthy. The most watched episode was broadcast on 6 February, with 3,266,000 viewers and a 16.4% audience share.
In its second season, Hispania obtained an audience share of 15.1%, with an average viewership of nearly 3 million. It was especially popular with viewers between 13 and 24 (17.2%) and between 35 and 44 with 15.6%. The most watched episode was broadcast on Tuesday, 17 May, with 3,130,000 viewers and a 16.2% audience share.
Foreign fiction also met with success on Antena 3 and the top foreign show, Downton Abbey, obtained an audience share of 14.8% and 2,842,000 viewers in its premiere season. It was most successful among more adult audiences: 20% between 45 and 54; and 17.5% between 55 and 64. Its first episode, broadcast on 15 March, had a 17.1% audience share and 3,254,000 viewers.
In regard to film, the most watched film of the year on Antena 3 was Eclipse, broadcast on Sunday, 27 November, and obtaining 3,658,000 viewers and a screen share of 19%, making it the most watched film on a private channel.

66

antena 3 group

Television
Otra Movida, Gran Hotel, Downton Abbey, Los Protegidos and Hispania.

2011 annual and corporate responsibility report

67

Neox, theme channel leader
With respect to the theme channels that comprise the Group, Neox ended the year as the sixth most watched channel, for the second consecutive month, and grew 0.5% points last year, to 2.7%, a figure which made it the leader among the private theme channels. It has become a leader among young audiences, with an average annual share of 8.1%, and growth in this segment of 1.9 points.
The improvement in Neox was mainly due to growth in the afternoon slots (0.5%) and in the daily early evening shows (0.8%), thanks to the incorporation of Otra Movida (3.6%) and early evening series such as The Big Bang Theory (3.2%); Two and a Half men (3.0%), American Dad (2.9%) and The Simpsons (3.4%).
In prime time, Neox also grew (0.3%), mainly through Cinematrix (3.3%) which broadcast the most watched movies of the channel: the Twilight saga (1,032,000 and 6%), Eclipse (1,024,000 and 6.2%), New Moon (931,000 and 5.5%) and Transporter 3 (955,000 and 5.4%).
The most watched broadcast in 2011 was the The Simpsons episode aired on November 7th, with over 1.3 million viewers and a 6% audience share.
Meanwhile, Nova has kept pace with 1.5%. Its most watched broadcast was an episode of Amarte así frijolito on 9 May (3.4% and 580,000). The soap operas in the afternoon such as Mujer de madera and the weekend gameshows Ahora Caigo and Atrapa un Millón also had noteworthy performances, each with 2% shares.
Nitro, in its first full year of broadcasting, was confirmed as the most watched channel out of the new theme channels launched in the 2010/2011 season (MTV, Marca, Boing, 13TV, La 10, Divinity,

LaSexta2 y LaSexta3) with an average audience share of 1.4% in 2011. Its most watched broadcast was the Law and Order episode of 7 November (524,000 viewers, 2.5%), followed by the game between the national soccer teams of Portugal and Argentina (520,000 and 3.9%). Among its programs we would highlight the figures for Law and Order (225,000 and 1.7%), war movies (323,000 and 1.8%), Band of Brothers (157,000 and 1.6%), Extreme Justice (231,000 and 1.5%) and Walker Texas Ranger (194,000 and 1.6%).
Antena 3 Films collects 40% of all spanish cinema receipts
In 2011 Antena 3 Films premiered a total of nine full length features that made up 40% of Spanish box-office receipts. The success of film productions is repeated year after year and it would not be an exaggeration to say that the Group's contributions are essential to the development of the Spanish film industry.
Antena 3 Films is aware that it is not enough just to make good films, it is also necessary to know how to connect with the public, and following these principles it has been producing box-office hits and gaining recognition from critics and the film industry at both national and international film festivals.
Torrente 4, with more than 19.5 million euros in ticket sales, produced by and starring Santiago Segura, was both the highest grossing film of the year and the box-office leader in the week of its premiere (8.4 million), which even exceeds the

68

antena 3 group

Television
ANTENA 3 FILMS TOPS THE RANKINGS OF THE HIGHEST GROSSING MOVIES

Rkg Title 1 Torrente 4 2 Midnight in Paris (*)3 Fuga de Cerebros 2 4 La piel que habito 5 No habra paz para los malvados ... 11 Intruders 12 Contrario al amor, Lo ... 15 There Be Dragons ... 19 No lo llames amor, llamalo X ... 25 No controles ... (*)28 Maktub (*)29 XP 3D

premiere 11/03/2011 13/05/2011 02/12/2011 02/09/2011 23/09/2011
07/10/2011 26/08/2011
25/03/2011
06/05/2011
05/01/2011
16/12/2011 28/12/2011

DIRECTOR Santiago Segura Woody Allen Carlos Theron Pedro Almodovar Enrique Urbizu

box office 19,509,475.06
7,835,944.71 5,098,927.36 4,590,498.58 4,050,273.89

viewers 2,633,469.00 1,207,502.00
803,060.00 715,115.00 635,884.00

tv player A3TV
A3TV
T5

Juan Carlos Fresnadillo Vicente Villanueva

2,681,102.90 2,552,503.59

414,542.00 411,263.00

A3TV A3TV

Roland Joffe

2,003,788.23 345,639.00 A3TV

Oriol Capel

1,034,970.83 167,073.00 A3TV

Borja Cobeaga

633,440.00

97,584.00 A3TV

Paco Arango Sergi Vizcaino

553,685.50 533,211.54

85,379.00 71,984.00

A3TV A3TV

* In theatres

total receipts of the second place film, "Midnight in Paris". Another Antena 3 production, Fuga de Cerebros 2, directed by Carlos Theron and starring Adrián Lastra, was the third highest grossing film of the year with 5.3 million euros and the second best premiere of the year. With these two movies alone, Antena 3 collected more than 28% of all Spanish film receipts.

Also in 2011, Paco Arango's first film, Maktub, premiered with three Goya nominations (Best First-Time Director for Paco Arango, Best Leading Actress for Goya Toledo; and best original song), and the joint international productions There be Dragons, directed by Roland Joffe and Intruders, with two Goya nominations (Best Special Effects, Best Leading Actress Pilar López de Ayala).

2011 annual and corporate responsibility report

69

[ Antena 3 Films premiered a total
of nine films to great public and critical acclaim. ]
Premieres in 2012, the success continues
In 2011 Antena 3 Films has continued to invest in the best cinema; premiering full-feature films in 2012 like Luces Rojas, directed by Rodrigo Cortés and starring Robert de Niro and Sigourney Weaver, which was nominated at the Sundance Film Festival; Tengo ganas de ti, based on the novel by Federico Moccia; the continuation of Tres metros sobre el cielo, also taken to the big screen by Antena 3 Films and the highest grossing film in 2010; and Extraterrestre, by Nacho Vigalondo, with Michelle Jenner and Carlos Areces, which was shown at the Austin and Toronto Film festivals to much critical and public acclaim.
Furthermore, currently in production are El cuerpo, directed by Oriol Paulo and starring Belén Rueda, Hugo Silva and José Coronado; El callejón, from Antonio Trashorras, with Ana de Armas and Leonor Varela in the cast; Fin, directed by Jorge Torregrossa, with Maribel Verdú, Daniel Grao and Clara Lago in the cast; Futbolín, first animated film from Oscar winner Juan José Campanella; and Los últimos días, an apocalyptic thriller directed by brothers Alex and David Pastor set in Barcelona.

TV movies, the best movies for the small screen
In the TV movies category, 6 episodes of El corazón del océano, have been filmed; the show is based on the book by Elvira Menéndez, and narrates the story of a group of women in the XVI century who go to the New World in the hopes of marrying a Conquistador; Rescatando a Sara, a Spanish woman's struggle to recover her daughter from her ex-husband who has taken her by force to Iran; Alas al viento, on the life of Rocío Jurado, and Historias Robadas, based on the book of the same name by Enrique Vila Torres, starring Rodolfo Sancho, and based on a real story that narrates the investigations of a young boy to find the brother taken from his mother at birth.
Close to the viewers
The GRUPO ANTENA 3 strives for a television lineup that ensures entertaining programming that pleases audiences, is respectful to all publics, and is of the highest quality.
With this in mind, the Antena 3 Marketing Department undertakes ongoing research into programming formats and content before, during, and after their broadcast.
Throughout 2011, the department has undertaken continuous qualitative research in conjunction with other prestigious institutions in the sector. Among other projects, 71 groups convened, which gave us the opportunity to hear the opinions of more than 560 people in order to better understand viewer tastes: their pleasures, preferences, and expectations. It also gave us the chance to understand the changes in audiovisual consumption

70

antena 3 group

Television

trends and the different supports to improve and define new content in line with audience preferences.
Antena 3 also listens to opinions on the largest social networking sites and forums. This permanent interaction with the audience allows us to continually adapt and improve programming.
The audience gives the Antena 3 Group an A+
In 2011, Antena 3 carried out various studies to analyse audience opinions of programming, such as Estudio de Imagen de Antena 3 or Televidente 2.0, in which researchers analyse consumption of audiovisual content in the digital space. A highlight from the study is the finding that the Antena 3 website was the most visited television channel with 53% of the total share.
One of the reference reports in the sector is the "Índice de Imagen GECA" (GECA Image Index), which measures not only the image of the main public and private television networks, but also satisfaction levels among consumers.
This study, for yet another year, ranks Antena 3 the top rated channel among the private channels. This opinion also extends to Neox, which is the highest ranked theme channel. It also names some Antena 3 personalities among the most highly regarded: Karlos Arguiñano, Concha Velasco, Carlos Sobera, Pablo Motos... and for the 7th straight year, Matías Prats as the most highly regarded television personality.

Karlos Arguiñano, Concha Velasco, Carlos Sobera and Pablo Motos.

2011 annual and corporate responsibility report

71

According to the GECA Index, Antena 3 is the most highly regarded private channel in Spain.

The GECA Index named the themed channel NEOX and the Antena 3 website as the most highly regarded in their
respective categories.

GECA Image Index ­ Main Generalist tv channels

TVE Antena 3 Cuatro La Sexta Autonómicas
La2 Telecinco

2005

2006

2007

2008

2009

2010

2011

Source: Índice de Imagen GECA 2011

The figures from the GECA Image Index 2011 put Antena 3 in an excellent position among viewers in quality programming; its shows garnered the highest grades in the following categories:
· Entertainment value. · Novelty programming. · Quality in advertising. · Quality acting. · Magazines and entertainment. · Game-shows.

· Quality of presenters in entertainment.
As far as programs, the GECA Index once again highlights El Peliculón, as the most recognized film franchise, Atrapa un Millón is the second highest ranked game show, and The Simpsons as the best animated series. Audiences also voted Espejo Público the most highly regarded magazine show and Doctor Mateo and El Secreto de Puente Viejo were the highest rated self-produced series.

72

antena 3 group

In 2011, the "Foro de Comerciales de la Publicidad" awarded Antena 3 the best "Support in a Television Category" and "Advertising Support with the Best Marketing".
Antena 3 received the Quality Prize at the XII edition of the Television Academy Award.

Television

Television that responds
The word "responsibility" derives from the word "respond", and when we answer the questions and concerns of Society we refer to that as Corporate Responsibility (CR), a voluntary commitment from the ANTENA 3 GROUP.
Quality television should be varied, light, and entertaining, but the ANTENA 3 GROUP understands that it must also be "responsible", to heed Society's concerns and become involved in solving some of its main problems. This is where the responsibility lies.
As a result, all of the Group's channels, Antena 3, Neox, Nova and Nitro include programming that analyses social causes; this is an attempt to generate ideas, recommend good practices, and to propose solutions to the society of which we are a part of and to which we address ourselves. As a means of communications the ANTENA 3 GROUP has a specific responsibility in the following areas:

Antena 3 News.
1.Program, series and advertising content, with special attention to content which responds to social concerns.
2.The protection of the most vulnerable audiences, especially children and disabled populations.
3.The audiences' media literacy.
In the following paragraphs, the specific responses that the ANTENA 3 GROUP devotes to each of these areas will be given in more detail.
Social-orientated programming
Antena 3 News
If a television program must be a model of responsibility and concern with society, it is news broadcasts; this is how viewers can understand the reality of the day-to-day that concerns everyone.

2011 annual and corporate responsibility report

73

The News Services of Antena 3 Television work under the basic premise of giving their audience trustworthy, quality information that is committed to the principles of social responsibility with the professional ethic of audiovisual informative journalism.

The organization and structure of decision-making at Antena 3 News is designed to guarantee that these principles, which establish successive filters and controls, are not only based on applicable legislation but also on CR principles and on the codes of professional conduct, as summarized in the following table:

ETHICAL CODE FOR ANTENA 3 NEWS Legal and Regulatory Personal dignity Information language and visual resources Conflict of interests
Gifts Privileged Information Commercial and critical information

Behavior and information may not violate legal or regulatory regulations.
All information should ensure the respect of people's rights, guaranteeing fair treatment and the presumption of innocence, with special rigor when information involves minors.
Language and visual resources should accord with the information that is meant to be transmitted, without any room for expressions or images that, without further information, could injure audience sensibilities.
All journalists on Antena 3 news must comply with this principle. This entails withdrawing from the process of researching or generating news when the journalist, or his immediate entourage, is or could be, a party to or implicated in the particular news item; thereby avoiding potential conflicts of interests.
Antena 3 news writers may not accept gifts or benefits from companies or institutions that are the subject of news coverage, which could give the impression of infringing on their ability to deliver objective and independent information.
The journalist that could, due to his work, have access to privileged information, may not use it for his own benefit.
The news programs clearly and explicitly separate information from advertising, the purely journalistic content from commercial content. They also unequivocally differentiate strictly informative content from that which infers an interpretation or critical evaluation of the news.

In recognition of their work with a clear social commitment, Antena 3 News was awarded the national prize `Alares' for the broadcast of reporting about
the work life balance.

74

antena 3 group

Television

On another note, the ANTENA 3 GROUP views the growing implication of the citizenry in the identification, generation, and investigative process of news making very positively, especially now that social networks and communications and information technology facilitate direct and immediate contact with interest groups.
In only 8 months, the initiative of the Antena 3 News program "Tienes la Última Palabra" have registered more than 24,000 entries with opinions and suggestions ugerencias.
With the goal of increasing citizen participation and discovering the concerns of the citizenry, Antena 3 News has introduced viewer participation via social networks with the initiative "Tienes la última palabra". This is a segment during which viewers can interact with Matías Prats commenting on the image or theme of the day on Facebook, Twitter and antena3.com.
Viewers have received the initiative positively and in only 8 months it has received more than 24,000 opinions.
One example that stands out are the more than 2,500 questions which, as a result of the 2011 General Election, the audience posed to the main candidates to the Presidency during the interviews.
Equipo de Investigación
An average of more than 1.2 million viewers each week has watched the journalistic works of the Equipo de Investigación. The program aims to

be a reflection of the social reality that concerns the citizenry. Proof of this connection with the concerns of society is the broadcast of various news reports related to the Economic Crisis, one of the main concerns of Spanish society in 2011 according to the reference sociological surveys (CIS Barómeter 2011).
Aside from topics related to the crisis, Equipo de Investigación has also investigated other current affairs related to, for example, consumption and health; or in depth analysis of crimes against citizens involving fraud or swindle, with the aim of preventing them.
Information can be a means of preventing certain social threats or of promoting good practices, as shown in the following table with the reports broadcast in 2011 and their impact:

PROGRAM
El Precio del Fraude
El Negocio de los Desahucios
El Precio de un Trabajo
Ruiz Mateos y Cía
El Liquidador
El Nuevo Timo de la Estampita
La Dieta Dukan o El Negocio de Adelgazar

AUDIENCe % 15.6 11.6 13.1 13.8 11.5 11.2
17.2

viewers 1,755,000 1,015,000 1,410,000 1,567,000 1,122,000 1,107,000
1,663,000

Espejo Público
Another program with a clear commitment to benefit society is Espejo Público. It is a live, daily show that analyses current affairs of high social interest. Highlights of the social issues dealt with in 2011 include Breast implants that tear, Baby kidnappings or The Dukan Diet.

2011 annual and corporate responsibility report

75

With the aim of increasing citizen participation in the program and thereby being able to go into more detail into the areas that interest the public most, Espejo Público has created a link on its website Tú haces Espejo Público (www.antena3. com/programas/espejo-publico/participa/), a new area through which citizens can express their opinions on the topics discussed and propose their ideas, suggestions and solutions. Audience opinion matters on Espejo Público.
A Fondo
The A Fondo team is interested in everything that happens on the streets. It aims to delve in- depth into changes in social conduct and other subjects which concern and impact citizens. Its single-topic reports are included within the Antena 3 Television news programs as thematic complements which are devoted special attention.

A result of this concern with social issues is that in 2011 A Fondo reporters prepared more than 200 features broadcast on different editions of the Antena 3 Television news broadcasts.
The contents of this work include topics related to current news events and their degree of social content. From the largest events, like the Pope's visit to Madrid during the Youth Days, to catastrophes like the earthquake in Lorca, social movements, health, or the consequences of the economic crisis and unemployment on families and businesses. The program dedicated special attention to victims of terrorism, domestic violence, and common crimes; all aspects which are at the top of the list of citizen concerns.
One part of the social themes was centered on reports of crimes and investigation, as summarized in the following table with highlights of the features in 2011:

SUBJECT CURRENT AFFAIRS
CHARGES AND INVESTIGATION
HEALTH NEW TECHNOLOGIES OLD AGE ADOLESCENTS
CULTURE
SPORT, TOURISM, AND LEISURE

PROGRAMS
The Pope's visit during the Youth Days in Madrid. Lorca earthquake. The cucumber crisis hits Spain. The wave of the Chinese community. Protests in Puerta del Sol. The 15-M movement. Five years of the driving license by points reduces highway deaths dramatically. The crisis strengthens the gold business.
Paper theft from waste containers. Trash food. The exploitation of the homeless and beggars. Gangs dedicated to copper theft. Marijuana plantations camouflaged among agricultural plants in Huelva. The shadow economy. The Madrid night mafias and their connection with Colombian drug traffic. Youth disappearances. The Marta del Castillo case. The search for international delinquents fleeing from justice. The falsification of cosmetics.
Mediators in hospital rooms. Assisted reproduction. The expiration and waste of food products. Esthetic surgery.
Alternative energies. Radioactive security.
Secrets to longevity, living more than a century. INSERSO baths.
The best of the school exams. Young entrepreneurs. The phenomenon of "fans". Juvenile violence. Public drinking and alcoholism. Cleaning up graffiti.
In the museum Bellas Artes de Bilbao with Antonio López. The Cibeles Catwalk. The new paths of flamenco. The best photographer in the world. Popular theatres. Movie theatre finder. Municipal music bands. DJs, a phenomena of the masses. The Godspell Chorus arrives in Spain. Traveling theatre. The new forms of advertising. Truck tuning. The new advertising models.
High mountain sports. Six star holidays. Mine tourism. Scuba diving below the ice. High competition.

76

antena 3 group

Television

Antena 3 website.

Protecting children
Well-being, respect, and the promotion of children's rights are basic premises that the ANTENA 3 GROUP bears in mind in all it does.
In order to comply with this principle, ANTENA 3 GROUP pays special attention to providing family programming that is in line with the tastes and requirements of the youngest audiences, while carrying out strict monitoring in the classification and broadcast of its content and commercial communications in the children's time slot.
In addition, the Antena 3 Foundation's mission is to ensure that children and adolescents have the support required to promote their well-being and education, as well as promoting the social awareness of their rights, needs and interests.

In the following paragraphs we detail how we have promoted and protected children's rights, especially in those especially sensitive areas like content, advertising, protection of adolescents in hiring, and access to the Group's premises.
In contents
The Antena 3 Group is aware that television is a transmitting medium for principles and values, which is why it broadcasts programming for all members of the family and specific children's programming. The Neox Channel is the Group's channel devoted specifically to the youngest audiences. In 2011 the Antena 3 Group broadcast a total of 2,509 hours of children's programming, 2,132 of which are broadcast on the Neox channel which emits series and animated cartoons like Heidi, Pucca, or Pippi Longstockings.

2011 annual and corporate responsibility report

77

In order to guarantee the protection of minors in content, the ANTENA 3 GROUP is, since 2005, a member of the Código de Autorregulación sobre Contenidos Televisivos e Infancia, a voluntary sector code of conduct for all signatories. The selfregulating code, once signed, make up the rules for the ANTENA 3 GROUP. Furthermore, the ANTENA 3 GROUP is part of the Self-Regulation Committee and the Mixed Monitoring Commission, organisms which are responsible for verifying the proper application of the Código de Autorregulación.
As required by Royal Decree 410/2002 of 3 May, the television programs of Antena 3 and its digital channels strictly qualify their content in order to clearly inform their audiences of suitability for minors. In addition to the entertainment programs or the fiction series, movies and TV movies are also exhaustively qualified by the Antena 3 Department of External Production following strict criteria defined by the new General Law of Audiovisual Communication and the Ministry of Culture. Selfadvertising and sneak-peak program clips are also subject to the classification criteria set by the law in order to keep minors from accessing unsuitable content.
Furthermore, Spanish legislation allows citizens to demand the competent authorities to act when they believe audiovisual content is not compliance with existing legislation or self-regulatory codes. To this end, and in order to increase the degree of compliance with the code and to facilitate the process of citizen complaints or suggestions reaching the competent authorities, the Antena 3 webpage includes a section that allows users to contact the Monitoring Commission, making the process smoother and easier.

In Advertising
Audiovisual commercial communication that accompanies children's programming or is included in it, is another aspect to which the ANTENA 3 GROUP pays special attention, given the special vulnerability of minors to advertising messages. The Group has the following tools at its disposal to undertake the task:
a. Self-regulation. In 2009, ANTENA 3 committed to collaborate, along with the other television associations like FORTA and UTECA, in the promotion and application of the Código de Autorregulación de la Publicidad de Alimentos dirigida a menores (PAOS). The object of this code is to prevent health problems such as child obesity. To this end, the PAOS expressly regulate the following aspects: -Television advertising and marketing of food and beverages for children aged 12 and under. -Broadcast times for these advertisements. -The manner in which these products are presented and promoted.
b.Protection measures that go beyond legal requirements. Social responsibility should exceed or voluntarily improve the legal requirements applicable in a specific country or time. For this reason, one of the specific measures the ANTENA 3 GROUP has adopted to "improve" existing legislation is the voluntary increase in the reinforced protected time-slot (from Monday to Friday) by 2 hours, ensuring more protection of minors with respect to the television content broadcast during the time-slot.
c.Collaboration with interest groups., AUTOCONTROL ­ association of which ANTENA 3 is a member-signed in 2010 an agreement with the Spanish Association of Toy Manufacturers (Asociación Española de Fabricantes de Juguetes) and with the National Institute of Consumption (Instituto Nacional de Consumo) relative to toy advertising with the aim

78

antena 3 group

Television

of strengthening the protection of minors in advertising segments aimed at children.
Hiring minors
When the ANTENA 3 GROUP hires minors (for example as actors or for their continued participation on a program), it always commits itself, via corresponding clauses, to guarantee the minor's essential rights: · Respect their image, honor and personal and
intimate family life. · Guarantee the development of their educa-
tion, in such a way that when the continued presence of a minor is required, the proper measures to ensure compatibility with their studies and their work loads are taken.
Security regarding minors on Antena 3 premises
The protection of minors is not limited to programming or advertising; it goes beyond that by even defining specific measures to guarantee their

access to and security on the ANTENA 3 GROUP premises.
The ANTENA 3 GROUP's internal security regulations prohibit, generally, minor's access to its premises. However when, exceptionally, a minor must participate in a program (as a guest or the audience) this regulation dictates that the minor must be accompanied by production personnel who is responsible for their security. At any rate, minors may only exceptionally enter the ANTENA 3 GROUP premises between 10:00 and 20:00 and always with written authorization from their parents or legal guardian.
More accessible television
The Antena 3 Group facilitates access to information for groups with hearing or visual handicaps by providing content with audio descriptions and subtitles.

subtitled hours

10,491 7,746

2,313 2,331

3,619 3,706

2,086 1,264

2,368 550

2010

2011

2011 annual and corporate responsibility report

79

This is why the ANTENA 3 GROUP has increased its accessible programming, largely exceeding the requirements of the General Audiovisual Law which establishes that at least 25% of the programming hours must be sub-titled. The specific 2011 figures are the following:
· Broadcast of a total of 10,491 subtitled hours, an increase of more than 35% with respect to last year.
· Broadcast of 112 signed hours equally split among all the group channels.
· Broadcast of 209 audio described hours, NITRO standing out with 98 broadcast hours.
· Neox is the Group's channel with the most broadcasts accessible to persons with audio or visual disabilities, with more than 3,700 programming hours directed towards children and adolescent publics. Which means more than 50% of its programming is accessible
· By time-slot, subtitling is most common in the morning (07:00 -14:00h) with 24.4%, almost equal to the afternoon time-slot (14:00-17:00h) with 23.3% and followed by Prime Time (20:30-24:00h) with 21.7%.
· ANTENA 3 has continued to advance with live subtitling for programs of social interest such as: ­­ The debate between Rubalcaba and Rajoy. ­­ The interviews of candidates to the Presidency of the Government in 2011 (Rajoy and Rubalcaba. ­­ Two episodes of Espejo Público. ­­ The Christmas message from His Majesty the King. ­­ The special program CAMPANADAS 2012.
More evidence of the clear support for subtitling can be found in the free broadcast of subtitled advertising spots. In 2011, almost 7 hours of subtitled spots have been broadcast, among others those of Henkel, Campofrío, and Carrefour.

Media awareness and training
The means of communication should contribute to the media literacy of the audience, defined as the capacity of the audience to understand the means of communications and their content and use them as required. This allows the audience to become responsible users of the means of communication.
Thanks to media literacy, a responsible audience able to undertake the following tasks is promoted:
· Differentiate among and familiarize itself with diversity in the types of means of communication.
· Choose content based on its informative or entertainment purpose.
· Reflect critically on these issues.
To this end, in 2011 the ANTENA 3 GROUP carried out some initiatives aimed at bringing the means of communication closer to not only audiences but also society as a whole. In order to reach this target, the ANTENA 3 GROUP has boosted collaboration with centers of education and universities.
School and University Alumni visits to the Antena 3 premises. In 2011, more than 2,000 university and school students aged between 12 and 22 visited the Antena 3 premises. During these visits they are explained the different professions that make the daily activities of a communications group possible, the production and broadcast process, and they are also taught the value of teamwork as the maxim that makes the work of a means of communication possible. They also witness a live radio program, visit the television studios, and are educated in situ on the means of communication with the help, on occasion, of the Group's own professionals. On many occa-

80

antena 3 group

Television

Radio workshop for hospitalised children.

School students visiting Antena 3 premises.

sions these visits have served to guide students into their vocations.
Tomorrow Project ("Proyecto Mañana"). This is an Antena 3 News initiative that aims to investigate what televised news programs might look like in the future. To undertake this project, they signed a collaboration agreement with six Communications faculties in Spain (Universidad Antonio de Nebrija, Carlos III, Universidad de Navarra, Pontificia de Salamanca, Pompeu i Fabra and Universidad de Sevilla), which present their projects on "televised newscasts in the future" in a contest which prizes the two best submissions.
A group of students from the Communications Faculty at the Universidad de Navarra and another from the Journalism Faculty at the Universitat Pompeu i Fabra were the winners of the Tomorrow Project. Antena 3 awarded five students from each school a quarterly scholarship to undertake internships at the networks news programs.
Agreement with the Foundation of the Film and Audiovisual School of Madrid (Fundación de la Escuela Cinematográfica y Audiovisual de Madrid) (ECAM). In line with the business community's commitment to the Spanish film industry and to contributing to the discovery and promotion of new values, and to boost this significant artistic, economic and cultural sector, in 2011 Antena 3 Films and the ECAM signed an initial

3-year agreement. By this agreement, the screenplays from final year students will be presented and valued for their potential audiovisual production at Antena 3 Films. This possibility will also be available to final-year students in other disciplines, pending approval from the designated committee.
Radio workshops for children. The first was held at the Niño Jesús Hospital. Attendees learned how a radio program was made, the language used, and how to conduct an interview. During the workshop, organized by the Antena 3 Foundation and given by the Head of Local news for Onda Cero Madrid, the children recorded an interview that was broadcast on the Madrid en la Onda program.
Other ANTENA 3 GROUP projects that are aimed at contributing to media awareness and training include the Vive Conectado campaign aimed at promoting the safe use of internet and social networks for adolescents, www.viveconectado.com or the Proyecto PRO of the Antena 3 Foundation www.proyectopro.es which is geared towards the education and integration of disabled persons into the workforce in the audiovisual sector.
Find more information on the Vive Conectado on page 149 of this report.
Find more information on the Proyecto PRO on page 154 of this report.

2011 annual and corporate responsibility report

81

Julia Otero at the Onda Cero's central radio set

Radio

Radio
[ Onda Cero, due to an increase of 5.6 % in its audience, strengthens its second place position in
the national conventional radio ranking. ]

The fastest growing private radio
Onda Cero and Europa FM's position in the Spanish radio market was reinforced in 2011, consolidating the growth from previous years. If in 2010 Onda Cero was already the private radio station posting the most growth with 66,000 new listeners, they doubled this figure in 2011. The generalist channel of the Antena 3 Group, according to figures from the General Report on Means of Communication (EGM) at the end of November, had an audience of 2,454,000 listeners, 131,000 more than during the same period the year before.
Onda cero: sustained growth of 5.6%
These results back some general lines of programming that value continuity, fairness and respect of all opinions. Onda Cero, thanks to an increase of 5.6% in its audience, strengthened its second position in the conventional radio rankings, beating the third option­ Radio 1, of Radio Nacional de España ­ by more than 700,000 listeners and the fourth place station­ Cadena Cope ­ by a million, all the while managing to register a share of

20.3%, versus 11.6% and 10.5%, for its two closest competitors.
Onda Cero's share in December in 2010 was 19.0%, while in 2009 and 2008 it was at 18.3% and 16.0%, respectively. This means that in the last four years it has increased its share by 4.3 points. Another no less significant figure is profitability per listener, an indicator that Onda Cero has for years been beating the competition.
The music station Europa FM managed to break the one million listener barrier in 2011 with an increase of 124,000 followers, registering an absolute audience of 1,579,000 listeners. It is also the music station that has grown the most in percentage terms in the past year, 9%, increasing its distance from Kiss FM by half a million. Figures from the latest EGM are telling: 103,000 new followers on Europa FM and a morning program, Levántate y Cárdenas, which in just over a year has already reached 760,000 listeners.
Judging from these excellent results, we can state that that Onda Cero y Europa FM ­ and Onda Melodía with a dozen radio stations ­ are the benchmarks in the Spanish radio space. They are among the most listened-to, continue growing and­ more importantly ­ are gaining credibility and familiarity with the audience.

84

antena 3 group

The secret to the success of Onda Cero and Europa FM lies in the work and dedication of its professionals: a team that has known how to capture listener concerns and listens to their demands. While Onda Cero has designed an open and pluralistic programming, where there is room for the opinions of all, Europa FM has carefully guarded the quality of its product. Well selected music complements participation segments, with comedy programs and revamped dedications programs.
In 2011 Onda Cero continued to strengthen and improve content. Within the context of the station's current stability we must point out the multiseason renewals of contracts with Carlos Herrera, Julia Otero and Isabel Gemio. Also in 2011, the station ordered the deployment of significant human and technical resources in order to cover the general elections, analyzing the different political proposals with honesty and independence.
The Onda Cero line-up is still the same ­ save time changes ­ as the previous seasons. The audience clearly identifies the voices and sounds of a radio station that wakes up with Herrera en la Onda ­

Onda Cero's headquarters.
almost one million listeners -, listens to Julia en la Onda in the afternoons ­ half a million listeners -, follows the summary of daily events with the La Brújula ­ more than half a million followers­ and goes to sleep with Al Primer Toque, the sports segment that has gained the most listeners according to the third wave of the General Report on Means of Communications (November 2011).
"Herrera en la Onda", the morning show reference
In 2011, Herrera en la Onda had the highest increase in audience on all generalist radio, 208,000 more listeners than in December 2010. The magazine show that is directed and presented by Carlos Herrera, with 1,898,000 listeners, exceeds by more than half a million listeners the morning show on Radio 1 (Radio Nacional) and by more than one million the morning show on Cope. Herrera en la Onda has a larger audience between 6:00 and 12:30 than the total of each of the two radio stations cited.

2011 annual and corporate responsibility report

85

Among its novelties, a weekly section devoted to the proper use of the Spanish language, presented by Carlos Tristancho, and a confidential during which well-known journalists reveal breaking news or keys to current affairs. Herrera, one of the most influential communicators in Spain according to recent surveys, combines news and entertainment like no other and has turned his program into the greatest reference on Spanish morning radio.
"Julia en la Onda" and "La Brújula": rigor, reflection and debate
Julia en la Onda gained listeners with respect to 2010 and is the second most listened to magazine show in its time slot, reducing the distance with the first place and increasing the gap with the third place show. Julia Otero has continued betting on

participation, without changing the identifying features: rigor, humor, reflection and debate.
José María Calleja joined the commentator team on Julia en la Onda, alternating his analysis of current affairs with Arcadi Espada during the first half hour of the program, while Vicente Vallés, director and presenter of Noticias 1, on Antena 3, and Rubén Amón, in the evening review the main current affairs on La Brújula and comment on newspaper headlines for the following day, respectively.
One million listeners get their news from Onda Cero
La Brújula has increased the time dedicated to the economy by fifteen minutes­ an inevitable topic­ and ended 2011 beating the new barrier of half a million listeners. The news program Noticias

Radio

Mediodía also registered excellent results, the best in the program's history, reaching 277,000 listeners with a significant advantage over the midday news program on Cope.
The news, the backbone of programming on Onda Cero, is followed by more than one million listeners. In 2011, demand was even higher due to the general elections, the social protests, and the strikes and conflicts in countries like Egypt, Tunisia and Libya.
New collaborators on the sports segments
The sports segments Al Primer Toque and Radioestadio have also reinforced their staff of collaborators, incorporating big names like the trainer Ángel Cappa and journalists Javier Gómez

Matallanas and Susana Guash. These last two share a microphone with the veterans of the team, Alfonso Azuara and Santi Segurola, and with other regulars and easily recognizable commentators like Xabier Azkargorta, Gica Craioveanu, Ricardo Gallego or the master of statistics and figures, Alexis Martín Tamayo "Mr. Chip".
Despite the fact the Professional Football League has banned radio stations from retransmitting football matches, the audience of Radioestadio has easily exceeded one million and a half listeners, counting the two weekend editions. Onda Cero, like other radio stations, has filed a complaint against the Professional Football League, "in defense of the fundamental right to information".

86

antena 3 group

2011 annual and corporate responsibility report

87

Radio

[ The new Onda Cero website
has increased its internet users by
45%. ]
"Te doy mi palabra" (I give you my word)
As far as the weekend, it is worth highlighting the good results from Te doy mi palabra, with Isabel Gemio; and the consolidation of the Gente Viajera, audience, directed and presented by Esther Eiros. These are two competitive programs that are highlights of the themed and diversified programming available on weekends.
45% more listeners on ondacero.es
The web pages of Onda Cero and Europa FM have experienced considerable change in 2011. In addition to the presentation and design, ondacero.es has in the last few months promoted the participation of its listeners, integrated its website on social networking sites, increased content and improved

Onda Cero and Europa FM websites.
the audio. All of this in order to get closer to its listeners. This wager has already given rise to two first results, with an increase of 45% in listeners versus 2010. Onda Cero has also become the most popular radio station on the internet, with an average of 52 minutes per visit (figures from OJD interactive January-April 2011).
Aware that most internet visitors to ondacero.es want to listen to the live and simultaneous broadcasting of the station's distinct segments, the new website allows for a better audio experience by broadcasting on aac+/mp4. Use and navigation of the site have been enriched and improved, with a design based on standards applied successfully to the web pages of the Antena 3 Group. The new ondacero.es also increased its own content, 100% online with more exclusive reporting, specials, interviews, meetings and video meetings, ranking, etc.
The changes carried out on ondacero.es are an example of the desire to innovate in everything that has to do with the station's ultimate goal: to reach the largest number of listeners. Onda Cero was already the first Spanish radio station to broadcast via internet in May 1996. Thanks to this new support, Onda Cero broadcasts may be heard in real time from anywhere in the world.

88

antena 3 group

Something beyond radio
For another year, UNIPREX has maintained its commitment to serving society through news programs, radio content and advertising space. This commitment is crystallized in its broadcast, support and active participation in social initiatives and campaigns aimed at solving actual problems and increasing interactivity with listeners, which manifests the UNIPREX commitment with the plurality of opinions and respect for diversity and the free participation of its audiences.
To this end, in 2011 Onda Cero and Europa FM have been steadfastly involved in the following events:
· Lending support to the corporate responsibility campaigns of the ANTENA 3 GROUP (Ponle Freno, Vive Conectado, Hazte Eco and El Estirón), through various reports and interviews on the main goals of each of the campaigns: ­­ Road safety. ­­ Promoting healthy eating habits and physical activity for children. ­­ The advantages of new technologies. ­­ Respecting the Environment.
· Promoting the work of the Antena 3 Foundation and its different initiatives, among which the Una Semilla, Una Vida (One Seed, One Life) campaign stands out; its goal was to save 400 children in Mozambique from malnutrition. To support this campaign and request collaboration from its audience, the Groups' radio stations made mention and broadcast sound bites in support of the initiative, and interviewed them on the shows with the largest audiences like Herrera en la Onda, Julia en la Onda and Te doy mi Palabra.

2011 annual and corporate responsibility report

89

In 2011 4,037 commercial brakes in support of the
Antena 3 Group's corporate responsibility campaigns were
broadcast.
In addition to backing the GROUP's initiatives, Onda Cero and the Group's radio stations have also gotten involved in other social causes by lending coverage to various projects developed by NGOs and not-for-profit organizations through its content and the broadcast of free commercial brakes for support. In 2011, a total of 869 commercial brakes for social causes were broadcast on ONDA CERO, like the ones calling for aid to Somalia, or the aid extended to victims of earthquakes in Japan and the Murcian town of Lorca.
The broadcast of 869 commercial brakes with social
content has represented an opportunity cost for Onda Cero
of 1,735,430 euros.
Highlights of the social projects that have made an impact on Onda Cero in 2011 are listed below:

January February March May June
July
August September October November

The Choir Boys gave a free concert in support of Haiti at Micrópolix.
Support to the campaign "El Sonido del Cáncer" (The Sound of Cancer) (Spanish Association Against Cancer), which gave eight cancer patients the opportunity to tell their real cancer stories in their own words.
24 Hour Ford: Ford's most emblematic social action which attempts to unite the world of cars and charity with the aim of raising money for several NGOs.
 B anco Santander RSC Race: the Banco Santander organizes a race in support of a UNICEF children's' project in Mexico.
Radio workshop organized by the Antena 3 Foundation to bring radio closer to the children of the Niño Jesús Hospital (with a live broadcast from the program Gente de Madrid (People of Madrid) with Alfredo Menéndez)..
Malagasy Gospel Tour to raise awareness of child exploitation in Madagascar and the rights of children.
Day of Company Solidarity. A call for companies and volunteers to participate in the 5th Edition of the Day of Company Solidarity organized by the Antena 3 Cooperation and the Antena 3 Group.
Support for the associations AMREF Flying Doctors and FEDASIB which work to improve the conditions of children in Horn of Africa and Chernobyl respectively, through the development of their work.
 Day of Company Solidarity. Una Semilla, Una Vida (One Seed, One
Life). An Antena 3 Foundation campaign to help 400 children in the south of Mozambique out of malnutrition.
Day of Company Solidarity.  International Festival on Film and Dis-
ability (ANADE Foundation). European Week of Attention Deficit Dis-
order and Hyperactivity in Children.
 D ay of Company Solidarity. Proyecto Pro. Support to the audiovisual
school for persons with disabilities created by the Antena 3 Foundation. Popular race "Corre por el Niño" for the Niño Jesús Hospital to raise funds for research into serious childhood illnesses.
Insurance Industry Solidarity Awards, bringing the insurance sector closer to the needs of society through economic donations to various humanitarian projects.

90

antena 3 group

Radio

Furthermore, UNIPREX devoted special support to the major emergencies in 2011. Onda Cero delivered special coverage of the Fukushima earthquake in March 2011, as well as the Lorca earthquake in May 2011 with the live broadcast of the show, La Brújula, directed by Carlos Alsina, from Lorca, which gave a voice to the victims, authorities, emergency services and volunteers. Once again in July 2011, Onda Cero became involved with the hunger situation in the horn of Africa, raising awareness of this emergency through its newscasts and programs, and by supporting various charity events directed at mitigating the effects of the famine.
Programs with social content
In addition to the varied selection of news, entertainment, and sports programs, ONDA CERO also offers a wide range of programming with social content that reflects its commitment with the corporate responsibility policies of the Antena 3 Group.
The show Te doy mi palabra, with Isabel Gemio, has dealt with social issues as diverse as the reincorporation of battered women, alcoholism, or eating disorders, and has also given special coverage to the economic crisis. Through various special reports and interviews in community dining rooms or with entire families who are unemployed, the program attempts to reflect the social impacts of the crisis. In addition, the program still has a section of radio ayuda (radio help) during which the psychologist María Jesús Álava Reyes responds to specific questions posed by the audience. In addition, the program supports other charities such as:
· The 1 niño, 1 familia: (One child, one family) campaign. In 2011, agencies attempted to reduce the number of Children in Foster

Care centers. In Spain there are 15,000 children who are wards of the State awaiting foster parents. · 1st Popular Race against Neuromuscular Disease. · 1st Fashion Show Contest for Charity for young designers. · A Charity match between Coria and Sevilla in the Guadalquivir Stadium in Coria del Rio. Homage to Manuel Ruiz Sosa.
The La Brújula program also stands out for dealing with topics of social interest; the show has a daily spot entitled Las Noticias que no interesan a nadie (News that does not interest anyone) which aims to highlight news of social interest that don't make the pages of the typical newspapers. The weekly "prime time" segment on the Herrera en la Onda program Un Mundo Social (A Social World) devotes attention to the ONCE foundation which is committed to integrating people with disabilities into society.
Other programs on ONDA CERO that reflect different social themes in its content include En Buenas Manos, in which Dr. Beltrán explains, in a light and didactic fashion, the most common health problems and how to prevent them, or the show Como el Perro y el Gato (Like Cats and Dogs) specialized in analyzing current events in the animal world and giving practical advice for the care of pets. Finally, the show Partiendo de Cero, hosted by Paco de León, brings the world of science and big inventions to the audience, in documentary format and with practical applications of the great discoveries in day-to-day life.
The impact of the economic crisis, especially unemployment, has been a widely covered topic on all the UNIPREX programs and radio stations. Aware of the situation, a number of local magazines have included a classified jobs section and useful information aimed at helping people in protracted states of unemployment.

2011 annual and corporate responsibility report

91

Multimedia
Online video meeting team.

[ Antena3.com is the most visited
television website in Spain. There
has been a data increase of 40% in comparison to 2010, placing it significantly above
competitors. ]

The most well connected Radio and Television
Communication continues to evolve at unstoppable rates towards new formats and media. As a communications group, Antena 3 is present on all platforms generated from the Internet. In June 2010, the channel successfully launched its online portal. During 2011, changes were made to update the Onda Cero and Europe FM portals. In addition, the group implemented new features to a multiplatform strategy based on video, promotional advertising and self-made content. All of this led to a record year for Antena 3 Multimedia. The data backs this up.
antena3.com closed the 2011 fiscal year with a monthly average of 8,933,000 individual users, 40% higher than in 2010. The last quarter was especially relevant, when the portal reached an average of 9,700,000 users according to data from Nielsen Market Intelligence.

The figures are similarly positive from other statistical sources, such as the General Study of Media (EGM). In November 2011, EGM reported that antena3.com was the most visited TV website in Spain for the 6th consecutive survey, showing a 17% increase over the previous year.
The results are equally positive according to user opinions. According to the annual report published by GECA in reference to web-images for television viewing, antena3.com is the preferred web for watching television series.
Audiovisual Group Leader in online video in Spain
Antena 3 is the leader in consumer use of audiovisual content via the internet in Spain, in addition to being a benchmark for online audiovisuals in the European market. This can be attributed to its strategy, which focuses on promoting its main asset, video, as well as to the success derived from Modo Salón, an online platform available for viewing both TV episodes and full programs. This

94

antena 3 group

Multimedia

section of the web ended the year exceeding 3 million users who accessed over 500 million videos.
In October 2011, the audimetric company, ComScore, published its first global report on online video consumption. The results could not have been better for Antena 3, when ­with over 51 million videos viewed per month and an average of 2 hours per Internet surfer- it was established as the most popular Spanish media group. Of the main video websites in Europe, only three television stations were highly ranked: RTL (Germany), BBC (United Kingdom) and Antena 3.
This is no coincidence. In 2007, Antena 3 was the first television station to offer its series and complete programming online. This policy was completed last fiscal year with the portal update and the creation of Modo Salón.
Some of the series that Modo Salón offers are El Barco, Gran Hotel, Los Protegidos and Hispania as well as afternoon shows Bandolera and El Secreto de Puente Viejo. It is a pioneer in broad-

casting international series such as Camelot, Downtown Abbey, Sherlock and Torchwood. Modo Salón provides a wide range of entertainment programs including daily shows with large audiences, such as Tu cara me suena. This is one of the televised programs for the channel that has had surprisingly great success on the Internet.
Five million fans on social networks
In 2011, social networks also proved that Antena 3 is gaining importance on the Internet. At the close of the year, the channel was the communications medium with most Facebook followers, close to 460,000 people. Marca is in second place with 396,000 and third is Europa FM (also part of the Antena 3 Group) with 382,000.
Counting up all the different profiles managed by Antena 3 on Facebook (including channels such as Neox, Nova and Nitro, as well as primary series and programs), Antena 3 has close to 5 million

2011 annual and corporate responsibility report

95

[ Antena 3 has the highest number of Facebook followers. ]

fans. Special mention should be made of the 480,000 followers of El Barco, which makes it the most successful Spanish program on this network.
On Twitter, Antena 3 accumulated over 150,000 followers in 2011 compared to 25,000 at the close of 2010. In addition, the channel has had events of global relevance, such as the launching of El Barco twittersodes (exceeding 300,000 followers), and the numerous trending topics obtained from its series and programs. In this area, the program Tu cara me suena has shown significant activity. In its 10 shows, it reached 54 trending topics on a national level and 53 worldwide.
In its eagerness to be present in all possible social networks, corporate profiles for Antena 3, Neox, El Barco, Antena 3 Noticias and Celebrities debuted on Google+, joining with Tuenti and Youtube.
Apart from the numbers, Antena 3 has been able to carry the social network world over into television and vice versa. For example, every night on #TienesLaUltimaPalabra, Matías Prats reads the opinions on a current topic that users have posted on Facebook, Twitter and antena3.com
For another year, antena3.com has been the reference and partner of Habbo in Spain, the biggest virtual youth community in the world. This portal was chosen for its audiovisual power, its quality content and the live interviews with actors from the most popular series among Spanish youth.

"El Sótano": First channel for exclusive content
Another trademark of Antena 3 Multimedia is the broadcasting of its own content. The goal is to achieve greater customer loyalty when users visit the group portals and web. Consequently, the channel has boosted the production of programs, video-interviews with stars, making-of spaces, exclusive reports, and webseries.
The 3.0 strategy Antena 3 has set up to develop the concept of television on all media took a giant leap in June 2011 when El Sótano was introduced. This was the first channel dedicated exclusively to transmitting online products and content. This has proven to be an opportunity for new talent and audiovisual creations. At the end of 2011, El Sótano had more than 20 productions offering all types of formats and genres, from current events to animation as well as comedy and mystery. Certain programs that stand out are Diarios de la Webcam, Las Crónicas de Maia, ¿Quieres algo más? and Manga por hombro.
Additionally, El sótano has a weekly program shown on the Nitro channel, La escalera del Sótano. This is an extension to the web philosophy of maintaining novelty and portal premieres, as well as interviews with creators of the series.
In December, the first contest for online creations was started on El Sótano. More than 60 candidates appeared. Antena 3 will produce the winning project.

96

antena 3 group

Multimedia

Broadcast of a video-conference, cast of series "Diarios de la Webcam", report on "El Sotano" in Md3, the Antena 3 Group's internal digital magazine.

In relation to Megatrix, the online strategy hopes to go beyond televised broadcasting, by adding children's content. Initiatives for this project have introduced 16 series, including timeless classics such as Heidi, Marco and Érase una vez el hombre, among others.

Increase in vertical channels and 100% internet content
The commitment Antena 3 Multimedia made during 2010 to create specific content for the Internet led to the launching of 3 vertical portals: celebri-

2011 annual and corporate responsibility report

97

ties.es (stars and celebrities), seestrena.com (movies) and defconplay.com (videogames). This project was consolidated this year with the creation of new thematic contact targeted for children: Megatrix. In terms of audience, the specific content for internet has grown 90% in 2011, compared to general portal growth of 47%.
News coverage has also increased due to the creation of Specials. The number of blogs is up to 40 in an attempt to attract new audiences. Similarly, live broadcasts have been streamed on the web for events of general public interest, such as the movie premieres of Twilight Saga: Breaking Dawn Part 1, Makbut, Puss with boots, Xp3D, and for series such as Los Protegidos.
Finally, broadcasting of live digital Video meetings, products exclusive of antena3.com, has played an important role for an increase both in the quality of these as well as in the number of video meetings celebrated, over 150 in 2011.

Television is also internet
One of the most popular trends seen in 2011 has been the increase in popularity of television connected to the Internet. Devices for which the final production is forecasted for 2012 will remarkably change the way we watch television.
As part of that effort, Antena 3 has reached agreements with the primary manufacturers, allowing it to offer innovative content and applications, which, up to this point, do not exist in the world of television in this country.
To do this, Antena 3 is working with channels in Sony Bravia Internet Video, Internet@TV from Samsung and platforms from LG, Philips, Sharp y Loewe. All of these offer access to a virtual videoteca containing episodes of the channel's successful series
This type of content can also be accessed using videoconsoles. Antena 3 is one of the first television channels in the world to launch an application for direct use of its content on PlayStation 3. Addi-

Antena 3 contents on multimedia

98

antena 3 group

Multimedia

tionally, Microsoft announced in October 2011 that the Xbox live service for Xbox 360 will include a total of 40 stations around the world. Among these, Antena 3 has been noted as the best Spanish private channel open to the offer.
New portable applications
antena3.com continues to innovate with new applications for cell phones, smartphones and tablets in line with its multi-resource strategy. In 2011, the company launched new content and features in Android, iPhone and other tablets to allow users to watch Modo Salón, live broadcasting, and clips from all series and programs.
In addition, antena 3 was the first private TV station in Spain to launch an application with the new Windows Phone system. This is considered by users as one of the best applications.
Antena 3 is also a point of reference on iPhone. The channel's application, launched in December 2011, became one of the top leaders in only 2 weeks for its free applications on the iPhone, with 200,000 downloads.
By downloading this application, users have simple access to complete episodes for whole series through Modo Salón, as well as the channel`s live broadcasts. They can also follow storylines and watch highlights, exclusive interviews, series and programs.
This launching completes the applications provided by the Group, made up those programs aimed at audiences of Onda Cero, Europa FM and Antena 3 Films. All of these have been updated during 2011, adding multifunction tools, social networks and podcasts, among other features.
On the other hand, Antena 3 maintains leadership with regard to its information services (alerts) and

television on Spanish mobile operators (Movistar, Vodafone y Orange).
Antena 3 has been a pioneer, once again, in the multiplatform sector, with various feats:
· The first company to launch Nielsen's measures on its connected devices.
· antena3.com application for Windows Phone terminals.
· Launch of advertising experiences on new connected devices.
· Launch of application with Modo Salón and live broadcasting on smartphones.
· Launch of application updates for its radios on smartphones adding multifunction features, podcasts and social networks.
Series and Programs played online
After experiencing success with the online game Hispania (which reached over 250,000 registered players at the end of the year), Antena 3 launched several trans-media initiatives for other series like El Barco and Los Protegidos.
In addition to twittersodes, El Barco followers can continue to enjoy the series by using its online game at juegoelbarco.com. This has been developed jointly by Play Television, Antena 3 and Globomedia and is based on plots and characters from the fiction series. The plots to each chapter continue in this application, with weekly missions linked to the televised stories. The idea is to have massive multiplayer entertainment, in which thousands of users compete with one another by way of the F2P concept (Free to Play). This means that anyone can register for free from any computer by using a search engine.
Another project in the works is misprotegidos. com. This is a multiplayer platform with a com-

2011 annual and corporate responsibility report

99

Online version of the program Los Protegidos.
pletely new plot, but with mystery and action characterized by Los Protegidos. There is also a mobile version for Apple and Android functions.
With the aim of creating more interactive programs, an online version of the program Atrapa un Millón was created. This gives people the opportunity to play from home simultaneously, facing the audience and dealing with the same challenges and questions as contestants on the show.
Onda Cero and Europa FM - most listened to on the Internet
Ondacero.es underwent improvements in June 2011. Antena 3 Multimedia applied the same strategy to the radio station as that which helped to consolidate audience data for antena3.com. This includes improved promotion of live and full

programs, integration with social networks, and multiplatform broadcasts.
Live programs continue to be a priority of the Onda Cero website. Therefore, the changes have been aimed at improving the overall experience providing new tools and content, such as podcasts and mp3s. Furthermore, listeners can now access complete programs from the network whenever they choose.
Among other updates, substantial improvements were made in audio quality (both live and ondemand). Furthermore, full integration with social networks has been obtained. Users will also find a simpler design, facilitating access to information and user participation.
Audio plays a large role in the new ondacero.es; however, news, articles, blogs, and the most interesting and popular videos also play a part. In a nutshell, the site offers quality content in different formats and consumers have several methods of use.
The most recent web to be updated is europafm. com. It has been given a fresher design, incorporating the same functions as antena3.com and ondacero.es and reinforces the team with identifying signs.
Once again, the public confirms that we are on the right track. Ondacero.es has grown 26% and europafm.com 45%. Together these websites already exceed a million individual users. Most noteworthy is the fact that both stations are the most listened to on the Internet in its category. Online users spend over 42 minutes daily listening to Onda Cero and more than 53 minutes daily listening to Europa FM.

[ ondacero.es and europafm.com already exceed a million individual users. ]

100

antena 3 group

Multimedia
[ The board game "Atrapa un Millón" reached record sales of 184,000 in only 6 months. ]

New Business, new interactive formats
The goal of the New Business Area is to produce commercial network brands and develop interactive formats. The Group's numerous mediums serve as support in communicating with consumers.
In Licensing and Merchandising, the board game Atrapa un Millón has had much success, reaching a record of 184,000 units sold in only 6 months.
Throughout 2011, programs such as Adivina Quien Gana Esta Noche (Antena 3), Mgustas (Neox), Astroshow and El Futuro en tus Manos (nova) have been broadcasted using new interactive formats.
La Llamada Millonaria has focused on SMS contests for spectators throughout the entire year. This is a simple and entertaining transaction and half a million euros are given in prizes during the year.
The Law 13/2011 passed on May 27 for game regulation required the network to purchase a gaming license to promote SMS contests and TV programs such as Adivina Quien Gana esta Noche. Antena 3 Group has completed successfully all the requirements to obtain this license from the newly created company Antena 3 Juegos S.A.U. Thereby lending continuity to these lines of business while approaching new opportunities that may come up in the gaming sector.

On the other hand, the area for New Business has not only launched series and content on DVD and Blueray, but it has also edited several novels based on successful series, such as El Secreto de Puente Viejo.
Audience's participation
ANTENA 3 GROUP offers ways for users to communicate by telephone and online. This way, the audience can give suggestions and express opinions as well as participate in program content. This feature highlights the Group's commitment to encourage the plurality of opinions and to respect diversity and participation of its audience.
Social Networks
The year 2011 has been witness to the success of ANTENA 3 GROUP, which has great presence on all key social networks such as Facebook, Twitter and Tuenti. This is due, in great part, to the fan phenomena that has generated from its series and programs, but it is also because of the continuous communication Community Managers have maintained with the followers. In a move to innovate in 2011, the Community Manager team was expanded not only to create more dynamic

2011 annual and corporate responsibility report

101

Multimedia

Antena 3 and Onda Cero's Community Managers.

communication with users but also to guarantee strict compliance of standards applied by social networks and respect corporate values in the content published.
Social networks have proven to be a useful tool in communication, but always when used responsibly. This has precisely been one of the goals for the Vive Conectado campaign. The initiative by this ANTENA 3 GROUP campaign is to spread popularity and encourage awareness of the advantages in technology for citizens. This campaign

was focused on "Teaching parents and children to use the Internet and social networks responsibly", placing special importance on the protection of minors connected to the web: www.viveconectado.com.
Statistical tools were implemented in 2011 to provide clearer information about the activities carried out on social networks and in the comment modules on the web. In line with these measures and as a special precaution to protect internet surfers, comments can only be made exclusively by reg-

102

antena 3 group

istered users. This way, improper use of this tool can be filtered more easily and at the same time, Antena 3 Group can have basic registered data of its users. This will result in improved tracking of activity and provide more adequate responses using more exact data for its analysis.
Web: Navigation and Accessibility
The antena3.com website continues to be a leader in navigation and accessibility. In 2011, it continued to use the IT development from the previous year, complying with W3C standards. These include web development for alternative texts, proper lengths, search help and predictable navigation and so forth.
This high level of technical development has also been extended to the radio websites www. ondacero.es and www.europafm.es which have been wholly updated to match the capacity, utility and accessibility that exists on antena3.com.
To guarantee quality web content, strict controls are carried out of the information included on the web pages associated to programming. Contributions made by users on these pages are closely monitored and any messages or opinions that do not comply with legal standards are immediately eliminated, as are any messages that could put the health or safety of users at risk.
In addition to these controls, ANTENA 3 GROUP asks for the collaboration of its users to debug errors and prevent abuse. Any illegalities or irregularities found can be reported easily, immediately and at no cost by writing to the email: webmaster@antena.es.

Telephone Channels
ANTENA 3 GROUP offers its users a wide range of telephone services to access specific products and participate on programs and in game shows.
Sending short texts and multimedia messages (SMS and SMS/MMS Premium) are some of the most utilized systems in programs. This gives the audience a chance to participate on programs from their cell phone (sending votes, opinions, attending live talks, etc.). Participants can also sign up for Antena 3 services, allowing them to participate in contests organized by the channel.
Other services are provided by calls to the prefixes 905, 806 and 807, allowing spectators to participate in different shows and in Antena 3 contests.
Services provided by calling the numbers 806 and 803 associated to Antena 3 are given by third-parties and strict control is carried out through daily monitoring, allowing for any deficiency to be spotted right away.
One of the main priorities of these services is to ensure that the spectator is well informed when participating. Antena 3 does not limit itself to the minimum application guarantees in the Code of Conduct for the application of tariff based services based on messages, it goes beyond these requirements, reinforcing the information fed to users via informative messages and in all its communications including, for example, a double indication of the type of service offered and its price, on both its on-screen communication and via text message.
Another example of spectator protection is establishing a maximum limit of 18 Euros/month per user in subscription services offered by Antena 3, compared to the majority of operators who set this limit at 30 Euros/month.

2011 annual and corporate responsibility report

103

Advertising

Trancas and Barrancas, starlets at El Hormiguero 3.0, the best TV content for advertising innovation.

[ Atres Advertising is considered the best exclusive advertiser according to a Media Scope study. ]

ANTENA 3 ADVERTISING AS THE BEST ADVERTISING EXCLUSIVIST

Source: Media Scope 2011, Grupo Consultores

106

antena 3 group

Quality and profitability
2011 has been a year in which the Antena 3 Group carried out a public commitment with its clients, spectators and advertisers alike, always focusing on quality.
From the public point of view, this promise was implemented at the beginning of the year for the spectators through the Pone campaign, in which the Group committed publicly to "put" ("poner") varied and limited quality content; from the commercial point of view, Atres Advertising made public its coverage and efficiency obligation with the advertisers.
Under the claim "Atres Advertising PUTS (or PROVIDES) coverage and efficiency", the exclusive advertiser committed to refund 5% of the campaigns if it wasn't the option that delivers a higher rating or increased coverage with equal GRPs.
This being said, a year having gone by, all the campaigns have upheld the guaranteed standards and the advertisers have expressed their confidence in the group's business model assessing Atres Advertising as being the best exclusive advertiser according to the Media Scope study carried out by Grupo Consultores which includes over 450 interviews including advertisers and media agencies.
This desire to support the advertisers has also materialized in the big campaign carried out by Antena 3 in all its media outlets favoring brands with the participation of the company's most recognizable faces. In the campaign, our hosts shared with the audience the commitment that the brands have towards the quality of its products as opposed to the generic or house brands whose prime attribute is pricing. In this way, the Group

Advertising

has put its choicest means at the service of its advertisers, even using the first ad of the year to convey this message.
Television: the highest efficiency ratio
This support has been mutual. The advertisers have responded positively to the Atres Advertising model. As a result, the group has shown the best evolution in advertising market turnover, increasing its investment quota by two points compared to 2010 and exceeding 30% market share, this in an adverse economic and advertising environment including mergers among its competitors and in which the effects of the New Audiovisual General Law (Nueva Ley General Audiovisual) have had a negative impact on the Special Solutions (Soluciones Especiales) market.
Coverage leaders
One of the causes of this good performance in investment quota has been the audience increase throughout 2011, which has enabled to position the group as coverage leader and thus, provide its advertisers with the best possible product for its communication needs.
The quality of programming, as much for its results as for its image associated to light and family entertainment that pleases advertisers and spectators alike, has enabled Atres Advertising to consolidate its leading price position in the Spanish television market, confirming Antena 3 as the leading commercial group with a 1,81 power ratio.
In the Special Solutions market, and despite the General Audiovisual Law having markedly restricted it, the Antena 3 Group has continued to generate advertising space that, beyond the con-

ventional ad, grants the advertiser increased recognition and better content integration. In this way, during 2011, the Branded Content, the advertising placement, has turned out to be one of the most innovative options in the Group's commercial offer.
The actions of Corporate Social Responsibility continue to be a great link between the Group's social function and its advertisers. In 2011, brands that were already established, such as Ponle Freno and Hazte Eco were joined by a new important brand: El Estirón, aimed at preventing childhood obesity.
Onda Cero and Europa FM, remain at the top of the market
During 2011, the Uniprex Group has enjoyed yet another year of performance superior to that of the market in general, this in spite of it having been a difficult year due to the contraction of investment in radio.
Onda Cero has consolidated itself in 2011 as the second best radio station in the country, narrowing the gap with its closest competitor thanks to the fact that among its main communicators are some of the market's best hosts.
Thus, it can offer its advertisers varied programming that allows to plan throughout all the timeslots, which improves coverage and recognition results compared to other more concentrated offers. These attributes have enabled Atres Advertising to maintain its average income per second in an unfavorable market environment.
Furthermore, after years of growth in Europa FM's audience and being only a few thousand listeners away from positioning itself as the third option in Radio Formula, Atres Advertising has overcome the challenge of capitalizing on the good results

2011 annual and corporate responsibility report

107

that have been obtained by increasing its turnover by more than 30% and showcasing the attractive product Europa FM has to offer in terms of audience among the younger targets.

Thanks to these tools that enable growth, Atres Advertising has practically doubled its turnover for the Group's websites.

Multimedia doubles its turnover
The main challenge with regards to the Internet that Atres Advertising has faced in 2011 has been to make the most of the good audience results antena3.com has obtained since the re-launching of its website in the last trimester of 2010.
Thanks to the website, Atres Advertising has been able to present the best advertising offer with a reference brand that has a premium product in the internet video market.
The Internet commercialization strategy has established itself upon three main axes:
· Take advantage of the synergies generated from the television medium to increase the Internet client portfolio.
· Positioning itself as the leader for pricing for the premium product of the video market.
· Further innovation and betting on the special formats that the Internet medium provides.

Movierecord, more theaters and better efficiency ratio
During 2011, Movierecord has faced a difficult advertising environment, with challenges specific to the medium, such as a new competitor on the market or the development of the digitalization process in theatres and the explosion of 3D.
In spite of this, this year Atres Advertising has continued launching new products and increasing circuits, and as a result has made it the only exclusive advertiser to increase its efficiency ratio for Investment in Rates with respect to its audience share.
Regarding the digitalization process, Movierecord presently continues to increase the number of digital theatres and has already reached 192, which represents 25% of the total. This makes the broadcasting of its ads easier for the advertiser, putting an end to one of the biggest handicaps that the cinema medium as an advertising support suffered from and paving the way to retrieve the importance that it always enjoyed among the conventional mediums.

108

antena 3 group

[ The group has put forth the best advertising market turnover, increasing its investment
quota by two points with regards to 2010 and exceeding 30% of the market. ]

Antena 3 Events
When the event is news
In 2011, Antena 3 Events began a new commercial strategy based on the creation of events for the Group's companies and the consolidation of those already existing, without giving up promoting lines of action focused on providing agency service to loyal clients as well as gaining new ones.
The capability to generate news by organizing all sorts of events, whether they be musical or sporting events, movie premieres or the launching of new products for the brands is one of the keys of Antena 3 Events' success.
Throughout 2011, numerous events have taken place, such as "Europa FM in Concert", which kicked off with a spectacular concert in the Vicente Calderón stadium in Madrid featuring the band "Black Eyed Peas" and David Guetta to present his latest work: "The Beginning". Due to its great reception, the Europa FM concerts will be expanded to two annual editions.
While music played a prominent role, commercial cinema also had its place on center stage thanks to the "Madrid Premiere Week", in its first edition, which awarded the some of the biggest box office successes of the national as well as international market. Furthermore, Antena 3 Events organized the premieres for the following movies: Maktub, Puss in Boots and Fuga de Cerebros 2.
Sports, a great platform for special events
Carrying on the experience of organizing big sporting events, in 2011 Antena 3 Events organized once again in 2011 the Ponle Freno race, which gathered thousands of sports lovers.

Advertising

Black Eyed Peas in concert.

2011 annual and corporate responsibility report

109

Premieres for Fuga de Cerebros 2 and El Gato con Botas. Image of the 3rd Ponle Freno race.

110

antena 3 group

Advertising
[ Approximately 13.000 participants for the third edition of the "Ponle Freno" campaign to collect funds for traffic safety projects. ]

Sports, a great platform for special actions.

The numbers: 13.000 participants enjoyed routes of 5 and 10 kilometers through the streets of Madrid and by doing so took part in the collection of funds for traffic safety projects.
Another big sporting event on the calendar that had a new edition in 2011 was the Padel Woman Tour. Antena 3 Events, in collaboration with Mediasponsorship ­a company specialized in sports marketing-, was once again this sporting event's agency where competition and learning coincide.
Among agency services for brands, the ones organized for Movistar and its sponsorship activities for various teams of the Professional Football League stand out. All in all, over 30 events took place in stadiums, such as the launching of a 10 meter zeppelin above the crowd while it projected images of fans cheering for their team.

2011 annual and corporate responsibility report

111

Premiere for Amanecer.

15th Castilla y León Fashion Show.

Premieres on the red carpet
In 2011, Antena 3 Eventos continued rolling out the red carpets to welcome the best movie and TV actors and have them launch their latest projects.
For national cinema we can mention the premiere of Torrente 4, Encontrarás Dragones, No lo llames amor llámalo X and Lo Contrario al Amor.
In the international section, Antena 3 Events organized the premiere of the latest Twilight saga movie, Breaking Dawn, with the stars of the film meeting thousands of fans in Barcelona.
The network's best series also had spectacular season premieres. The Gran Vía in Madrid was center stage for the actors of El Barco and Los Protegidos to greet their fans.
On a different note, Antena 3 Events organized the 15th Castilla y León Fashion Show, which put on display the creations of designers from this autonomous region.
Likewise, other events such as the production of tours on a national level for Google in its campaign to support PYMES (Small and Medium Sized Companies), or the ones organized for ONCE (Association for the Blind) in its communication campaign for the game "Rasca".

Collaborations with other companies of the group resulted in a tour through six cities, the goal being to record the public's reaction for subsequent promotional summer TV campaigns for Coca Cola's "Limon y Nada".
Brand Experience
Knowing the benefits of different products through experience is one of the advertising actions whose demand still plays an important role nowadays.
Shell or Braun are some of the clients that have bet on innovative forms of communication that enable to generate an ideal atmosphere where the public takes action, gets to know and experience the brand.
Braun bet on bringing its Minipimer line together with its target audience through a contest launched on Facebook where the winners enjoyed the presence of a professional chef in their own homes to cook them a luxury dinner. This took place during seven months in all of Spain's provinces; over 500 guests were treated to sumptuous dinners.
For Shell gas stations, Antena 3 Events organized various events as a side-show for the Formula 1 Grand Prix in Valencia, such as the presentation of an original initiative aimed at pilgrims that were headed to Santiago de Compostela; it consisted in stamping the "compostelana", the pilgrim's credential, in any gas station of the brand. Fernando Alonso was present for the event.

112

antena 3 group

Advertising

Honesty Accuracy

Responsible advertising
policy

Social responibility
Childhood protection

A Bet on Responsible Advertising
Included in the new television model that the ANTENA 3 GROUP is developing, advertising will play a key role. Atres Advertising is involved as an additional actor in the creation of programming that is sustainable and positively assessed by the spectator. In a model where quality, variety and responsibility predominate, advertising must be coherent with these values for two reasons:
· Firstly, in order to catalyze the positive elements of programming and enable the advertisers to benefit from them.
· Secondly, so that the advertising messages are inserted and combined in a logical way with the contents and come out in a believable manner for the spectators.
To reach these goals, Atres Advertising takes action in three fundamental fields:
1.Responsible Television Model. 2. Auto-regulation of advertising content. 3.Creation of advertising communication that is
socially committed.

A model in which certain content is not acceptable
The ANTENA 3 GROUP has acquired a firm commitment to build a television model based on responsible entertainment. A model in which certain content is not acceptable; programming is entertaining but with certain limits, based on respect of individuals, avoiding humiliation or denigration at all costs.
Antena 3 is perceived as the most quality medium.
Source: study of communication media quality. mediaScope November 2011
Atres Advertising keeps a public commitment with its advertisers, offering them a clean environment so that brand communication is efficient. To achieve this, it commits to offer thematically diverse and quality programming, responsible towards the audience and the advertisers alike; in short, a vehicle conducive to brand communication.

2011 annual and corporate responsibility report

113

[ We want to offer our clients the best possible environment
so that their brands may shine. ]
Rocío Robles Director of Commercial Policy and Optimization
in Atres Advertising

With this objective, the ANTENA 3 GROUP maintains a Responsible Advertising Policy articulated around the principles of honesty, accuracy, childhood protection, excellence and social responsibility.
Auto-regulation of advertising content
To respect the principles of the Responsible Advertising Policy implanted in 2010, the ANTENA 3 GROUP has voluntarily committed to various codes of sector auto-regulation, such as:
PAOS: self-regulating code of advertising aimed at minors to prevent chil obesity (2005). TV players committed to this code in 2010. FEBE: self-regulating code of the Spanish Spirits and Beverage Federation (2006). Self-regulating code of Spanish Beer­Makers (2009). Wine Code of Ethics (2009). SMS Self-Regulation Code (2009). Self-regulation code of toy advertising (modify in 2010). Environmental Impact Self-Regulation Code (2010).

The ANTENA 3 GROUP's commitment to respecting these codes goes beyond legal requirements, insomuch as they are part of a substantial commitment of the company with society. The ANTENA 3 GROUP wants these codes to be present in all of its programming, thus it pays close attention to them in a direct manner in all of its content, and also makes especially sure that they are upheld in the advertising messages, and that they are incorporated in a coherent way for the spectator.
As an additional auto-regulation measure, Antena 3 has voluntarily expanded the reinforced protection timetable in the begining of our advertising bundling strategy in February 2009; this ensures legal protection of minors with regards to television programming that is broadcast in this timeslot.

reinPfroortceecdteadctcimoredsing to Law

RetiiAmnnfeotsernceeaxdt3epnGrdroeoteducpbtyion

Satufrrdoamys9atnod1S2u:0n0days: Mon9daayntdo1F7ritdoa2y:0f:r0o0m 8 to

MoSna1dt1uafrarydontamdoyFs19r7aitdnotoad1y2S2:0u:f0r:no00dm0ay8st:o

114

antena 3 group

Advertising

To guarantee the fulfillment of legislation currently in force, as well as the codes the Antena 3 GROUP voluntarily adheres to, ATRES ADVERTISING has a strict control system at its disposal for all advertising content before they are broadcast; it is based on a triple filter, implemented by the Broadcasting, Commercial and Auto-control departments. These filters guarantee the rejection of any advertising campaign that does not abide by Atres Advertising's responsible advertising policy.
As has been stated, the ANTENA 3 GROUP is a member of Autocontrol, an association with no profit motive in mind that takes care of managing the Spanish advertising auto-regulation system through the implementation of the principles found in the Advertising Code of Conduct.
Among the services that this entity provides, the service of previous consultation, or "Copy Advice", stands out; it assesses ethical and legal correctness of ad campaigns before they are aired.
With 249 copy advices and 60 legal queries, Antena 3 is the group that has processed the most requests.
On a different note, Atres Advertising pays close attention to the fulfillment of the running time and the type of advertising that is admissible depending on time slots, determined by the current Regulation in force. To do so, Atres Advertising has various systems at its disposal that enables it to control the fulfillment of these legal requirements:
· Daily occupation report of the networks that are part of the group.
· Daily minutes monitoring aimed at advertising and advertising saturation, according to the Kantar Media company.

· Daily Claims Control of minutes errors. · Weekly dispatch of advertising alert report to
the General Sub-Department of Audiovisual Media belonging to the Ministry of Industry, Energy and Tourism.
These control systems for advertising broadcasts have made it possible to reduce the number of violations with regards to maximum broadcast duration and restrictions for the time at which ads are placed in the timetable by more than 40%.
Committed advertising communication
Atres Advertising has a social commitment with responsible communication and advertising beyond providing a mere communication service. It's a commitment that it keeps with society, spectators and advertisers, which is materialized in events and specific actions and responds to real problems that concern society.
On one hand, Atres Advertising has continued to bet on the participation of its advertisers in the corporate responsibility campaigns of the group: Ponle Freno, Vive Conectado or Hazte Eco. What's new in 2011 has been the launching of El Estirón, initiative that promotes a healthy lifestyle for the household's younger members, based on a balanced diet and getting exercise.
Apart from these campaigns, one can highlight the special action designed by Atres Advertising in collaboration with Central Lechera Asturiana and Samsung, to bring 3D technology to hospitalized children in 5 hospitals in Madrid and Galicia. The action consists in broadcasting the first episode of the second season of the series Los Protegidos thanks to material (screens, 3D glasses...) and the necessary funding provided by both advertisers.

2011 annual and corporate responsibility report

115

Screening of a chapter in 3D of Los Protegidos at a hospital.
Participating Hospitals: MADRID: Hospital Monte Príncipe, Hospital La
Paz and Hospital Niño Jesús. GALICIA: Hospital Universitario La Coruña
and Hospital Universitario Santiago de Compostela.
On the other hand, Atres Advertising has continued to broadcast ad campaigns with social content on television and radio, without charging the advertising NGO. In 2011, 30,943 seconds were handed over in advertising blocks to cam-

paigns free of any charge, with an economic cost amounting to 3,715,759 euros.
Account of advertising space handed over for the broadcasting of campaigns free of charge on networks of the ANTENA 3 TELEVISION GROUP in 2011.
Finally, faced with the critical situation that some companies are experiencing, Atres Advertising has elaborated a generic communication support campaign, free of cost, for brands in general; it's called PROBRAND Campaign Association (Cam-

CAMPAIGNS
COMMITTED WITH SOCIETY
Pro Project: first audiovisual school created by the Antena 3 Foundation whose purpose is to promote and facilitate the incorporation into the audiovisual sector workforce of people who suffer from a handicap or some kind of disability.
A seed, a life: project developed by the Antena 3 Foundation with the support of the whole communication group and whose goal is to alleviate malnutrition for a group of 400 children in Mozambique (www.fundacionantena3.com).
Josep Carreras Foundation against Leukemia: International Foundation presided over by the tenor Josep Carreras that fights against leukemia since 1988.
Reina Sofía Foundation: Joint charity and cultural foundation created in 1977 and presided over by Her Majesty Queen Sofía. Its work involves research and raising awareness for Alzheimer's disease. This year's campaign has taken on the name of Memorybase (Banco de Recuerdos)
COMMITTED WITH THE ADVERTISER AND THE AUDIOVISUAL SECTOR
Auto-control: Non-profit organization founded in 1995 by advertisers, agencies and media outlets with the purpose of managing the Spanish advertising auto-regulation system guaranteeing responsible advertising for consumers.
Iqua (Online Confidence): Association that ensures transparency of online advertising paying close attention to the protection of personal information and emphasizing the protection of minors and adolescents.

Opportunity Cost (euros)
371,080 94,620 312,187 884,066
1,473,080 580,726

Seconds of Broadcast
1,120 360
2,520 4,493
18,100 4,350

116

antena 3 group

Advertising

[ At Promarca we wished to thank the Antena 3 Group for its support channelled through Atres Advertising who has backed us up in our desire to restore the role and social value of brands and their economical contribution. The broadcast of the ad campaign supporting brands produced with well-known faces of the network such as Matías Prats or Susanna Griso have contributed to transmit to the audience the importance of filling their shopping carts with quality brands. To not value brands is to raise doubts surrounding the value and the contribution of many companies and people who make an effort to differentiate their products and services offering quality, reliability and customer service. ]
Ignacio Larracoechea President of  PROMARCA
paña Asociación PROMARCA). This promotional action included the collaboration of the network's most well-known faces and its purpose is to raise awareness in society of the importance of valuing quality brands, given that they contribute to the economic development and research in our coun-

try and improves products that are on the market. The goal is for the consumer to reassess them and continue to perceive them as quality brands they can trust.
All things considered, a committed television and advertising model isn't truly responsible if it doesn't provide the commitment to the advertiser of obtaining efficient advertising communication. In 2011, with the intent of providing a better communication service, Atres Advertising guaranteed its advertisers the highest audience coverage among all the networks, and, if it were not able to deliver on the promise, would reimburse 5% of the cost of the campaign. This condition, that will remain in place in 2012, is the first in a series of actions whose intent is to guarantee the quality of the campaigns from an advertising efficiency point of view. Atres Advertising thus adds to its communication service reason of being, all of the attributes and principles of the ANTENA 3 GROUP to provide added value advertising.
Antena 3: the most efficient network for advertising in 2011.
Source: study of communication media quality. MediaScope November 2011
Awards and recognition
The commitment assumed by Atres Advertising and the ANTENA 3 GROUP with the responsible management of its advertising has been recognized with various prizes and awards.
In 2011, it noteworthy to highlight that the "Commercial Advertising Forum" gave Atres Advertising the award for "Media that produces the best multimedia marketing" and also gave Antena 3 the "Best Television Medium" and "Advertising medium with best marketing" awards.

2011 annual and corporate responsibility report

117

Human Resources
Entrance of Antena 3 Group cafeteria.

Confidence in people

The ANTENA 3 Group has a workforce of 1,849 people who, day after day, show an unyielding commitment not only to doing their jobs well, but also to assuming and overcoming new social and economic challenges every year.
Thanks to this commitment and the good results obtained, the management team is confident in each and every employee who forms part of the ANTENA 3 GROUP, which has resulted in stable, quality employment.
The ANTENA 3 GROUP understands that managing employees properly depends on a combination of effective policies, systems and tools to guarantee their professional performance, but also to promote their careers and facilitate their all-round development. Below, we comment on some of

1,849 employees

Churn rate of 4.3%

81% of the workforce has a long-term contract

23.3 hours of training per employee

120

antena 3 group

Human Resources

Preventive healthcare. Assess the risk of each job.
Safe work environment

Professional career. Leadership close to
employees. Management by targets
Training.
Career

Talent, key element. Hire young people. Foster employee
loyalty.
Talent

Ascendent and descendent channels of communication.

Dialog

HR PolICY

Salary

Competitive salaries.
Variable remuneration for Directors and
middle management.

Balance work and personal life
Flexible work environment. Social benefits.

Equality

Freedom
Freedom to belong to belong to lawful
associations.

Objectivity and transparency. Hire disabled people.
Guarante non-discrimination and diversity.

these initiatives, starting with our Human Resource policy.
Human resource policy
Confidence in the people who work in the ANTENA 3 GROUP is structured through our Human Resource

Policy, which is a real policy that leads to concrete actions adapted to the needs of all the Group's employees.
In 2011, we have reinforced those Policy principles that are most sensitive to the global socioeconomic situation we currently face, such as Career Development, Attracting and Retaining Talent and Internal Communication.

2011 annual and corporate responsibility report

121

Our challenges
After analyzing its human resources situation, the ANTENA 3 GROUP undertook an action plan in 2011, in order to improve weaknesses and bolster its strengths.

Analysis of initial situation

Action plan

Evaluation of results

Below, we detail the improvement actions we implemented in the last year, as well as the main conclusions we reached after assessing the degree to which they had been achieved.

2011 challenge
Complete launch of Communication Plan.
Consolidate the corporate tools for work environment and 180º assessment.

degree of compliance

COMmEntS
The Plan has been drawn up and progressively implemented through meetings between employees and the CEO, the launch of an internal magazine and the Welcoming Plan, amongst other actions.

A work environment study has been conducted and complemented with a 180º assessment.

Negotiate new Collective Bargaining Agreement.

A new Collective Bargaining Agreement is currently being negotiated.

Design new HR development tools: Talent Management.
Carry out organizational restructuring of Antena 3 Televisión.

In 2011 the "High Potential" program has been prepared and implemented.
The organization has been restructured to adapt to new needs.

122

antena 3 group

Number of employees in Antena 3 Group

2,071

1,942

1,849

Human Resources

Percentage of long-term contraCTS

85

80

81

2009

2010

2011

2009

2010

2011

Quality, stable employment
The ANTENA 3 GROUP has a workforce of 1,849 employees, of which 81% have a long-term contract. Furthermore, the average seniority of our staff is 11 years.
This data, along with the latest results of the annual labor climate study (score of 77 out of 100), confirmed that the employees of the ANTENA 3 GROUP enjoy stable and quality jobs.
Significant data
The workforce reduction in 2011 is mainly due to organizational changes, which have made it necessary to outsource some services in order to adapt to the demands of the audiovisual sector.
The ANTENA 3 GROUP workforce is young and the typical employee is between 30 and 45. The average age is 39.4.
The commitment to flexitime and work-life balance programs in order to facilitate, for example, the possibility of allowing workers to voluntarily rotate between cities.

Age range of Antena 3 Group employees 1,094
467 269
19 20-29 30-45 46-60 >60
The rotations considered as voluntary lay-offs at the company stand at very low levels (4.3%), equal to the levels registered in 2010, and only one point above 2009. The geographic distribution of the ANTENA 3 GROUP workforce is mainly concentrated in the Madrid region, followed by Andalusia, Catalonia, Valencia and Galicia, although it has staff available all over the country.

2011 annual and corporate responsibility report

123

Geographic distribution of employees (number of employees)

48

19

11 31 11

11

46

11

1,162

18

41

73

17 123

32

89 19

Commitment to equality
The ANTENA 3 GROUP is committed to equality and diversification throughout the entire selection, management and promotion of its personnel. These principles form part of the company's spirit, and are established in its HR Policy and Equality Plan.
The equality achieved between the genders in the Antena 3 Group, shows that these policies and plans are consistently applied.

HR Policy

Equality Plan

Breakdown of workforce by gender

52.9 43.1

49.6 50.4

50.3 49.7

2009

2010

Men

2011
Women

2011 gender breakdown by career
633 564

180 85

136 30

141 96

Managers

Technical workers
Men

Officers

Rest

Women

Equality and diversity in Antena 3 Group

In 2011, 53.4% of the new hires were women.

124

antena 3 group

Human Resources

Integration and diversity
Our workforce currently includes 42 disabled workers, all of whom have been fully integrated into the ANTENA 3 GROUP's operations. Most of these disabled workers occupy "technical" positions. We should point that Spanish law mandates that all companies with over 50 workers must reserve 2% of the total workforce for disabled persons, a percentage that the ANTENA 3 GROUP slightly surpasses.
Furthermore, 13 foreigners work and are fully integrated into the ANTENA 3 GROUP.
Career development
The people who work in the ANTENA 3 GROUP are one of its main assets and therefore the company's focuses on the career development and growth of its employees. In order to achieve this goal, the ANTENA 3 GROUP has set up the following plans and programs:

Training plan

Talent management
plan

Training plan for young people

Training plan
The Training Plan has been one of the pillars of the ANTENA 3 GROUP's career development strategy for the last three years. During this time, we have progressively added improvements to adapt it to the workers' training needs. Each year the Training Plan draws up a program and schedule of courses designed for the Group's workforce, aimed at the transversal (languages, skills, values, safety and hygiene, etc.) and function needs of the unit or position (finance, HR management, etc.) held by each employee.

2011 annual and corporate responsibility report

125

50 47

Average hours of training by job category

30

22 21 23

20 19 19

25 22
19

Managers

Officers
2009

Technical workers

2010

2011

Others

Note: the drop in average hours of training per executives is due to the notable increase in the number of people who have participated in the training program for executives. In 2009, 57 executives participated, while in 2010 this number rose to 68 and in 2011 a total of 168 executives participated in these programs.

Hours of training per type of course

6,361

7,268

6,101

7,423

1,454 678 512
Communication

2,436
544 Technology
2009

4,248
Languages
2010

2,948
1,660 976

3,674

3,080

Skills
2011

Other

Currently, the Group offers over 350 courses, which are given either in person or via e-learning (online or virtual training). These courses cover a wide range of topics such as the development of certain skills, communications, new technologies

or languages, although the most requested are those related to "change management" (mainly due to the outsourcing of processes that do not form part of the core-business).

126

antena 3 group

Human Resources

All the Group's employees receive the training necessary not only to perform their jobs perfectly but also to facilitate their one personal development.
23.3 hours of training per employee.
In 2011, training programs have been offered to 968 employees, with 542 finally participating, and they were given a total of 16,018 hours of training, which is equal to an average of 23.3 hours per person.
The total investment in training and career development amounted to 424,858 euros, nearly 100,000 euros more than in 2010.
Talent Management Program
Another initiative undertaken to develop the careers of the professionals that work at ANTENA 3

Training courses to employees.
GROUP is the Talent Management Program, which currently includes Managers, although we plan to extend the program to the entire workforce. This initiative is broken down into four subprograms:
· Personnel with strong executive potential. · Personnel with creative talent. · Employees who are important for the organi-
zation due to their high-degree of professional versatility. · Personnel with professional talent throughout the organization (analysis of executive structure).
The objective of this program is to encourage internal promotion, by identifying and promoting a "breeding ground for professionals" within the organization without having to resort to external recruitment and selection. This not only saves time and money (training, period of adaptation and acceptance, etc.) but also, which is even more important, clearly shows the organization's support for the workforce. Since the start of the Program, 70% of the ANTENA 3 GROUP's middle management has come up through the ranks of the organization.

2011 annual and corporate responsibility report

127

[ After being part of the internship program, I joined the Antena 3 Films workforce. This internship program gave me the opportunity to find a
job in such tough times. ]
Laura Villanueva Antena 3 Group employee.

70% of middle management comes from up through the
ranks of the company.

· Employability: Building up a potential "breeding ground" for future professionals so that by the end of their internship they are better qualified to enter the workforce, with in one of the ANTENA 3 GROUP's companies or the audiovisual sector.

Youth Internships Program
The ANTENA 3 GROUP has continued to reinforce its Youth Internship Program for Young people with graduate and post-graduate professional training. Young people who participate in this program their internships at the ANTENA 3 GROUP. Each intern is assigned a tutor who is in charge of guiding students so that they can take full advantage of the experience and apprenticeship during their internship.
This Internship in the ANTENA 3 GROUP has a twofold objective:
· Practical training: It provides inexperienced students to opportunity to learn about the business world firsthand, while complementing their internship with their academic studies.

In 2011, 514 young people who did their internships at the Antena 3 Group and of these,
135 also received specific training in their respective areas.
Other initiatives directly related to the training of future professionals are the following:
· The ANTENA 3 GROUP collaborates with the Madrid Press Association (APM), through its "First Job Program", which allows a graduate (registered in the APM) to form part of the Group for a year.
· Furthermore, and in order to reinforce the specialized training in the audiovisual sec-

128

antena 3 group

Human Resources

tor, many of the Group's professionals participate as teachers in various Master programs and Universities, some of the most important are: ­­ Universidad Carlos III de Madrid. Masters
in Audiovisual Business Management (MEDEA). ­­ Universidad Antonio de Nebrija. Masters in Television Journalism. ­­ Universidad San Pablo CEU y TRACOR. Masters in Reporting and Journalistic Investigation in Television.
The Group's collaboration with universities allows us to develop dialog with stakeholders as important as the Academic community.
Remuneraton policy
One of the main factors that helps create stable, quality Jobs is our salary policy. In the ANTENA 3 GROUP, employees' salaries are higher than those set by collective bargaining agreements and, in most cases, way above the sector average.
Employee remuneration is set by collective bargaining agreements and varies according to the particular features of each worker's position, functions and responsibilities in the company.
On the other hand, Executive salaries (Directors, Assistant Directors and Managers) consist of a base salary and a variable remuneration linked to three parameters:
· Specific individual targets. · Overall company results with respect to
EBITDA. · Result of the 180º skill evaluation.
The 180º skills evaluation is a well-defined and transparent procedure in which each person is evaluated according to the following skills:

Teamwork Communication

Results oriented
Factors assessed in the 180º skills evaluation

Commitment Innovation

Leadership

Although the Group plans to extend the skills evaluation to all the employees, it currently affects 563 people who work in the Group (30.4%)

Social benefits
Another factor that contributes to job quality and stability is Social Benefits. The ANTENA 3 GROUP offers all its employees the following:

Company cafeteria Life insurance

Accident insurance for relocated personne
Public transport

Special perks

Special advantages: Apart from these Social Benefits, the ANTENA 3 GROUP has established agreements with different external companies, which allows workers to enjoy certain products and services at special prices: special rates on health and fitness services, special conditions for train-

2011 annual and corporate responsibility report

129

[ A few months ago I had the chance to hold several meetings
with some of the Group's employees. At these breakfast meetings, most people wanted more information on what happens in the company. They were right. The fact that the Antena 3 Group
has grown over the last few years makes it more necessary
than ever to set up an internal communication tool. "Mas de Tres" the new corporate newsletter has been created to meet this
demand. ]
Silvio González CEO of Antena 3 Group

ing programs (agreement with the ESIC), the use of sports facilities (the Dehesa Boyal municipal sports center in San Sebastián de los Reyes) and discounts on the purchase of books, trips and restaurants, among others.
Value added: Working in a Media company also has its own advantages. As an added value, the ANTENA 3 GROUP's employees can take their children to the film shootings, go to their favorite shows or obtain tickets for the premiers of the films produced by the company.
New media channels
Within its HR Policy, the ANTENA 3 GROUP has started a Communication Plan that aims to promote communication between the employees and the company at all levels. Among the actions to be undertaken in the Plan, we mention the following:
· Breakfast with the CEO: periodical meetings between the CEO, workers and executives, to discuss the company's main concerns. In 2011, 189 employees have participated in this activity, which is one the most valued in the company.
· Corporate Intranet, main source of information, consultation and access to the matters of interest for the ANTENA 3 GROUP's employees.

In 2011, each month an average of 1,300 different users enterede
the Intranet, with an average of 15,000 entries per month.

130

antena 3 group

Human Resources

· Newsletter "Más de Tres": in 2012 the company will launch the internal magazine "Más de Tres", designed to provide all the Group's employees with important information.

Corporate volunteer initiatives as distinguishing factor
Corporate volunteering is one of the main components of the ANTENA 3 GROUP's social commitment policy. Through Corporate Volunteering, the Group offers the potential and the professional skills of its employees to associations and NGOs that work with different groups of people and various social problems. It's called "volunteer" because the Group's employees choose to do it of their own volition, without any contractual obligation to do so and, often, outside of work (vacations, weekends, etc.) and it is called "corporate" because it is an activity that is reinforced and backed by the ANTENA 3 GROUP and is one in which the company has decided to invest.
Corporate volunteering distinguishes the ANTENA 3 GROUP and entails tangible benefits not only for its employees, but also for the Group itself and the society at large.

Benefits of volunteer work

· Welcoming Manual: is an ongoing part of its policy of knowing more about its workforce, in 2011 Antena 3 TV has drawn up a "Welcoming Manual" that will be available in 2012 through the Antena 3 Intranet. This Manual provides information that is very useful for integrating and knowing the company. The Manual is not only aimed at new hires, but the entire staff, given that the information covers matters of general interest, such as the Code of Conduct, services, safety protocol and rules, gifts for trips, etc.

Improve the work environment in the
Group.

Help meet the Group's social
objectives.

Reinforce the employees skill sets through volunteer
work.

Since 2005, the ANTENA 3 GROUP has given its steadfast support of corporate volunteer activities and has used its media to promote the awareness of this important work in Spanish society and support the causes of NGOs that need the selfless collaboration of society and the Group's workers.

2011 annual and corporate responsibility report

131

Volunteer work in Antena 3 Group

Events & others
Corporate Solidarity Day
Corporate Volunteer Observatory

Volunteer program
Volunteer work with family
Volunteer work during the samer
Volunteer work with Antena 3 Foundation

5 volunteer projects in 2011
78 Group employees worked as volunteers
Investment of 15,942

As regards the Group's employees, this support is comprised of two main lines of action:
· A Volunteer Program through which the Group offers its workers opportunities to participate as volunteer activities. Thanks to these initiatives, the employees can satisfy their desire to show their solidarity and learn about the realities faced by other groups of people and enrich themselves personally and professionally through these experiences.
· Participation and forums and events to promote volunteer activities.
Volunteer programs
In 2011, these activities included the following:
· 3rd "Family Volunteer" Day. Thanks to which the Group's employees can participate as volunteers with their families.
This initiative is carried out in collaboration with the Fundación Balia, which consists of employees and their families accompanying 160 boys and girls, who are risk of being excluded from society, on a field trip to the Madrid Mountains

· "Volunteering in summer". This is an initiative through which the ANTENA 3 GROUP offers its employees the opportunity to participate in various projects during their vacations. The options proposed to workers in 2011 were the following: ­­ Walk on the Camino de Santiago with children with de Down's Syndrome, coordinated with the "Down Catalunya" foundation. Over 10 days, the volunteers from the ANTENA 3 GROUP shared their vacations with 12 kinds who have Down's syndrome, while at the same time encouraging their social inclusion learning more about these people firsthand. ­­ "A Name, a Life": 3 volunteers from the Group spent 3 weeks in the province of Tulear (Madagascar), working on a social awareness campaign about the importance of registering new born babies, in order to ensure their legal, health and educational protection. During their stay, the volunteers processed nearly 65,000 birth certificates. This Project was coordinated with the "Agua de Coco" Foundation.

132

antena 3 group

Human Resources

Antena 3's volunteer employees dubbing voices for the characters of the new Canal Fan 3 comic.

· Volunteering through the Antena 3 Foundation: dubbing voices for the characters of the new Canal Fan 3 comic, which focuses on children with heart disease. This Project was carried out by 28 volunteers who were selected out of over 100 candidates.
Participation and forums and events
For the fifth consecutive year, the ANTENA 3 GROUP and the Cooperación internacional ONG organized the Corporate Solidarity Day. Over 800 employees from many different companies participated in this event, 20 of which were ANTENA 3 GROUP employees.
The ANTENA 3 GROUP employees were put in charge of maintaining the homes run by the Ademo Foundation which helps people who have some type of mental disability
Furthermore, for the second straight year, the ANTENA 3 GROUP has collaborated in the financing

and consulting of the Corporate Volunteer Observatory and the second report issued by the Observatory: "Corporate Volunteering in Spain".
Nº of volunteers at "Corporate Solidarity Day"
800 700
450

2009

2010

2011

2011 annual and corporate responsibility report

133

Safe and healthy work environment
The ANTENA 3 GROUP follows an active labor risk and health prevention policy, whose main lies of action are also included in the collective agreements in force to which all the company's employees are bound.
100% of the workforce is represented by the Safety and
Health Committees.
Throughout 2011 the personnel was diligently informed on matters concerning labor safety and health. Proof of this are the 12 meetings (once a month) with the prevention delegates of the two unions that represent employees in the company.
In 2011, no formal agreements were signed with the unions regarding Risk Prevention and Work Health. Nevertheless, the company has continuously communicated with the unions and in 2011 a monthly meeting has been held with the delegates of the two unions.
Furthermore, the ANTENA 3 GROUP has specifically discussed with the Prevention delegates of the unions (CC.OO and CSIF), matters related to the following:
· Report on 2010 activities and 2011 programming.
· Close monitoring of the radiation exposure of the workers who went to Tokyo.
· Eye Health and Prevention campaign. · Organization of 2011 Medical Check-ups. · Coordination with Temp Agencies (ETT). · Delivery of work gear.

Worker awareness and training.
Proper prevention begins with raising awareness and training the workforce. Therefore, and in order to raise the workforce's awareness of the importance of preventing risks and ensuring safe and healthy work conditions, the ANTENA 3 GROUP has started various initiatives that facilitate not only the employees access to all relevant information, but also those that enable them to contribute suggestions and improvements. Said awareness is carried out through the following initiatives:
· "Por tu Salud" (For your Health): this is an information tool found on the Group's intranet, which provides practical examples and detailed information on how to ensure the health and physical well-being of the workers and their families. Thanks to "Por tu Salud", in 2011 the company has provided practical advice on such sensitive matters as: ­­ Coordination of Business Activities and criteria for working with permanent and temporary workers as regards risk prevention and labor health. ­­ Preventing back problems. ­­ Ergonomic posture and setting up work post.
· Suggestion box: thanks to this recently implemented tool, employees can make suggestions, complaints and report on any matters related to workplace safety and health. Six suggestions were received on the temperature of various work stations, which lead to an assessment of how to fix said circumstance.
· Ergonomic improvement program: whenever an employee request an ergonomic analysis of their work station via Intranet, the case is evaluated, and answers are proposed to fix the situation. In 2011, over 20 enquiries were made on the ergonomic conditions of the facilities, work stations or tasks and each case was evaluated and measure of continuous improvement were adopted.

134

antena 3 group

Human Resources

Furthermore, The prevention and Medical Services Committee has undertaken a series of actions aimed at fomenting healthy habits:
· Eye Health and Prevention Campaign: a total of 355 employees were examined to detect possible eye problems. Taking advantage of this circumstance, the worker was also informed on the state of the functional vision.
· Anti-smoking campaign: the company has continued to check up and inform workers who have participated in this initiative. Throughout 2011, on 25 different occasions the Medical Service professionals have been involved in consultancies and practical advice.
· Promotion of exercise: the Prevention Committee has carried out several initiatives focused on promoting exercise and participation in sports activities
Work accidents and absenteeism
As we can see in the following graphs, accidents that do not result in sick leave have improved considerably in the last year, partly thanks to awareness initiatives and training courses.
Number of accidents
55
41 37
34
19 19

With sick leave
2009

Without sick leave

2010

2011

2011 annual and corporate responsibility report

135

Accident and absenteeism rate 6.56

4.05 4.10 Accident frequency index

1.90

2.11

1.50

0.26 0.07 0.06

Accident seriousness index
2009

Common illness absenteeism index (%)

2010

2011

2.48

2.60

2.21

Work absenteeism (%)

Note: the rates for 2009 and 2010 have changed with respect to the data provided in previous reports, given that before nota all ANTENA 3 GROUP employees were taken into account. · Accident frequency index: number of work accidents for every million hours worked · Accident seriousness index: number of work days lost due to work accident for every thousand hours worked. · Common illness absenteeism index: the number of work hours lost due to common illness for every thousand hours worked. · Work absenteeism: total hours lost compared to total hours worked.

Breakdown by gender of Work Absenteeism (common and professional contingencies, maternal and paternal leave)

Workers (percentage)

M

W

sick leaves

M

W

Paternal leave

Maternal leave

Professional contingencies

M

w

49,13

50,87

29,66

70,34

56,67

43,33

31,58

68,42

Note: Considered overall, contingencies occur 34.99% with Men and 65. 01% with Women.

As regards work accidents, the frequency index has risen slightly, one tenth, given that the number of workers has declined, while the seriousness index has improved, given that the average duration sick leave has dropped.
The work accident index has improved for the following reasons:
· Workers are more aware about preventing accidents in the work place.
· Greater attention and planning in work trips, which has led traffic accidents (commuting) to have stabilized.

· Workers have had more prudent attitudes, perhaps to the overall crisis.
Note: The seriousness index has been recalculated for 2011, now including all the Group's companies
As regards the absenteeism index, its slight increase was due to the number of sick leaves for common illness and their average duration, as well as the lower number of workers.

136

antena 3 group

Human Resources

Average duration of work Absenteeism (common and professional contingencies, maternal and paternal leave)

sick leaves

professional Mat./Pat. leaves contingencies

31,06

62,85

17,16

Note: The average duration of work absenteeism is 36.61 days

Lastly, we should point out that in 2011 there were 393 medical interventions over 4,300 medical visits, advice, emergencies, analysis and injections.

Technical prevention
419 393
363

527 543 483

165 156 106
Evaluation of workplace risks

67 74 90

88 61
26

Preventative planning
2009

Security, hygiene and ergonomic reports
2010

Medical checkups
2011

Other prevention initiatives

Future Challenges
Looking forward to 2012, the ANTENA 3 GROUP has set new objectives in order to continue fomenting the values and principles covered in its Human Resources and its Prevention Policy:
2012 Human Resources Targets
Continue with Communication Plan: Launch Newsletter for all employees and start up Welcome Plan for new employees with the creation of the New Employee Guide, to facilitate the integration of all employees.
Greater use of Management and Personnel Motivation Tools: Talent Management, Work Environment Study, Performance Evaluation, Plan for Executives in Languages and Skills.
Approval and implementation of Equality Plan (Pending agreement with Workers' Committee).
Start campaign to revise hearing of all the Group's employees.
Give several informative talks aimed at preventing risks and ensuring health in the workplace (results of medical check-ups, likelihood of accidents in the workplace, women and their health, men and their health, etc.)

2011 annual and corporate responsibility report

137

Society
Picture of starting line of 3rd Ponle Freno race.

Society

Society: Antena 3 Group provides solutions
The ANTENA 3 GROUP has assumed the commitment and responsibility of using the power of its media to serve society, by undertaking various initiatives and social campaigns.
ANTENA 3 GROUP understands that corporate responsibility is one of the most powerful ways of promoting communication, dialog, action and confidence between various stakeholders. By actively listening, the Group PROVIDES real solutions with tangible and positive.
Social commitment policy
The ANTENA 3 GROUP commitment to society is implemented through its Social Commitment Policy, and one of its main foundations is its "positive contribution to society". The entire Group contributes to this endeavor, as it makes its human and economic resources available to society and supports projects that seek to create a better world.

Positive contribution to society

Raise awareness

Social commitment
policy

Foment corporate volunteerism

Transparency and maximum
impact

Our challenges
Meeting social challenges every year entails a formal process of active listening to the needs and expectations to the main stakeholders, which makes it possible to detect and prioritize lines of action.

Listen to stakeholders

Prioritize and select

Define challenges

The challenges undertaken in 2011 give priority to the following social interests:
· Improve road safety on our highways through the Ponle Freno campaign.
· Fight against child obesity in Span through a new corporate responsibility campaign called the El Estirón.
· Raise society's awareness, particularly young people, about the environment.
· Popularize and promote advantages of new technologies.
· Develop effective social actions managed via the Antena 3 Foundation, especially those related to children in hospitals and integrating disabled people in to the audiovisual sector workforce.
All of the ANTENA 3 GROUP's media actively support the social action campaigns undertaken, by giving air time to contents and or advertising while acting as a spokesperson. Both ANTENA 3 TELEVISIÓN, and ONDA CERO have periodically provided air time for these causes, by inserting spots or public service messages during its programs.

AIR TIME ON ANTENA 3 AND DTT CHANNELS DEDICTED TO CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY CAMPAIGNS

Runs

Total time

2011

A3 promos

DTT promos

Seconds

Minutes

Hours

Ponle Freno

1,207

3,563

97,841

1,631

27

El Estirón

663

1,975

69,056

1,151

19

Hazte Eco

690

66,035

1,101

18

Vive Conectado

154

510

12,021

214

4

Cov % 94.5 90 44 68

GRPs 39,679 37,791 18,466 28,341

Antena 3's various channels have broadcast nearly 9,000 spots on its corporate responsibility campaigns, with a total duration of 4,000 minutes. 94.5% of the population, nearly 40 million individuals, have seen the Ponle Freno campaign, while the El Estirón has reached 90%. Hazte Eco and Vive Conectado achieve an excellent coverage of 44% and 68% respectively.

RADIO SPOTS ON ONDA CERO DEDICATED TO CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY CAMPAIGNS

Main station

Ponle Freno

474

Vive Conectado

309

El Estirón

280

Local FM 505 307 246

Local OM 490 314 253

Total 1,469 930 779

To meet these challenges, the Group carried out specific actions, whose degree of compliance is summarized below.

GENERAL 2011 CHALLENGES Design new actions that respond to society's real problems Road safety
Hold the third Ponle Freno race

DEGREE OF COMPLIANCE

COMMENTS
We have launched the El Estirón campaign to promote good eating and exercise habits.
Held on 27 November 2011, with 32% more participation than in 2010.

Write second Ponle Freno de Road Safety Report

Conducted study on compliance with speed limit.

Hold virtual Road Safety Events

Events advertised via web, Facebook and Twitter.

Raise awareness about importance of driving education ANTENA 3 FOUNDATION 2011 challenges Extend offer of PRO Project classes. Geographic diversification
Reinforce Antena 3 Foundation's recognition regionally and locally
Increase in number of visits to hospitals

Specific campaigns launched during Easter Holiday and summer, and child road safety campaigns.
Two new courses given, one of them in Barcelona.
Regional media push through local Onda Cero broadcasters. Number of visits to hospitalised children doubled by ANTENA 3 GROUP's most-well known celebrities. 13 in 2011.

140

antena 3 group

2011 annual and corporate responsibility report

141

Ponle Freno: ensuring Road Safe
In 2011 the Ponle Freno campaign celebrated its third anniversary, Antena 3 Group's most successful public service campaign, and it took its first step at the emblematic kilometer 0 of our motorways. Ponle Freno was created to use all power of a media Group to improve Road Safety, and join forces to battle this major social problem, but, above all, save lives on the motorways.
The downward trend in the graph below that shows the drop in car accident related deaths over the last decade are an inspiration for Ponle Freno but, at the same time, we still have 1,479 reasons to keep fighting; one reason for every death on the roads of Spain in 2011.

In 2011, car accident fatalities decreased by 14.5%.
Ponle Freno has improved every year after it became a leading voluntary citizen platform, not only for the actions undertaken, but also because of its achievements and the support received from many social agents, experts and prestigious people who believe in the Ponle Freno cause: To SAVE LIVES.
Ponle Freno has continued to insist that prevention is the most effective way of avoiding accidents, has noticeably increased its activities while continuing to support its actions undertaken in the previous year.

Significant drop in car accident fatalities

3,993

3,464

3,268

2,989

2,741

2,180

1,903

1,730

1,479

2003

2004

2005

2006

2007

2008

2009

2010

2011

Traffic deaths: 2003-2011. Source: DGT

142

antena 3 group

Society

Ponle Freno, with society, because we can do it together
The ANTENA 3 GROUP has promoted this initiative, but its success is due to the fantastic support from society and the permanent dialog between all the stakeholders, while providing specific answers to its needs.
Citizens, Public Administrations and other interested organizations have actively collaborated with Ponle Freno, establishing an ongoing dialog thanks to which not only have the main concerns been identified but conclusions have been reached and REAL Solutions proposed:
Road safety on social networks
Ponle Freno has its own website www.ponlefreno.com it is present on Facebook and Twitter, as it periodically provides updated information and announces road safety campaigns via these social networks.
Antena 3 GROUP believes social networks play a fundamental role in reducing fatalities given its ability to reach citizens and as a way of sharing information.

2nd Campaign on traffic signs and deteriorated roads
Ponle Freno once again has looked for dangerous traffic signs and has intensified its complaints about deteriorated roads. This is the second straight year that, with the help of everyday citizens, a campaign was launched to file complaints about the poorly located , confusing or defective signs, and roads that are in bad shape.
In 2011, the over 300 complaints received on the official Ponle Freno website have been broadcast on ANTENA 3 GROUP's various media and a report has been delivered to the Traffic Department. The campaign has been quite successful given that, thanks to citizen participation, the Traffic Department is correcting and these stretches of deteriorated roads.
PONLE FRENO files complaints about poorly placed or defective signs and roads
in poor condition.
In 2011 they have received 347 complaints.

2,477 followers in
Twitter

129.591 fans in Facebook

Through the campaign's website and social networks, citizens can discuss their concerns about road safety and make suggestions. Ponle Freno does all it can to effectively respond to those legitimate queries.

2nd Campaign on traffic signs and deteriorated roads.

2011 annual and corporate responsibility report

143

Campaign to point out dangerous stretches of road
10% of car accident fatalities occur in where there are dangerous sections of road. That is why, since 2009 Ponle Freno, with the support of the citizen platform, requested that the Public Administrations to provide signs to identify dangerous stretches of road. After said requests, and according to the data published by the DGT in 2011, 189 stretches of road of been identified as dangerous, of which the fatalities have been controlled on 172 of them (56 expressways and 116 highways).

189 DANGEROUS STRETCHES SIGNPOSTED

171 fewer accidents

22 fewer accident

76 fewer injuries

Of these 172 stretches, on the expressways the accidents dropped 12% and fatalities by 56.9%, while on the highways the accidents dropped by 43.1% and fatalities 62.5%.
In absolute numbers, this signposting has led to 171 fewer accidents, and it has saved 22 lives while preventing 76 serious injuries.
Tailgating wareness campaign
Keeping a prudent distance from the vehicle in front of you is one of the most important ways of avoiding accidents. That is why, last April a campaign was launched to urge Public Administrations to paint with anti-slippage material the safety distance to distance keep from cars at key points on the motorways: exiting cities, entering tunnels and long, steep stretches of road.

Congress listened to this request from the Ponle Freno Platform, with more than 50,000 users, and in September 2011 they began to paint stripes on these key sections of motorway.
Easter holiday and summer exodus
For yet another year and, after the actions taken on the street, in 2011 Ponle Freno has launched a specific campaign for the Easter and Summer Holiday traffic jams, given this when the greatest number of vehicles are on the motorways.
This is an innovative, preventive and informative campaign that is widely followed by citizens, given that by placing massive screens of 60 meters2 in the main cities of Spain citizens can read the positive message "Your on vacation enjoy your trip. We can do it together" (Easter campaign) and "Enjoy your trip" (summer trip).
This action was accompanied by a campaign on TV, radio and Internet via the Antena 3 media, to raise awareness about being cautious when driving and reminding citizens that the car trip is another part of the vacations that is to be enjoyed.
3rd Ponle Freno race
After the success of its first two races, last year over 10,000 citizens participated, and this year Ponle Freno has once again asked society to NOT STOP organizing the 3rd Ponle Freno race, the only time when going fast SAVES LIVES.
The race took place on 27 November 2011 in Madrid, with the participation of over 13,000 runners making it yet another huge success (the organizers ran out of numbers for the runners). The race was closely followed on ANTENA 3 website and the social network, and even became a trending topic on Twitter on the day of event.

144

antena 3 group

Society

Safety distance campaign and 3rd Ponle Freno race.

Athletes such as Ricky Rubio, Carlos Moyá or David Ferrer and other well-known personalities from ANTENA 3 and ONDA CERO provided support.
Ponle Freno also provided support and remembered the victims of traffic accidents by commemorating the world day of traffic accident victims, which is held on 27 November.
On the day of the event representative of the AESLEME (Association of Research on Spinal Cord Injuries), STOP ACCIDENTES, DIA (State Associa-

tion of Victims of Traffic Accidents) and PAT APAT (Association of Prevention of Traffic Accidents) and Life on the Highway, along with Esther Rincón, the Ponle Freno person of the year, who gave a stirring speech and balloons were released into the sky in a show of support for the road safety cause.
In 2011 the Ponle Freno race collected 32% more money than the previous year.

2011 annual and corporate responsibility report

145

The orange ribbon was also presented, and from now on it will be symbol that pays homage to this group of people.
Ponle Freno will use the proceeds from the race, 123,729, to carry out road safety actions in aimed at the Group most voted by the runners: cyclists.
Educating children about road safety
In September 2011, Ponle Freno, in collaboration with the Antena 3 Foundation, launched the "Road Safety Education Week" which aims to teach children about how to safely, responsibly and sustainably travel.
The Child Road Safety Campaign was financed with
proceeds from 2nd PONLE FRENO RACE.

In order to help the instructors, Ponle Freno gave the schools the informative material on Road Safety. The content was developed by Road Safety University Deparment from the Universidad de Alcalá and technical advice from the Pons Foundation, which specializes in raising awareness, teaching and investigating road safety.
Over 600 grammar schools throughout Spain and a total of 54,000 students between 10 and 11 years old, were given the Ponle Freno Road Safety information packet.
II Ponle Freno Report: study on reactions to spanish speed limits
In 2011 the second Ponle Freno journalistic report on road safety was written to analyze how spanish drivers adapt to the speed limits on the motorways of Spain according to the type of vehicle they drive.
To collect their research, the Ponle Freno technicians visited six Spanish provinces (Madrid, Barcelona, Valencia, Seville, Bilbao and Burgos) and they collected data from 35 radar detectors that included expressways, thruways, ring roads highways and they collected 9,301 measurements.

There are several stretches where over 95% of the vehicles pass the speed limit, and others
where over 95% respect the limit.

After analyzing the results, the report concludes that the Spanish speed limits are a good reference, but that in many areas they are too high or too low. And in those cases, drivers choose to ignore the speed limit by either going at a higher (o lower) speed that they feel more comfortable with.

146

antena 3 group

Society

El Estirón campaign's expertise group .

These conclusions do not seek to raise or lower the current overall speed limits, but they do urge that the signs and speed limits that are inadequate on many stretches of the Spanish motorways be inspected.
Ponle freno awards and acknowledgements
In recognition of the work done by the Ponle Freno campaign over the last three years, the Commerce and Services Association of Alcázar de San Juan, which forms part of the CEOE-CEPYME, gave the ANTENA 3 GROUP the "La Sonrisa de Don Quijote" award.
This award distinguishes businesspeople, organizations or individuals who have defended important social causes in Alcázar de San Juan.

El Estirón: Comprehensive Plan to Fight Child Obesity
"Spain is the world leader in child obesity"
The World Health Organization considers child obesity an epidemic of the 21st century. The rise in child obesity in Spain is spectacular and of great concern, given that it has already surpassed obesity rates of countries such as the United States and it is estimated that by 2030 37% of Spanish men and 33% of Spanish women will suffer this disease.

2011 annual and corporate responsibility report

147

Karlos Arguiñaño, Ainhoa Arbizu and the young actors of Los Protegidos as El Estirón campaign ambassadors.

In light of these alarming data, in May of 2011 a new ANTENA 3 GROUP corporate responsibility campaign called El Estirón, whose objective is to raise awareness in Spain, especially amongst parents, about the importance of teaching their children good eating habits and promoting exercise to avoid health problems stemming from child obesity.
The Spanish Food Safety and Nutrition Association estimates that 30% of Spanish children are
obese.

This initiative is backed by a multidisciplinary Committee of Experts that acts as a consultancy comprised of representatives from the national medical, educational and political institutions.
El Estirón uses of the Antena 3 Group's media as a platform to transmit the campaign's messages: ANTENA 3, NEOX, NOVA, NITRO, antena3.com, ONDA CERO and EUROPA FM, and continuously on antena3.com/elestiron.
Amongst the website's contents, we should note the 100 tips for growing up healthy and responsibly or the Comic The adventures of Miguelón, aimed at the youngest kids and it tells the adventures of a boy is bit of a glutton, naughty and fun who, with the help of his family, friends and school teacher learns how to grow up healthy and happy,

148

antena 3 group

Society

as he learns healthy habits. Miguelón's adventures have a Facebook page.
In order to reinforce the message, El Estirón also has NOVA with a weekly half-hour coaching program in which three families with young children participate, where a group of experts in nutrition and physical education analyze the real situations these families face. The program also includes reports and sections on the properties of food, gastronomy and nutrition in order to help kids learn to lead healthy lives.
In 2011, Nova has broadcast 17 programs with over 85,000 viewers. The program has had a massive impact and the first episodes registered over 100 families interested in participating. Through Facebook, the program is also followed (768 fans) and those interested can give their opinions and make suggestions.
El Estirón awards and acknowledgements
In 2011, El Estirón received numerous awards and acknowledgements for its campaign to promote good eating and exercise habits amongst children and young people:
· Special mention at the "IX Codapa awards" (Andalusia Confederation of Public School Parents).
· 2011 "Lux et Veritas" award from the FECAPA (Catholic Association of Parents of Seville).
· "Health and Well-being" award from the Pilates Foundation.

Vive Conectado: "Because without you, it's not the same"
Vive Conectado was created in 2010 as a campaign that forms part of the ANTENA 3 GROUP's "3.0 Strategy", that aims to develop a new way of watching television where when and how you want and it is for all audiences.
The main objective of Vive Conectado is to disseminate and popularize the advantages of technology through society, and it has been promoted through, slots, informative commercials and programs on the Antena 3 media, as well as on antena3.com and viveconectado.com.
Specifically, on the website www.viveconectado. com users can access unlimited information that will help them in practical and simple way learn about different social networks or the latest technological developments or, learn to shop online, connect with your family or friends, find work, or learn about the tele-homecare tools, amongst other things.
In 2011, once of this initiatives main objectives was to "Teach parents and their children how to use the Internet and the social network in a responsible manner", giving priority to protecting minors on the web. For this reason, Vive Conectado launched a campaign on how to inform parents and children about parental control filters or the risk associated with excessive of reckless use of social networks. As a complement to this awareness campaign on television and radio, the ANTENA 3 GROUP gave a seminar the Groups employees on how to protect their children from Internet.

2011 annual and corporate responsibility report

149

57% of the children between 9 and 16 years old log on
the Web every day or nearly every day.

Another objective in 2011 was to promote the incorporation of technological advantages into daily life for the majority of the Spanish population and reduce the digital gap. Therefore, Vive Conectado launched the campaign Pueblo Conectado which distinguishes five towns in Spain, some with fewer than 500 inhabitants, for the effort to adopt new technologies and thereby improve the daily paperwork and life of their inhabitants. The towns awarded were Abla (Almería), Carlet (Valencia), Cehegín (Murcia), Guardo (Palencia) and Moralzarzal (Madrid).
Public acknowledgement
In 2011 Vive Conectado was awarded with the "Cibermax" award of the Cibervoluntarios Foundation, in acknowledgement of the best initiatives concerning the promotion of the use of technology to foment Corporate Social Responsibility.

Antena 3 Foundation: Joining forces
The Antena 3 Foundation was created in 2005 in order to group together the Antena 3 Group's social projects. The Foundation efforts focus on the two most vulnerable social groups: infancy and young people.
The Foundation's main mission is to guarantee that said groups have the necessary support for their well-being and training, as well as to raise awareness about their rights, needs and interests.
Furthermore, the Foundation takes advantage of the enormous power of the ANTENA 3 GROUP's media to raise awareness, inform and generate opinions that help improve society.

[ The Antena 3 Foundation is convinced that by helping infants, we can create a better
future. ]
Carmen Bieger Head of Fundación Antena 3 and CR.

150

antena 3 group

Society

Mission: disseminate knowledge and facilitate experience that enable children to lead happier lives and become better citizens.

Vision: to be the most innovative and attractive Foundation in the field of children and young people.

Using the Mission, Vision and Values it has defined, the Antena 3 Foundation, has established the following overall goals:

Transparency
Improve and enrich the relationship between minors and television, internet and new technologies.

Honesty
Meet the needs of hospitalized children and their families.

Educating citizens Playful spirit

Promote values and ethical principles that help protect and raise children and young people.

Listen to children and young people and undertake social actions that allow them to participate and get
involved.

Undertake all sorts of educational activities, especially those related to the audiovisual sector and aimed at disabled young people.

Participation

Innovation

Six years at the service of young people and children

Over the last six years, the Antena 3 Foundation has developed numerous initiatives to contribute to the well-being of children and young people. This effort has been rewarded by very positive results, which has encouraged us to continue investing in the children and young people. Below, we summarize the main actions undertaken in the six years since the Foundation was set up:

Hospital assistance
Other abilities Spreading values and principles Theoretical projects Promotion and professionalization of volunteer work

This program of activities designed to help hospitalized children and their families make their stay in the hospital as pleasant as possible.: Children's television channel FAN3, the organization of fun activities related to reading, magic and values, visits by the most well-known personalities of the Antena 3 Group, programs that teach how to use new technology responsibly.
Activities that integrate people with different skills: Proyecto PRO, financing to subtitle in-house fictional series, raise awareness through reading and financial support for organizations that work on integration projects.
Activities that promote values and principles amongst children and young people: Road safety, promote reading, children's rights, health and welfare of children and young people.
Organization and participation in debates and teaching forums that enable reflection, the exchange of knowledge of the proposal of policies related to children and young people.
Volunteer work for employees that is in line with their concerns and allows them to learn first-hand about the realities faced by other groups of people, enriching their lives personally and professionally.

2011 annual and corporate responsibility report

151

2011: the foundaton starts new road
2011 was a very fruitful and productive year for the Foundation. On the other hand, they have continued to carry out several initiatives in line with previous years thanks to the economic resources provided by the ANTENA 3 GROUP but, on the other hand, the Foundation has thought long and hard about how to improve its strategy going forward.

Antena 3 Group's contribution to the Foundation ()

500,000

500,000

360,000

2009

2010

2011

We should take the time to point out some of the initiatives undertaken in 2011:
Assistance for hospitalized children and young people: we keep working
In 2011 new hospitals have been added to the Antena 3 Foundation Hospital Assistance Program, such as the Pediatric Centers belonging to the Castilla y León Health Department, the Montpelier Clinic in Zaragoza, the Hospital San Pau of Barcelona and the Ribera Salud network of hospitals. With these latest additions, over 91 hospitals benefit from this program.
Within the Hospital Assistance Program several initiatives have been created for hospitalized children, amongst which the following stand out:

· A show on Canal Fan 3, designed for hospitalized children and young people, with new content and the previous sections have been made larger.
· The "it so good to do sports" drawing contest, with the participation of 12 hospitals.
· Book Day, which includes the first delivery of a copy of the Apeles Mestres Child Illustration Award for each hospitalized child.
· Disability Day, on which 4,300 books were handed out in 90 hospitals.
· The Radio Workshop at the Hospital Niño Jesús de Madrid, which included the participation of Onda Cero.
· Children with eating disorders from the Hospital Niño Jesús visited the Antena 3 Group facilities.
· Participation of specific work groups, where NGO´s and institutions propose initiatives to improve society.
· Participation in the Humanization of Hospitals for Children conference
· The ANTENA 3 GROUP's most well-known personalities visited hospital to being the magic of television and radio closer to children.
Proyecto Pro: Broadening the scope
The media can make a positive contribution to raising awareness in society; in order to reinforce this objective, the Antena 3 Foundation, in collaboration with Spanish Universities, gave two courses in 2011 on audiovisual content aimed at disabled young people:
· "Program for Planner and Supervisor of Radio and Television Broadcast", given at the Carlos III University. The course lasted 170 hours and was given to 19 students, of which 15 did an internship at companies in the audiovisual sector.
· Course on "Specialization of Multimedia Communication", at the Complutense University in Madrid, which last 180 hours. Out of the 15 students who attended the class, 12 did an internship at companies in the audiovisual sector.

152

antena 3 group

Society

The "it so good to do sports" drawing contest and disability day at hospitals.

2011 annual and corporate responsibility report

153

Jorge Fernandez ambassador of the One Seed, One Life campaign.
Proyecto PRO: 34 students, 350 hours of training.

The objective for 2012 is to continue implementing Proyecto Pro, and offering new courses and involving new universities such as the Politécnica de Cataluña.
One Seed, One Life
In 2011, the Antena 3 Foundation continued to mobilize and raise society's awareness about Children's Rights through the One Seed, One Life campaign.
In 2011, the Campaign was dedicated article 24 of the Children's Rights Convention, in support of a project that fights against malnutrition amongst children in Mozambique, where the rate of malnutrition is 37% of the population.

154

antena 3 group

Society

In collaboration with the Mozambique South Foundation, this initiative's main objective has been to ensure that 400 children in Southern Mozambique are properly fed, with enough resources so that this crisis can be handled in the future.
In order to meet the project's main objectives, two main actions were planned:
· Continuous supply of milk to help these children overcome malnutrition during the breastfeeding period, which is crucial for their development.
· Seeds given to mothers, so they can plant them in the family garden and ensure they have food going forward.
In order to achieve these goals, an awareness campaign was carried out citizens, and collaboration was requested. The ANTENA 3 GROUP broadcast 9 mini-documentaries that shed light on the extreme poverty in Mozambique. Jorge Fernández was the campaign's ambassador and he visited the region to learn about and narrate the situation in first person.
Other complementary awareness actions carried out as part of this campaign were:
· Daily broadcast on the ANTENA 3 GROUP's media and an animated spot during the campaign.
· Comments and interviews on News and television programs such as Espejo Público, Tu tiempo, El Hormiguero, Programa de Arguiñano, Ahora Caigo, Otra Movida (Neox), etc.
· Spots and comments on Onda Cero, as well as interviews on important programs: Herrera en la Onda, Te doy mi Palabra, etc.
· Two solidarity contests (Wheel of Fortune and Atrapa un Millón), whose proceeds were earmarked for the project

Thanks to the involvement of the entire ANTENA 3 GROUP and everyday citizens, over 127,000 euros was collected.

Looking to the future
2011 was a milestone in the history of the Antena 3 Foundation, given that apart from all the initiatives it carried out, it has reflected deeply about its mission and has prepared a strategy to better achieve its goals going forward. This process has led to the design of its new Strategic Plan.
Below, we briefly describe the milestones reached to define the Antena 3 Foundation's new strategy:
I. Analysis of the Foundation's initial situation and identification of areas it can improve.

Improve efficiency

Raise potential

Leading Foundation in the Audiovisual
Sector

II.Define the "mission": the objective is to listen to children and young people and allow them to participate in the activities carried out by the Foundation: ­­ Provide ways of participating. ­­ Act as "spokesperson" for their interest and concerns. At this juncture, we should highlight the execution of a "Focus Group" with Children and Young People in order to find out first hand their main concerns, always in a social context. ­­ Provide opportunities that allow them to be part of the solution

2011 annual and corporate responsibility report

155

Campaign against famine in the Horn of Africa.
III.Submit proposals of actions and projects, included in the Strategic Plan and focused on 2012 regarding one of young people's main concerns.
Other social project actions

by sending sms which cost was totally earmarked for the Red Cross. · Campaign against famine in the Horn of Africa. The Antena 3 Group, offered all its help to the Red Cross and UNICEF to fight against famine in Somalia, Kenya and Ethiopia and face the grave situation that affected over 11 people. · "Cucumber" campaign, which aimed to support business that live off the harvesting, distribution and sale of this product and promote the consumption of cucumbers after the false alarm by a Member State of the EU.

In its role as spokesperson for the main concerns and problems facing society, through its various media the ANTENA 3 GROUP has supported the communications efforts of other entities immersed in emergency situations by broadcasting awareness campaigns. Among actions of this type carried out in in 2011, we highlight the following:
· Campaign in support of the victims of the earthquake in Lorca and the earthquake in Japan. After the earthquakes that devastated both Lorca and Japan, La Razón, Onda Cero and Antena 3 organized a solidarity campaign

We continue to contribute
Apart from the initiatives detailed in this section, elsewhere in this annual report other actions are described that complement them and confirm ANTENA 3 GROUP's social commitment:
· Hazte Eco: a great global campaign through which Neox makes the defense and protection of the Environment its main social cause. "Environmental awareness"
· "Promarca" campaign. Under the slogan

156

antena 3 group

Society

"Committed to Quality", the Antena 3 Group, as it did in 2010, has launched a campaign in support of brands that aim to raise viewers' awareness about the good things about brands and the benefits they produce for society and consumers themselves. "Responsible advertising" · Current events and news shows with social content on Antena 3: the programming usually includes contents about the problems and concerns that affect society at large, such as the subjects dealt with Equipo de Investi-

gación or A Fondo section of Antena 3 News, in which they report on various issues that affect society through investigative reports. "Social content on programs and news shows" · Social content on Onda Cero: Onda Cero social commitment is reflected in content of its various programs that include subjects of interest to society and its support for social causes such as Te doy mi palabra with Isabel Gemio or the program En buenas manos in which Doctor Beltrán explains common health problems. "Social content on Onda Cero".

Future challenges
The social projects carried out by the ANTENA 3 GROUP are not limited to occasional actons, but rather it is on-going effort that forms part of the company's culture.
In order to keep meeting the needs and concerns of society, in 2012, the ANTENA 3 GROUP will continue to work along the same lines of action defined in its commitment to social projects, and the creation of new initiatives that improve society.
In the same vein, the Group has set the following objectives for 2012
PONLE FRENO 2012 Objectives Kick off listen and participate campaign to record concerns regarding road safety and ways to solve problems. Hold the 4th Ponle Freno race. Organization of the third Road Safety 3.0 Day. Awareness campaign on how to protect cyclist and motorcyclists.
EL ESTIRÓN 2012 Objectives Continue to produce and broadcast the El Estirón program and create new sectons in order to promote healthy habits amongst viewers and incresse the participation of families in the program. Organise events that encourage children to exercise. Get others involved in the campagin and suppport other events held by other entities that work to reduce child obesity in Spain.
ANTENA 3 FOUNDATION 2012 Objectives Systemize the support to NGOs and foundations through public announcements. Creation of job placement exchange for students of Proyecto Pro. Broaden presence in Hospital Assistance Program.

2011 annual and corporate responsibility report

157

The Environment

Comply with laws and regulations. Good environmental reporting practices. Other national and international initiatives.

Raise awareness about recycling and saving energy.
Ensure providers follow policy.
Social awareness about responsible environmental
practices.

Dissemination and information

Ensure means are available to avoid contaminating environment. Minimize generation of waste. Promote recycling.

Control of waste and contaminating substances

Legal compliance
Environmental policy
Efficient use of resources

Climate change

Minimize greenhouse gas effect.
Reduce emissions.

Energy efficiency

Control energy costs. Efficient design of facilities
and activities.

Procedures to optimize consumption of resources. Use resource for entire useful life.

Environmental awareness
The Antena 3 Group takes environmental issues seriously, which means that year after year sets new objectives. These targets are defined according to Environmental Policy, which includes specific commitments that go well beyond merely adhering to regulations.
The Policy shows how important it is to internally improve environmental management, but it also makes it clear, that the Antena 3 Group, as a Communications Group, has the obligation to transmit its environmental awareness to society. In light of these considerations, two main lines of action have been established:

· Internally: Minimize the environmental impact of all the activities carried out by the group.
· Externally: Raise awareness about Environmental protection and improvements.
Environmental investment () 148,540

80,530

105,300

2009

2010

2011

160

antena 3 group

The Environment

Our challenges
The ANTENA 3 GROUP wants to be recognized as example of environmental awareness and concern, which means that its management must set example. With this objective, the Group has set six environmental challenges for 2011, aimed at:

Increase energy efficiency and resource consumption.

Improve waste management.

Minimize impact on climate change

As can be seen in the table below, all of these challenges were successfully met:

2011 CHALLENGES
Continue to install LED lighting in common areas

DEGREE OF COMPLIANCE

Annual savings of 50,000 Kw by renovating projectors
Five-year plan to airconditioning gases for more environmental-friendly gases (not required by law)
Cut generation of solid urban waste by 1%

Increase paper and cardboard recycling by 1%
Design Theoretical and Practical Course on importance of recycling

COMMENTS The lighting on the Antena 3 News set was replaced Savings of 56,000 Kw Gas was replaced in 22 refrigeration systems. SUW was reduced by 3%. Paper recycling increased by 2.6 % Courses raising environmental awareness were given.

2011 annual and corporate responsibility report

161

Replacing of all the old lighting of the Antena 3 News set with new LED technology.

Energy efficiency
Energy efficiency was one of the Antena 3 Group's main concerns. Thanks to several studies conducted to measure the energy efficiency of the new equipment, slowly but surely management is ensuring that all the tasks carried out by the Group only use the energy that is strictly necessary.
In this context, the ANTENA 3 GROUP's Operations division has been put in charge of replacing all the lighting on the Antena 3 News Set LED technology. This project was executed in 4 months and entailed a total investment of 90,000. This measure managed to:

Furthermore, we should also point out the effort made over the last year to improve the insulation and the sound-proofing of all the Group's facilities by installing solar filters and using "Climalit" windows. This measure has proven to make a very positive contribution to optimizing the Group's energy consumption and overall comfort.
Another measure to optimize energy consumption has consisted of encouraging the Group's employees to use public transportation (preferably the train), instead of travelling in their own vehicles, whenever possible.
These initiatives have helped improve energy consumption, as can be seen in the following graphs:

The old lighting system used on the Antena 3 News Set
was replaced

Cut energy consumption by over 56,000 Kw per year.
Reduce the energy consumed by refrigeration systems stemming from the
heat emitted by incandescent lights.

Our energy consumption dropped by over 300,000 Kw in
the last year.

162

antena 3 group

The Environment

Energy consumption

13,064

12,442

10,270

235.25

315.48

258.96

2009

2010

2011

Gas (m3)

45,250

56,112

0*

2009

2010

2011

Diesel (litres)

19,534,953 19,716,406 19,400,980

2009

2010

2011

Diesel A (litres)

15,295 11,224

0*

2009

2010

2011

Petrol (litres)

423,861

520,878

420,040

2009

2010

2011

Electricity (Kw)

2009

2010

Gas oil (litres)

*In 2009 Antena 3 did not have any vehicles to transport personnel for news coverage.

2011

2011 annual and corporate responsibility report

163

Our train use increased 7.1% vs. 2010.

Along these lines, in 2011 we finished installing an automated system for all the air-conditioning equipment, which, along with the aforementioned improvements, will achieve a considerable energy savings that will be seen in the coming years.
Furthermore, for several years now, the ANTENA 3 GROUP has implemented various effective energy savings measures:

· Improvement of plumbing, which increases the effectiveness of water collection and avoids overflows. In 2011, 2 drop shafts were set up, which improved the control of water and its quality. Another two wells and the connecting tubes were repaired, which prevents the risk of further leaks.
· All the employees were informed about the responsible use of water.

Control room temperature in summer and winter (+-2ºC).

49,371

52,449

46,856

Reduce number of hours lights are on and the number of fluorescent lights in premises.

Reduction number of hours production sets and controls are on/ off
The total energy consumed by the ANTENA 3 GROUP in 2011 represents 73,118.13 G. Jules.
Efficient use of resources
Efficient consumption of water is another of the ANTENA 3 GROUP's concerns and, therefore, in 2011 we have taken several initiatives aimed at controlling and reducing the consumption of water:

2009

2010

2011

Water consumption (m3)

All the water the Group consumes comes from a public source, and is dumped in the sewer system so that it can be treated and purified.
As regards the other resources used, the following table shows the respective consumption trends:

164

antena 3 group

The Environment

White paper (sheets) Toner and printing cartridges (units) White envelopes (units) Fluorescent lights (units) Drop ceilings (m2) Technical floors (m2) Partitions (m2) Bookshelves (m)

2009 7,165,000
901 29,550
1,580 395.5 300.8
18.7 415

Waste management at Antena 3 Group.

2010 6,595,000
886 29,500
1,673 1,495.4 1,826.8
161.9 0

2011 6,117,500
791 29,750
1,695 387.3 561.7 36.0
0

The ANTENA 3 GROUP promotes recycling and reuse. Proof of this are the data collected on the volume of resources reused:

Toner and printing cartridges (units) Electronic and computer material (units) Drop ceilings (m2) Technical floors (m2) Partitions (m2) Shelves (m) Mobile phones (units) Furniture

2009

Total reused

% of total acquired

901

100

1.205

81,4

133,2

33,7

260,8

86,7

18,7

100

341,0

82,1

98

54,1

0

0

2010

Total reused

% of total acquired

886

100

985

73,3

557,7

38,8

544,4

29,8

0

0

0

0

133

60,0

173

65

2011

Total reused

% of total acquired

791

100

398

18,6

63,8

16,5

42,0

7,6

36,0

100

0

0

132

76,3

0

0

Paper (units) Fluorescent lights (units)

2009

Total reused

% of total acquired

4,012,400

56

1,580

100

2010

Total reused

% of total acquired

3,931,250

59.6

1,673

100

2011

Total reused

% of total acquired

3,804,250

62.2

1,695

100

2011 annual and corporate responsibility report

165

The Antena 3 Group promotes paper recycling at its facilities.

166

antena 3 group

The Environment

Minimizing waste
The ANTENA 3 GROUP has not only achieved its goal of reducing its generation of solid waste by 1%, but it has also managed to reduce paper and cardboard waste by c. 20%. These results were achieved thanks to two specific projects:
· Improve the reclassification of waste over (due to good internal management).
· Raise providers' awareness in order to foment the reuse policy for its own cardboard container.
Furthermore, we should particularly point out the installation of 3 multifunction copiers (photocopier, fax and scanner) in the News area, and the Operations and Infrastructure facility. With these measures, the Group has managed to reduce the consumption of toner by 10%.
Another new development in waste management compared to 2010 was that all the work carried out on the premises of the ANTENA 3 GROUP now have formal files that help to control the waste generated and ensure it is recycled as much as possible.
The total volume of paper, cardboard and solid urban waste in 2011 totaled 425 tons, 18 tons less than in 2010.

Non-hazardous wastE

80

76

73

2009

2010

2011

Paper and Cardboard (tn)

432

164 117

2009

2010

2011

Rubble (m3)

375

363

352

2009

2010

2011

Solid urban waste (tn)

2011 annual and corporate responsibility report

167

Hazardous wastE 1.56 1.20

0.50

0.54 0.53 0.47

2009 2010 2011 Batery waste (tn)

2009 2010 2011 Toner (tn)

370

160

4
2009 2010 2011 Bateries (unit)

6 16 20
2009 2010 2011 Television sets (units)

1,570

1,673

1,695

2009

2010

2011

Fluorescents (units)

168

antena 3 group

Stop climate change
In 2011, the most noteworthy initiative aimed at curbing the impact of climate change consists of replacing the R-22 gas used in 22 refrigerators, which are greenhouse gases in the event of a leak, for an environmentally-friendly gas with similar characteristics. This project, coordinated by the Operations Department, entailed an annual investment 35,000 and will continue to be carried out until 2015
22 refrigerators have been given inert gas that is ozone friendly.
Greenhouse gas emissions (Tn of CO2 equivalent)
4,316

2,095

2,680

2009

2010

2011

tn de CO2 equivalent

Other actions carried out by the Group to reduce noxious gas emissions focused on reducing the environmental impact linked to the use of transportation, amongst which the following stands out:
· Increase the use of audio and videoconference systems to reduce the number of trips.
· Improve the effectiveness and efficiency of online equipment by incorporating 3G technology.

The Environment

· Greater and better planning and control of work trips, which has allowed the Group to reduce the number of flights by 819 vs. 2010.
These initiatives, undertaken over the last few years, have helped reduce the amount of NOX, SOX and CO emitted into the atmosphere, as we can see in the graphs below:
Emissions of NOX, SOX and CO (Tn)
3.4

Lastly, we should point out the specific action taken by ATRES ADVERTISING in 2011 to help reduce its environmental impact:
· Send tapes in digital files: a platform was set up to manage these types of deliveries, thereby reducing the environmental impact associated with this type of activity.
· Receive and load purchases digitally: use of the Editran and Portal to totally eliminate the use of paper associated with these activities.

2.6 2.3

Environmental awareness: "HAZTE ECO"
The Antena 3 Group is aware of the potential its media has to raise the public's awareness and move society to defend and protect the environment.

2009

2010

2011

NOX

0.87

NEOX and Greenpeace have been working together on "Hazte Eco" since 2010.

0.28 0.16

0.15 0.12 0.08

2009 2010 2011 SOX

2009 2010 2011 CO

2011 annual and corporate responsibility report

169

Towards this end, in 2010 the NEOX cannel started the Hazte Eco campaign to defend and protect the environment. The campaign is promoted through the following channels:
WEB It has a website on which concerned citizens can actively participate by sending messages and making complaints. This medium is also used to publish articles, reports and tips on the environment.

SOCIAL NETWORKS

Present on Facebook, with 2,663 followers. Publishes Hazte Eco web content

CANAL NEOX

Formative broadcast on environmental education and awareness in line with the content published on its website.

In 2011, the following subjects were dealt with by the Hazte Eco campaign:

January February March April
May
June July August September October
November December

· Recycling center. · Air pollution in Spanish cities.
· The possibilities of windpower in Spain. · The importance of not wasting water.
· The benefits of using recycled paper. · Responsible use of aerosols.
· Use of natural cosmetics. · Sustainable tourism.
· Consumption and danger of red tuna becoming extinct.
· R educe energy consumption through lighting.
· D esertification of Spain and saving water.
· Forest risks. · " Return" initiative for recycling bottles
and glasses in stores and bars.
· Destruction of the coast..
· Overexploitation of the sea and fishing.
· Information on environment and biodiversity.
· Ecological clothing.
· Problems with garbage dumps. · Durban conference to extend Kyoto com-
mitments.
· Genetically modified food. · Responsible Christmas.

The Environment
Future Commitments
The ANTENA 3 GROUP will continue to honor its commitment to the environment in 2012 and, as it has in previous years, it has set a series of objectives in line with the principles that govern its environmental policy.
Environmental objectives 2012 Continue the five-year plan to replace the gases used in the air conditioning systems which in 2012 would be tantamount to changing the machines that produce no less than 275,000 B.T.U. Complete technical assessment to implement LED lighting in the common areas with fluorescence, and subsequently conduct an economic viability study. Analyze the viability of installing energy efficient lighting in at least one Production set. Weigh possibility of changing print press for digital press, which eliminate the consumption of 26,000 newspapers a year. Reduce toner consumption by 5%, by installing machines with various functions. Reduce volume paper and cardboard sent to recycling by 1% vs. 2011. Production and broadcast of new bi-weekly Hazte Eco micro-slots and news features. Start up of Hazte Eco campaigns which require that citizens participate through social networks.

170

antena 3 group

2011 annual and corporate responsibility report

171

Annexes
Entrance to studio 3 at Antena 3 Television.

172

antena 3 group

Annexes

About Corporate Responsibility Report

Coverage and scope: This is the fifth time that the ANTENA 3 GROUP publishes its corporate Responsibility Report as part of Annual Report, as it details its commitments to economic, social and environmental Sustainability.
It is also the fourth year that this report has been verified by a third party (AENOR), in order to ensure that the requirements set in the 3.1 Global Reporting Initiative Report are met with an A+ rating.
The information reported in this report pertains to the period that goes from 1 January to 31 December 2011 and covers all the businesses of the ANTENA 3 GROUP (ANTENA 3 TELEVISIÓN, NEOX, NITRO, NOVA, ONDA CERO, EUROPA FM, ANTENA 3 FILMS, ATRES ADVERTISING and FUNDACIÓN ANTENA 3), while focusing on material information, without omitting any relevant information.
Any modifications in terms of the scope and subjects covered in this report will be indicated. This is the case with the environmental indicators, which only refer to the ANTENA 3 GROUP offices in San Sebastián de los Reyes given that they represent 90 % of its total activity. Furthermore, when any changes have been made to the way data is calculated compared to previous reports is noted next to the data in question.
Materiality: the materiality of the contents is based on the information received from the various stakeholders through the channels of communication available, which is complemented by Focus Groups that assess the impact of said contents.
International standards: this Corporate Social Responsibility Report was been prepared according to the following guidelines:

· "Sustainability Reporting Guidelines" version 3.1 of the Global Reporting Initiative, known as G3.1.
· G3.1 Global Reporting Initiative indicator protocols.
Furthermore, we have begun to implement the requirements established in the Media Sector Supplement of the Global Reporting Initiative.
In the event the GRI protocols cannot be applied, we will indicate the metric used.
For any question related to the content and the definition process used in the Annual Report and the Corporate Responsibility Report, please contact:
ANTENA 3 Group Communication Department Av. Isla Graciosa nº13 San Sebastián de los Reyes CP 28703 (Madrid)
e-mail address comunicacion@antena3tv.es responsabilidadcorporativa@antena3tv.es
Telephone: (+34) 91 623 05 00 Fax: (+34) 91 654 92 04

2011 annual and corporate responsibility report

173

GRI Report

Annexes
Verification Report

174

antena 3 group

2011 annual and corporate responsibility report

175

Annexes

GRI index

1

ORGANIZATIONAL PROFILE

1.1

Statement from the most senior decision-maker of the organization

1.2

Description of key impacts, risks, and opportunities

2

ORGANIZATIONAL PROFILE

2.1

Name of the organization

2.2

Primary brands, products, and/or services

2.3

Operational structure of the organization, including main divisions, operating companies, subsidiaries, and joint ventures.

2.4

Location of organization's headquarters.

2.5

Number of countries where the organization operates, and names of countries with either major operations or that are specifically relevant to the sustainability issues covered in the report.

2.6

Nature of ownership and legal form.

2.7

Markets served (including geographic breakdown, sectors served, and types of customers/beneficiaries).

Scale of the reporting organization:

· Number of employees

2.8

· Number of operations · Net sales (for private sector) or net revenues (public sector)

· Total capitalization, broken down in terms of debt and net assets (private sector)

· Amount of products or services rendered.

Significant changes during the reporting period regarding size, structure, or ownership including:

2.9

· The location of, or changes in operations,including facility openings, closings, and expansions; and

· Changes in the share capital structure and other capital formation, maintenance, and alteration operations (for private sector)

2.10

Awards received in the reporting period

3

REPORT PARAMTERS

3.1

Reporting period (e.g., fiscal/calendar year) forinformation provided.

3.2

Date of most recent previous report (if any).

3.3

Reporting cycle (annual, biennial, etc.)

3.4

Contact point for questions regarding the report or its contents.

Process for defining report content, including:

3.5

· Determining materiality; · Prioritizing topics within the report; and

· Identifying stakeholders the organization expects to use the report.

3.6

Boundary of the report (e.g., countries, divisions, subsidiaries, leased facilities, joint ventures, suppliers).

3.7

State any specific limitations on the scope or boundary of the report

3.8

Basis for reporting on joint ventures, subsidiaries, leased facilities, outsourced operations, and other entities that can significantly affect comparability from period to period and/or between organizations.

3.9

Data measurement techniques and the bases of calculations, including assumptions and techniques underlying estimations applied to the compilation of the Indicators and other information in the report.

3.10

Explanation of the effect of any re-statements of information provided in earlier reports, and the reasons for such re-statement (e.g., mergers/ acquisitions, change of base years/periods, nature of business, measurement methods)

3.11

Significant changes from previous reporting periods in the scope, boundary, or measurement methods applied in the report.

3.12

Table identifying the location of the Standard Disclosures in the report.

3.13

Policy and current practice with regard to seeking external assurance for the report.

176

antena 3 group

Pg./ANSWER 6 6, 43, 137, 157, 171

1 REPORTED TOTAL TOTAL

2 PART NOT REPORTED 3 REASON FOR OMISSION 4 ASSURED BY

Pg./ANSWER
3, 173
30
30
173
The Antena 3 Group broadcasts in Spain, although some channels may be seen abroad.
30
30, 38. The Antena 3 Group broadcasts in Spain, although some channels may be seen abroad.

1 REPORTED TOTAL TOTAL TOTAL TOTAL
TOTAL
TOTAL
TOTAL

11, 14

TOTAL

2 PART NOT REPORTED 3 REASON FOR OMISSION 4 ASSURED BY

No significant changes 69, 117, 147, 149, 150

TOTAL TOTAL

Pg./ANSWER 173 173 173 173

1 REPORTED TOTAL TOTAL TOTAL TOTAL

38-41, 173

TOTAL

173
173
No joint business ventures, subsidiaries, and no installations rented in 2011
All the data has been collected with corporate tools and using the GRI Guide as a basis for calculation

TOTAL TOTAL TOTAL
TOTAL

173

TOTAL

173

TOTAL

173

TOTAL

173

TOTAL

2 PART NOT REPORTED 3 REASON FOR OMISSION 4 ASSURED BY

2011 annual and corporate responsibility report

177

Annexes

4

GOVERNMENT, COMMITMENTS AND ENGAGEMENT

4.1

Governance structure of the organization, including committees under the highest governance body responsible for specific tasks, such as setting strategy or organizational oversight.

4.2

Indicate whether the Chair of the highest governance body is also an executive officer (and, if so, their function within the organization's management and the reasons for this arrangement).

4.3

For organizations that have a unitary board structure, state the number of members of the highest governance body that are independent and/or non-executive members.

4.4

Mechanisms for shareholders and employees to provide recommendations or direction to the highest governance body.

4.5

Linkage between compensation for members of the highest governance body, senior managers, and executives (including departure arrangements), and the organization's performance (including social and environmental performance).

4.6

Processes in place for the highest governance body to ensure conflicts of interest are avoided.

4.7

Process for determining the qualifications and expertise of the members of the highest governance body for guiding the organization's strategy on economic, environmental, and social topics.

4.8

Internally developed statements of mission or values, codes of conduct, and principles relevant to economic, environmental, and social performance and the status of their implementation.

Procedures of the highest governance body for overseeing the organization's identification and management of economic, envi-

4.9

ronmental, and social performance, including relevant risks and opportunities, and adherence or compliance with internationally

agreed standards, codes of conduct, and principles.

4.10

Processes for evaluating the highest governance body's own performance, particularly with respect to economic, environmental, and social performance.

4.11

Explanation of whether and how the precautionary approach or principle is addressed by the organization.

4.12

Externally developed economic, environmental, and social charters, principles, or other initiatives to which the organization subscribes or endorses.

Memberships in associations (such as industry associations) and/or national/international advocacy organizations in which the

organization:

4.13

· Has positions in governance bodies; · Participates in projects or committees;

· Provides substantive funding beyond routine membership dues; or

· Views membership as strategic

4.14

List of stakeholder groups engaged by the organization.

4.15

Basis for identification and selection of stakeholders with whom to engage.

4.16

Approaches to stakeholder engagement, including frequency of engagement by type and by stakeholder group.

4.17

Key topics and concerns that have been raised through stakeholder engagement, and how the organization has responded to those key topics and concerns, including through its reporting.

EC

ECONOMIC PERFORMANCE INDICATORS

Economic performance

EC1

Direct economic value generated and distributed, including revenues, operating costs, employee compensation, donations and other community investments, retained earnings, and payments to capital providers and governments.

EC2

Financial implications and other risks and opportunities for the organization's activities due to climate change.

EC3

Coverage of the organization's defined benefit plan obligations.

EC4

Significant financial assistance received from government.

MARKET PRESENCE

EC5

Range of ratios of standard entry level wage compared to local minimum wage at significant locations of operation.

EC6

Policy, practices, and proportion of spending on locally-based suppliers at significant locations of operation.

EC7

Procedures for local hiring and proportion of senior management hired from the local community at significant locations of operation.

INDIRECT ECONOMIC IMPACTS

178

antena 3 group

Pg./ANSWER 26-29 /www.grupoantena 3.com 26 26 33 26, 128 28, 29, 34 29 24, 41
28-29, 44, 47
28, 29, 34 47 122, 140, 156
54-55
38-40 38-40 38-40 41, 129, 141, 161

1 REPORTED TOTAL TOTAL TOTAL TOTAL TOTAL TOTAL TOTAL TOTAL
TOTAL
TOTAL TOTAL TOTAL

2 PART NOT REPORTED 3 REASON FOR OMISSION 4 ASSURED BY

TOTAL
TOTAL TOTAL TOTAL TOTAL

Pg./ANSWER 3-9
10, 11. 2011 Annual Accounts, pg. 2

1 REPORTED TOTAL

168

PARCIAL

There are no pension plans 10-11 3-5 128 Suppliers. There are no policies defined for this concept There are no procedures defined for this concept 47, 79

TOTAL TOTAL
TOTAL TOTAL TOTAL

2 PART NOT REPORTED 3 REASON FOR OMISSION 4 ASSURED BY

Risks and opportunities with financial implications and its quantification

Does not have procedures or tools to compile this information

2013

2011 annual and corporate responsibility report

179

Annexes

EC8

Development and impact of infrastructure investments and services provided primarily for public benefit through commercial, inkind, or pro bono engagement.

EC9

Understanding and describing significant indirect economic impacts, including the extent of impacts.

EN MATERIALS EN1 EN2 ENERGY EN3

Environmental performance indicators
Materials used by weight or volume. Percentage of materials used that are recycled input materials.
Direct energy consumption by primary energy source.

EN4

Indirect energy consumption by primary source.

EN5

Energy saved due to conservation and efficiency improvements.

EN6

Initiatives to provide energy-efficient or renewable energy based products and services, and reductions in energy requirements as a result of these initiatives.

EN7

Initiatives to reduce indirect energy consumption and reductions achieved.

WATER EN8 EN9

Total water withdrawal by source. Water sources significantly affected by withdrawal of water.

EN10

Percentage and total volume of water recycled and reused.

BIODIVERSITY

EN11

Location and size of land owned, leased, managed in, or adjacent to, protected areas and areas of high biodiversity value outside protected areas.

EN12

Description of significant impacts of activities, products, and services on biodiversity in protected areas and areas of high biodiversity value outside protected areas.

EN13

Habitats protected or restored.

EN14

Strategies, current actions, and future plans For managing impacts on biodiversity.

EN15

Number of IUCN Red List species and national conservation list species with habitats in areas affected by operations, by level of extinction risk.

EMISSIONS, EFFLUENTS AND WASTE

EN16

Total direct and indirect greenhouse gas emissions by weight.

EN17

Other relevant indirect greenhouse gas emissions by weight.

EN18

Initiatives to reduce greenhouse gas emissions and reductions achieved.

EN19

Emissions of ozone-depleting substances by weight.

EN20

NOx, SOx, and other significant air emissions by type and weight.

EN21

Total water discharge by quality and destination.

EN22

Total weight of waste by type and disposal method.

79, 115-116, 156 47

TOTAL PARCIAL

The indirect economic impact generated, with the exception of the revenues generated by providers, is not analyzed.

The information is not material for the organization and there are no procedures available for the analysis

Pg./ANSWER 165 165 165 162 163

1 REPORTED TOTAL TOTAL TOTAL TOTAL TOTAL

---

NOT REPORTED

162

TOTAL

162

No initiatives in this regard have been undertaken
164
164
164
The ANTENA 3 GROUP does not recycle water given the nature of its business
160
The ANTENA 3 GROUP conducts its business in urban areas that have no impact on biodiversity

TOTAL TOTAL TOTAL TOTAL TOTAL
TOTAL

TOTAL

No action to protect or restore habitats have been taken
The ANTENA 3 GROUP conducts its business in urban areas that have no impact on biodiversity

TOTAL TOTAL

TOTAL

167-169 169 168-169 168-169 168-169 169 164 11, 164-165

TOTAL TOTAL TOTAL TOTAL TOTAL TOTAL TOTAL TOTAL

2 PART NOT REPORTED 3 REASON FOR OMISSION 4 ASSURED BY

All the energy consumed

comes from electricity companies and global

2012

data is not available.

180

antena 3 group

2011 annual and corporate responsibility report

181

Annexes

EN23

Total number and volume of significant spills.

EN24

Weight of transported, imported, exported, or treated waste deemed hazardous under the terms of the Basel Convention Annex I, II, III, and VIII, and percentage of transported waste shipped internationally.

EN25

Identity, size, protected status, and biodiversity value of water bodies and related habitats significantly affected by the reporting organization's discharges of water and runoff.

PRODUCTS AND SERVICES

EN26

Initiatives to mitigate environmental impacts of products and services, and extent of impact mitigation.

EN27

Percentage of products sold and their packaging materials that are reclaimed by category.

COMPLIANCE EN28 TRANSPORT EN29 OVERALL EN30

Monetary value of significant fines and total number of non-monetary sanctions for non-compliance with environmental laws and regulations.
Significant environmental impacts of transporting products and other goods and materials used for the organization's operations, and transporting members of the workforce.
Total environmental protection expenditures and investments by type.

LA

LABOUR PRACTICES

EMPLOYMENT

LA1

Total workforce by employment type, employment contract, and region.

LA2

Total number and rate of employee turnover by age group, gender, and region.

LA3

Benefits provided to full-time employees that are not provided to temporary or part-time employees, by major operations.

LABOUR/MANAGEMENT POLICIES

LA4

Percentage of employees covered by collective bargaining agreements.

LA5

Minimum notice period(s) regarding significant operational changes, including whether it is specified in collective agreements.

OCCUPATIONAL HEALTH AND SAFETY

LA6

Percentage of total workforce represented in formal joint management-worker health and safety committees that help monitor and provide advice on occupational health and safety programs.

LA7

Rates of injury, occupational diseases, lost days, and absenteeism, and number of work-related fatalities by region.

LA8

Education, training, counseling, prevention, and risk-control programs in place to assist workforce members, their families, or community members regarding serious diseases.

LA9

Health and safety topics covered in formal agreements with trade unions.

TRAINING AND EDUCATION

LA10

Average hours of training per year per employee by employee category.

LA11

Programs for skills management and lifelong learning that support the continued employability of employees and assist them in managing career endings.

LA12

Percentage of employees receiving regular performance and career development reviews.

No spills or environmental accidents have occurred

TOTAL

No hazardous waste has been transported TOTAL

All the water that the ANTENA 3 GROUP consumes comes from the public water system
50, 160
50, 162,168-169
The ANTENA 3 GROUP only sells audiovisual content
160
No sanctions or fines have been levied for environmental non-compliance
162

TOTAL
TOTAL TOTAL
TOTAL

162, 168-169

TOTAL

160

160

TOTAL

Pg./ANSWER
120
123-124
123. There are no any significant differences (>10%) in the breakdown of men and women
129
120-121
100%
Notification periods are defined in the pertinent collective bargaining agreements
133

1 REPORTED
TOTAL TOTAL TOTAL
TOTAL TOTAL TOTAL

133

TOTAL

135. No fatalities. There are no any significant differences (>10%) in the breakdown of TOTAL men and women

133

TOTAL

133
125
126. There are no any significant differences (>10%) in the breakdown of men and women

TOTAL TOTAL

127

TOTAL

129 . There are no any significant differences in the breakdown of men and women

TOTAL

2 PART NOT REPORTED 3 REASON FOR OMISSION 4 ASSURED BY

182

antena 3 group

2011 annual and corporate responsibility report

183

Annexes

DIVERSITY AND EQUAL OPPORTUNITY

LA13

Composition of governance bodies and breakdown of employees per category according to gender, age group, minority group membership, and other indicators of diversity.

LA14

Ratio of basic salary of men to women by employee category.

LA 15

Percentage of time spent at work post after returning from a parental leave, by gender.

HR

HUMAN RIGHTS

INVESTMENT AND SUPPLY PRACTICES

HR1

Percentage and total number of significant investment agreements that include human rights clauses or that have undergone human rights screening.

HR2

Percentage of significant suppliers and contractors that have undergone screening on human rights and actions taken.

HR3

Total hours of employee training on policies and procedures concerning aspects of human rights that are relevant to operations, including the percentage of employees trained.

NON.DISCRIMINATION

HR4

Total number of incidents of discrimination and actions taken.

FREEDOM OF ASSOCIATION AND COLLECTIVE BARGAINING

HR5

Operations identified in which the right to exercise freedom of association and collective bargaining may be at significant risk, and actions taken to support these rights.

CHILD LABOUR

HR6

Operations identified as having significant risk for incidents of child labor, and measures taken to contribute to the elimination of child labor.

FORCED AND COMPULSORY LABOUR

HR7

Operations identified as having significant risk for incidents of forced or compulsory labor, and measures to contribute to the elimination of forced or compulsory labor.

SECURITY PRACTICES

HR8

Percentage of security personnel trained in the organization's policies or procedures concerning aspects of human rights that are relevant to operations.

INDIGENOUS RIGHTS

HR9

Total number of incidents of violations involving rights of indigenous people and actions taken.

HR10

Percentage and number of operations that have been evaluated to verify compliance with human rights.

CORRECTIVE MEASURES

HR11

Number of human rights complaints, which have been filed, addressed and resolved through formal mechanisms to ensure reconciliation.

SO COMMUNITY
SO1

SOCIETY
Nature, scope, and effectiveness of any programs and practices that assess and manage the impacts of operations on communities, including entering, operating, and exiting.

CORRUPTION

SO2

Percentage and total number of business units analyzed for risks related to corruption.

184

antena 3 group

125

28, 123-124, www. grupoantena3.com

TOTAL

2013

128 100%

TOTAL TOTAL

Pg./ANSWER
47 All the contracts meet laws in force that guarantee respect for human rights 50

1 REPORTED
TOTAL TOTAL

41

TOTAL

125-126
No incidents of discrimination
120, 133
The ANTENA 3 GROUP's activities are governed by Spanish Law, and therefore there no risks of this nature.
77
The ANTENA 3 GROUP's activities are governed by Spanish Law, and therefore there no risks of this nature
121
The ANTENA 3 GROUP's activities are governed by Spanish Law, and therefore there no risks of this nature
121
The ANTENA 3 GROUP does not have any security personnel on the payroll
121
The ANTENA 3 GROUP's activities are governed by Spanish Law, and therefore there no risks of this nature and no related incidents have been reported
The ANTENA 3 GROUP's activities are governed by Spanish Law, and therefore there no risks of this nature, and evaluations will be carried out
12, No complaints of this type have been reported
No complaints of this type have been reported

TOTAL TOTAL TOTAL TOTAL TOTAL TOTAL TOTAL TOTAL TOTAL

2 PART NOT REPORTED 3 REASON FOR OMISSION 4 ASSURED BY

Pg./ANSWER
140
47. The impact of social campaigns are evaluated
In 2011 there are no anti-corruption policies available. In 2012 and internal code of conduct will be applied
47

1 REPORTED TOTAL TOTAL TOTAL

2 PART NOT REPORTED 3 REASON FOR OMISSION 4 ASSURED BY

2011 annual and corporate responsibility report

185

Annexes

SO3

Percentage of employees trained in organization's anti-corruption policies and procedures.

SO4

Actions taken in response to incidents of corruption.

PUBLIC POLICIES

SO5

Public policy positions and participation in public policy".

SO6

Total value of financial and in-kind contributions to political parties, politicians, and related institutions by country.

ANTI-COMPETITIVE BEHAVIOR

SO7

Total number of legal actions for anti-competitive behavior, anti-trust, and monopoly practices and their outcomes.

REGULATOTY COMPLIANCE

SO8

Monetary value of significant fines and total number of non-monetary sanctions for non-compliance with laws and regulations.

COMMUNITY

SO9

Operations that have potential or actual negative impact on local communities.

SO10

Actions taken to prevent and mitigate negative impacts (potential or actual) on local communities.

PR

PRODUCT REPONSABILITY

HEALTH AND CONSUMER SAFETY

PR1

Life cycle stages in which health and safety impacts of products and services are assessed for improvement, and percentage of significant products and services categories subject to such procedures.

PR2

Total number of incidents of non-compliance with regulations and voluntary codes concerning health and safety impacts of products and services during their life cycle, by type of outcomes.

PRODUCT AND SERVICE LABELLING

PR3

Type of product and service information required by procedures, and percentage of significant products and services subject to such information requirements.

PR4

Total number of incidents of non-compliance with regulations and voluntary codes concerning product and service information and labeling, by type of outcomes.

PR5

Practices related to customer satisfaction, including results of surveys measuring customer satisfaction.

MARKETING COMMUNICATIONS

PR6

Programs for adherence to laws, standards, and voluntary codes related to marketing communications, including advertising, promotion, and sponsorship.

PR7

Total number of incidents of non-compliance with regulations and voluntary codes concerning marketing communications, including advertising, promotion, and sponsorship by type of outcomes.

PR8

Total number of substantiated complaints regarding breaches of customer privacy and losses of customer data.

PR9

Monetary value of significant fines for non-compliance with laws and regulations concerning the provision and use of products and services.

In 2011 there are no anti-corruption policies available. In 2012 and internal code of conduct will be applied
No incidents of this type
53
53
The ANTENA 3 GROUP does not make this kind of contribution
12. No legal action nor sanctions for these reasons have been reported
No legal action nor sanctions for these reasons have been reported
51
53
140
Taking into account the ANTENA 3 GROUP's activity, its operations do not cause any significant negative impact outside of business risks

TOTAL TOTAL TOTAL TOTAL TOTAL TOTAL TOTAL
TOTAL TOTAL
TOTAL
TOTAL

Pg./ANSWER 44, 113
44, 113

1 REPORTED TOTAL
TOTAL

No incidents of this type have taken place. 44, 113 44, 113

TOTAL TOTAL TOTAL

52-53 70-71 113 51, 113

TOTAL TOTAL TOTAL TOTAL

61 12. No non-compliance of this nature 52, 53

TOTAL TOTAL TOTAL

2 PART NOT REPORTED 3 REASON FOR OMISSION 4 ASSURED BY

186

antena 3 group

2011 annual and corporate responsibility report

187

Glossary of terms

Social action: Use of resources, usually money, assets or services, for social projects or projects that support disadvantaged groups.
Value chain: The value chain is breaks down the company into its core businesses to understand the costs trends and differentiating factors (current and potential). The value chain is comprised of, among others, the following activities: procurement (providers), logistics, marketing and advertising, human resources or R&D.
Code of Conduct: A document that lays out, without being legally bound to do so, the rules and principles that define the nature of an institution, trade union or sector, through guidelines that ensure that it functions properly. A single organization may have various codes of conduct that complement each other. They are also called "Codes of ethics (or CSR)" and "Deontological Code".
Community Manager: This is a new position within marketing and online advertising, whose job is to create, manage and spur the activity of a community of users on Internet regardless of the platform employed (social networks, blogs, etc.).
Opportunity cost: In economics, the opportunity cost is the cost investment of the resources available, in an economic opportunity, in exchange for the best alternative investment available. This refers to that which an agent foregoes or rejects when making a choice or a decision. In other words, it is also the profit or gain that the Group would not obtain by not billing­ for a social reason- the market price of given good or service.
Balanced scorecard (BSC): This is a management system that goes beyond the financial perspective that managers usually use to evaluate a company's performance, making it possible to measure a company's activities in terms of its vision and strategy. The BSC gives managers an overview of a business's performance. As a management tool, it continuously shows the actual degree to which the targets set in a strategic plan are met, facilitating decision making, the identification of areas of improvement and net challenges.
180º evaluation: This is way of evaluating a workers' performance, by which a worker is evaluated by his superior and peers (occasionally by clients as well). It is different from a 360º evaluation in which superiors are not judged by those work under them.
Focus Group: The focus Group is a way of analyzing people's opinions and attitudes used in the social sciences and marketing studies. It is also called a discussion group or group dynamics, and consists of a group (between 6 and 12) with a moderator who asks questions and shapes the discussion so that it stays on the subject. The discussion group focuses on the attitudes and reaction of group with specific interests to a given social or political matters, or any other subject.

188

antena 3 group

Annexes

FTSE-4Good: A market index created by the Financial Times Stocks Exchange (FTSE) to measure compliance with recognized global environmental standards in order to facilitate investment in these companies. The FTSE-4Good is comprised of firms that meet a series of environmental requirements, dialogue with stakeholders and respect for human rights.
Global Reporting Initiative (GRI): This is an independent institution set up in 1997 in which various stakeholders participate. Its mission is to prepare and disseminate the Sustainability Reporting Guidelines, which is an international standard for drawing up sustainability reports: it is not obligatory. This report follows GRI standards.
Stakeholders: These are people or entities that affect or may be affected by the decisions taken by the company.
Hours of sign language: These are the hours during which a simultaneous sign language service is provided for certain programs.
Hours of audiodescription: Audiodescription is a system that enables blind or visually impaired people to have access to TV or movie information through descriptions that do not interfere with the dialogue or the action of a given program or movie.
Annual Report (Sustainability): This is a public document that systematically reports the criteria, commitments and activities of an organization in terms of CSR and also describes the activities and the channels through which it communicates with stakeholders. It is usually based on international recognized indicators, such as GRI, which are those used to prepare this Annual Report.
Mission: The Group's mission is to broadcast diverse, innovative and quality programming that responds to our stakeholders in order to gain their confidence, thereby achieve a leading market position and ensure the Group's sustainability.
NGO: A non-governmental organization is a private entity with well-defined ends and objectives, created outside of local, regional and national government, as well as international organizations. It has various legal statuses such as association or foundation, among others. The NGO sector is known by various names such as the volunteer, non-profit, solidarity, social economy or third sector, among others. NGOs are national or international (cooperation) in scope, cover areas such as humanitarian aid, attending marginalized or excluded groups, or programs that deal with health, nutrition education, environmental issues, the defense of Human Rights, etc.
Global Compact: This is an initiative undertaken by the former Secretary General of the United Nations (Kofi Annan), which is comprised of ten principles regarding human, sociolabor environmental and anti-corruption rights that companies and other organizations must follow. The pact was officially launched at the United Nations in July 2000 and aims to make market markets more sustainable and inclusive.

2011 annual and corporate responsibility report

189

Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR): In the broadest sense, this is a concept whereby companies integrate social and environmental concerns in their business operations and in their interaction with their stakeholders on a voluntary basis. This classic definition of CSR (EC Green Book) was widened by the Commission in its 2011 press release, in which it redefines CSR as a `company's responsibility with regard to its effect on society". In order to assume said responsibility, the EC insists that `companies must respect current legislation and the collective agreements reached between the various stakeholders'. The ANTENA 3 GROUP refers to Corporate Responsibility (CR) when talking about the Group's specific CSR.
Sustainability (Sustainable Enterprise): This is a company that aims to create value in the medium to long term, both economically (profits), was well as environmentally and in sociallabor terms, by ensuring that the concern of its stakeholders are addressed in its strategy.
Transparency: refers an organization's ability to respond to or render accounts to its stakeholders through public information that is accessible, complete, intelligible and understandable. One way of doing this is by publishing an Annual Report such as this one.
Trending Topics: is the name given to the words or phrases most used at a given moment in Twitter. The tem most relevant are shown on the start page, while the users can choose the geographical scope they prefer-global or regional. Furthermore, the massive impact that this is having on the press has caused the expression to be also be used for subjects of great interest, whether it is being mentioned on Twitter or not.
Values: are the set of principles, beliefs, and rules that govern the management of an organization. This constitutes the company's institutional philosophy and the foundation of its organizational culture. The main objective of defining corporate values is to have a reference framework that inspires and regulates the life of an organization. These are usually expressed through policies, codes and rules that define the professional conduct that the employees should follow.
Vision: is what a company wants to be in the future (where they want to go). It includes the goals and achievements sought by organizations. A company's vision is summarized in a brief philosophical statement what a company wants to be, how it wishes to be perceived by its clients, employees, owners, and other stakeholders going forward.

190

antena 3 group

Annexes
Corporate Volunteer work: This is a new way of channeling social activities, which allows the company to take advantage, provide incentives and channel the potential of its employees in benefit of certain social needs or civic organizations (NGOs, etc.). There are many types of corporate volunteer work, with the most widely used being professional volunteer work and occasional volunteer work. Professional volunteer work consists of employees who do the same work they usually do but to help out an NGO. Therefore, the company makes workers available during the work day so that they can participate in NGO. Occasional volunteer work refers to workers who set a volunteer work day target for the year and, on those days they participate in activities that benefit the community. All these activities must be voluntary, given that the objective of corporate volunteer work is to promote a vulture of collaboration, raise the employees' awareness about the social needs of other groups and enable them to discover new values and put solidarity into practice as a way of developing character.

2011 annual and corporate responsibility report

191

Antena 3 Group Communication Department
Av. Isla Graciosa nº 13 San Sebastián de los Reyes
28703 (Madrid)
email: comunicacion@antena3tv.es responsabilidadcorporativa@antena3tv.es
www.grupoantena3.com www.fundacionantena3.es
Phone: (+ 34) 91 623 05 00 Fax: (+ 34) 91 654 92 04

