           ANNUAL REPORT
2013/14

 CONTENTS
2–3 President’s statement 4 B&B TOOLS in brief
4–5 Vision, business concept, objectives and strategies 6–7 Competency and sustainable development
B&B TOOLS IS THE NORDIC REGION’S LAR- GEST SUPPLIER OF INDUSTRIAL CONSUMABLES AND INDUSTRIAL COMPONENTS
B&B TOOLS was founded in 1906 and is today the largest supplier of industrial consumables, industrial components and related services for the industrial and construction sectors in the Nordic region. The Group’s business concept is to make customers’ everyday operations easier, safer and more profitable. Its main geographic markets are Sweden, Norway and Finland.
The Group has approximately 2,700 employ- ees in 12 countries and annual revenue of approximately MSEK 7,600.
OPERATING AREAS
8 Luna
9 Skydda
10 ESSVE
11 Grunda
12 Gigant
13 Momentum
14–15 TOOLS
Tools and machinery
Personal protective equipment
Fastening elements
Industrial and construction consumables
Workplace equipment
Industrial components
The Nordic region’s leading supplier to the industrial and construction sectors
ANNUAL REPORT 2013/2014
16–21 Administration Report with Corporate Governance Report
22 Reporting by operating segment
23 Consolidated income statement
23 Consolidated statement of comprehensive income
24 Consolidated balance sheet
25 Consolidated statement of changes in equity
25 Consolidated cash-flow statement
26 Parent Company income statement
26 Parent Company statement of comprehensive income
27 Parent Company balance sheet
28 Parent Company statement of changes in equity
28 Parent Company cash-flow statement
29 The Group’s risks and opportunities
30–63 Notes
64 Proposed allocation of profit
65 Auditor’s Report
66 Board of Directors and Auditors
67 Group management
68–69 The B&B TOOLS share
70–71 Ten-year summary
72 Definitions
73 Financial information
73 Annual General Meeting 2014
B&B TOOLS AB’s statutory Annual Report comprises pages 16–64. These pages have been reviewed by the Company’s auditors in accordance with the Auditor’s Report
on page 65.

                                                            THE YEAR IN BRIEF
MULTI-YEAR SUMMARY
REVENUE, MSEK
8000 7500 7000 6500 6000
Between 2005 and 2008, B&B TOOLS grew substantially, both organically and through numerous acquisitions (with more than SEK 5 billion in revenue). However, starting in autumn 2008, the Group’s sales trend was impacted negatively by the sharp economic decline experienced by the Nordic industrial sector. During the 2013/2014 operating year, demand remained cautious and revenue for comparable units, measured in local currency, was largely unchanged.
OPERATING PROFIT AND OPERATING MARGIN*
    REVENUE AMOUNTED TO
MSEK 7,648
NET PROFIT FOR THE YEAR AFTER TAXES TOTALLED
MSEK 214
RETURN ON WORKING CAPITAL (P/WC) WAS
20%
GROUP IN FIGURES
Revenue, MSEK Operating profit, MSEK
of which, non-recurring items
Profit before taxes, MSEK Net profit for the year, MSEK
PER SHARE, SEK
Net profit for the year
Cash flow from operating activities
Equity 73.50 Dividend 3.00
Operating margin, % 3.8 Return on working capital (P/WC), % 15 Return on equity, % 11 Equity/assets ratio, % 39
09/10 10/11 11/12 12/13 13/14
OPERATING PROFIT INCREASED BY
18% to MSEK 340
EARNINGS PER SHARE AMOUNTED TO
             SEK 7.60
PROPOSED DIVIDEND OF
SEK 3.50
PER SHARE
2012/2013
7,666 289 +51 216 222
Margin, %
400
300
200
100 00
09/10 10/11 11/12 12/13 13/14
The severe economic slowdown experienced in the Nordic industrial sector starting in autumn 2008 had an adverse effect on B&B TOOLS’ operating profit. The Group implemented cost-saving measures, focusing on streamlining the operations by introducing new shared IT and logistics solutions, reducing the number of employees and reducing costs. Operating profit for the 2013/2014 operating year increased 18 percent.
* Including non-recurring items.
NUMBER OF EMPLOYEES AT
THE END OF THE OPERATING YEAR
3000 2500 2000 1500
Through strong organic growth and acquisitions, the number of employees in the B&B TOOLS Group grew substantially in the years until 2008. Cost-saving measures implemented after autumn 2008 resulted in a reduction in the number of employees in the Group by approximately 600 people. The number of employees during the 2013/2014 operating year declined by 125.
 Profit, MSEK
5.00 3.75 2.50 1.25
               2013/2014
 7,648
340
–
286
214
 7.60
7.45
78.40
3.501)
 4.4
20
10
43
2,655
                     7.90 9.30
CHANGE
0% +18%
+32% -4%
-4% -20% +7% +17%
-4%
  09/10 10/11 11/12 12/13 13/14
  Number of employees at year-end
1) As proposed by the Board of Directors.
2,780
       
PRESIDENT’S STATEMENT
 OUR FUNDAMENTAL REQUIREMENTS FOR
GROWTH, PROFITABILITY
AND DEVELOPMENT CREATE OPPORTUNITIES FOR THE FUTURE
The 2013/2014 operating year was an eventful and important year for the B&B TOOLS Group. During the year, we had the opportunity to focus even more intently on our customers, as well as on our future growth, profitability and development.
2013/2014 OPERATING YEAR
The market situation for our units varied depending on geography and customer segment. Most of our business areas (with sales primarily conducted via resellers) reported a positive trend – partly due to strong demand in the construction material market. Momentum and TOOLS Norway also performed well, while demand for TOOLS Finland and TOOLS Sweden remained cautious. Our brands, which include ESSVE (fastening elements),
Teng Tools (hand tools) and Guide (gloves), strengthened their market positions.
Our efforts to reduce the Group’s work- ing capital continued through a reduction in inventories. In addition, property sales freed up capital to reduce the Group’s debt and enabled continued investments in the operations.
Overall, the Group delivered stronger profits as a result of growth in certain areas of the operations, as well as through effi- ciency enhancement and reduced costs.
Cash flow from operating activities remained strong during the year and our profitability, defined as operating profit in relation to working capital (P/WC), increased to 20 percent (15). The long-term objective is to achieve a P/WC of at least
45 percent.
  2
B&B TOOLS ANNUAL REPORT 2013/14

OUR FUTURE GROWTH,
PROFITABILITY AND DEVELOPMENT During the year, we established clear guidelines for the future, which together serve as a framework for all of our busi- nesses and their decentralised responsi- bility for achieving our business objective of P/WC > 45 percent. Based on these guidelines, we have jointly determined who will be responsible for what.
The aim is for each unit to use this framework to meet our three fundamental requirements of growth, profitability and development in its own daily operations, with a focus on simplicity and freedom coupled with responsibility.
• Growth – new business, customers and products
• Profitability – financing
our continuing development
• Development – better than yesterday!
The focus of the individual business depends on its profitability (P/WC) in relation to the Group’s so-called focus model (which is presented in more detail on page 5). In brief, the model specifies that profitable units are to prioritise growth while maintaining their profitability, while less profitable areas are to prioritise activi- ties that help them achieve the profitability
targets. Development is a top priority for everyone in the Group at all times.
Our “local heroes” make the difference
B&B TOOLS has many “local heroes” whose daily contributions benefit our customers, our operations and our future development – not only in our stores, but also on site at our customers’ operations, at our central warehouses and in other areas of the Group. The commitment, know-how and experience that I encounter in our businesses makes me really proud and happy. One of the most important keys to our future success is therefore the decentralisation of responsi- bility for customer transactions and profita- bility. With our new shared framework, we have created an even better tool that can be used by our “local heroes” in their daily work and in turn will be reflected in our future profitability and growth.
On that note, I would like to thank all of our employees in the Group – all of our “local heroes” – for your outstanding efforts during the year!
2014/2015 OPERATING YEAR
I look forward to a new, exciting operating year in 2014/2015 – together with our customers, suppliers, colleagues and shareholders.
Our main focus during the year will be on achieving growth through the capturing
of market shares in our various customer segments and market channels. We also see growth opportunities for new products and service offerings.
Through continued efficiency enhance- ment and other activities in several areas
of the Group, our ambition is to continue improving the profitability and cash flow
of the Group as a whole. Our development is intrinsically linked to our operations and we must focus on making continuous improvements – to be better than yesterday.
Stockholm, June 2014
Ulf Lilius
PRESIDENT & CEO
PRESIDENT’S STATEMENT
 “One of the most important keys to our future success is the decentralisation of responsibility”
  B&B TOOLS ANNUAL REPORT 2013/14 3

VISION & STRATEGIES
 VISION, BUSINESS CONCEPT, OBJECTIVES & STRATEGIES
“Supported by customer value advantages and cost advantages, we aim to prove that B&B TOOLS is the best choice for customers and that we make their everyday operations easier, safer and more profitable.”
  B&B TOOLS IN BRIEF
B&B TOOLS is the largest supplier of industrial consumables, industrial com- ponents and related services for the industrial and construction sectors in the Nordic region. Its main geographic markets are Sweden, Norway and Finland.
B&B TOOLS VISION:
“The best choice
for customers”
The B&B TOOLS Group established a shared vision in autumn 2013 – a vision designed to guide the Group’s operations in both the short and long term. The phrase “best choice” is an indication that B&B TOOLS always focuses on understanding customer requirements and – based on
the situation and specific needs involved – offering an optimum solution for the customer. The Group also aims to be the best at what it does, a reflection that the units in B&B TOOLS are premium suppli- ers with a high level of expertise and the ability to differentiate themselves by offer- ing various customer value advantages.
B&B TOOLS
BUSINESS CONCEPT:
”We aim to make our customers’ everyday operations easier, safer and more profitable”
B&B TOOLS aims to offer customers solutions to make their operations easier and safer, and increase their profitability. The various businesses in the Group establish their offerings accordingly and gain a competitive advantage by differentiating themselves from the competition in a number of ways.
It is crucial that customers have highly profitable operations. B&B TOOLS sells quality products and related services that create customer value throughout their entire service life. For the Group's custom- ers on the reseller level, the business areas assist customers in boosting their sales and enhancing their customer service. By doing so, B&B TOOLS makes their everyday operations easier, while also making them safer and more profitable.
The Group comprises two operating segments – Business Areas and TOOLS / Momentum – as well as shared func- tions for administration, logistics and IT. Each operating segment currently includes nine operating areas.
Business Areas – sales via resellers
The Group’s Business Areas – Luna (tools & machinery), Skydda (personal protective equipment), ESSVE (fastening elements), Grunda (industrial and construction consuma- bles) and Gigant (workplace equipment) – develop com- petitive product and service solutions in various application areas. Industrial customers are reached through the Group’s own market channel, TOOLS, which accounts for approximately 50 percent of the business areas’ combined sales. Other submarkets, such as construction customers, are offered solutions via other specialised reseller chains and independent resellers.
TOOLS / Momentum –
sales directly to end customers
TOOLS is the largest industrial reseller chain in the Nordic region specialising in industrial consumables, with branches in approximately 170 locations in Sweden, Norway and Finland. Momentum is responsible for sales and marketing of industrial components to the industrial sector, primarily in Sweden, with operations in some
30 locations.
Infrastructure, logistics and IT
The Group’s supply chain (logistics), IT and product infor- mation functions form a unit known as Business infra- structure. B&B TOOLS invests continuously in both IT and logistics and aims to continue streamlining all processes and ensuring that the products and information are availa- ble where and when necessary. TOOLS Online offers TOOLS’ customers efficient and straightforward online shopping and the business areas’ Toolstore is one of the Nordic region’s leading e-commerce portals. The Group’s
logistics operations are currently based in two hubs located in Alingsås and Ulricehamn, from which all inven- tory/logistics and IT services are coordinated.
NORDIC MARKET FOR INDUSTRIAL CONSUMANBLES AND COMPONENTS
The total market for industrial consumables and industrial components in Sweden, Norway and Finland is valued at approximately SEK 40 to 45 billion. Market growth is closely related to the development of overall industrial production and the number of employees in the industrial sector. Industrial production, in turn, is largely linked to the trends of major export companies.
Customers
The Group’s customers are active in all industrial segments and in such areas as the offshore, construction, civil engineering, property maintenance, public administration and defence sectors. The Industrial sector accounts for approximately 65 percent of the Group’s total sales, the Construction sector for 20 percent, the Do-it-yourself (DIY)/private market for 5 percent and Other sectors for approximately 10 percent.
Competitors
B&B TOOLS’ main competitors in the Nordic region are Ahlsell and Würth, as well as Tess and Albert E. Olsen in Norway and Etra in Finland.
Read more about the Group’s operating areas on pages 8 –15.
4 B&B TOOLS ANNUAL REPORT 2013/14

B&B TOOLS BUSINESS OBJECTIVE:
”P/WC > 45% per unit”
B&B TOOLS’ internal profitability target, measured as P/WC, applies to the Group as a whole, as well as all of the Group’s operat- ing units. P/WC refers to operating profit in relation to utilised working capital* and the goal is for P/WC to amount to at least 45 per- cent per year for each individual unit. Hav- ing a P/WC of at least 45 percent helps finance the Group’s future development, as well as the shareholders’ return require- ment.
All activities that take place throughout the Group are linked to this objective, with a specific focus on optimising six basic parameters:
PROFIT:
1. Revenue
2. Contribution ratio 3. Cost
WORKING CAPITAL:
4. Inventories
5. Accounts receivable 6. Accounts payable
All employees in the B&B TOOLS Group have the ability to impact at least one of these parameters – for example, by selling more, reducing purchasing costs, working in a cost conscious manner and having less inventory in stock. Individually, but mainly in combination, these six parameters thus generate a solid source of leverage for each operating unit that can be deployed to bolster their profitability. Each unit is also responsible for establishing its own busi- ness plans, which are then broken down into tangible action plans for the indivi- dual employee based on the profitability level achieved according to B&B TOOLS’ focus model.
FOCUS ON GROWTH WHILE MAINTAINING PROFITABILITY
45% P/WC
To attain the objective of P/WC > 45 percent, all units in the Group must offer their customers an optimal total economy (mini- mum total cost) in the solutions with the help of their expertise (customer value advantage). To be able to offer this to custo- mers while also maintaining profitability of their own, the businesses must work on the basis of maximum efficiency and cost awareness – primarily through efficient distribution throughout the entire value chain, as well as by strengthening their competence and experience so that the Group can operate more efficiently than
its competitors (cost advantage).
Another crucial strategy for B&B TOOLS is to limit costs in areas in which the Group
is not a market leader – for example, by working with a limited offering, restricted marketing, specialised sales or operating solely with selected customers. By this means, B&B TOOLS can meet selected cus- tomer requirements using a lower cost struc- ture than its competitors (cost advantage).
* Calculated as inventories plus accounts receivable less accounts payable.
B&B TOOLS’ FOCUS MODEL
The Group’s model specifies that profitable units are to prioritise growth while maintaining their profitability, whereas less profitable areas are to prioritise activities that help them achieve the profitability targets.
VISION & STRATEGIES
            FOCUS ON PROFITABILITY
P/WC
B&B TOOLS’ STRATEGIES:
FOCUS ON PROFITABILITY AND GROWTH
  25%
      Value rather than price as a competitive advantage
COMPETITIVE ADVANTAGE
     CUSTOMER VALUE ADVANTAGE
ABILITY TO CREATE AND CHARGE FOR HIGHER CUSTOMER VALUE THAN THE COMPETITION.
• SUPERIOR CUSTOMER INSIGHT
• PRODUCT AND SERVICE QUALITY
• BREADTH AND DEPTH OF OFFERING • AVAILABILITY
• SUPERIOR CUSTOMER SERVICE
• SUPERIOR CUSTOMER RELATIONS
• VALUE-BASED OFFERING (TCO)
COST ADVANTAGE
ABILITY TO DELIVER AT A LOWER COST THAN THE COMPETITION.
ECONOMIES OF SCALE:
• LOGISTICS
• PURCHASING
• IT
PROCESS EFFICIENCY:
• SALES
• IMPROVEMENTS TO OFFERING • SUPPORT PROCESSES
         B&B TOOLS ANNUAL REPORT 2013/14 5

COMPETENCY AND SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT
 EMPLOYEES – ATTITUDE,
PERFORMANCE AND
RESPONSIBILITY
B&B TOOLS aims to be seen as an attractive employer by all current, potential and former employees. This means that all managers and employees must maintain a professional attitude to all HR activities and work in accordance with clear guidelines.
 Ensuring that employees are continuously given the opportunity to enhance their skills and performance is vital to the future development of the Group. In addition to training for sales and store personnel, a number of other programmes and initiatives have been implemented over the years to clarify and strengthen the Group’s formal leadership in various areas, including labour legislation, collective agreements, occupational health and safety, recruitment and performance development.
FOCUS AREAS
B&B TOOLS currently has four
HR focus areas:
• Market-based terms and conditions • Efficient staffing
• Performance and competence
• Shared culture
The Group conducts regular employee sur- veys designed to find out what employees think of B&B TOOLS as an employer, the work climate and leadership.
Employee surveys performed in the past have shown a predominantly positive view of B&B TOOLS’ development and of the companies in the Group as an employer, and a large proportion of employees stated they would recommend the Group as an employer to their friends. However, the surveys have also identified a number of development areas in various parts of the Group, and several measures have been implemented in recent years in areas such as leadership development.
Market-based terms and conditions
To ensure its ability to attract, recruit, develop and retain the best employees in the industry, B&B TOOLS must be able to offer exciting work duties and positions, as well as competitive employment terms and a well-functioning work environment. The Group conducts regular harmonisations and adaptations to the prevailing market terms. In order to further improve the work environment, the Group offers training for managers in both formal and practical
areas with the aim of ensuring that the Group’s businesses offer a healthy and functional work environment.
Efficient staffing
Efficient staffing ensures that new employ- ees can quickly find their place in the orga- nisation and facilitates internal mobility in the Group. Among other initiatives, a joint introduction package has been developed for new employees. Current staffing processes are largely shared throughout the Group. Internal mobility has increased in recent years due to “open” appointments of vacan- cies within the Group, which has helped put the right person in the right place and increased opportunities for career develop- ment.
Performance and competence
While employees are expected to satisfy the requirements of their professional role, they also have the opportunity to receive active support in order to continuously improve their competence and performance. Managers in the Group have undergone leadership training in setting goals, giving feedback, and recognising and improving performance and competence.
Shared culture
In order to develop its operations, the Group must achieve a joint corporate culture in which the organisation and employees share the same values. These values are included in the development talks held between the managers and employees. The Group’s intranet, InSight, is a natural part of the corporate culture that contributes to broadening colla- boration, developing competence and strengthening the team spirit within
the Group.
GROUP EMPLOYEES:
DISTRIBUTION BY GENDER
     DISTRIBUTION BY AGE
Women 22% Men 78%
29 or younger 12% 30–39 years 24% 40–49 years 32% 50–59 years 23% 60 or older 9%
       LENGTH OF EMPLOYMENT
Less than 2 years 14% 2–5 years 25%
6–10 years 23% 11–15 years 13%
16 years or more 25%
WILLINGNESS TO TAKE PERSONAL REPSONSIBILITY
B&B TOOLS has a clear vision and business concept, a strong culture, strong values and clear strategies that are based on a willingness to take personal responsibility and respect for the individual. We believe that freedom coupled with respon- sibility is the best way to operate
a business as diverse as ours.
Ulf Lilius
President & CEO
         6 B&B TOOLS ANNUAL REPORT 2013/14

CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY INCREASES COMPETITIVENESS
 STAKEHOLDER MODEL – FOUR SATISFIED GROUPS
By focusing on corporate responsibility, B&B TOOLS strives to create value for all of the Group’s stakeholders.
+SATISFIED CUSTOMERS
Work in the best interests of new and existing customers by continuously devel- oping and offering products and services that meet customer expectations in terms of function, quality, safety, environmental impact and supply reliability. A conscien- tious focus on service and maintenance extends the useful lives of the products and thereby reduces the customers’ total costs. Follow-ups are performed on a regular basis through customer surveys.
+
SATISFIED EMPLOYEES
Work in the best interests of new and exist- ing employees by offering attractive and competitive terms and conditions, a healthy work environment and opportunities for skills and performance development. The Group conducts employee surveys annually.
+
SATISFIED BUSINESS PARTNERS Develop strong offerings for all of the Group’s market channels. Achieve competi- tive purchasing terms based on the Group’s strong market position and secure efficient purchasing and sales processes for the purpose of creating close and long-term partnerships. Act professionally, honestly and ethically correct in all of these pursuits, based on the Group’s Code of Conduct.
+
SATISFIED OWNERS
Create shareholder value by focusing on growth and stable, long-term profitability, minimise major business risks through active and effective corporate governance and provide accurate and relevant infor- mation to the stock market.
=SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY
Conduct business as a responsible member of society, comply with relevant laws in the countries where B&B TOOLS currently oper- ates, promote health and safety, respect human rights, and take responsibility for improving the environment with the aim
of achieving sustainable development.
Sustainable development in the B&B TOOLS Group focuses on four main areas – financial, environmental, social and ethical responsibility – and is based on a long-term and broad commitment to the social impact of the Group’s operations. Combined, this contributes to increased competitiveness.
B&B TOOLS considers corporate responsibility to be a natural commitment and strives to participate in an open, objective and transparent dialogue with all stakeholders regarding its operations. The Group’s responsibility is widespread and spans four different areas:
• Financial responsibility – an orderly approach, accurate reporting and accounting, as well as internal and external auditing.
• Environmental responsibility – environmental awareness, lifecycle analysis and sustainable resource usage (for such purposes as packaging solutions and transportation).
• Social responsibility – satisfied employees, diversity and community involvement.
• Ethical responsibility – values, business ethics, Code of Conduct, human rights,
production monitoring and product liability.
The Parent Company’s Board of Directors establishes policies every year for such areas as environmental responsibility, occupational health and safety, quality and social responsi- bility. The Group’s units adapt their goals and action plans to these policies.
Several of the Group’s businesses are environmentally and quality certified. Since spring 2012, the Group’s business areas and business infrastructure unit (supply chain and IT) have held what is known as a multisite certificate for environmental (ISO 14001), occupa- tional health and safety (OHASA 18001) and quality (ISO 9001) management. TOOLS uses a shared quality and environmental management system for the chain's members, most of which are certified in accordance with ISO 9001 and ISO 14001, as is Momentum.
The Group continuously endeavours to raise the awareness and involvement of its employees with regard to sustainability issues. Sustainability activities are led by Group management, with support from a network of environmental, quality and work environ- ment managers in the Group. This network makes it easier to establish contact, transfer skills and share experiences.
THE GROUP’S ETHICAL GUIDELINES
B&B TOOLS’ Code of Conduct pertains to all employees in the Group and underlines the importance of ethically correct behaviour and respect for human rights. The Code of Con- duct also makes demands on suppliers, including proof of compliance with the relevant laws in their particular country and the intentions of the Code of Conduct. These supplier requirements are further clarified in a separate Supplier Code of Conduct and via an online tool that allows suppliers to perform a self-assessment of how well they have complied with requirements and guidelines for sustainability. The Group also conducts regular factory audits, during which the factories are inspected on site. These inspections are performed by B&B TOOLS’ staff, as well as third parties and focus on quality, the environ- ment, social conditions, occupational health and safety, and ethics. This work strengthens the collaboration between B&B TOOLS and its suppliers.
ENVIRONMENT
The Group’s environmental impact primarily arises from transportation, energy consump- tion and packaging materials. This impact must be reduced insofar as this is technically feasible, economically viable and environmentally justified.
COMPETENCY AND SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT
   B&B TOOLS ANNUAL REPORT 2013/14 7

OPERATING AREAS
    2013/2014
 1,071
235
          2012/2013
Revenue, MSEK 1,057 Average number of employees 238
PRODUCT AREAS/BRANDS: Tools and machinery – products and services in the categories of hand tools, torque technology, measurement technology, metal and woodworking machinery, cutting tools and compressed air technology. The offering includes comprehensive concepts with products from leading external suppliers and proprietary brands, such as Teng Tools, Luna, Ferax and Limit.
®
                 CUSTOMER SEGMENTS (END CUSTOMERS)
Industrial sector 60%
Construction sector 21%
Do-it-yourself (DIY)/ private market 5% Other sectors 14%
WHAT ARE YOUR MAIN COMPETITIVE ADVANTAGES?
By combining well-packaged, clear cate- gory concepts comprising strong brands and a market-leading product breadth, we are able to offer adapted offerings to meet most needs. By providing added value in the form of expertise, we help make our customers’ operations easier and more profitable.
HOW DO YOU PLAN
TO STRENGTHEN YOUR
MARKET POSITION?
The single most important factor is having the presence and relationships needed to increase our volumes. Geographically speaking, we continue to focus on strengthening our position in our main markets. For Teng Tools, we have also identified additional international expansion opportunities.
HOW WOULD YOU DESCRIBE THE PAST YEAR?
The fact that revenue and earnings increased in the majority of our markets is very positive. I am also pleased with our progress in our efforts to clarify and develop our offering. The continued development of Teng Tools development will also be important for our future performance.
LUNA meets unique customer requirements in the industrial, construction and public administration sectors by offering the market’s broadest range of strong brands and concepts for tools, machinery and related consulting and services. Luna’s offering reaches the company’s knowledgeable customers via resellers in more than 20 countries.
OPERATIONS
Luna’s offering is targeted at quality-conscious customers operating primarily in the industrial and construction sectors, as well as the public administration sector, through local resellers in the Nordic region, the Baltic States and Poland. The company’s offering also attracts customers in the offshore, automotive and DIY segments. Luna’s operations are managed from Alingsås, Sweden, with sales offices in Norway, Denmark, Finland, Poland and the Baltic States. Thanks to its Teng Tools brand, the company has an international network including some 20 distributors in, for example, the UK, the Benelux countries, Australia and New Zealand. The company’s own purchasing offices in Shanghai and Taiwan are responsible for ensure the continuous supply and delivery quality of products.
OFFERING
Luna has a broad offering of tools and machinery supplemented with various services. Training in function, handling, safety and product display, as well as services such as calibration and installation, are important components of the company’s offering. In addition to brands from external suppliers, proprietary brands such as Luna, Limit and Ferax strengthen the product range. Luna’s largest brand, Teng Tools, provides tool storage, organisational solutions and hand tools for demanding customers under
a single, cohesive concept.
MARKET
On the whole, the demand situation in Luna’s markets is somewhat more positive than in recent years, particularly for the target groups pursued through specialist construction retailers, while the industrial sector has yet to show signs of increased demand. At the same time, the structure of the industry is changing and competition is intensifying as a result of consolidation, cross-segment merchandising and e-commerce. Luna has the prerequisites to capitalise on the business opportunities being created by these changes by utilising its in-depth understanding of customer needs and its product and market expertise to package customised solutions.
2013/2014 OPERATING YEAR
Luna reported favourable volumes and earnings trend in most of its markets, although a full effect was not achieved due to a decline of the Norwegian krone (NOK). Sales through construction chains in Sweden and Norway experienced a positive trend as
a result of stronger demand and increased market shares. Teng Tools reported strong sales through its international network of distributors. The company’s performance during the year was also impacted by the adjustments and investments made to boost its future competitiveness.
                               Stefan Lind CEO OF LUNA
8 B&B TOOLS ANNUAL REPORT 2013/14

OPERATING AREAS
     2013/2014
 1,168
167
      2012/2013
Revenue, MSEK 1,079
                           Average number of employees
170
                                                CUSTOMER SEGMENTS (END CUSTOMERS)
Industrial sector 59%
Construction sector 11%
Do-it-yourself (DIY)/ private market 6% Other sectors 24%
WHAT DOES “THE BEST CHOICE FOR CUSTOMERS” MEAN TO YOU? A long-term, committed partner that focuses on the needs of the user. This creates the conditions for a safer work- place, easier use of personal protective equipment and increased profitability through improved productivity and
a reduction in total costs.
WHAT ARE YOUR MAIN FUTURE DEVELOPMENT AREAS?
We are continuously broadening our distribution network to include more resellers and end customers and imple- menting various skills development activities for us and our customers.
We also continue to improve our brands. In 2014, Cresto, Guide and Zekler were awarded the Red Dot Design Award for best product design – a major recognition from the global community for first-class quality and design!
HOW WOULD YOU DESCRIBE THE PAST YEAR?
It was an eventful year, with varying conditions in each market and customer segment. Despite a cautious market, we successfully managed to maintain our growth rate over the full year.
PRODUCT AREAS/BRANDS: Personal protective equipment such as head, ear, eye and breathing protection, gloves, shoes, work clothes, fall protection, first aid equipment, signs and skin products. The offering includes services, products from external suppliers and the proprietary brands Guide, L.Brador, Cresto and Zekler.
SKYDDA helps equip workplaces exposed to risks with
the right personal protection solution and ensure that the equipment is used correctly. The company has extensive expertise and knowledge regarding legislation, regulations and work environment issues. Combined with the market’s broadest range of products from leading suppliers, interna- tionally recognised proprietary brands and services, this allows Skydda to meet the needs of its end customers.
OPERATIONS
Skydda is a leading supplier of personal protection solutions and equipment for pro- fessional customers in the Nordic industrial and construction sectors. The company’s goal is to help create the safest and most efficient work environment possible. Sales are mainly conducted through resellers and the company’s end customers include indus- trial and construction companies, public administrations and professional “do-it- yourselfers” (DIY).
OFFERING
Skydda has developed its offering based on solid know-how and practical experience of the needs and work environments of its users and the prevailing regulations in the area. The company’s carefully selected product range includes work clothes, work shoes, work gloves, technical protection equipment and fall protection from leading suppliers and proprietary product development. Skydda also offers various types of services for both resellers and end customers, including risk analysis, periodic safety inspections, technical support, training, product selection, product range optimisa- tion, store concept development, logistics and IT solutions.
MARKET
Greater awareness of the need for personal protective equipment and an increased focus on legislation and regulations – combined with continued higher demand for more professional and advanced equipment – are driving demand for Skydda’s offering. At the same time, the weak economic situation in the industrial sector has had an adverse impact on sales in recent years. Thanks to a solid understanding of its customers’ needs, an efficient sales channel, continuous product development and long-term collaboration with end customers, resellers and manufacturers, Skydda has become
an attractive business partner for the future.
2013/2014 OPERATING YEAR
Skydda increased its volumes and earnings during the year, strengthening its position throughout the Nordic region. Skydda’s approach to attracting end customers – focusing on the customer’s needs together with its reseller partners – as well as the company’s cutting-edge expertise and brands, targeted training programmes and effective store concept solutions, contributed to this positive trend. The past year also marked an increase in sales to the DIY segment through the company’s strong business partners
in both the Nordic region and Germany.
                                             Mikael Malmgren CEO OF SKYDDA
B&B TOOLS ANNUAL REPORT 2013/14 9

OPERATING AREAS
      2013/2014
 767
164
                        CUSTOMER SEGMENTS (END CUSTOMERS)
Industrial sector 30%
Construction sector 57%
Do-it-yourself (DIY)/ private market 2% Other sectors 11%
WHAT ARE YOU FOCUING ON IN ORDER TO ACHIEVE P/WC > 45%? We plan to continue focusing on strength- ening our position in our main markets. We aim to grow by adding new product offerings. During the year, for example, we launch a range of nail guns under our proprietary brand and broaden our offer- ing of adhesives and joint seals. We also aim to expand our geographic spread throughout Europe.
WHAT ARE SOME KEY MARKET TRENDS AT THE MOMENT?
We have seen an ongoing and increasing consolidation among our customer base, as well as positive market growth in the company’s main markets. Demand for documented premium products that meet a harmonised standard, such as CE, is on the rise.
HOW WOULD YOU DESCRIBE
THE PAST YEAR?
A very eventful year during which a num- ber of prioritised projects were introduced. A year in which our product and sales organisations both delivered results that were well beyond our expectations.
2012/2013
Revenue, MSEK 708 Average number of employees 175
PRODUCT AREAS/BRANDS: ESSVE’s product areas are faste- ning elements, screws, nails, adhesives, joint seals and fire seals. The company's proprietary brands include ESSVE and FireSeal (fire seals only).
ESSVE supplies solutions for attaching components made from various materials, with the most comprehensive offer- ing on the market. The company offers a full professional range of screws, fastening elements, nails, adhesives, joint seals and fire seals – all under proprietary brands. With innovative products launched regularly and a clear aim
to always be perceived as the best choice for customers, ESSVE holds a leading position in the Nordic market.
OPERATIONS
ESSVE focuses exclusively on professional craftsmen, from product and service development to marketing and sales via the company’s resellers. Since 1970, Nordic craftsmen have chosen ESSVE for its innovative fastening and installation solutions. Sales are conducted through resellers, mainly in Northern and Eastern Europe. The company’s sales personnel possess cutting-edge expertise and provides continuous user support to help select the right fastening and installation solution, both through ESSVE’s resellers and on-site at the customer’s construction site.
OFFERING
The company’s broad product range includes everything from traditional nails to innovative solutions for heavy duty wood, concrete and steel installations. ESSVE’s products and packaging solutions lead the market when it comes to quality and func- tionality and the ESSVE brand has achieved “top of mind awareness” in the company’s main markets. ESSVE also offers services that make fastening work easier, safer and more profitable, such as on-site container solutions, on-site tests and designer support.
MARKET
European resellers impose strict demands when it comes to finding innovative, skilled business partners, which makes ESSVE even more attractive as a principal supplier. In recent years, several reseller chains have expressed their desire to expand their partnership with ESSVE. Establishing joint action plans with resellers is a top priority in the company’s efforts to be the best choice of supplier for its customers when it comes to fastening elements.
2013/2014 OPERATING YEAR
ESSVE is the market’s fastest growing brand in the category of professional fastening elements. The company established partnerships with some 100 new Nordic resellers during the year, which gives the potential to continue capturing market shares in 2014/2015. Given ESSVE’s strong market position, the company decided to streamline its product portfolio during the year by eliminating external brands and instead focusing exclusively on its proprietary brands FireSeal and ESSVE. A number of new products were launched during the year in order to ensure a comprehensive offering, including a new range of nuts and bolts, as well as nails. During the year, ESSVE also completed the process of CE marking its screw range in compliance with the EU directive on construction products.
           Pontus Boman CEO OF ESSVE
10 B&B TOOLS ANNUAL REPORT 2013/14

OPERATING AREAS
      2013/2014
 507
49
               CUSTOMER SEGMENTS (END CUSTOMERS)
Industrial sector 42%
Construction sector 45%
Do-it-yourself (DIY)/ private market 2% Other sectors 11%
WHAT DOES “THE BEST CHOICE FOR CUSTOMERS” MEAN TO YOU? Helping our customers and resellers understand one another and do business. Our offering needs to be attractive to our end customers, with clear information that makes it easy to choose the right product. Our offering must also be easy for resellers to sell, with effective support when it comes to product range, cam- paigns, seasons and exposure.
WHAT ARE YOU FOCUING
ON IN ORDER TO ACHIEVE
P/WC > 45 PERCENT?
For Grunda, the key to increased profita- bility lies in more efficient logistics that offer greater customer value and lower costs – two equally important factors.
HOW WOULD YOU DESCRIBE
THE PAST YEAR?
A strong year during which we captured market shares in both Norway and Sweden. We continued developing our product concepts, which were met with a good response in the market. At the same time, our relatively new national sales organisa- tions began to truly establish themselves in the market and build strong relation- ships with our resellers.
2012/2013
Revenue, MSEK 489 Average number of employees 51
PRODUCT AREAS/BRANDS: Industrial and construction consu- mables in a number of areas: gardening, construction, water and sanitation, lifting and loading, kitchen fixtures, cleaning, electrical devices and lighting, locks and fittings.
GRUNDA supplies specialist construction and industrial retailers with a carefully selected range of strong brands
in the areas of building materials, gardening, water and sanitation, kitchen fixtures and cleaning. The company also offers cutting-edge expertise and leading proprietary pro- ducts in its niche areas within electrical devices and lighting, locks and fittings. Grunda’s broad offering, strong product concepts, high level of service and efficient logistics contri- bute to increased profitability for the company’s customers.
OPERATIONS
Grunda supplies specialist construction retailers and the TOOLS chain with a compre- hensive offering and strong brands in selected product areas, including construction, gardening, lifting, loading and more. The offering in the product areas of electrical devices and lighting and locks and fittings is supplemented with the company’s own strong product concepts, which challenge the other players in the market. Grunda’s contact with end customers take place exclusively through resellers, with whom the company aims to be a creative partner that generates new business opportunities in its various product areas.
OFFERING
In addition to a competitive product range, Grunda focuses on creating an offering
that provides resellers with various tools for ensuring favourable profitability. A solid understanding of the local business climate, store solutions that promote and optimise sales, customer-oriented sales support and joint profitability analyses are a few examples of key activities conducted by the company.
MARKET
While the Nordic market for industrial and construction consumables has, on the whole, been relatively weak in recent years, demand has gradually increased, particu- larly among specialist construction retailers. The company’s competitors include both wholesalers with broad product ranges and niche players competing with Grunda’s proprietary product concepts.
2013/2014 OPERATING YEAR
Grunda increased its revenue and strengthened its earnings significantly compared with the preceding year. The Swedish market remained cautious until the fourth quarter of the year, at which point demand improved. Growth in Norway was favourable thanks to a successful establishment in the construction market during the year.
           Olof Nyberg
CEO OF GRUNDA
B&B TOOLS ANNUAL REPORT 2013/14 11

OPERATING AREAS
    2013/2014
 366
89
                       CUSTOMER SEGMENTS (END CUSTOMERS)
Industrial sector 76% Construction sector 23% Other sectors 1%
WHAT ARE YOUR MAIN COMPETITIVE ADVANTAGES?
We don’t simply sell equipment – we create attractive, efficient and safe work- places and meet customers’ needs by pro- viding knowledge and solutions, always supplied by us or our expert resellers.
WHAT ARE SOME KEY MARKET TRENDS AT THE MOMENT?
In short term, things look optimistic and we expect a marginal increase in demand in the coming years. In the long term, we anticipate a higher degree of automation with an increased focus on human- machine integration when designing workplaces and stricter demands on safety and work environment. As the lead- ing expert in tomorrow’s industrial work- places, we see this as an exciting trend!
HOW WOULD YOU DESCRIBE
THE PAST YEAR?
The past year was both challenging and eventful, with some difficult decisions and rationalisation measures. During the second half of the year, demand increased in all markets and the measures we had taken began to yield results. Overall, this means that we are entering the new oper- ating year with a strong trend and a clear sense of confidence.
2012/2013
Revenue, MSEK 375 Average number of employees 93
PRODUCT AREAS/BRANDS: Workplace equipment, environme- ntal assurance, lifting devices and devices for securing loads under proprietary brands and with strong business partners.
GIGANT is the expert in industrial workplaces and delivers workplace equipment, lifting devices, devices for securing loads and environmental assurance services. The company has been active in the Nordic market for more than 20 years and is currently the leading Nordic supplier of work- place equipment for industrial operations, warehouses and engineering businesses. Gigant has the resources and expertise needed to create efficient, safe and, not least, attractive workplaces.
OPERATIONS
Gigant is characterised by its ability to meet customers’ industrial workplace needs, solving each individual requirement in the most efficient manner possible. Most of the company’s sales are conducted through industrial resellers, which is an effective way to distribute knowledge and products to meet customers’ continuous needs. For more complex projects, Gigant’s sales personnel are always on hand to create a comprehen- sive solution – often, but not always, in cooperation with a reseller partner.
OFFERING
Gigant’s offering is designed to enhance the efficiency of Nordic industrial workplaces with the help of products and services. The company has a broad, in-depth offering that cannot be matched by any other player in the market. A key component of this offering is the drawing and estimate programme Gigant3D, which visualises the pro- posed solutions for the end customer and provides a clear cost estimate.
MARKET
No other players in the market have chosen to focus on such a broad offering for indus- trial workplaces, which gives Gigant a unique position. The company’s competitors include various catalogue companies, which focus on recurring sales of workplace equipment to offices and industrial customers, as well as niche companies in environ- mental assurance and lifting and load-securing devices. The industry has become more aware of the need for efficient and attractive workplaces, which will benefit Gigant going forward.
2013/2014 OPERATING YEAR
Gigant’s overall revenue declined slightly, with a weak start to the year followed by
a strong year-end with increased demand and a higher rate of activity. The company implemented extensive efficiency enhancement measures during the year, which has created a strong platform for the future.
          Olof Nyberg CEO OF GIGANT
12 B&B TOOLS ANNUAL REPORT 2013/14

OPERATING AREAS
    2013/2014
 951
291
                         CUSTOMER SEGMENTS (END CUSTOMERS)
Industrial sector 93% Construction sector 2% Other sectors 5%
WHAT DOES “THE BEST CHOICE FOR CUSTOMERS” MEAN TO YOU? We aim to be the best at understanding our customers’ needs and suggesting the best solutions when it comes to improving the service life and energy efficiency of a product and to sustainable development in general. Our local presence makes us agile and flexible, and we work in close partnership with some of the market’s best suppliers.
WHAT ARE SOME KEY MARKET TRENDS AT THE MOMENT?
Today, customers are imposing increasingly strict demands on documented added value, which means we must be able to provide proven savings for the customer based on our products and services. We are also seeing greater demand for services
– with an increasing focus on sustainability. Going forward, we must continue to demonstrate expertise and a proactive approach in both our core operations and our growth areas.
HOW WOULD YOU DESCRIBE THE PAST YEAR?
Despite a weak economic climate, our development remained stable. We main- tained our revenue and reported a posi- tive operating trend. I would say we had a very strong year.
2012/2013
Revenue, MSEK 957 Average number of employees 297
PRODUCT AREAS/BRANDS: High-quality industrial components in the areas of bearings, seals, transmission, automation, indu- strial lubricants and chemical products. The range includes pro- ducts from such companies as SKF, SMC and Optibelt.
MOMENTUM is one of the Nordic region’s leading suppliers of industrial components for the industrial sector. The com- pany maintains a local stock of inventories and conducts sales in some 30 locations in Sweden, in addition to oper- ating subsidiaries in Norway and Denmark. Momentum’s local workshops also offer repairs and maintenance of various products, such as pumps, gears and engines.
OPERATIONS
Momentum’s business concept and offering are based on the concept of making industrial customers’ everyday operations easier, safer and more profitable by offering them products and services at the lowest total cost. At the most basic level, the company aims to help Nordic industrial companies minimise their production downtime.
To achieve this goal, the company provides high-quality industrial components combined with a broad range of services.
OFFERING
Momentum aims to contribute to increased profitability for its customers. Accordingly, the product range includes products from world-leading manufacturers and suppliers, such as SKF, SMC, Optibelt, Simrit, Renold, GA Lindberg, Klinger and Huhnseal, with whom the company engages in a close and highly rewarding collaboration. Momentum also offers services in such areas as logistics, administration, training, workshops and civil engineering.
As of 2008, Momentum provides what is known as electromechanical component service, meaning repairs and maintenance of various products, such as pumps, gears and engines. This service area offers favourable growth opportunities and the company currently has its own workshops in a total of seven locations in southern and central Sweden.
MARKET
The company’s customers primarily operate in the processing and manufacturing industry, including paper and pulp, sawmill, automotive, food, mining and engineering companies. In recent years, parts of the market, such as the paper and pulp industry, have been characterised by weak economic conditions, while others, such as the food industry, have experience a relatively stable trend. Momentum’s targeted focus on renovations and repairs of electromechanical components in proprietary workshops has had a positive impact on the company’s earnings.
2013/2014 OPERATING YEAR
Although the economic situation in the industrial sector remained cautious, Momentum’s revenue remained largely unchanged and the company reported a positive earnings trend. Momentum continued to streamline its processes and reduce its costs. Another reason for the company’s favourable earnings was its continued focus on service and electromechanical maintenance at its proprietary workshops.
          Jimmy Norlinder
CEO OF MOMENTUM
B&B TOOLS ANNUAL REPORT 2013/14 13

OPERATING AREAS
    2013/2014
 Sweden
 Norway
 Finland
 1,878
 1,611
 701
662
394
266
61
 29
 28
  2,200
 2,600
 701
86%
62%
100%
80
58
28
76%
 50%
 100%
              CUSTOMER SEGMENTS (END CUSTOMERS)
Industrial sector 58%
Construction sector 13%
Do-it-yourself (DIY)/ private market 4% Other sectors 25%
Revenue, MSEK
Average number of employees Number of branches
– INCLUDING TOOLS PARTNERS
Total revenue, MSEK (approx.)
of which, wholly owned operations
Total number of branches
of which, wholly owned operations
2012/2013
Sweden Norway Finland
1,983 1,578 725 750 384 278 65 29 27
2,300 2,400 725 86% 61% 100% 83 58 27 78% 50% 100%
         PRODUCT AREAS/BRANDS: High-quality industrial consumables – tools, machinery, personal protective equipment and industrial consumables. The range includes products from world-leading manufacturers and suppliers, with approximately 50 percent attributable to the Group’s business areas.
  TOOLS is the largest industrial reseller chain in the Nordic region specialising in tools, machinery, personal protective equipment and industrial consumables for the professional market. The chain, which is currently active in Sweden, Norway and Finland, comprises both wholly owned TOOLS businesses and a number of independent partner companies. TOOLS works with the market’s leading suppliers.
OPERATIONS
Good advice and quick deliveries can make the difference between a good day and a bad day. Craftsmen and industrial workers may not give a lot of thought to the tools and equipment they use in their everyday work. They are focused on the job at hand – that is, until their tools begin to break or they do not have the equipment needed. When this happens, it is crucial that the right product is available in stock or deliv- ered as quickly as possible. That is why TOOLS offers a broad product range with the “best-stocked warehouse in the Nordic region” combined with a number of value- added services. With 170 locations in Sweden, Norway and Finland, the chain’s 1,700 dedicated employees deliver the right solutions every day to help customers get the job done – safely and efficiently.
OFFERING
TOOLS’ well-stocked warehouse is no coincidence. The company’s broad product range was developed and expanded based on a genuine interest in customers’ every- day operations. This allows the chain to also offer services and training that can contribute to increased profitability and quality for the customer, as well as improvements in the area of occupational health and safety. TOOLS offers everything from training in the use of personal protec- tive equipment to customised, efficient supply solutions.
MARKET
Growth in the Nordic market for industrial consumables is closely related to the overall production trend and the number of employees in the industrial sector. Industrial production, in turn, is strongly linked to the performance of major export companies in the Nordic region. In recent years, the weak economic situation in the industrial sector – primarily in Finland and Sweden – has had an adverse impact on TOOLS’ operations in these countries, while the trend in Norway has remained strong. Other key market areas for TOOLS are the construction and public administra- tion sectors, where demand has been rela- tively stable.
2013/2014 OPERATING YEAR
TOOLS Norway reported positive revenue and earnings during the year, particularly for customers in the oil and gas sector.
Sales and earnings for TOOLS Sweden were impacted by continued cautious demand in the Swedish market, combined with temporary negative effects of the tran- sition to centralised logistics and a shared business system. The new processes in the Swedish operations began functioning better and better toward the end of the operating year.
Although the market remained very weak, TOOLS Finland reported positive earnings for the year, having implemented cost-saving measures and positive changes
to the customer and product mix.
During the year, TOOLS completed its extensive work to coordinate the three countries’ operations under the shared business systems used in the individual countries. This will enable continued streamlining and cost savings – and create an excellent market platform, for customers and suppliers alike. With a strong customer focus, a product range adapted to meet customer needs and improved efficiency
in all processes, the aim is to increase TOOLS’ share in each market.
14 B&B TOOLS ANNUAL REPORT 2013/14

OPERATING AREAS
          Torbjörn Eriksson
CEO OF TOOLS Sweden
WHY SHOULD CUSTOMERS CHOOSE YOU?
We free up our customers’ time and provide them with a sense of security. Our custom- ers can focus on their operations while
we deliver industrial consumables and related services. We offer an efficient solution that provides a sound overall economy for the customer.
HOW DO YOU PLAN
TO STRENGTHEN YOUR
MARKET POSITION?
We plan to continue strengthening our position in the areas where we hold extensive expertise and also to work with a clearer product offering for which our level of availability will be even higher than today.
HOW WOULD YOU DESCRIBE
THE PAST YEAR?
This has been an intense year, during which we faced significant challenges in the market and worked hard to improve our earnings performance – partly through a major transition to centralised finance and logistics functions and a shared business system. At the same time, we also worked extensively on creating our basic platform for future growth and for providing customers with a higher level of service – now and in the future.
WHAT ARE YOUR MAIN COMPETITIVE ADVANTAGES? Our most important competitive advan- tages are that we have the broadest product range in the market, a local presence and solid access to expertise and information.
WHY SHOULD CUSTOMERS CHOOSE YOU?
TOOLS is a comprehensive supplier of products and services that help customers achieve a healthier workplace, reduce contamination and avoid injuries.
WHAT ARE SOME KEY MARKET TRENDS AT THE MOMENT? Customers are increasingly expecting customised solutions – preferably with an e-commerce connection – and consoli- dation among market players is ongoing.
HOW WOULD YOU DESCRIBE
THE PAST YEAR?
Overall, we had a good year – with strong trends in the oil and gas sector, as well
as the construction and civil engineering sector. It was also gratifying to complete the coordination of all of our operations under a shared business system – which create a strong platform for our continued development.
WHAT DOES “THE BEST CHOICE FOR CUSTOMERS” MEAN TO YOU? Truly understanding our customers’ needs and looking for the best solution to meet those needs.
WHY SHOULD CUSTOMERS CHOOSE YOU?
Because of our extensive technical exper- tise and outstanding service. As a partner, we are able to improve our customers’ profitability.
HOW DO YOU PLAN
TO STRENGTHEN YOUR
MARKET POSITION?
By working even more closely with the customer and enlisting the support of leading suppliers and brands to continu- ously find new solutions that meet the customer’s needs.
HOW WOULD YOU DESCRIBE THE PAST YEAR?
In a challenging market situation, our “local heroes” throughout the operations succeeded in increasing our market share and improving our customer and product mix. Overall, this allowed us to maintain our earnings for the year, despite a reduc- tion in revenue.
Jens Henriksen
CEO OF TOOLS Norway
“Our main strengths are our proximity to customers, our extensive expertise, the right range of products and services, and our efficient supply solutions.”
Mika Kärki
CEO OF TOOLS Finland
B&B TOOLS ANNUAL REPORT 2013/14 15

 ADMINISTRATION REPORT WITH CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT
 ADMINISTRATION REPORT
WITH CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT 1 APRIL 2013 – 31 MARCH 2014
The Board of Directors and President & CEO of B&B TOOLS AB (publ), Corporate Registration Number 556034-8590, hereby submit the Annual Report and consolidated financial statements for the 1 April 2013 – 31 March 2014 financial year. The following Corporate Governance Report, income statements, balance sheets, statements of comprehensive income, statements of changes in equity, cash-flow statements and notes constitute an integrated part of the Annual Report and have been reviewed by the Company’s auditors.
 PROFIT AND REVENUE
Profit
The B&B TOOLS Group’s operating profit for the financial year increased by 18 percent to MSEK 340 (289). Non-recurring items had an impact of MSEK 0 (+51) on profit. Operating profit was charged with depreciation and impairment losses of MSEK -40 (-42) on tangible non-current assets and amortisation and impairment losses of MSEK -5 (-24) on intangible non- current assets. Exchange-rate translation effects had a net impact of MSEK -8 (+1) on recognised operating profit for the year.
The operating margin for the year increased to 4.4 percent (3.8). Excluding non-recurring items, the operating margin was 4.4 percent (3.1).
Profit after net financial items totalled MSEK 286 (216). Net financial items amounted to MSEK -54 (-73). The profit margin was 3.7 percent (2.8).
Profit after taxes amounted to MSEK 214 (222). Earnings per share totalled SEK 7.60 (7.90).
Revenue
Revenue amounted to MSEK 7,648 (7,666). Exchange-rate translation effects had a negative impact of MSEK -128 (-67) on revenue.
Revenue for comparable units, measured in local currency, increased by approxi- mately 1 percent during the financial year. Revenue for comparable units for the fourth quarter (January to March), measured in local currency, increased by approxima- tely 7 percent. Adjusted for both currency effects and the number of trading days, revenue was largely unchanged during the financial year.
OPERATIONS
It was an eventful and important year for B&B TOOLS that ended on 31 March 2014.
The past financial year provided the Company with an opportunity to focus more intently on its customers, as well as on growth, profitability and development. During the year, Group management estab- lished clear guidelines for the future, which together serve as a framework for all of B&B TOOLS’ operations and their decentralised responsibility for achieving the business objective of a P/WC of at least 45 percent.
The market situation for the Group's units varied depending on geography and customer segment. Overall, the Group delivered improved earnings as a result
of growth in certain areas of operation, effi- ciency enhancement and reduced costs.
TOOLS / Momentum –
sales directly to end customers
TOOLS and Momentum are the B&B TOOLS Group’s market channels for indus- trial consumables and industrial compo- nents for Nordic industry. Via TOOLS and Momentum, the Group has a presence in some 200 locations in Sweden, Norway and Finland.
Revenue for comparable units in TOOLS, measured in local currency, was unchanged during the financial year. The earnings trend for Momentum remained positive with a strong operating margin for the year and largely unchanged revenue.
Revenue for TOOLS Norway, measured in local currency, increased by approxi- mately 8 percent during the financial year. The operating margin for TOOLS Norway increased to 4.2 percent for the year. The weak economic situation experienced by Finnish industry during the financial year had a negative impact on TOOLS Finland’s sales and earnings performance, and reve- nue, measured in local currency, declined by -5 percent during the year. At the same time, improvements to the customer and product mix combined with previously
implemented cost-saving measures impacted the unit's earnings performance, and oper- ating profit remained unchanged compared with the preceding year at MSEK 2.
Revenue for TOOLS Sweden decreased by -5 percent during the financial year. The unit’s ongoing efforts to increase its efficiency and reduce its costs using its new joint IT and logistics solutions had a posi- tive impact on the earnings trend, and the operating loss, excluding non-recurring items, improved to MSEK -45 (-52).
Business Areas – sales via resellers
The Group’s business areas – Luna, Skydda, ESSVE and Gigant & Grunda – supply TOOLS and other market channels with industrial consumables and related services. Revenue for comparable units, measured in local currency, for the Group’s business areas increased by a total of 6 percent dur- ing the financial year.
Revenue for ESSVE and Skydda, meas- ured in local currency, increased by 10 percent and 9 percent, respectively, during the year – with strong growth attributable to a number of key customers, particularly in the area construction materials. At the same time, operating profit for ESSVE and Skydda increased sharply to MSEK 43 (+760 percent compared with the preced- ing year) and MSEK 86 (+34 percent), respectively. Luna continued to report stable earnings, with an operating margin of 7.8 percent for the year and a particularly strong trend for proprietary product brands such as Teng Tools. Gigant & Grunda reported favourable sales and earnings trends and operating profit for the full financial year increased by 175 percent to MSEK 11 (4). Efforts to reduce the business areas’ inventories (working capital) yielded positive results during the year.
On 1 April 2014, the former business area Gigant & Grunda was divided into two
16 B&B TOOLS ANNUAL REPORT 2013/14

units, which in the future will be reported as two separate operating areas.
Group-wide and eliminations
An operating loss of MSEK -14 (116) was reported for “Group-wide” for the financial year, of which non-recurring items had an impact of MSEK 0 (+155) on profit.
Eliminations for intra-Group inventory gains had an impact of MSEK –14 (–6) on earnings during the year.
Parent Company
The Parent Company’s revenue amounted to MSEK 35 (48) and profit after net finan- cial items to MSEK 513 (32). These results include Group contributions, intra-Group dividends and other corresponding items totalling MSEK 417 (38).
Following a resolution passed by the Annual General Meeting in August 2013, 13 members of senior management were offer ed an opportunity to acquire a maxi- mum of 169,000 call options on repur- chased Class B shares. When fully exer- cised, the number of outstanding Class B shares will increase by 169,000, corre- sponding to 0.6 percent of the total number of shares and 0.4 percent of the votes.
The redemption price for the call options is SEK 101.90 and the redemption period is from 12 September 2016 until 9 June 2017, inclusive.
CORPORATE ACQUISITIONS
No corporate acquisitions were imple- mented during the financial year.
PROFITABILITY
The Group’s profitability, measured as the return on working capital, P/WC (operating profit in relation to working capital*), increased to 20 percent (15) for the finan- cial year. The return on capital employed was 10 percent (8) and the return on equity 10 percent (11).
* Working capital = Inventories + Accounts receivable – Accounts payable.
CASH FLOW AND FINANCIAL POSITION
Cash flow from operating activities before changes in working capital for the financial year amounted to MSEK 170 (156). Funds tied up in working capital decreased by MSEK 40 (106). During the year, the Group’s inventories decreased by MSEK 69 (175), while operating receivables increased by MSEK 96 (-18). Operating liabilities increased by MSEK 67 (-87). Accordingly, cash flow from operating activities for the year amounted to MSEK 210 (262).
Cash flow for the financial year was also adversely impacted in a net amount of MSEK -47 (-41) by the acquisition and sale
of tangible non-current assets. Eight Group properties in Sweden and Finland were disposed of during the year through a con- veyance of shares in the subsidiaries that in turn owned the properties. These property sales had a marginal impact on earnings per share and the disposals had a positive impact of MSEK 42 (375) on cash flow.
The Group’s operational net loan liability at the end of the financial year amounted to MSEK 819 (914). Interest-bearing liabilities totalled MSEK 875 (1,132), excluding expensed pension commitments of MSEK 451 (465). Liabilities to credit institutions amounted to MSEK 822 (918), net. Com- bined cash and cash equivalents, including unutilised granted credit facilities, totalled MSEK 489 (514). Maturity periods and interest rates are presented in Note 27 Financial risk management on pages 55 – 60.
The equity/assets ratio at the end of the financial year was 43 percent, compared with 39 percent at the beginning of the year.
Equity per share totalled SEK 78.40 at the end of the financial year, compared with SEK 73.50 at the beginning of the year.
The Swedish tax rate, which also applies to the Parent Company, was 22 percent during the financial year. The Group’s normalised tax rate, with its current geo- graphic mix, is approximately 25 percent.
EMPLOYEES
The number of employees in the Group at the end of the financial year amounted to 2,655, compared with 2,780 at the beginning of the year.
ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT
During the financial year, the Group con- ducted operations subject to permit and reporting requirements in one of its Swedish subsidiaries. None of the Group’s compa- nies is involved in any environmentally related disputes.
A summary of B&B TOOLS’ commitment to environmental and social responsibility is presented on page 7.
DEVELOPMENT OF
PRODUCTS AND SERVICES
With the aim of strengthening and devel- oping B&B TOOLS’ position as one of the leading suppliers of industrial consumables and industrial components to the industrial and construction sectors in the Nordic region, the Group primarily invests its resources in the development of various concepts and service solutions for its customers and partners and in building proprietary product brands. Activities implemented during 2013/2014 included the continued development of various service concepts and customer solutions, product development within the framework
of proprietary brands, the development of logistics and e-commerce solutions for resellers and end customers, and training for end users.
FINANCIAL AND BUSINESS RISKS
Efficient and systematic risk assessment
of financial and business risks is important for the B&B TOOLS Group. The Group’s Financial Policy establishes guidelines and goals for managing financial risks in the Group and regulates the distribution
of responsibility between the Board of Directors of B&B TOOLS AB, the President & CEO and the Chief Financial Officer, as well as the presidents and financial officers of the subsidiaries. All foreign currency management and granting of credit to cus- tomers are handled within the framework of the established policy. For a detailed account of financial and business risks and the B&B TOOLS Group’s management thereof, refer to page 29 and Note 27 Financial risk management on pages 55 – 60.
FUTURE DEVELOPMENT
Market trends in 2014/2015 will be care- fully monitored by the Group’s businesses. During the year, the focus will remain on organic volume growth in existing markets, a continued reduction in costs through increased efficiency and a reduction in funds tied up in working capital in the Group.
In line with B&B TOOLS’ long-term goals, the Group intends to over time con- tinue strengthening its market position as the best choice for customers – in both existing and new markets. The Group com- panies will continue developing services and proprietary product brands, which have accounted for an increased portion of the Group’s total sales in recent years. Economies of scale continue to be generated in the collaboration between various areas of the Group, including shared logistics and IT solutions and product range coordination.
DIVIDEND
The Board of Directors proposes a dividend of SEK 3.50 (3.00) per share. The proposed dividend corresponds to 46 percent of the Group’s earnings per share for the 2013/2014 financial year.
The Board of Directors has assessed the Company’s and the Group’s financial posi- tion and the Company’s and the Group’s ability to meet their short and long-term obligations. A total of approximately MSEK 98 is required for the proposed divi- dend payment, which means that, all other things being equal, the Group’s equity/ assets ratio would decrease 1.9 percentage points as of 31 March 2014. After payment of the proposed dividend and taking into
ADMINISTRATION REPORT WITH CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT
 B&B TOOLS ANNUAL REPORT 2013/14 17
 
 ADMINISTRATION REPORT WITH CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT
 consideration the prevailing market condi- tions, the Company’s and the Group’s equity/assets ratio is deemed to continue to meet the demands placed on the opera- tions conducted by the Group.
The Board’s assessment is that the pro- posed dividend is well balanced taking into account the demands placed on the size of the Company’s and the Group’s equity and liquidity due to the type of busi- ness conducted, its scope and relative risks.
EVENTS AFTER THE END
OF THE FINANCIAL YEAR
After the end of the financial year, another 15 Group properties in Sweden and Finland were disposed of between April and mid-June. These property sales had a marginal impact on earnings per share and the disposals had a positive impact of approximately MSEK 75 on cash flow.
On 1 April 2014, the former business area Work Environment & Consumables
was divided into two units – Gigant and Grunda, which in the future will be reported as two separate operating areas.
No other significant events affecting the Group have occurred after the end of the financial year.
    CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT 2013/14
 THE SWEDISH CORPORATE GOVERNANCE CODE AND B&B TOOLS’ CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT B&B TOOLS applies the Swedish Corporate Governance Code (the “Code”). This Corporate Governance Report for the 2013/2014 financial year was prepared in accordance with the recommendations of the Code. The report also contains an account of the work of the Election Com- mittee in preparation for the 2014 Annual General Meeting. B&B TOOLS deviates
from the recommendations of the Code in three areas: the composition of the Election Committee, the Chairman of the Election Committee and the auditors’ review of the Company’s six-month or nine-month interim reports. These deviations from the Code are reported in further detail in the relevant sections below. The Corporate Governance Report constitutes a part of
the formal annual accounts and has been reviewed by the Company’s auditors.
LEGISLATION AND ARTICLES
OF ASSOCIATION
B&B TOOLS AB primarily applies the Swedish Companies Act and the rules that apply since the Company’s Class B share is listed on NASDAQ OMX Stockholm (“Stockholm Stock Exchange”), as well as best practice in the stock market. The Code is part of the regulations of the Stockholm Stock Exchange. In the course of its opera- tions, B&B TOOLS also complies with the regulations stipulated in B&B TOOLS’
The General Meeting of Shareholders is the Com- pany’s highest decision-making body. The Board of Directors and its Chairman, as well as the auditors, where applicable, are appointed by the Annual General Meeting.
The Election Committee drafts motions to the Annual General Meeting regarding the composition of the Board of Directors.
By order of the Annual General Meeting, it is the duty of the appointed auditors to examine the financial state- ments and the administration of the Board of Directors and the President & CEO during the financial year.
The Board of Directors is ultimately responsible for the Company’s organisation and administration. It is also the duty of the Board to ensure that all sharehold- ers’ interests in B&B TOOLS are provided for. The Board of Directors appoints the President & CEO and the Executive Vice Presidents.
The Audit Committee examines the procedures for risk management, governance, control and financial reporting.
The Compensation Committee prepares motions concerning remuneration levels for the President & CEO, as well as general incentive programmes – sub- ject to the approval of the Board – and decides on remuneration levels for other senior management.
The President & CEO and other members of Group management are responsible for the day-to-day man- agement of B&B TOOLS.
 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE STRUCTURE IN B&B TOOLS
       ELECTION COMMITTEE
COMPENSATION COMMITTEE
SHAREHOLDERS
GENERAL MEETING OF SHAREHOLDERS/ ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING
BOARD OF DIRECTORS
GROUP MANAGEMENT
AUDITORS
AUDIT COMMITTEE
         18 B&B TOOLS ANNUAL REPORT 2013/14

SUMMARY OF BOARD COMPOSITION, ATTENDANCE, FEES AND DEPENDENCY CONDITIONS FOR 2013/2014 Number of meetings attended
Dependent relative to1) Major
B&B TOOLS shareholders
X X
ADMINISTRATION REPORT WITH CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT
 Articles of Association. The appointment
of directors and amendments to the Articles of Association occur in accordance with
the Swedish Companies Act. The Company’s Articles of Association are available in
full on the Company’s website at www.bbtools.com.
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE STRUCTURE
B&B TOOLS AB’s corporate bodies com- prise the Company’s General Meeting of Shareholders, Board of Directors, President & CEO, and auditors. Refer to the illustration on page 18.
SHARE STRUCTURE, SHAREHOLDERS AND REPURCHASE OF OWN SHARES As of 31 March 2014, B&B TOOLS AB had approximately 4,100 shareholders. The share capital amounted to approximately MSEK 57. The distribution by class of share is as follows:
through a public takeover bid for the shares in the company. The Company’s lenders are entitled to cancel approved committed credit facilities if the Company’s shares are delisted from NASDAQ OMX Stockholm or in connection with public takeover bids if the bidder secures a shareholding of more than 50 percent of the number of shares in the Company or controls at least 50 percent of the votes in the Company. Otherwise the Company has not entered into any signifi- cant agreements with suppliers or employ- ees that would be affected, change, expire or stipulate the payment of financial compen- sation should control of the Company change as a result of a public takeover bid for the shares in the Company.
On 31 March 2014, Anders Börjesson and Tom Hedelius each held 12.8 percent of the total number of votes in the Company. Further information regarding B&B TOOLS’ share and ownership structure is presented in the section on the B&B TOOLS share on pages 68 – 69.
Repurchase of own shares
As of 31 March 2013, the number of Class B shares held in treasury totalled 340,000. No changes occurred in the holding of treasury shares during the financial year. Accordingly, the number of Class B shares held in treasury as of 31 March 2014 amounted to 340,000, corresponding to 1.2 percent of the total number of shares and 0.9 percent of the total number of votes. The quotient value of this holding amoun- ted to SEK 680,000 as of 31 March 2014.
Of the total number of Class B shares held in treasury, 169,000 are reserved to secure the Company’s obligations in the call option programme issued by B&B TOOLS AB in September 2013, which extends until 9 June 2017, inclusive.
The redemption price for the call options is SEK 101.90.
ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING 2013
The Annual General Meeting of B&B TOOLS AB was held in Stockholm on
22 August 2013. The notice of the Annual General Meeting and the supporting
documentation for the Meeting were published in accordance with the Company’s Articles of Association. The Meeting was held in Swedish. The notice of the Meeting and other materials were also available in English. A total of 147 shareholders participated in the Meeting, representing a combined total of 62.9 percent of the votes in the Company. All six regular directors and the Company’s auditors attended the Meeting.
The minutes from the Annual General Meeting were made available at B&B TOOLS and on the Company’s website two weeks after the Meeting. The minutes are also available in English.
ELECTION COMMITTEE
The Annual General Meeting in August 2013 resolved to authorise the Chairman of the Board to contact the largest share- holders, in terms of votes, not later than 31 January 2014 and request that they appoint four members who, together with the Chair- man of the Board, will constitute an Elec- tion Committee to prepare motions to the Annual General Meeting 2014 regarding the election of the Board of Directors and audi- tors, fees and any changes to the procedures for the next Election Committee.
In accordance with this authorisation, the Election Committee for the Annual General Meeting in August 2014 comprises Chairman of the Board Anders Börjesson, Björn Franzon (representing Swedbank Robur funds), Tom Hedelius, Conny Karls- son (representing CapMan Public Market Investment) and Per Trygg (representing SEB Funds). The other members appointed Anders Börjesson as Chairman of the Elec- tion Committee. Per Trygg was appointed spokesperson for the Election Committee at the next Annual General Meeting.
The composition of the Election Com- mittee deviates from the rules of the Code, which stipulate that only one of the Board members on the Election Committee may be considered dependent in relation to the Company’s largest shareholders. The reason for this deviation is that it would not other- wise be possible for private individuals to
 Class of share
Class A shares
Class B shares
Total number of shares before repurchasing
Less: Repurchased Class B shares
Total number of shares after repurchasing
As of 31 March 2014
1,067,812 27,368,604
28,436,416
-340,000
28,096,416
All shares carry equal rights to B&B TOOLS AB’s assets and earnings. The Company’s Class A shares entitle the holder to ten votes each and each Class B share entitles the holder to one vote. The Articles of Association contain no limita- tions concerning how many votes each shareholder may cast at the General Meeting of Shareholders. For repurchased shares held in treasury, all rights are waived until such time as the shares are reissued. The Board of Directors is not authorised to make decisions regarding new share issues.
According to Chapter 6, Section 2a of the Swedish Annual Accounts Act, listed com- panies are required to submit information concerning certain circumstances that may affect opportunities to take over the company
   Regular directors
Anders Börjesson Tom Hedelius
Per Axelsson Roger Bergqvist Charlotte Hansson Joakim Rubin
Year of election
1990 1982 2001 2012 2012 2011
Position
Chairman Vice Chairman Director Director Director Director
Audit Compensation Board
Committee Committee of Directors Committees
XX All All XX All All X All All X All All X All All X All All
Fee, SEK
500,000 380,000 250,000 250,000 250,000 250,000
  1) According to the definitions in the Swedish Corporate Governance Code.
B&B TOOLS ANNUAL REPORT 2013/14 19
 
 ADMINISTRATION REPORT WITH CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT
 combine their role as a shareholder with
an active role as member of the Board of Directors and the Election Committee.
The election of the Chairman of the Election Committee also deviates from the rules of the Code, which state that the Chairman of the Election Committee should not be a director of the company. The reason for this deviation is that the other members of the Election Committee feel that it is important that the Chairman of the Election Committee has a solid understanding of the work and composition of the present Board of Directors and can clearly identify any
need for complementary skills.
The Election Committee’s motions
regarding the Board of Directors and audi- tors will be presented in the notice of the 2014 Annual General Meeting. The Election Committee will present and motivate its motion regarding the Board of Directors and auditors on the Company’s website in con- junction with the publication of the notice of the Meeting and at the Annual General Meeting itself.
No separate compensation was paid
for work in the Election Committee during the year.
THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS 2013/2014
The Board of Directors of B&B TOOLS AB currently comprises six regular directors elected by the Annual General Meeting on 22 August 2013, and two employee representatives.
Directors
A detailed presentation of the current Board of Directors, including information on other assignments, is found on page 66.
The dependency conditions for the Board of Directors are presented in the table on page 19.
Duties and work of
the Board of Directors
The Board of Directors is ultimately respon- sible for the Company’s organisation and administration. Based on its analysis of the Company’s operating environment, the Board is also responsible for deciding on strategic matters. In general, the Board of Directors addresses issues of significant importance, such as:
• Adoption of rules of procedure, which include instructions for the President
& CEO. These instructions include the authority to make decisions regarding investments, corporate acquisitions and sales, as well as financing issues.
• Strategy plan.
• Acquisition and sale of companies or
businesses in excess of established amounts.
• Major capital expenditures. • Repurchase of own shares.
The work of the Board of Directors follows an annual plan. In addition to the statutory meeting held in conjunction with the Annual General Meeting, the Board of Directors normally convenes on four occasions each year (regular meetings). Extraordinary meetings are convened when necessary. Each meeting follows an agenda, which together with supporting documentation, is distributed to the directors prior to each Board meeting.
The agenda for the statutory meeting of the Board includes the election of the Vice Chairman, the adoption of the rules of procedure for the Board of Directors, decisions regarding signatory powers and the approval of the minutes. The items addressed at the regular Board meeting in May include the year-end financial state- ments, the proposed allocation of profit and the financial report. In conjunction with this meeting, the Company’s auditors report to the Audit Committee on their observations and assessments based on the audit performed. Each regular meeting also includes a number of fixed agenda items, including reports on the current financial outcome of the Company’s operations.
In addition to the statutory meeting, the Board of Directors convened on nine occasions during the 2013/2014 financial year, four of which were regular meetings and five extraordinary meetings.
Refer to the table on page 19 for infor- mation regarding attendance at Board and committee meetings.
The decisions of the Board, which are based on detailed supporting information, are made after discussions led by the Chairman of the Board. The task of the committees appointed by the Board is to draft motions for decisions by the Board (see also below). Mats Karlqvist, Head of Investor Relations at B&B TOOLS AB, serves as the secretary to the Board.
The Board of Directors evaluates its own work and that of the President & CEO on an ongoing basis. A structured evalua- tion is also performed under the manage- ment of the Chairman of the Board in connection with the regular Board meeting in February each year.
Compensation Committee
The Board of Directors has appointed
a Compensation Committee to prepare motions concerning remuneration to the President & CEO for approval by the Board, to decide on remuneration to other mem- bers of Group management and to draft motions for any incentive programmes.
Guidelines for determining remuneration and other terms of employment for the President & CEO and other members of Group management were adopted by the Annual General Meeting in August 2013 (refer to Note 5 Employees and personnel costs on page 40).
The Compensation Committee consists of Chairman of the Board Anders Börjesson (Chairman of the Compensation Committee) and Vice Chairman of the Board Tom Hedelius. The President & CEO Ulf Lilius presents reports to the Committee.
The Compensation Committee convened on one occasion during the 2013/2014 financial year, during which minutes were taken.
No separate compensation was paid for work on the Compensation Committee during the year.
Audit Committee
The Audit Committee appointed by the Board of Directors is responsible for ana- lysing and discussing the Company’s risk management, governance, internal control and financial reporting. The Committee has contact with the Company’s auditors to discuss such aspects as the focus and scope of the audit work. In connection with the adoption of the year-end financial state- ments, the Company’s external and inter- nal auditors report on their observations over the course of their audit and their assessment of the Company’s internal control. The Committee includes all members of the Board. The Chairman
of the Board also serves as the Chairman of the Audit Committee. The Audit Committee held one meeting during the 2013/2014 financial year, during which minutes were taken.
No separate compensation was paid for work on the Audit Committee during the year.
OPERATIONS OF THE GROUP
During 2013/2014, B&B TOOLS’ Group management comprised ten individuals. As of 1 April 2014, Mika Kärki, CEO of TOOLS Finland, is also a member of Group management. For more detailed informa- tion, refer to page 67.
The President & CEO is responsible for the ongoing management of B&B TOOLS, which includes all issues that are not reserved for the Board of Directors or administered by Group management.
With respect to the authority of the President & CEO to make decisions regarding capital expenditures, corporate acquisitions and sales, and financing issues, the rules approved by the Board of Directors apply.
20 B&B TOOLS ANNUAL REPORT 2013/14

President & CEO
and Group management
Ulf Lilius took office as President & CEO
of B&B TOOLS on 1 November 2012.
Ulf Lilius has been employed by the Group since 2004 and served as CEO of TOOLS Momentum between 2010 and 2012. Ulf Lilius’ previous positions include Marketing and Sales Director and Executive Vice.
As of 1 April 2014, B&B TOOLS’ Group management included ten other individuals: the CEOs of the Group’s operating areas (eight individuals), the Group’s Executive Vice President and the Group’s Chief Financial Officer.
For information regarding Group manage- ment’s holdings of financial instruments in B&B TOOLS, refer to page 67. Remuneration to Group management for the 2013/2014 financial year and a description of the Company’s incentive programmes are pre- sented in Note 5 Employees and personnel costs on pages 38–40.
AUDITORS
At the Annual General Meeting held in August 2013, KPMG AB was re-elected to serve as the Company’s auditor until the adjournment of the 2014 Annual General Meeting. The Company’s Auditor in Charge is Authorised Public Accountant George Pettersson, who also serves as Auditor in Charge for such listed compa- nies as Addtech AB, Holmen AB, Hufvud- staden AB, Kungsleden AB, Nobia AB, Sandvik AB and Skanska AB. Authorised Public Accountant Matilda Schwartzman Berg also serves as the Company’s auditor. Matilda Schwartzman Berg serves as Auditor in Charge for a number of the B&B TOOLS Group’s subsidiaries.
Prior to the Annual General Meeting in August 2014, the Election Committee will propose the election of auditors for the period until the adjournment of the 2015 Annual General Meeting.
ETHICAL GUIDELINES
B&B TOOLS strives to conduct its business with high requirements imposed on integ- rity and ethics. The Board of Directors adopts a Code of Conduct for the Group’s operations on an annual basis, which also includes ethical guidelines. For further details, refer to the page 7. B&B TOOLS’ Code of Conduct is available in its
entirety on the Company’s website at www.bbtools.com.
GUIDELINES FOR DETERMINING REMUNERATION AND OTHER TERMS
OF EMPLOYMENT FOR THE PRESIDENT & CEO AND OTHER MEMBERS OF GROUP MANAGEMENT
The Board aims to ensure that the remuner- ation system in place for the President & CEO and the other members of the Group’s senior management team (“Group manage- ment”) is competitive and in line with market conditions. Accordingly, the Board intends to propose that the Annual General Meeting to be held on 21 August 2014 pass a resolution concerning the 2014/2015 guidelines for determining remuneration and other terms of employment for the President & CEO and other members of Group management that corresponds with the guidelines for remuneration adopted by the Annual General Meeting held in August 2013 (refer to Note 5 Employees and personnel costs on page 40).
INTERNAL CONTROL
OF FINANCIAL REPORTING
According to the Swedish Companies Act and the Swedish Corporate Governance Code, the Board of Directors is responsible for the Company’s internal control. This responsibility includes an annual evalua- tion of the financial reporting received
by the Board of Directors and specifying requirements for its content and presenta- tion so as to ensure the quality of the reporting. These requirements stipulate that the financial reporting must be suited to its purpose, with the application of the accounting rules in force and other require- ments that apply to listed companies.
The following description is limited to
the internal control of B&B TOOLS with respect to financial reporting.
The basis of the internal control of the Company’s financial reporting comprises the control environment, including the organisation, decision paths, lines of authority and responsibilities documented and communicated in various control documents, such as policies established by the Board, and Group-wide guidelines and manuals.
B&B TOOLS bases and organises its operations on decentralised accountability for profitability, with its operating areas taking the form of companies. Accordingly, central control documents are used to provide formal work plans for internal Board work and instructions for the divi- sion of responsibility between the Board and the President & CEO.
The Group’s most important financial control documents are gathered on its intranet and include a comprehensive Financial Policy, a reporting manual,
a manual for the Group’s internal bank,
a description of accounting policies and expanded instructions preceding every closing of the books. These financial rules and regulations are updated regularly and training programmes are offered during the financial year to ensure the uniform imple- mentation and application of the rules and regulations. On a more general level, all operations in the B&B TOOLS Group are
to be conducted in accordance with the Group’s Code of Conduct.
B&B TOOLS has established control structures to manage the risks that the Board of Directors and corporate manage- ment consider to be significant to the Company’s internal control with respect
to financial reporting. Examples include transaction-related controls, such as regu- lations concerning attestation and capital expenditures, as well as clear payment procedures and analytical controls per- formed by the Group’s controller organisa- tion. Controllers at all levels in the Group play a key role in terms of integrity, competence and the ability to create an environment that is conducive to achieving transparency and true and fair financial reporting. The monthly earnings follow-up conducted via the internal reporting system is another important overall control activity. The earnings follow-up includes reconcili- ations with previously set goals and the most recent forecast, as well as follow-up of adopted key financial ratios. This follow- up of earnings also functions as an impor- tant complement to the controls and reconciliations performed in the actual financial processes.
Follow-ups to assure the quality of the Group’s internal control are performed within the Group in various ways. The internal audit function works proactively through its participation in various projects aimed at developing internal control. The internal audit function also continuously conducts audits to assess the efficiency of internal controls in various parts of the Group and follows up the implementation of the Group’s policies and guidelines.
Auditors’ review of the six-month
or nine-month reports
Neither B&B TOOLS’ six-month report nor its nine-month report for the 2013/2014 financial year were examined by the Company’s external auditors, which is a deviation from the rules of the Code. After consulting with the Company’s external auditors and other parties, the Board of Directors has determined that the additional expense that would be incurred by the Company for an expanded review of the six-month report or nine-month report by the Company’s auditors is not warranted at this point in time.
ADMINISTRATION REPORT WITH CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT
  B&B TOOLS ANNUAL REPORT 2013/14 21
 
 OPERATING SEGMENTS
 REVENUE AND OPERATING PROFIT1)
MSEK
TOOLS / Momentum Business Areas Group-wide Eliminations
Total
Revenue – quarterly data, MSEK
2013/2014 2012/2013 2013/2014
2012/2013
Revenue Operating profit/loss
Adjusted operating profit/loss excluding non-recurring items
2013/2014 2012/2013
124 159 -39
-6
238
     5 ,098
 5, 205 3, 698 611 -1 ,848
 145
 27 152 116 -6
 145
3 ,871
223
223
662
-14
-14
-1 ,983
 -14
 -14
 7 ,648
  7, 666
 340
  289
 340
         Q4
2013/2014 Q3
Q2
Q1
Q4
2012/2013
Q3 Q2 Q1
1,356 1,221 1,364 971 876 953 163 155 149
-502 -434 -457
1,988 1,818 2,009
2012/2013
Q3 Q2 Q1
-67 40 22 37 30 30 161 -3 -23 -3 0 -3
128 67 26
2012/2013
Q3 Q2 Q1
33 40 22 47 30 30 0 -3 -23 -3 0 -3
77 67 26
  1,277
 1,315
 1,172
 1,334
1,021
980
903
967
164
167
163
168
-502
 -508
 -469
 -504
 1,960
 1,954
 1,769
 1,965
   TOOLS / Momentum
Business Areas
Group-wide 144 Eliminations -455
Total 1,851
1,264 898
      Operating profit/loss – quarterly data, MSEK
2013/2014
Q4 Q3 Q2
Q1 Q4
  36
 40
 36
 33
78
53
51
41
-9
-4
5
-6
-2
 -4
 -5
 -3
 103
 85
 87
 65
   TOOLS / Momentum
Business Areas
Group-wide -19 Eliminations 0
Total 68
32 55
      Operating profit/loss – quarterly data excluding non-recurring items, MSEK
2013/2014
Q4 Q3 Q2
Q1 Q4
  36
 40
 36
 33
78
53
51
41
-9
-4
5
-6
-2
 -4
 -5
 -3
 103
 85
 87
 65
   TOOLS / Momentum
Business Areas
Group-wide -13 Eliminations 0
Total 68
1) Refer also to Note 4 Segment reporting.
29 52
    22 B&B TOOLS ANNUAL REPORT 2013/14

Note 2013/2014 2012/2013
2, 4 7,666 140 3 253
GROUP
 INCOME STATEMENT
MSEK
Revenue
Shares in profit of associated companies Other operating income
Total operating revenue
Goods for resale
Personnel costs
Depreciation, amortisation, impairment losses and reversal of impairment losses Other operating expenses
Total operating expenses
Operating profit
Financial income
Financial expenses
Net financial items
Profit after net financial items
Taxes
Net profit for the year
Of which, attributable to:
Parent Company shareholders
Earnings per share, SEK
– before dilution – after dilution
Proposed/resolved dividend per share, SEK
STATEMENT OF COMPREHENSIVE INCOME
MSEK
Net profit for the year
Other comprehensive income
Components that will not be reclassified to profit for the year
Remeasurement of defined-benefit pension plans
Tax attributable to components that will not be reclassified
Components that will be reclassified to profit for the year
Translation differences
Effects of hedge accounting
Tax attributable to components that may be reclassified
Other comprehensive income for the year Comprehensive income for the year
Of which, attributable to:
Parent Company shareholders
   7,648
0
15
 7,663
 -4,545
-1,633
-45
-1,100
 -7,323
 340
 8
-62
 -54
 286
 -72
 214
 214
 7.60
7.60
3.50
           4, 5, 6, 7, 8
7,919
-4,621 -1,727 -66 -1,216 -7,630 289
      9 -82 9 -73 216
116
222
222
20 7.90 20 7.90
                  3.00
2013/2014 2012/2013 222
25 -9 16
-37 0 -2 -39 -23 199
199
  214
6
-1
 5
2
0
-1
 1
6
 220
 220
          B&B TOOLS ANNUAL REPORT 2013/14 23
 
 GROUP
BALANCE SHEET
MSEK
ASSETS
Non-current assets
Intangible non-current assets Tangible non-current assets Shares in associated companies Financial investments
Other long-term receivables Deferred tax assets
Total non-current assets
Current assets
Inventories
Tax assets
Accounts receivable
Prepaid expenses and accrued income Other receivables
Cash and cash equivalents
Total current assets
Total assets
Note
12 13 14 27 16 11
17
27 18 16
4, 25, 26, 27, 30
31 March 2014
31 March 2013
1,781 252 11 2 8 118 2,172
1,443 39 1,192 114 65 214 3,067 5,239
57
71 -58 1,995 2,065
1,129 465 2 104 1,700
3 823 37 105 506 1,474 3,174 5,239
    1,792
208
11
1
4
102
 2,118
 1,414
43
1,299
122
45
53
 2,976
 5,094
 57
71
-57
2,132
 2,203
 400
451
3
79
 933
 475
885
47
107
444
 1,958
 2,891
 5,094
                  EQUITY AND LIABILITIES
Equity 19 Share capital
Other contributed capital
Reserves
Retained earnings, including net profit for the year
Equity attributable to Parent Company shareholders
      Non-current liabilities
Non-current interest-bearing liabilities Provisions for pensions
Other non-current provisions
Deferred tax liabilities
Total non-current liabilities
Current liabilities
Current interest-bearing liabilities Accounts payable
Tax liabilities
Other liabilities
Accrued expenses and deferred income
Total current liabilities Total liabilities
Total equity and liabilities
27 21 22 11
27
23 24
4, 25, 26, 27, 30
                  24 B&B TOOLS ANNUAL REPORT 2013/14

MSEK
Share capital
Other contributed capital
71
71
71
71
Reserves
-19
-19
-39
-58
1
-57
Retained earnings, including net profit for the year
1,900
-59
1,841
222 16 -84 1,995
214 5 -84 2 2,132
2013/2014
Total equity
2,009
-59 1,950
222 -23 -84
2,065
214 6 -84 2 2,203
2012/2013
216 5 -65 156
175 18 -87 106
262
-48 7 375 334
596
–
– -380 -84 -464
132
85
-3
214
GROUP
 STATEMENT OF CHANGES IN EQUITY
 Closing equity, 31 March 2012 57
Adjustment for amended accounting policies
Adjusted opening equity, 1 April 2012 57
Net profit for the year
Other comprehensive income Dividend
Closing equity, 31 March 2013 57
Net profit for the year
Other comprehensive income Dividend
Sale of call options
Closing equity, 31 March 2014 57
CASH-FLOW STATEMENT
MSEK
Operating activities
Profit after net financial items Adjustments for non-cash items Income taxes paid
Cash flow from operating activities before changes in working capital
Cash flow from changes in working capital
Change in inventories
Change in operating receivables Change in operating liabilities
Changes in working capital
Cash flow from operating activities
Investing activities
Acquisition of intangible and tangible non-current assets
Sales of intangible and tangible non-current assets
Sales of subsidiaries/operating segments, net effect on liquidity
Cash flow from investing activities
Cash flow before financing
Financing activities
Sale of call options
Borrowings
Repayment of loans
Dividend paid to Parent Company shareholders
Cash flow from financing activities
Cash flow for the year
Cash and cash equivalents at the beginning of the year Exchange-rate differences in cash and cash equivalents
Cash and cash equivalents at year-end
Note
34
                    286
-41
-75
 170
 69
-96
67
 40
 210
 -48
1
42
 -5
 205
 2
685
-970
-84
 -367
 -162
214
1
 53
             34
            34
  B&B TOOLS ANNUAL REPORT 2013/14 25
 
 PARENT COMPANY
 INCOME STATEMENT
MSEK
Revenue
Other operating income Total operating revenue
Personnel costs
Depreciation, amortisation, impairment losses and reversal of impairment losses Other operating expenses
Total operating expenses
Operating loss
Profit from net financial items:
Profit from shares in Group companies
Profit from other securities and receivables recognised as non-current assets Other interest income and similar profit/loss items
Interest expense and similar profit/loss items
Profit after net financial items
Appropriations
Profit before taxes
Taxes
Net profit for the year
STATEMENT OF COMPREHENSIVE INCOME
MSEK
Net profit for the year
Other comprehensive income
Effects of hedge accounting
Tax attributable to other comprehensive income Other comprehensive income for the year Comprehensive income for the year
Note 2013/2014 2012/2013
248 – 48
-65 -4 -35 5, 6, 8 -104 -56
990 9 124 93 9 -77
84
10 -6
78
11 -3
   35
0
 35
 -22
-2
-13
 -37
 -2
 390
148
6
-56
 486
 36
 522
 -30
 492
                                 75
2013/2014 2012/2013 75
4 -1 3 78
     492
1
-1
 0
 492
         26 B&B TOOLS ANNUAL REPORT 2013/14

PARENT COMPANY
 BALANCE SHEET
MSEK
ASSETS
Non-current assets Intangible non-current assets Tangible non-current assets Financial non-current assets
Shares in Group companies Receivables from Group companies Other long-term receivables Deferred tax assets
Total financial non-current assets
Total non-current assets
Current assets
Current receivables
Accounts receivable
Receivables from Group companies Tax asset
Other receivables
Prepaid expenses and accrued income
Total current receivables Cash and bank
Total current assets Total assets
EQUITY, PROVISIONS AND LIABILITIES Equity
Restricted equity
Share capital
Statutory reserve
Non-restricted equity
Retained earnings
Net profit for the year
Total equity
Untaxed reserves
Provisions
Provisions for pensions and similar commitments
Total provisions
Non-current liabilities
Liabilities to credit institutions Liabilities to Group companies Other liabilities
Total non-current liabilities
Current liabilities
Liabilities to credit institutions Accounts payable
Liabilities to Group companies Tax liabilities
Other liabilities
Accrued expenses and deferred income Total current liabilities
Total equity, provisions and liabilities
Pledged assets and contingent liabilities
Pledged assets Contingent liabilities
Note
12 13
32 15 16 11
18
26
19
33
21
27 27
27
24
26
31 March 2014 31 March 2013
0 1 2 3
104 104 3,743 3,670 – 0 9 10
3,856 3,784
3,858 3,788
1 – 260 265 2 5 1 4 3 6
267 280
– 142
267 422
4,125 4,210
57 57 86 86
1,036 1,043 492 75
1,671 1,261
192 201
48 50
48 50
400 1,117 200 297 0 12
600 1,426
464 – 0 4 1,117 1,201 0 – 9 1 24 66
1,614 1,272
4,125 4,210
None None See Note 30 See Note 30
                                         B&B TOOLS ANNUAL REPORT 2013/14 27
 
 PARENT COMPANY
 STATEMENT OF CHANGES IN EQUITY
Restricted equity
Share Statutory capital reserve
Non-restricted equity
  MSEK
Closing equity, 31 March 2012
Reversal of earnings
Net profit for the year
Other comprehensive income Dividend
Closing equity, 31 March 2013
Reversal of earnings
Net profit for the year
Other comprehensive income Dividend
Sale of call options
Closing equity, 31 March 2014
57
57
57
86
86
86
Treasury shares
-57
-57
-57
Hedging reserve
-10
3
-7
0
-7
Retained earnings
1,030
161
-84
1,107
75
-84 2
1,100
Net profit Total for the year equity
161 1,267
-161 0 75 75 3 -84
75 1,261
-75 0 492 492 0 -84 2
492 1,671
2013/2014 2012/2013
32 112 -34 110
98 1 2 101
211
–
0 211
– 182 – -354 -84 163 -93
118
24
142
     CASH-FLOW STATEMENT
MSEK
Operating activities
Profit after net financial items
Adjustments for non-cash items
Income taxes paid
Cash flow from operating activities before changes in working capital
Cash flow from changes in working capital
Change in current receivables and liabilities to Group companies Change in operating receivables
Change in operating liabilities
Change in working capital
Cash flow from operating activities
Investing activities
Sales of intangible and tangible non-current assets
Cash flow from investing activities
Cash flow before financing
Financing activities
Sale of call options
Changes in long-term receivables and liabilities to Group companies Borrowings
Repayment of loans
Dividend paid
Group contributions paid and received
Cash flow from financing activities
Cash flow for the year
Cash and cash equivalents at the beginning of the year
Cash and cash equivalents at year-end
Note
34
   513
-65
-27
 421
 -2
5
-5
 -2
 419
 0
 0
 419
 2
-158
685
-954
-84
-52
 -561
 -142
142
 0
                                    34
   28 B&B TOOLS ANNUAL REPORT 2013/14

RISKS AND OPPORTUNITIES THE GROUP’S RISKS AND OPPORTUNITIES
 Like all businesses, the B&B TOOLS Group’s operations entail risks and opportunities. The purpose of risk management in the Group is to balance opportunities and risks in a conscious and controlled manner.
The Group is convinced that a decentralised approach creates an entrepreneurial spirit, whereby risk is always a natural component in the decision-making process. To ensure support and a unified approach to how the businesses should deal with risks and opportunities, the work involved in identify- ing and responding to the most significant risks is integrated into B&B TOOLS’ strategic and operative planning process. Work related to developing the Group’s risk management is carried out continuously.
B&B TOOLS describes its risks from three perspectives: strategic risks associated with the indus- try/market in which the Group operates, operational risks related to how the Group conducts its busi- ness and financial risks linked to the types of financial transactions in which the Group is involved.
STRATEGIC RISKS ASSOCIATED WITH MARKET AND INDUSTRY
Market development/Economic situation
B&B TOOLS’ customers mainly comprise industrial companies in Sweden, Norway and Finland.
As a result of the Group’s partnerships with construction material resellers, construction companies are also an important customer group. Accordingly, economic trends in the industrial and construction
sectors in the Nordic region affect the Group’s performance. B&B TOOLS’ sales largely comprise industrial consumables and related services, which means that the Group’s dependency on the industrial sector’s short-term willingness to invest is low.
Competitive situation
As the structural transformation and consolidation of the industry progresses, the competitive situa- tion also changes. Customers are increasingly striving to limit their number of suppliers and instead initiate closer collaboration with these suppliers in order to jointly develop the value chain, thereby reducing the total cost (for purchasing, stocking, administration and tied-up capital). There is a risk that new players with financial strength could grow stronger during the ongoing consolidation process. B&B TOOLS has chosen to take a leading role in this consolidation and is focusing on internal effi- ciency throughout the value chain, which will be crucial success factors in the future.
Consolidation among resellers
In the area of industrial consumables, the Group’s customers primarily comprise end users in the industrial sector and resellers in the construction sector, and to a certain extent, the DIY sector/private market. Restructuring is in progress among resellers, as a result of which chain constellations are growing stronger in relation to end customers, manufacturers and distributors. Competition among resellers has increased due to the entrance of international players into the Swedish market, espe- cially in the DIY sector. This trend indicates continued consolidation among resellers in all sectors (DIY/construction/industrial). B&B TOOLS is actively participating in the consolidation process among industrial resellers through the TOOLS chain and is cultivating the construction and DIY markets mainly through partnerships.
OPERATIONAL RISKS
Dependency on strong global brands
It is becoming increasingly common for foreign manufacturers to use several distributors in a local market. This so-called multi-distribution often leads to price pressure and declining profitability among distributors. Accordingly, it is critical that distributors gain control over the brands in demand by end customers in different product niches and foster close collaboration with manufacturers with strong, well-established brands. B&B TOOLS’ presence throughout the value chain provides the Group with strength in terms of meeting the actual needs of customers and as an attractive partner for global brands attempting to penetrate the Nordic market.
Proprietary product brands and subsuppliers
The Group builds strong proprietary product brands in selected product areas. B&B TOOLS’ strategy is not to own its own manufacturing capacity, but to work actively to evaluate and select subsuppliers, primarily in Asia, that can offer the most cost-effective manufacturing. This minimises the Group’s risk of incurring costs for overcapacity in the event that demand for a specific product were to diminish. At the same time, this increases the risk of B&B TOOLS’ Code of Conduct not being observed with respect to such areas as work environment. Therefore, the Group strives to work exclusively with manufacturers that accept the Group’s Code of Conduct and successfully pass
the regular follow-up reviews that the Group companies conduct on location.
Raw-material prices
Steel is an important component in many of the products sold by B&B TOOLS. Accordingly, rapid and sharp raw-material price fluctuations can have a short-term impact on the Group’s earnings. In the long term, the Group’s companies can make the same adjustments as other players in the market, which limits the risk of changes in raw-material prices.
Disasters at logistics centres
The Group’s logistics and IT function is primarily located in two major units in Alingsås and Ulrice- hamn. A fire at one of these locations would have serious repercussions on the Group’s capacity
to make deliveries to customers. Preventive actions are being taken to avoid disasters in the form of fire and destruction. Insurance coverage has been obtained for property damage and loss of income due to disruption (consequential losses).
Product liability risk
The Group conducts operations that give rise to normal product liability exposure. The Group has insurance coverage for product liability.
Credit risk
The Group is exposed to normal credit risks in its customer relationships. To minimise the risk of credit losses, the Group companies apply credit policies that limit the outstanding amounts and credit periods for each individual customer. The fact that none of the Group’s customers accounts for a significant portion of the Group’s revenue limits the extent of the risk.
Competency risk
The Group’s focus is to offer customers products and services that make their everyday operations easier, safer and more profitable. These customers also increasingly demand an advisor and partner with the high level of competence and creative ability necessary to develop solutions that meet their defined needs. Accordingly, it is crucial that B&B TOOLS is able to recruit and develop the most competent employees. Responsibility for this rests with the operational management.
Corporate acquisitions
Part of B&B TOOLS’ strategy has been and continues to be growth through acquisitions. The risks involved in acquisitions include the risk that the Group will not successfully achieve the anticipated gains associated with an acquisition and the risk that unknown contingent liabilities will not be identified during due diligence. The Group works specifically on the due diligence process, and responsibility for the integration of new companies rests with the acquiring operating area.
FINANCIAL RISKS
Exchange-rate fluctuations
A major portion of the Group’s purchases are made in foreign currency, while sales are normally conducted in local currency in the countries in which the Group conducts its operations. For a description of the Group’s exposure to various currencies and the financial instruments used to minimise risks, refer to Note 27 Financial risk management and the section Foreign-exchange risks on pages 55–56.
Interest-rate fluctuations
For a description of the manner in which the Group is exposed to interest-rate fluctuations in relation to external borrowing and lending and the way this is managed to minimise risks, refer to Note 27 Financial risk management and the section Interest-rate risks on page 56.
Financing risk
Financing risk refers to the risk that meeting the Group’s requirements for external capital could become more difficult or more expensive. For a description of the Group’s financing and the manner in which the financing risk is managed, refer to Note 27 Financial risk management and the section Liquidity and refinancing risks on pages 56–60.
B&B TOOLS ANNUAL REPORT 2013/14 29
 
 NOTES NOTES
AMOUNTS IN MILLION SEK (MSEK) UNLESS SPECIFICALLY STATED OTHERWISE
Revenue is recognised with a positive sign and costs with a negative sign. Both assets and liabilities are recognised with a positive sign. Interest-bearing net receivables/liabilities are recognised with a positive sign where the amount is a receivable and with a negative sign where it is a liability. Accumulated depreciation and amortisation and accumulated impairment losses are recognised with a negative sign.
Notes table of contents Page
NOTE 1
ACCOUNTING POLICIES
COMPLIANCE WITH STANDARDS AND LEGISLATION
The consolidated accounts have been prepared in accordance with the International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS) issued by the International Accounting Standards Board (IASB) and interpretive statements from the IFRS Interpretations Committee as approved by the EU. Recommendation RFR 1 Supplementary Accounting Rules for Groups issued by the Swedish Financial Reporting Board has also been applied.
The Parent Company applies the same accounting policies as the Group, except in the cases stated below under the section “Parent Company accounting policies.”
The financial statements encompass pages 16–64. The Annual Report and consolidated financial statements were approved for publication by the Board of Directors and President & CEO on 13 June 2014. The Group’s and the Parent Company’s income statements and balance sheets are subject to approval by the Annual General Meeting to be held on 21 August 2014.
BASIS APPLIED WHEN PREPARING THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
The Parent Company’s functional currency is Swedish kronor (SEK), which also constitutes the reporting currency for the Parent Company and the Group. This means that the financial statements are pre- sented in SEK. All amounts, unless specifically stated otherwise, are rounded to the nearest million. Assets and liabilities are recognised at historical cost, except for certain financial assets and liabilities that are measured at fair value. Financial assets and liabilities measured at fair value consist of derivative instruments and financial assets available for sale.
Preparing the financial statements in accordance with IFRS requires that management makes judgements and estimates and makes assumptions that affect the application of the accounting policies and the recognised amounts of assets, liabilities, revenue and costs. The actual outcome may differ from these estimates and judgements.
The estimates and assumptions are reviewed on a regular basis. Changes in estimates are recognised in the period when the change is made if the change affects this period only, or in the period when the change is made and in future periods if the change affects the current period as well as future periods.
Judgements made by management when applying IFRS that have a significant effect on the financial statements and estimates made which can lead to substantial adjustments in the following year’s financial statements are described in more detail in Note 36.
Events after the balance-sheet date refer to both favourable and unfavourable events that occur between the balance-sheet date and the date at the beginning of the following financial year when the financial statements are signed by the members of the Board of Directors and the President
& CEO. Information is provided in the Annual Report about any significant events after the balance- sheet date that were not accounted for when the financial statements were adopted. Such events that confirm the circumstances prevailing at the balance-sheet date are taken into account at the time of adoption of the financial statements.
Non-current assets and disposal groups held for sale are recognised at the lower of their recognised carrying amount at the time of reclassification and their fair value after a deduction for selling expenses.
Offsetting of receivables and liabilities and of revenue and costs occurs only when required or when expressly permitted in an accounting recommendation.
The stated accounting policies for the Group have been applied consistently for all periods presented in the Group’s financial statements, unless specifically stated otherwise. The Group’s accounting policies have been applied consistently in the reporting and consolidating of the Parent Company and subsidiaries.
AMENDED ACCOUNTING POLICIES
The following amendments to existing standards and new and amended standards come into force in 2013 and have been adopted by the EU. No new IFRS or interpretive statements were applied in advance.
Amended IAS 19 Employee Benefits. The amendment entails that the use of the corridor method is no longer permitted. Actuarial gains and losses are to be recognised in other comprehensive income. Any return calculated on plan assets is based on the discount rate used in the calculation of the pension commitment. This means that the net interest on the net pension liabilities/assets now comprises the interest expense of the pension liabilities and interest income on the plan assets. The difference between the actual return and the total included in net interest income regarding the plan assets is recognised in other comprehensive income.
As of 1 April 2013, B&B TOOLS applies the updated IAS 19 standard, with full retrospective application. For B&B TOOLS, this entails an immediate increase in net pension commitments (classified as a financial liability) and an equivalent decrease – taking tax effects into account
– of retained earnings. The updated standard also includes new rules regarding the recognition of a special payroll tax. The new standard means that the net pension commitments increased
  Note 1 Note 2 Note 3 Note 4 Note 5 Note 6 Note 7 Note 8 Note 9 Note 10 Note 11 Note 12 Note 13 Note 14 Note 15 Note 16 Note 17 Note 18 Note 19 Note 20 Note 21 Note 22 Note 23 Note 24 Note 25 Note 26 Note 27 Note 28 Note 29 Note 30 Note 31 Note 32 Note 33 Note 34 Note 35 Note 36 Note 37
Accounting policies 30–35 Distribution of revenue 36 Other operating income 36 Segment reporting 36–37 Employees and personnel costs 38–40 Fees and reimbursement to auditors 41 Acquisition of businesses 41 Measures for enhancing efficiency and reducing costs 41 Net financial items 41 Appropriations 41 Taxes 42–43 Intangible non-current assets 44 Tangible non-current assets 45 Shares in associated companies 46 Receivables from Group companies 46 Long-term receivables and other receivables 46 Inventories 47 Prepaid expenses and accrued income 47 Reserves and equity 47–48 Earnings per share 48 Provisions for pensions 49–50 Other provisions 51 Other liabilities 51 Accrued expenses and deferred income 51 Specification of interest-bearing net loan liabilities by asset and liability 52 Expected recovery periods for assets, provisions and liabilities 53–54 Financial risk management 55–60 Operational leasing 60 Investment commitments 60 Pledged assets and contingent liabilities 61 Related parties 61 Group companies 61 Untaxed reserves 61 Cash-flow statement 62 Events after the balance-sheet date 63 Key estimates and judgements 63 Information about the Parent Company 63
30 B&B TOOLS ANNUAL REPORT 2013/14

NOTE 1, CONT.
by MSEK 55, including special payroll tax of MSEK 10 as of 31 March 2013. Taking into account deferred tax, the updated standard had an impact on retained earnings that was MSEK 43 less than the amount that was recognised as of 31 March 2013. Except for other comprehensive income, the impact on the consolidated income statement was immaterial and has thus not been recognised separately. As a result of the changes in the recognition of pensions as described above and the increased volatility it causes, as of 1 April 2013, B&B TOOLS recognises the so-called operational net debt/equity ratio, whereby the net loan liability is calculated excluding pension provisions.
As of 2013, the Group applies the new IFRS 13 Fair Value Measurement standard and amend- ments to IFRS 7 Financial Instruments: Disclosures. B&B TOOLS measures financial instruments at fair value or cost in the balance sheet depending on their classification. In addition to items in the financial net debt, financial instruments also include accounts receivable and accounts payable. According to IFRS 7, financial instruments measured at fair value in the balance sheet are included in level 2 of the fair value hierarchy. The carrying amounts for financial assets and liabilities corre- spond to fair value in all material respects.
The format of the statement of comprehensive income has been changed to reflect the amended IAS 1 Presentation of financial statements. The amendment entails that the items under “Other comprehensive income” are divided into two categories: items that have been or can be reclassified to net profit for the year and items that can not be reclassified to net profit for the year. Items that have been or can be reclassified are, for example, translation differences and gains/losses on cash-flow hedges. Items that will not be reclassified are revaluations of defined-benefit pension plans and revaluations of intangible and tangible assets according to the revaluation method.
The amendment to IAS 36 Impairment of Assets regarding disclosures on recoverable amounts for non-financial assets entails that the elimination of disclosure requirements for estimated recov- erable amounts per (group of) cash-generating units with significant goodwill. This amendment, which is to be applied not later than 2014, is applied in advance to this Annual Report. In practice, this entails that no additions are made to the disclosures of the aforementioned recoverable amount, if no impairment losses are recognised, that arose in IAS 36 in conjunction with IFRS
13 starting to be applied in 2013.
NEW OR REVISED IFRS THAT WILL BE APPLIED IN COMING PERIODS
A number of new or amended IFRS and interpretive statements will come into effect first in coming financial years and have not been applied in advance in the preparation of these financial statements. B&B TOOLS does not plan advance application of any new standards or amendments to be applied in the future.
IFRS 10 Consolidated Financial Statements. A new standard for consolidated financial state- ments that is to replace IAS 27 and SIC 12. The standard is not expected to have any material impact on the Group’s financial reporting. Other new or amended IFRS are not expected to have any material impact on the Group’s financial statements.
SEGMENT REPORTING
An operating segment is a part of the Group that conducts operations that can generate revenue and incur costs, and for which independent financial information is available. The earnings of an operating segment are also monitored by the Company’s chief operating decision-maker to enable them to be assessed and to allow resources to be allocated to the operating segment. Refer to Note 4 for a more detailed description of the Group’s division and a presentation of operating segments.
CLASSIFICATION, ETC.
Non-current assets and non-current liabilities in the Group and the Parent Company essentially consist only of amounts that are expected to be recovered or paid later than 12 months from the balance- sheet date. Current assets and current liabilities in the Group and the Parent Company essentially consist only of amounts that are expected to be recovered or paid within 12 months from the balance-sheet date.
PRINCIPLES OF CONSOLIDATION
Subsidiaries
Subsidiaries are entities over which the Parent Company has a controlling influence.
A controlling influence means a direct or indirect right to formulate a company’s financial and operational strategies with the aim of obtaining financial benefits. When assessing whether or not the Parent Company holds a controlling interest, consideration is given to potential voting shares
that can be utilised or converted without delay.
Subsidiaries are recognised in accordance with the purchase method of accounting. This
method entails that the acquisition of a subsidiary is viewed as a transaction through which the Group indirectly acquires the assets of the subsidiary and assumes its liabilities. The acquisition analysis determines the fair value, on the date of acquisition, of the aquired identifiable assets, assumed debts and any non-controlling interests. Transaction fees that arise are recognised directly in net profit for the year.
In the case of business acquisitions where the transferred remuneration, any non-controlling interests and the fair value of previously held shares (step acquisitions) exceed the fair value of the acquired assets and assumed liabilities that are to be recognised separately, the difference is recognised as goodwill. Should the difference be negative, which is known as a bargain purchase, it is recognised directly in net profit for the year. Contingent considerations are recognised at fair value on the date of acquisition. If the contingent consideration is classified as an equity instrument, no revaluation is performed and the adjustment is made to equity. Other contingent considerations are revalued for each financial statement and the difference is recognised in net profit for the year.
If the acquisition does not pertain to 100 percent of the subsidiary, it is deemed a non-controlling interest. There are two methods for recognising non-controlling interests: (i) by recognising the non-controlling interest’s share of the proportional net assets or (ii) by recognising the non- controlling interest at fair value, meaning that the non-controlling interest is part of goodwill. Which of these two alternatives is to be applied can be determined on a case-by-case basis.
For step acquisitions, goodwill is determined on the date on which controlling influence is reached. Previous holdings are valued at fair value and the change in value is recognised in net profit for the year.
For divestments that lead to a loss of controlling influence but where a holding remains, the holding is valued at fair value and the change in value is recognised in net profit for the year.
The financial statements of subsidiaries are consolidated from the date of acquisition until the date when the controlling influence ceases.
Associated Companies
Associated companies are companies over which the Group has a significant, but not controlling influence in terms of operational and financial control, usually through a holding of between 20 and 50 percent of the total number of votes. From the time at which significant control is achieved, shares in associated companies are recognised in the consolidated financial statements using the equity method. According to the equity method, the value of the shares in associated companies recognised in the Group should correspond to the Group’s share of the equity in the associated companies and consolidated goodwill and any other residual value for the consolidated surplus or deficit value. In the consolidated income statement, the Group’s share of the associated company’s profit attributable to Parent Company shareholders, adjusted for any amortisation and impairment losses or reversals of acquired surplus or deficit values, is reported as “Shares in profit/loss of associ- ated companies.” Dividends received from associated companies reduce the carrying amount of the investment. The Group’s portion of other comprehensive income in associated companies is recog- nised in a separate line in the Group’s other comprehensive income.
Any differences during the acquisition between the cost of the holding and the holding company’s portion of the net fair value of the associated company’s identifiable assets and liabilities are recog- nised in accordance with the same principles as in the acquisition of a subsidiary. Transaction fees, except for transaction fees attributable to issues of equity instruments or debt instruments, that arise are included in cost. When the Group’s portion of the recognised losses in the associated company exceeds the carrying amount of the shares in the Group, the value of these shares is reduced to zero. Settlement of losses also occurs for long-term financial transactions without collateral, which, in finan- cial terms, are part of the holding company’s net investment in the associated company. Continued losses are not recognised, provided that the Group has not issued guarantees to cover losses arising in the associated company. The equity method is applied until the time at which the significant influence is terminated.
Transactions eliminated in consolidation
Intra-Group receivables and liabilities, revenue or costs, and unrealised gains or losses arising in intra-Group transactions between Group companies are eliminated in their entirety when preparing the consolidated financial statements. Unrealised gains that arise in transactions with associated companies are eliminated to an extent corresponding to the Group’s participating interest in the company. Unrealised losses are eliminated in the same manner as unrealised gains, but only insofar as no impairment requirement exists.
FOREIGN CURRENCY
Transactions in foreign currency
Transactions in foreign currency are translated to the functional currency using the exchange rate prevailing on the transaction date. The functional currency is the currency of the primary economic environments in which the companies conduct their operations. Monetary assets and liabilities in foreign currency are translated to the functional currency at the exchange rate prevailing on the balance-sheet date. Exchange-rate differences that arise during translation are recognised in net profit for the year. Non-monetary assets and liabilities recognised at historical cost are translated at the exchange rate prevailing on the transaction date.
B&B TOOLS ANNUAL REPORT 2013/14 31
NOTES
  
 NOTES
 NOTE 1, CONT.
Financial statements of foreign entities
Assets and liabilities in foreign entities, including goodwill and other consolidated surplus values and deficits, are translated from the foreign entity’s functional currency to the Group’s reporting currency, SEK, at the exchange rate prevailing on the balance-sheet date. Revenue and expenses in foreign entities are translated to SEK at the average exchange rate, which constitutes an approximation of the currency rates prevailing at each transaction date. Translation differences arising as a result of the translation of a foreign net investment are recognised in other comprehensive income and are accu- mulated in a separate equity component, referred to as the translation reserve. When a foreign entity is divested, the accumulated translation differences attributable to the entity are realised, by which they are reclassified from the translation reserve in equity to net profit for the year.
REVENUE
The Group’s primary revenue comprises the sale of goods and services.
Sale of goods
Revenue from the sale of goods is recognised in net profit for the year when the material risks and benefits associated with ownership of the goods have been transferred to the buyer, typically in connection with delivery. Revenue is recognised if it is probable that the financial benefits will accrue to the Group.
Service assignments
Revenue from service assignments is normally recognised when the service is performed. Revenue from service assignments is recognised in accordance with the principles of the percentage-of-completion method. The degree of completion is normally determined based on the relationship between accrued expenditure on the balance-sheet date and the estimated total expenditure. Probable losses are recognised immediately in consolidated earnings.
Rental income
Rental income from real estate is recognised in net profit for the year on a straight-line basis based on the terms of the lease. The aggregate cost of benefits provided is recognised as a reduction of rental income on a straight-line basis over the term of the lease.
Income from property sales
Income from property sales is recognised on the day of taking possession.
OPERATING EXPENSES AND FINANCIAL INCOME AND EXPENSE
Operational leases
Costs related to operational leases are recognised in net profit for the year on a straight-line basis over the term of the lease. Benefits received in connection with the signing of a contract are recognised in net profit for the year as a linear reduction in leasing fees over the course of the lease. Variable fees are expensed in the periods in which they arise.
Financial leases
Minimum leasing fees are allocated to interest expense and repayment of the outstanding liability. The interest expense is allocated over the leasing period in such a way that each accounting period is charged with an amount corresponding to a fixed interest rate for the liability reported for each period. Variable fees are expensed in the periods in which they arise.
Financial income and expense
Financial income and expense consist of interest income on bank funds and receivables, and of interest-bearing securities, interest expense on loans, dividend income, exchange-rate differences and unrealised and realised gains or losses on financial investments. Refer also to the section below under “Financial assets available for sale.”
Interest income on receivables and interest expense on liabilities are calculated using the effective interest method. The effective interest rate is the rate that discounts the estimated future receipts and disbursements during the financial instrument’s expected term to the recognised net value of the financial receivable or the liability.
Interest expense includes the accrued amount of issuance costs and similar direct transaction costs in connection with borrowing.
Dividend income is recognised when the right to receive payment has been determined.
Borrowing costs are recognised in profit or loss applying the effective interest method, except
to the extent that they are directly attributable to the purchase, design or production of assets that require a significant amount of time to prepare for their intended use or sale. Borrowing costs that are attributable to the development of qualified assets are capitalised as part of the qualified asset’s cost. A qualified asset is an asset that necessarily takes a substantial period of time to prepare for its intended use or sale.
FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS
Financial instruments are measured and recognised in the Group in accordance with the rules of IAS 39. Financial instruments recognised as assets in the balance sheet include cash and cash equivalents, accounts receivable, financial investments and derivatives. Liabilities include accounts payable, loan liabilities and derivatives.
Recognition in and derecognition from the balance sheet
A financial asset or financial liability is recognised in the balance sheet when the Group becomes a party under the contractual terms of the instrument in question. A financial asset, or a portion of a financial asset, is derecognised from the balance sheet when the contractual rights are realised, fall due or the Group loses control over them. A financial liability, or a portion of a financial liability, is derecognised from the balance sheet when the obligation in the contract is fulfilled or ceases to apply in some other way.
Financial assets and financial liabilities are offset and recognised as a net amount in the balance sheet only when there is a legal right to offset the amounts and when there is an intention to settle the items in a net amount or to realise the asset and settle the liability simultaneously.
Acquisitions and disposals of financial assets are recognised on the transaction date, which is the date when the Group undertakes to acquire or dispose of assets.
Classification and measurement
All financial instruments that are not derivatives are initially recognised at cost, corresponding to the fair value of the instrument plus transaction costs, with the exception of those items classified as financial assets recognised at fair value in profit or loss, which are recognised at fair value excluding transaction costs. A financial instrument’s classification determines how it is measured after the initial reporting occasion. The Group classifies its financial instruments based on the purpose for which the instrument was acquired. Management determines the classification on the initial reporting occasion. The Group’s holdings of financial instruments are classified as follows:
Financial assets available for sale
The category “Financial assets available for sale” includes financial assets that are not classified in any other category, or financial assets that the Company initially opted to classify in this category. Shares and participations among financial non-current assets not recognised as subsidiaries, asso- ciated companies or joint ventures are recognised in this category. According to the main rule, these assets are measured at fair value after the acquisition date, with changes in value recognised in other comprehensive income and the accumulated changes in value recognised as a separate component under equity, although this does not include changes in value due to impairment losses or interest on receivable instruments and dividend income, and exchange-rate differences on mon- etary items which are recognised in net profit for the year. If the asset is sold, the accumulated gain/ loss that was previously recognised in other comprehensive income is recognised in net profit for the year. Holdings that are not listed, and whose fair value cannot be calculated in a reliable manner, are recognised at cost, but with a possible adjustment if an impairment charge is warranted.
Loan receivables and accounts receivable
Long-term receivables among non-current assets and accounts receivable and other receivables among current assets that are non-derivative financial assets with fixed payments, or payments that can be determined and that are not listed on an active market. After the acquisition date, such assets are recognised at amortised cost using the effective interest method, less any provisions for loss of value. Accounts receivable are recognised at the amount expected to be received, meaning after deductions for doubtful accounts receivable. Any impairment requirement for the receivables is determined based on individual testing, taking into consideration earlier experience of customer losses on similar receivables.
Financial liabilities
Loans and other financial liabilities, such as accounts payable, are included in this category. Financial liabilities are initially recognised at fair value after deductions for transaction costs. Borrowing is then recognised at amortised cost and any differences between the loan amount (net after transaction costs) and the repayable amount are recognised in net profit for the year distributed over the term of the loan and by applying the effective interest method. Borrowing is classified as a current liability if the Company does not hold an unconditional right to defer payment for a minimum of 12 months after the balance-sheet date.
Other categories
The Group has not initially classified any assets or liabilities as financial assets or liabilities measured at fair value in profit or loss, and does not have any financial assets or liabilities held for trading.
Nor did the Group have any financial held-to-maturity investments during the financial year.
32 B&B TOOLS ANNUAL REPORT 2013/14

NOTE 1, CONT.
Derivatives and hedge accounting
Derivative instruments are initially recognised at fair value.
After the acquisition date, derivative instruments held for hedging purposes, meaning interest
swap agreements, interest caps and foreign-exchange forward contracts, are measured at fair value. To fulfil the requirements for hedge accounting according to IAS 39, there must be a clear link to the hedged item, the hedge must effectively protect the hedged item, hedging documentation must have been drawn up and the effectiveness must be measurable.
After the initial recognition, derivative instruments are measured at fair value and the method of recognising a change in value depends on the character of the hedged item. The Group identifies certain derivatives as either (1) a hedge of a highly probable anticipated interest income (cash-flow hedging), or (2) a hedge of a highly probable forecast transaction in foreign currency (cash-flow hedging).
The effective portion of changes in the fair value of derivative instruments identified as cash- flow hedges are recognised in other comprehensive income and the accumulated changes in value are recognised in a separate component under equity (the hedging reserve).
Any gains or losses attributable to the ineffective portion are recognised immediately in profit
or loss. Accumulated amounts in equity are reversed to net profit for the year in the periods in which the hedged item affects profit or loss (for example, when the forecast sale that is hedged takes place). If the forecast transaction that is hedged results in the recognition of a non-financial asset (for example, inventories or a tangible non-current asset), or a non-financial liability, the hedging reserve is dissolved in other comprehensive income and included in the initial carrying amount of the asset or liability.
Investments in foreign subsidiaries (net assets including goodwill) have been protected to a certain extent through financial hedging in the form of borrowing in the corresponding currency. Such investments are recognised at the exchange rate prevailing on the balance-sheet date.
TANGIBLE NON-CURRENT ASSETS
Owned assets
Tangible non-current assets are recognised as assets in the balance sheet if it is probable that future financial benefits will accrue to the Group and the cost of the asset can be calculated in a reliable manner.
Tangible non-current assets are recognised in the Group at cost, less accumulated depreciation and any impairment losses. The cost includes the purchase price and costs directly attributable to the asset to bring it to location and make it usable for the purpose intended with its procurement. Examples of directly attributable costs included in the cost are expenses for shipping and handling, installation, legal ratification, consulting services and legal services. Borrowing costs that are directly attributable to the purchase, design or production of assets that require a significant amount of time to prepare for their intended use or sale are included in the cost.
Tangible non-current assets that consist of parts with different periods of use are treated as separate components of tangible non-current assets.
The carrying amount of a tangible non-current asset is derecognised from the balance sheet upon disposal or sale, or when no future financial benefits are expected to be derived from the use or disposal/sale of the asset. Gains or losses that arise upon the sale or disposal of an asset are defined as the difference between the selling price and the carrying amount of the asset, less direct selling expenses. Gains and losses are recognised as other operating income/expense.
Leased assets
Leases are classified in the consolidated financial statements as either financial or operational leases. Leases where essentially all of the financial risks and benefits associated with ownership have been transferred to the lessee are classified as financial leases. Where this is not the case, the lease is an operational lease.
Assets that are leased in accordance with financial lease agreements are recognised as non- current assets in the balance sheet and are initially measured at the lower of the leased asset’s fair value and the present value of the minimum leasing fees at the time the contract is entered into. Obligations to pay future leasing fees are recognised as non-current and current liabilities. The leased assets are depreciated over the useful life of the asset in question, while the leasing fees are recognised as interest and amortisation of the liabilities.
Assets that are leased in accordance with operational leases are generally not recognised as an asset in the balance sheet. Nor do operational leases result in a liability.
Additional expenditures
Additional expenditures are added to the cost only to the extent that it is probable that the future financial benefits associated with the asset will accrue to the Group and the cost can be calculated in a reliable manner. All other additional expenditures are recognised as an expense in the period in which they arise.
Amortisation policies
Assets are depreciated on a straight-line basis over their estimated period of use. Land is not depreciated. The Group applies component depreciation, which means that depreciation is based on the estimated period of use of individual components.
Estimated periods of use:
Buildings, property used in operations Land improvements
Leasehold improvements
Machinery
Equipment
5 –100 years 20 years 3–5 years 3–10 years 3–5 years
Property used in operations consists of a number of components with varying periods of use. The main classification is buildings and land. The land component is not depreciated since its period of use is considered to be unlimited. Buildings, however, consist of a number of components for which the period of use varies. The periods of use of these components have been deemed to vary between five and 100 years.
The following main groups of components have been identified and constitute the basis for the depreciation of buildings:
Core
Core improvements, inner walls, etc.
Installations: heating, electricity, water, and sanitation, ventilation, etc. Outer surfaces: facing, roofing, etc.
Inner surfaces: machinery equipment, etc.
Building equipment
100 years 50 years 10 – 50 years 10 – 50 years 10 –15 years 5–10 years
An assessment of the depreciation methods applied and the residual value and period of use of assets is carried out on an annual basis.
INTANGIBLE ASSETS
Goodwill
Goodwill represents the difference between the consideration transferred for a corporate acquisition and the fair value of the acquired assets and assumed debt.
Goodwill is measured at cost, less any accumulated impairment losses. Goodwill is distributed to cash-generating units and is not amortised continuously. Instead, impairment testing is conducted on an annual basis.
For corporate acquisitions for which the consideration transferred is less than the fair value of the acquired assets and assumed debt, known as a bargain purchase, the difference is recognised directly in net profit for the year.
Other intangible assets
Other intangible assets acquired by the Group are recognised at cost, less accumulated amortisation and impairment losses. This includes, for example, brands, capitalised IT expenditure for develop- ment and purchases of software. Accrued expenses for internally generated goodwill and internally generated brands are recognised in net profit for the year when the cost is incurred.
Additional expenditures
Additional expenditures for capitalised intangible assets are recognised as an asset in the balance sheet only to the extent that they increase the future financial benefits of the specific asset to which they are attributable. All other expenditures are expensed as incurred.
Amortisation policies
Amortisation is recognised in net profit for the year over the estimated period of use of the intangible asset, unless the period of use is indefinable. Goodwill and intangible assets with an indefinable period of use, such as certain brands, are tested on an annual basis for any indications of an impair- ment requirement, or as soon as there are indications that the asset in question has declined in value. Intangible assets that are subject to amortisation are amortised from the date on which they are available for use.
Estimated periods of use:
Brands, supplier contracts, customer relations 3 –10 years Software, IT investments 3 – 5 years
An assessment of the amortisation methods and periods of use applied is carried out on an annual basis.
B&B TOOLS ANNUAL REPORT 2013/14 33
NOTES
  
 NOTES
 NOTE 1, CONT.
INVENTORIES
Inventories are measured at the lower of cost and net realisable value. The cost of inventories is calculated by applying the “first-in, first-out” (FIFO) method or using a method based on a weighted average and includes expenditures arising during the acquisition of the inventory assets and trans- portation thereof to their current location and state.
Net realisable value is the estimated selling price in the operating activities, after deduction of the estimated costs for completion and for accomplishing a sale.
IMPAIRMENT LOSSES
The carrying amount of the Group’s assets is tested on at least each balance-sheet date to determine whether there are any indications of an impairment requirement. IAS 36 is applied for impairment test- ing of assets other than financial assets, which are tested in accordance with IAS 39, assets available for sale and disposal groups recognised in accordance with IFRS 5, inventories, assets under manage- ment used for financing compensation to employees and deferred tax assets. If there is any indication of impairment, the recoverable amount of the asset is calculated. The measurement of exempted assets in accordance with the above is tested in compliance with each standard.
The recoverable amount of goodwill, other intangible assets with an indefinable period of use and intangible assets not yet ready for use is calculated at least annually. Where it is not possible to allocate essentially independent cash flows to an individual asset, net assets are grouped at the lowest level at which essentially independent cash flows can be determined (a so called cash- generating unit).
An impairment loss is recognised when an asset’s or a cash-generating unit’s recognised value exceeds the recoverable amount. An impairment loss is recognised as a cost in net profit for the year. When impairment losses are identified for a cash-generating unit, the impairment loss is primarily allocated to goodwill. Proportional impairment charges are then made against other non-current assets included in the unit.
Calculation of recoverable amount
The recoverable amount of assets belonging to the categories of loan receivables and accounts receivable recognised at amortised cost is calculated as the present value of future cash flows discounted using the effective interest rate prevailing when the asset was initially recognised. Assets with short remaining terms are not discounted.
The recoverable amount of other assets is the higher of fair value less selling expenses and value in use. For the purpose of calculating the value in use, future cash flows are discounted using a discount factor that reflects risk-free interest and the risk associated with the specific asset.
For an asset that does not generate cash flows and is essentially independent of other assets,
the recoverable amount is calculated for the cash-generating unit to which the asset belongs.
Reversal of impairment losses
Impairment losses on loan receivables and accounts receivable recognised at amortised cost are reversed if a later increase in the recoverable amount can objectively be attributed to an event that occurred after the impairment loss was charged.
Impairment losses on goodwill are not reversed.
Impairment losses on other assets are reversed if there has been a change in the assumptions on which the calculation of the recoverable amount was based.
An impairment loss is reversed only to the extent that the carrying amount of the asset after the reversal does not exceed the carrying amount of the asset if no impairment loss had been charged, taking into account the amortisation that would then have been made.
EQUITY
The Group’s equity can be divided into share capital, other contributed capital, reserves, retained earnings including net profit for the year and non-controlling interest.
Repurchase of own shares
Holdings of treasury shares and other equity instruments are recognised as a reduction of equity. Acquisitions of such instruments are recognised as a deduction item against equity. Proceeds from the disposal of equity instruments are recognised as an increase in equity. Any transaction costs are recognised directly against equity.
Dividends
Dividends are recognised as a liability after the Annual General Meeting has approved the dividend.
EARNINGS PER SHARE
The calculation of earnings per share is based on consolidated net profit for the year attributable to the Parent Company’s shareholders and on the weighted average number of shares outstanding during the year. When calculating earnings per share on a fully diluted basis, the average number of shares outstanding is adjusted by taking into account the theoretical dilution of the number of
shares outstanding, which during reported periods is attributable to personnel options and call options issued to employees.
EMPLOYEE BENEFITS
Defined-contribution pension plans
Obligations pertaining to fees for defined-contribution pension plans are recognised as an expense in net profit for the year when they arise.
Defined-benefit pension plans
The Group’s net obligations pertaining to defined-benefit pension plans are calculated separately for each plan in the form of an estimate of the future compensation that the employee has earned as a result of his/her employment in both the current and prior periods. These calculations are per- formed by a qualified actuary using the projected unit credit method. The obligations are measured at the present value of expected future payments, with due consideration for future salary increases. The discount rate used is the interest rate on the balance-sheet date for an investment grade corporate bond or housing bonds with a term equivalent to the Group’s pension obligations. In the case of funded plans, the fair value of the plan assets reduces the calculated value.
When the calculation leads to an asset for the Group, the carrying amount of the asset is limited to the lowest of the surplus on the plan and the asset limitation calculated utilising the discount rate. The asset limitation comprises the present value of the future financial benefits in the form of lower future contributions or cash repayment. Any minimum funding requirements are taken into consid- eration when calculating the present value of future repayments or payments.
Obligations for retirement pensions to salaried employees in Sweden in accordance with the ITP plan are handled mainly within the so-called FPG/PRI system. However, obligations for family pen- sions are secured by insurance with Alecta. These obligations are also defined-benefit obligations, although the Group has not had access to the information necessary to recognise these obligations as a defined-benefit plan. Therefore, these pensions secured by insurance with Alecta are recog- nised as a defined-contribution plan. As of 31 December 2013, Alecta’s surplus in the form of its collective solvency margin was 148 percent (2012: 129 percent). The collective solvency margin is defined as the market value of Alecta’s assets as a percentage of the insurance obligations calcu- lated in accordance with Alecta’s actuarial calculation assumptions, which do not correspond with IAS 19. Alecta’s surplus can be distributed to the policy holders and/or the insured.
When the benefits under a plan are improved, the proportion of the increase in benefits pertain- ing to the employees’ service during prior periods is recognised as an expense in net profit for the year. The carrying amount for pensions and similar commitments in the balance sheet corresponds to the present value of the commitments at year-end, less the fair value of the plan assets.
Interest expense/income net on the defined-benefit commitment/asset is recognised in net profit for the year under net financial items. Net interest income is based on the interest rate arising on the discounting of the net obligation, meaning the interest on the obligation, plan assets and the interest on the effect of any asset limitations. Other components are recognised in operating profit/ loss. The special payroll tax comprises a portion of the actuarial assumptions and, accordingly, is recognised as a portion of the net obligation/net asset. The portion of the special payroll tax calcu- lated based on the Swedish Pension Obligations Vesting Act in legal entities is recognised, for rea- sons of simplification, as accrued expenses instead of as a portion of the net obligation.
Yield tax is recognised continuously in profit or loss for the period to which the tax pertains and thus is not included in the liability calculation. For funded plans, the tax is charged to the return on plan assets and is recognised in other comprehensive income. For unfunded or partly unfunded plans, tax is charged to net profit for the year.
Benefits in the case of termination
In connection with the termination of employment, a provision is recognised only in cases when the Company is obligated either to terminate an employee’s or a group of employees’ employment before the normal point in time, or when benefits are given as an offer to encourage voluntary employment termination. In the latter case, a liability and expense are recognised if it is probable that the offer will be accepted and the number of employees who will accept the offer can be reliably estimated.
Share-based benefits
The 2013 Annual General Meetings resolved that a call option programme would be offered to members of senior management of the Group. A similar programme was resolved at the 2007 Annual General Meeting. The latter programme expired during the 2012/2013 financial year. Since a market premium was paid for the options, no personnel costs were incurred at the time of issuance. However, the terms stipulate that the employee may receive a certain subsidy for the premiums paid, which will be paid to the employee provided that certain terms and conditions are fulfilled. The cost for this subsidy is distributed over the vesting period.
34 B&B TOOLS ANNUAL REPORT 2013/14

NOTE 1, CONT.
PROVISIONS
A provision is recognised in the balance sheet when the Group has a current legal or informal obligation resulting from a transpired event and when it is probable that an outflow of financial resources will be required to settle the obligation, and an accurate assessment of the amount can be made. When the effect of the timing of the payment is significant, provisions are calculated based on a discount of the expected future cash flow at an interest rate before taxes that reflects current market assessments of the time value of money and, where applicable, the risks associated with the liability.
Guarantees
A provision for guarantees is recognised when the underlying products or services are sold. The provision is based on historical data on guarantees and a total assessment of the possible outcomes in relation to the probabilities associated therewith.
Restructuring
A provision for restructuring is recognised when the Group has adopted a comprehensive and formal restructuring plan, and the restructuring has either begun or been publicly announced. No provisions are set aside for future operating expenses.
Onerous contracts
A provision for onerous contracts is recognised when the benefits that the Group expects to receive from a contract are lower than the inevitable costs to fulfil the obligations in accordance with the contract.
TAXES
Income taxes consist of current taxes and deferred taxes. Income taxes are recognised in net profit for the year, except when the underlying transaction is recognised in other comprehensive income or in equity, in which case the associated tax effect is recognised in other comprehensive income or in equity.
Current taxes are taxes to be paid or refunded relating to the current year, with the application of the tax rates resolved, or in practice resolved, as of the balance-sheet date. Current taxes also include adjustments of current taxes attributable to earlier periods.
Deferred taxes are calculated in accordance with the balance-sheet method based on tempo- rary differences between the carrying amount of assets and liabilities and the value of assets and liabilities for tax purposes. Temporary differences arising from the recognition of consolidated goodwill are not taken into account. Nor are temporary differences attributable to shares in subsidi- aries and associated companies that are not expected to be reversed within the foreseeable future. The measurement of deferred taxes is based on how the carrying amount of assets or liabilities is expected to be realised or settled. Deferred taxes are calculated using the tax rates and tax rules resolved, or in practice resolved, as of the balance-sheet date.
Deferred tax assets pertaining to deductible temporary differences and loss carryforwards are rec- ognised only to the extent that it is probable that it will be possible to utilise them. The value of deferred tax assets is reduced when it is no longer deemed probable that it will be possible to utilise them.
CONTINGENT LIABILITIES
A contingent liability is recognised when there is a possible undertaking arising from events that have occurred and the existence of which are confirmed only by the occurrence of one or more future uncertain events, or when an undertaking is not recognised as a liability or provision because it is unlikely that an outflow of resources will be required.
NON-CURRENT ASSETS HELD FOR SALE AND DISCONTINUED OPERATIONS
When a non-current asset (or a disposal group) is classified as held for sale, this means that its carrying amount will essentially be recovered through a sale and not through use.
A discontinued operation is a part of a company’s operations that represents an independent operating segment, or a significant business in a geographic area, or is a subsidiary acquired solely for the purpose of being resold.
Classification as a discontinued operation occurs upon sale or at an earlier point in time when the operation fulfils the criteria of being classified as held for sale. A disposal group that is to be closed can also qualify for classification as a discontinued operation, provided that it fulfils the size criteria outlined above.
CASH-FLOW STATEMENT
Receipts and disbursements have been divided into the following categories: operating activities, investing activities and financing activities. The indirect method is applied for flows from operating activities.
The changes in operating assets and operating liabilities for the year have been adjusted for effects of changes in exchange rates. Acquisitions and disposals are recognised in investing activities.
The assets and liabilities held by the entities acquired and sold on the date of acquisition are not included in the analysis of changes in working capital, nor in the changes of balance-sheet items recognised in investing and financing activities.
Cash and cash equivalents include cash and bank flows, as well as current investments whose conversion to bank funds may occur at an amount that is usually known in advance. Cash and cash equivalents include current investments with a term of less than three months.
PARENT COMPANY ACCOUNTING POLICIES
The Parent Company has prepared its annual accounts in accordance with the Swedish Annual Accounts Act (1995:1554) and recommendation RFR 2 Accounting for Legal Entities issued by the Swedish Financial Reporting Board. The Swedish Financial Reporting Board’s statements concerning listed companies have also been applied. RFR 2 stipulates that the Parent Company, in the annual accounts for the legal entity, shall apply all IFRS and statements adopted by the EU to the greatest extent possible within the framework of the Swedish Annual Accounts Act, the Swedish Pension Obligations Vesting Act and with due consideration given to the relationship between accounting and taxation. The recommendation states the exceptions from and additions to be made to IFRS.
Combined, this results in differences between the Group’s and the Parent Company’s accounting policies in the areas indicated below.
Amended accounting policies
Unless otherwise stated below, the same changes as detailed above for the Group applied to the Parent Company’s accounting policies during the financial year. In addition to this, the accounting policy regarding Group contributions have changed, which has entailed only reclassification in the income statement.
Subsidiaries
Shares in subsidiaries are recognised in the Parent Company in accordance with the cost method. This means that transaction fees are included in the carrying amount for holdings in subsidiaries. In the consolidated financial statements, transaction fees are recognised directly in profit or loss when incurred.
Contingent considerations are valued on the basis of the probability that a consideration will
be paid. Any changes to provisions/receivables are added to/ deducted from the cost. In the consoli- dated financial statements contingent considerations are recognised at fair value, including changes in value in profit or loss.
Tangible non-current assets
Leased assets
All leasing agreements in the Parent Company are recognised in accordance with the rules for operational leasing.
Borrowing costs
Borrowing costs in the Parent Company are charged against earnings in the period to which they are attributable. No borrowing costs are capitalised on assets.
Employee benefits
Other bases for the calculation of defined-benefit pension plans are used in the Parent Company than those set out in IAS 19. The Parent Company complies with the provisions of the Swedish Pension Obligations Vesting Act and the directives of the Swedish Financial Supervisory Authority, since this is a condition for tax deductibility. The most important differences compared with the rules in IAS 19 are how the discount interest rate is determined, that the calculation of the defined-benefit obligation takes place based on the current salary level without assumption of future salary increases, and that all actuarial gains and losses are recognised in net profit for the year as they arise.
Taxes
In the Parent Company, untaxed reserves are recognised including deferred tax liabilities. However, in the consolidated financial statements, untaxed reserves are divided into deferred tax liabilities and equity. Correspondingly, in the Parent Company, appropriations are not distributed to deferred tax expense in profit or loss.
Financial guarantee agreements
In accordance with RFR 2, the Parent Company has elected not to apply the provisions in IAS 39 concerning financial guarantee agreements on behalf of subsidiaries.
Group contributions and shareholders’ contributions
Shareholders' contributions are recognised directly in equity of the recipient and capitalised in shares and participations of the donor. Group contributions, both received and paid, are recognised in profit or loss as appropriations.
B&B TOOLS ANNUAL REPORT 2013/14 35
NOTES
  
 NOTES
 NOTE 2
DISTRIBUTION OF REVENUE
Revenue
Sale of goods
Service assignments
Rental income
Group
2013/2014 2012/2013 2013/2014 2012/2013
– 48 –
NOTE 3
OTHER OPERATING INCOME
Exchange-rate gains on operating receivables/liabilities Grants from EU, central and local government
Other grants
Insurance indemnification
Capital gain, sale of tangible non-current assets
Capital gain, sale of financial non-current assets
Capital gain, sale of subsidiaries and other business units Other
Total
Group
2013/2014 2012/2013
– 3 0 1 3 1
245 0 253
Parent Company
      7,452 175 7
32
 7,447
–
157
33
10
2
34
–
 7,648
  7,666
  35
    6
4
0
1
1
–
3
0
 15
  Commission, bonuses
and similar income –
Total 48
Income in the Parent Company pertains to intra-Group services totalling MSEK 33 (48).
NOTE 4
SEGMENT REPORTING
The Group’s operating segments comprise TOOLS / Momentum and the Business Areas. The operating segments are consolidations of the operational organisation, as used by Group management and the Board of Directors to monitor operations.
The TOOLS / Momentum operating segment comprises four operating areas that conduct reseller operations in Sweden, Norway and Finland (which operate within the framework of TOOLS) and Momentum, which together form the Group’s market channel for industrial consumables and industrial components for Nordic industry.
During the past financial year, the Business Areas operating segment comprised four operating areas that conduct operations in various product and application areas (Tools & Machinery, Personal Protective Equipment, Fastening Elements and Work Environment & Consumables) and provide TOOLS and other market channels with industrial consumables and related services.
After the division of the Work Environment & Consumables business area, the operating segment comprises five operating areas from 1 April 2014.
Group-wide includes management, accounting, support functions, infrastructure operations and property management.
The support functions include HR, internal communications, IR and legal affairs. Infrastructure operations comprise IT, supply chain and master data management (MDM). Intra-Group pricing between the operating segments occurs on market terms.
No single customer in the Group accounts for more than 3 percent of the Group’s revenue. These accounting policies comply with the Group’s accounting policies, which are described
          Revenue External
2013/2014 Internal
2013/2014 Assets
2013/2014
Net financial items
Total
Liabilities
Profit/loss after net financial items
External
5,154 2,502 10 –
7,666
Operating profit/loss
27 152 116 -6
289
Operating profit/loss
2012/2013 Internal
51 1,196 601 -1,848
0
2012/2013 Assets
3,019 3,415 2,070
-3,265
5,239
2012/2013
Net financial items
–
– -73 –
Total
5,205 3,698 611 -1,848
7,666
Liabilities
2,016 1,647 2,711
-3,200
3,174
Profit/loss after net financial items
27 152 43 -6
216
in Note 1.
For more information on the distribution of revenue, refer to Note 2.
  5,045
 53
 5,098
2,592
1,279
3,871
11
651
662
–
 -1,983
 -1,983
 7,648
 0
 7,648
  TOOLS / Momentum Business Areas Group-wide Eliminations
Group total
Operating profit/loss, assets and liabilities
TOOLS / Momentum Business Areas Group-wide Eliminations
Group total
Profit/loss after net financial items
Operating profit/loss
Operating profit/loss
        145
 2,900
 1,748
223
3,426
1,674
-14
1,596
2,219
-14
 -2,828
 -2,750
 340
 5,094
 2,891
          145
 –
 145
223
–
223
-14
-54
-68
-14
 –
 -14
 340
 -54
 286
  TOOLS / Momentum
Business Areas
Group-wide 116 Eliminations -6
Group total 289 -73
27 152
    36 B&B TOOLS ANNUAL REPORT 2013/14

NOTE 4, CONT.
Investments in non-current assets
Intangible
2013/2014 Tangible
Total
2012/2013
Intangible Tangible Total
1 50 51
2012/2013
Intangible Tangible Total
-24 -41 -65
2012/2013
Intangible Tangible Total
NOTES
     1
 22
 23
2
4
6
–
 7
 7
 3
 33
 36
   TOOLS / Momentum
Business Areas
Group-wide – 19 19
0 25 25 1 6 7
  Group total
Depreciation and amortisation of non-current assets
Intangible
2013/2014 Tangible
Total
      -1
 -24
 -25
-3
-5
-8
-1
 -8
 -9
 -5
 -37
 -42
   TOOLS / Momentum
Business Areas
Group-wide -17 -13 -30
-2 -23 -25 -5 -5 -10
  Group total
2013/2014 Impairment losses on non-current assets Intangible Tangible
Total
      –
 -3
 -3
 –
  -3
  -3
   Group-wide – -1 -1
  Group total
Other non-cash items
– -1 -1
  2013/2014 Pensions
Other
2012/2013 Pensions
    0
 56
-18
4
-5
 43
 -23
 103
   TOOLS / Momentum
Business Areas
Group-wide -6
Group total -32
INFORMATION ON GEOGRAPHIC AREA
The Group primarily conducts operations in Sweden, Norway and Finland. Revenue presented for the geographic markets is based on the domicile of the customers, while assets and investments are based on the geographic location of the operations.
2013/2014 2012/2013 External revenue Non-current assets External revenue
Sweden 3,740 Finland 860 Norway 2,451
Other
-79 -6 -50
-135
Non-current assets
1,832 177 21 3
2,033
-1 -25
        3,802
 1,785
845
189
2,311
21
690
 5
 7,648
 2,000
   Other countries
Group total
Investments in non-current assets
Sweden Finland Norway
Other countries Group total
615
7,666
      Intangible
2013/2014 Tangible
Total
2012/2013
Intangible Tangible Total
1 41 42 0 2 2 – 6 6 0 1 1
1 50 51
  3
 20
 23
0
3
3
–
9
9
0
 1
 1
 3
 33
 36
       B&B TOOLS ANNUAL REPORT 2013/14 37
 
 NOTES
 NOTE 5
EMPLOYEES AND PERSONNEL COSTS
Average number of employees by country
Sweden, Parent Company Sweden, other Swedish companies Denmark
Finland
Norway
Estonia
Poland
Other countries
Group total
Salaries and remuneration by country
Sweden Denmark Finland Norway Estonia
Poland
Other countries Group total
Women
2013/2014 Men
2013/2014
Of which, variable remuneration
2013/2014
Social security fees
Total
Women
5 420 5 54 80 12 16 35
627
Board of Directors and President
52 1 2 3 1 2 4
65
Salaries and remuneration
2012/2013 Men
8 1,341 22 265 398 36 72 58
2,200
2012/2013
Of which, variable remuneration
1 0 0 1 0 0 0
2
Social security fees
Total
13 1,761 27 319 478 48 88 93
2,827
Other
727 15 120 305 7 10 13
1,197
Of which, pension costs
132
Total
36 1 29 14
    3
 8
 11
403
1,268
1,671
6
20
26
50
256
306
85
410
495
13
35
48
15
60
75
36
 56
 92
 611
 2,113
 2,724
         Board of Directors and President
Other
Of which, pension costs
  32
 3
 714
2
–
14
4
0
116
3
0
301
1
0
6
1
–
10
4
 1
 14
 47
 4
 1,175
       Salaries and Group remuneration
Group total
1,262 443
2012/2013
Board of Directors Other and President employees
28 8 1 0 23 6 12 2
2012/2013
    1,222
  409
  106
     The category “Board of Directors and President” in the table above includes the directors, presidents and executive vice presidents in the Group.
2013/2014
Other employees
  Parent Company
Salaries and other remuneration (of which, variable remuneration) Social security fees
(of which, pension costs)
Board of Directors and President
Total
  6
 5
 11
1
0
1
4
6
10
2
 2
 4
     The category “Board of Directors and President” in the table above includes directors, presidents and executive vice presidents in the Group in 2013/2014.
Of the Group’s pension costs, SEK 7,990 thousand (18,424) pertains to the category “Board of Directors and President.”
Of the Parent Company’s pension costs, SEK 1,607 thousand (12,102) pertains to the category “Board of Directors and President,” and the costs in their entirety pertain to the President and the Executive Vice President. The Company’s outstanding pension obligations to the category “Board of Directors and President” amount to SEK 1,122 thousand (1,116), of which SEK 235 thousand (65) pertains to the President and SEK 887 thousand (883) to the Chairman of the Board.
PREPARATION AND DECISION-MAKING PROCESS CONCERNING REMUNERATION TO
THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS, THE PRESIDENT & CEO AND OTHER MEMBERS OF SENIOR MANAGEMENT
The Election Committee submits motions for resolution by the Annual General Meeting concerning directors’ fees to be allocated to the Chairman of the Board and other directors. The process of preparing and passing resolutions concerning remuneration to the B&B TOOLS Group’s President & CEO and other senior management is based on the guidelines proposed by the Board of Directors and adopted by the Annual General Meeting. The guidelines in effect during the 2013/2014 financial year are presented below.
The Compensation Committee prepares and submits motions to the Board of Directors concerning the formulation of a remuneration structure for the Group’s senior management in line with the guidelines of the Annual General Meeting and prepares motions regarding any share-based incentive programmes. The Compensation Committee also submits motions to the Board regarding
remuneration and other terms of employment for the President & CEO. Decisions concerning remuneration to other senior management are made by the Compensation Committee.
38 B&B TOOLS ANNUAL REPORT 2013/14
A more detailed presentation of the composition and work of the Compensation Committee is found in the Corporate Governance Report on page 20.
REMUNERATION DURING THE 2013/2014 FINANCIAL YEAR
The Board of Directors
In accordance with the resolution passed by the Annual General Meeting in August 2013, the Board of Directors received a total of SEK 1,880 thousand (1,700) in directors’ fees during the 2013/2014 financial year. Pursuant to the resolution of the Annual General Meeting, the Chairman of the Board received SEK 500 thousand (450), the Vice Chairman received SEK 380 thousand (350) and the other directors received SEK 250 thousand (225) each. No fees were paid for committee work. No director received any remuneration in addition to directors’ fees during the 2013/2014 financial year. Refer also to the summary of the Board’s composition and fees in 2013/2014 in the Corporate Governance Report on page 19.
Provided that the necessary tax prerequisites for invoicing exist and that doing so would not entail a cost for B&B TOOLS AB, directors are to be offered the opportunity to invoice their directors’ fees through a wholly owned Swedish company or private business. If a director invoices his/her directors’ fee through a wholly owned company or private business, the fee is to be increased by an amount corresponding to the social security contributions and value added tax stipulated by law. Of the Board’s six directors elected by the Annual General Meeting, five directors invoiced their directors’ fees through a wholly owned company in 2013/2014.

Mika Kärki
REMUNERATION AND OTHER BENEFITS 2013/2014
SEK thousand
Ulf Lilius, President & CEO
Other members of senior management (nine individuals)
Total
REMUNERATION AND OTHER BENEFITS 2012/2013 SEK thousand
Stefan Wigren, President & CEO (1 April–31 October 2012)
Ulf Lilius, President & CEO
(1 November 2012–31 March 2013)
Other members of senior management2)
Total
1) Including expensed severance payment according to applicable contract.
2) For definition and time periods, refer to B&B TOOLS’ Annual Report 2012/2013.
Fixed salary
2,698 13,676
Variable salary
333 1,447
Long-term incentive (LTI)
600 –
600
Long-term incentive (LTI)
–
600 –
600
Other Total benefits remuneration
90 3,721 897 16,020
987 19,741
Other Total benefits remuneration
226 8,879 24 1,724
679 20,698
929 31,301
Pension costs
801 4,008
4,809
Pension costs
7,000
333 5,823
13,156
Call options out- standing (no.)
13,300 116,100
129,400
NOTES
 NOTE 5, CONT.
President & CEO
Remuneration to the President & CEO of B&B TOOLS AB comprises fixed salary, variable salary, participation in the long-term incentive programmes (“LTI 2008” and “LTI 2012”) and the call option programme 2013/2017 (see below for a more detailed description), other benefits and pension. For the Company’s President & CEO, variable salary can amount to a maximum of 30 percent of the fixed salary, based on the Group’s earnings. In addition, a premium of 20 percent of the variable salary can be paid as a consideration for the entire variable portion being used to acquire shares in B&B TOOLS AB. On 31 March 2014, the President & CEO held 13,300 call options according to the programme described below.
From the age of 65, the President & CEO is covered by a defined-contribution pension, whose size depends on the outcome of the pension insurance policies taken out. Pension premiums paid include premiums for health insurance.
In the event of termination of employment at the initiative of the Company, the period of notice is 12 months. Aside from salary and other benefits during the period of notice, no severance pay will be issued to the President & CEO in the event of termination of employment at the initiative of the Company.
Other members of senior management
In this Note, “Other members of senior management” refers to the current Group management excluding the President & CEO (nine individuals) for the period 1 April 2013 – 31 March 2014.
Other members of senior management 2013/2014
Carl Johan Lundberg Eva Hemb Jens Henriksen Jimmy Norlinder Mikael Malmgren Olof Nyberg Pontus Boman Stefan Lind Torbjörn Eriksson
As of 1 April 2014, Group management was expanded with the addition of:
Remuneration to other members of senior management consists of fixed salary, variable salary, possible participation in the long-term incentive programme (“LTI 2008”) and the call option programme 2013/2017 (see below for a more detailed description), other benefits and pension. Members of senior management employed in subsidiaries receive their remuneration from the respective companies. For the other members of senior management, variable remuneration, based on the Group’s and – in certain cases – the respective operating area’s earnings – may constitute a maximum of 25-30 percent of the fixed salary. In addition, a premium of 20 percent of the variable salary can be paid as a consideration for the entire variable portion being used to acquire shares in B&B TOOLS AB. On 31 March 2014, these other members of senior manage- ment held 116,100 call options according to the programme described below. Refer to page 67 for a detailed presentation of the current Group management.
From the age of 65, the other members of senior management are covered by pension entitle- ments based on individual agreements. The existing pension solutions are mainly defined-contri- bution pensions, whose size depends on the outcome of the pension insurance policies taken out. Pension premiums paid include premiums for health insurance. The respective Group companies’ outstanding defined-benefit pension obligations amount to SEK 3,848 thousand (4,524).
In the event of termination of employment at the initiative of the respective company, the period of notice is a maximum of 6–12 months. In addition to salary and other benefits during the notice period, a severance payment of not more than 3–12 months’ salary is payable by the respective company.
  16,374 1,780
 Fixed salary1)
8,653
1,100 20,019
Variable salary
0
0 0
  29,772 0
 B&B TOOLS ANNUAL REPORT 2013/14 39
 
 NOTES
 NOTE 5, CONT.
Guidelines for determining remuneration and other terms of employment for the President & CEO and other members of senior management in 2013/2014 For the Board of Directors, it is crucial that the Company is able to recruit, provide long- term motivation for and retain competent employees who create long and short-term shareholder value. To achieve this goal, it is important that the Company is able to offer competitive terms. The Company’s remuneration levels and remuneration structure for senior management is to be in line with market conditions. The total remuneration package for the individuals in question should comprise a balanced combination of fixed salary, variable salary, long-term incentive programmes, pension benefits and other benefits. Variable salary and long-term incentive programmes should primarily be linked to the Group’s earnings and value performance.
• Fixed salary is to be adjusted to market conditions and be based on responsibility, competence and performance. Fixed salary is determined based on market principles and is reviewed annually.
• Variable salary is to be determined in relation to fixed salary and is set as a function of the Group’s earnings.
• Members of Group management are to be included in a long-term incentive programme (“LTI programme”).
• Pension benefits are to comprise either a defined-benefit pension plan or a defined- contribution plan, whose annual premium is determined as a function of fixed salary, variable salary and age. Certain individual adjustments occur. The retirement age for Group management is currently 65.
• Other benefits are to be in line with market conditions and enable the members of Group management to perform their duties.
• In the event of termination of employment on the initiative of the President & CEO or another member of Group management, the period of notice is six months. In the event of termination of employment on the initiative of the Company, the period of notice is a maximum of 12 months. Severance pay may amount to a maximum of 12 months’ salary.
The Board is entitled to deviate from the above guidelines in individual cases if special reasons exist.
Guidelines established at the Annual General Meeting of B&B TOOLS AB held on 22 August 2013. These guidelines have been applied to all agreements entered into with the President & CEO and other members of Group management during 2013/2014.
The table below shows the options issued and options outstanding as of 31 March 2014:
LONG-TERM INCENTIVE (LTI) PROGRAMMES
During the 2008/2009 financial year, the Board of B&B TOOLS AB decided to introduce a long-term incentive programme (“LTI 2008”) for senior management and other key individuals in the Group, excluding the Group management of the time, with the intention of establishing long-term participa- tion in the Group and its value performance. The LTI programme initially had a term of five years and under its structure, the individuals concerned initially invested in B&B TOOLS shares up to a level determined in advance. The basic prerequisite for an annual cash disbursement within the frame- work of the programme was that the Group’s profit before taxes was to exceed the average of the corresponding earnings in the past three years by at least 20 percent. Accordingly, no dilution effect arose as a function of the LTI programme. In 2010/2011, the programme was extended to a total term of seven years until 2015. The goal of the LTI programme was not achieved for the 2013/2014 financial year and a total of SEK 0 thousand (0) was charged against net profit for the year.
In October 2012, the Board of Directors of B&B TOOLS AB resolved to offer a long-term incentive programme (“LTI 2012”) to the new President & CEO involving an annual cash-based gross remu- neration amount of SEK 600 thousand over a three-year period. Payment of the cash-based gross remuneration amount is conditional upon an initial investment in B&B TOOLS shares by the President & CEO of approximately MSEK 5 and that he remains an employee of the Company. For the 2013/2014 financial year, gross remuneration of SEK 600 thousand (600) was paid.
Remuneration under this LTI programme was expensed and paid in 2013/2014.
CALL OPTION PROGRAMME 2013/2017
In August 2013, the Annual General Meeting of B&B TOOLS AB decided to offer a number of members of senior management in the B&B TOOLS Group the opportunity to purchase call options for shares in B&B TOOLS AB on market terms. The price per call option was SEK 10.00, equivalent to the market value according to the external valuation performed by Nordea Bank according to the Black & Scholes model. The following main assumptions were applied to the valuation in August- September 2013: current share price SEK 84.27 per share; term up to and including 9 June 2017; redemption price SEK 101.90 per share; risk-free interest rate (based on government bonds)
1.70 percent and expected volatility 30 percent.
The programme includes the issuance of a maximum of 169,000 call options for repurchased shares in the Company and the conveyance of not more than 169,000 Class B shares in the Company in connection with any redemption of the call options. Each option entitles its holder to purchase one Class B share in B&B TOOLS AB at a redemption price of SEK 101.90. The programme was secured in its entirety through the repurchase of treasury shares. A subsidy is associated with this offering corresponding to the paid option price. This means that an amount of SEK 10.00 per acquired call option is paid to the holder. The subsidy is to be paid by the holder’s employer in September 2015 on the condition that all originally acquired call options in this programme remain and that the individual has remained an employee of the B&B TOOLS Group.
  Group
Call option programme 2013/2017
Parent Company
Call option programme 2013/2017
Date of issue
September 2013
September 2013
Redemption period
12 September 2016 – 9 June 2017
12 September 2016 – 9 June 2017
Redemption price, SEK
101.90
101.90
Options issued
169,000
39,900
Options outstanding
169,000
39,900
Settlement method
Physical delivery
Physical delivery
 No call options were redeemed in 2013/2014.
In August 2007, the Annual General Meeting of B&B TOOLS AB decided to offer a number of executives in the B&B TOOLS Group the opportunity to purchase a total of 90,000 call options for shares in B&B TOOLS AB on market terms. The call options expired on 30 September 2012. No call options were redeemed during the programme’s term of 2007–2012.
GENDER DISTRIBUTION AMONG SENIOR MANAGEMENT Group
Parent Company 2013/2014 2012/2013
17% 10%
  Percentage of women
Directors
Senior management
2013/2014
2012/2013
  14%
 10% 9%
  17%
10%
 10%
    The category designated above as “Senior management” includes the presidents, executive vice presidents and other senior management in the management groups of the Parent Company and other Group companies.
40 B&B TOOLS ANNUAL REPORT 2013/14

NOTE 6
FEES AND REIMBURSEMENT TO AUDITORS
NOTE 9
NET FINANCIAL ITEMS Group
Interest income
Dividends
Net exchange-rate changes Other financial income Financial income
Interest expense
Net interest income on defined-benefit pensions Impairment losses on financial assets available for sale Other financial expense
Financial expense
Net financial items
Parent Company
Dividend
Total
Parent Company
Interest income, Group companies Interest income, other
Net exchange-rate changes
Total
Parent Company
Interest expense, Group companies
Interest expense, other
Other financial expense
Total -77
Group
2013/2014 2012/2013 2013/2014 2012/2013
1 – 1
Parent Company
2013/2014 2012/2013
6 – 3 0 9
-67 -15 – – -82 -73
2013/2014 2012/2013
90
90
2013/2014 2012/2013
124 1 2 127
Interest expense and similar profit/loss items
2013/2014 2012/2013
NOTES
   5
0
3
0
 8
-47
-15
0
0
 -62
 -54
       6 1
 5
1
1
 –
 6
  7
 1
 0 0
0
0
–
 –
 0
 0
 0
 1 –
 0
0
0
 –
 0
  1
 0
 0
1
 0
 1
  0
 0
 7
 8
 1
  Audit assignment
KPMG
Other auditors
Fees for audit assignment
Audit activities in addition to audit assignment
      KPMG 0 Other auditors –
Fees for audit activities in addition
to audit assignment 0
Tax advisory services
          KPMG
Other auditors –
Fees for tax advisory services 0
Other assignments
KPMG 0
Fees for other assignments 0
Total fees to auditors 1
“Audit assignment” refers to statutory auditing of the Annual Report and accounting, as well as the administration of the Board of Directors and the President & CEO, and auditing and other reviews carried out in accordance with legislation, agreements or contracts. This includes other work assignments that are incumbent upon the Company’s auditors, as well as advisory services or other assistance occasioned through the findings of such reviews or the performance of such other work assignments. “Other assignments” comprise advisory services concerning accounting issues.
NOTE 7
ACQUISITION OF BUSINESSES
ACQUISITION OF GROUP COMPANIES
No corporate acquisitions were carried out during the 2013/2014 or 2012/2013 financial years. Nor were any corrections made to additional purchase considerations.
NOTE 8
MEASURES FOR ENHANCING EFFICIENCY AND REDUCING COSTS 2013/2014
There were no non-recurring items in the 2013/2014 financial year.
2012/2013
For the 2012/2013 financial year, non-recurring costs of MSEK 194 were recognised, primarily regarding restructuring and adjustment measures. These costs were distributed between the income items of Goods for resale, Personnel costs, Depreciation/amortisation and Other operating expenses.
Capital gains of MSEK 245 pertaining to property sales also contributed to the net of non- recurring items amounting to MSEK 51 during the year.
Profit from shares in Group companies
0
     390
 390
          Interest income and similar profit/loss items
       148
2
4
 154
         -8
-48
0
 -56
  -11 -66 –
    NOTE 10
APPROPRIATIONS
Difference between recognised depreciation and depreciation according to plan
Equipment
Tax allocation reserve, provision for the year Tax allocation reserve, reversal for the year Group contributions received
Group contributions paid
Total
Parent Company 2013/2014 2012/2013
0
0 46 243 -295 -6
   1
-45
53
250
-223
 36
      B&B TOOLS ANNUAL REPORT 2013/14 41
 
 NOTES
 NOTE 11
TAXES
RECOGNISED IN PROFIT OR LOSS
Current tax
Tax expense for the period
Deduction of foreign taxes
Adjustment of taxes attributable to earlier years Total
Deferred tax
Deferred tax attributable to temporary differences
Deferred tax due to changes in tax rates and/or changed tax legislation
Deferred tax income in tax value of tax loss carryforwards capitalised during the year
Deferred tax expense due to utilisation of previously capitalised tax value of tax loss carryforwards Deferred tax
Total tax
RECONCILIATION OF EFFECTIVE TAXES
Group
The Group’s average tax rate is estimated at 25 percent (28). The relationship between taxes at the average tax rate and recognised taxes for the Group is illustrated in the following table:
Group 2013/2014
Parent Company
  2012/2013
2013/2014
2012/2013
   -33 -1 1
 -79
-30
0
–
-3
 0
 -82
  -33
 -30
 28 8 6 -3
8
0
0
–
3
–
-1
 –
 10
 39
0
 -72
  6
  -30
   0 – 1 1
-2 -2 – – -4 -3
          Reconciliation of effective taxes
Profit before taxes
Taxes at the average tax rate of 25 percent (28) Tax effect of:
Changed tax rate
Fictitious interest on tax allocation reserves
Non-deductible capital gain on sale of subsidiaries
Additional/reduced tax, previous years
Utilisation of previously non-capitalised tax loss carryforwards
Remeasurement of carrying amount of deferred tax assets Other non-deductible expenses
Other items
Total tax
2013/2014 2012/2013
216 -60
8 -1 64 1
0
0 -7 1 6
Reconciliation of effective taxes
Profit after net financial items
Tax at the tax rate of 22 percent (26.3) Tax effect of:
2013/2014 2012/2013
32 -9
Parent Company
The relationship between the Swedish tax rate of 22 percent (26.3) and recognised taxes for the Parent Company is illustrated in the following table:
  286
-71
0
-1
3
-3
3
0
-2
-1
 -72
    513
-113
–
-2
86
-1
0
0
0
 -30
  Changed tax rate
Appropriations -12 Dividends from subsidiaries 24 Fictitious interest on tax allocation reserves -1 Additional/reduced tax, previous years 1 Other non-taxable income 0 Other non-deductible expenses -4
Total tax -3
TAX RECOGNISED IN STATEMENT OF COMPREHENSIVE INCOME
AND DIRECTLY AGAINST EQUITY
Tax items recognised in comprehensive income in the Group and
the Parent Company or directly against equity in the Parent Company
-2
        Group 2013/2014
Parent Company
  2012/2013
2013/2014
2012/2013
–
-1
-1
  0
  0 -2
 –
-1
-1
 -1
  -2
  -1
   Current tax on translation dif- ferences
Deferred tax on hedge accounting of financial instruments
Total
    42 B&B TOOLS ANNUAL REPORT 2013/14

31 March 2014 31 March 2013
Receivables Liabilities Net Receivables Liabilities Net
NOTES
 NOTE 11, CONT.
RECOGNISED IN THE BALANCE SHEET
Deferred tax assets and liabilities
Deferred tax assets and liabilities in the balance sheet are attributable as follows:
  Group
Intangible assets
Land and buildings
Machinery and equipment
Financial non-current assets
Inventories 41 – 41
  0
 -11
 -11
–
-6
-6
3
–
3
3
–
3
43
–
43
7
–
7
–
-45
-45
28
-3
25
3
–
3
–
-2
-2
3
-12
-9
12
 –
 12
 102
 -79
 23
   Accounts receivable
Untaxed reserves
Pension provisions
Other provisions
Interest-bearing liabilities
Other 7 -3 4 Tax loss carryforwards 11 – 11
Total 118 -104 14
0 -11 -11 – -10 -10 2 – 2
21 -26 -5
4 -1 3
– -48 -48 29 -4 25 3 – 3 – -1 -1
      Parent Company
Financial non-current assets Pension provisions
Receivables
31 March 2014 Liabilities
Net Receivables
3 7
31 March 2013
Liabilities Net
– 3 – 7
– 10
2013/2014 2012/2013
  2
 –
 2
7
 –
 7
 9
 –
 9
    Total 10
  A reconciliation of deferred net receivables (net liability) from
the beginning of the year until year-end is shown in the tables below:
Changes in temporary differences during the year recognised in profit or loss are attributable as follows:
Group
Group
Opening balance at the beginning of the year, net
Disposal of subsidiaries
Reclassifications within the balance sheet
Taxes charged against net profit for the year
Taxes on items recognised in the consolidated comprehensive income
Translation differences
Closing balance at year-end, net Parent Company
Opening balance at the beginning of the year, net
Taxes charged against net profit for the year
Taxes on items recognised in the Parent Company’s comprehensive income
Closing balance at year-end, net
31 March 2014
31 March 2014
31 March 2013
-36 16 9 39
-11 -3 14
31 March 2013
15 -4
-1
10
Intangible assets
Land and buildings
Machinery and equipment
Financial non-current assets
Inventories -6
  14
1
–
10
-2
0
 23
    0
5
1
9
5
1
2
-1
0
-4
-8
0
 10
  Accounts receivable Untaxed reserves Pension provisions
Other provisions Interest-bearing liabilities Other
Tax loss carryforwards
Total
Parent Company
Financial non-current assets Pension provisions
Other provisions
Total
7 5 0
-2
3 24 0 0 – 5 3 39
2013/2014 2012/2013
-2 -1 -1 -4
      10
0
-1
 9
            0
0
–
 0
      B&B TOOLS ANNUAL REPORT 2013/14 43
 
 NOTES
 NOTE 12
INTANGIBLE NON-CURRENT ASSETS
Group
Carrying amount at the beginning of the year
Accumulated cost
Supplier Customer
Goodwill Brands contracts relations Software Other
1,724 50 0 1 1 5
Total
1,781
  At the beginning of the year
Investments –––––33
Sales and disposals 0 Reclassifications –
– – –
58
-8 0 – – –
-8
0
0
50
Software
1
4
4
-3 -1
-4
0
– -1 – – 0 0
32 72
-32 -72 – 0 – 1 – – 0 0
-32 -71
– 0
– 0
0 1
Exchange-rate difference for the year
At year-end
Accumulated amortisation
At the beginning of the year Amortisation for the year
Sales and disposals Reclassifications
Exchange-rate difference for the year
At year-end
Impairment losses on cost
At the beginning of the year
At year-end
Carrying amount at year-end
Parent Company
Carrying amount at the beginning of the year
Accumulated cost
At the beginning of the year
At year-end
Accumulated amortisation
At the beginning of the year Amortisation for the year
At year-end
Carrying amount at year-end
IMPAIRMENT TESTING OF GOODWILL
12
1,736
– – – – –
–
–
–
1,736
1,724 58 32 73 59 17
1,963 -10 -2
–0 0 01 13
58 21 1,977
-58 -12 -182 -1 -4 -5 10 2 –0 0 00 0
-58 -16 -185
–– 0
–– 0
05 1,792
              Recognised goodwill values were tested prior to the balance-sheet date on 31 March 2014, using the balance sheet on 31 December 2013 as a base. The Group’s total goodwill value of MSEK 1,736 (1,724) has been allocated by operating segment according to the table below (rounded to the nearest MSEK):
Normally, parameters are set to correspond to forecast earnings for the forthcoming financial year. During the remainder of the five-year period, growth of 2 percent (2) per annum has been assumed. Adjustments have been made where major changes are expected in order to better reflect these changes. For cash flows beyond the five-year period, growth has been assumed to correspond to growth during the fifth year. Cash flows have been discounted by a weighted capital cost for borrowed capital and equity corresponding to 8 percent (8) before taxes. The aforementioned assumptions apply for both cash-generating units.
The testing of goodwill values did not indicate any impairment requirement. The sensitivity of the calculation means that the goodwill value would remain warranted even if the discount rate were to be raised by 1 percentage point or if the long-term growth rate were to be reduced by 1 percentage point.
BRANDS
The Group’s carrying amount for brands amounted to MSEK 50 (50), with MSEK 50 (50) pertaining to the Teng Tools brand with an unlimited lifetime. No brands were amortised during the year.
Each year, a test is conducted to determine the impairment requirement for brands based on the same principles as in the determination of goodwill. The testing of brands did not indicate any impairment requirement. No other events or changed circumstances were identified that would warrant an impairment loss on brands.
31 March 2014
31 March 2013
1,334 390 1,724
  1,337
399
 1,736
  Business Areas TOOLS / Momentum Group total
    The Group’s goodwill has been allocated to the above cash-generating units. Given that acquired businesses constitute an integrated part of the value chain that the Group provides to end customers, acquired goodwill is allocated to the operating areas of each operating segment that receive syner- gies and economic benefits as a result of the acquisitions. Accordingly, portions of goodwill that arise in connection with the acquisition of reseller businesses in TOOLS / Momentum have been allocated to the Group’s Product Companies, which are part of the Business Areas. Goodwill values are tested at the operating segment level. The basis of this testing and the assessment of future cash flows is the “target scenario” for each operating segment for the forthcoming financial year, with forecasts of earnings and cash flows for subsequent years.
The recoverable amount was calculated on the basis of value in use and is based on the assess- ment of cash flows for the coming five-year period. Assumptions have been made concerning future revenue, contribution ratios, cost level, working capital requirements and investment requirements.
44 B&B TOOLS ANNUAL REPORT 2013/14

NOTES
 NOTE 13
TANGIBLE NON-CURRENT ASSETS
Land and Group buildings
Carrying amount at the beginning of the year 170
Accumulated cost
At the beginning of the year 288 Investments 1 Sales and disposals1) -2 Divested businesses -63 Reclassifications -2
Leasehold Construction
improvements Machinery Equipment in progress Total
10 5 64 3 252
  Exchange-rate differences for the year
At year-end
Accumulated depreciation
22 21 358 3 692 10 1 15 6 33 – 0 -61 – -63 – – – 0 -63 0 0 0 -2 -4 6 0 0 3 0 9
228 32 22 315 7 604
  At the beginning of the year
Depreciation for the year
Sales and disposals1)
Divested businesses
Reclassifications 4
Exchange-rate differences for the year
At year-end
Impairment losses on cost
At the beginning of the year Impairment losses for the year
At year-end
Carrying amount at year-end
Parent Company
Carrying amount at the beginning of the year
Accumulated cost
At the beginning of the year Sales and disposals
At year-end
Accumulated depreciation according to plan
At the beginning of the year
Depreciation for the year according to plan Sales and disposals
At year-end
Impairment losses on cost
At the beginning of the year
At year-end
Carrying amount at year-end
1) Loss on the disposal of tangible non-current assets amounted to MSEK -1 (-3).
-3
-118 -11 -16 -294 -439 -6 -3 -1 -27 -37 2 – 0 60 62 24 – – – 24 – – 0 4 0 0 -3 -6
 -97
– -3
-3
128
-14 -17 -264 – -392
-1 – 0 -1 – – – -3
-1 – 0 – -4
17 5 51 7 208
Leasehold improvements Equipment Total
1 2 3
3 6 9 0 -1 -1
3 5 8
-1 -4 -5 0 -1 -1 0 1 1
-1 -4 -5
-1 – -1
-1 – -1
1 1 2
             B&B TOOLS ANNUAL REPORT 2013/14 45
 
 NOTES
 NOTE 14
SHARES IN ASSOCIATED COMPANIES
Carrying amount
At the beginning of the year Share of profit
At year-end
SPECIFICATION OF SHARES IN ASSOCIATED COMPANIES Associated companies
Group holding
Group 31 March 2014
31 March 2013
   11
0
 11
      Number of shares
11 0 11
Share of equity, %
40% 30%
Share of votes, %
40% 30%
Carrying amount in Group 31 March 2014
Carrying amount in Group 31 March 2013
6
5
11
Equity
6 2
8
5 3
8
Reg. office
Gnosjö Örnsköldsvik
  7
4
 11
   Workplaces for Industries WFI AB 2,667 AB Knut Sehlins Industrivaruhus 3,000
Total
    SPECIFICATION OF GROUP VALUE PERTAINING TO SHARES OWNED IN ASSOCIATED COMPANIES Associated companies Country Revenue
2013/2014
Workplaces for Industries WFI AB Sweden 23 AB Knut Sehlins Industrivaruhus Sweden 14
Total 37
2012/2013
Workplaces for Industries WFI AB Sweden 24 AB Knut Sehlins Industrivaruhus Sweden 14
Total 38
Associated companies’ corporate registration numbers and registered offices
Profit/loss
Assets
Liabilities
5 2
7
3 5
8
 111 -14
015
08 08
016
      Workplaces for Industries WFI AB AB Knut Sehlins Industrivaruhus
NOTE 15
RECEIVABLES FROM GROUP COMPANIES Parent Company
Carrying amount at the beginning of the year Additional assets
Deducted assets
Carrying amount at year-end
NOTE 16
LONG-TERM RECEIVABLES AND OTHER RECEIVABLES Group
Corp. Reg. No.
556663-2567 556588-5158
  31 March 2014
31 March 2013 3,675 6,446 -6,451 3,670
  3,670
 845
-772
 3,743
        Parent Company
31 March 31 March 2014 2013
– – 0 0
Group
   31 March 2014
31 March 2013
31 March 2014
31 March 2013
2
9 20 4 30 65
  2
-1
18
5
21
 45
     6 2 0
 2
–
2
–
–
 –
 4
  8
 –
  Long-term receivables classified as non-current assets
Pension funds
Other receivables Derivatives held for hedging Total
Other receivables classified as current assets
Advance payments
Derivatives
VAT receivable
Receivable from pension foundations Other receivables
Total
        46 B&B TOOLS ANNUAL REPORT 2013/14

31 March 2014
Total 1,443
31 March 2013
NOTES
 NOTE 17
INVENTORIES
Group
The cost of goods sold includes impairment of inventories in the amount of MSEK-19 (-55) and the reversal of previous impairment of MSEK +54 (+36), yielding a net amount of MSEK +35 (-19).
NOTE 19
RESERVES AND EQUITY
Group
Translation reserve
Opening translation reserve Translation differences for the year Tax attributable to change for the year Closing translation reserve
Hedging reserve
Opening hedging reserve
Cash-flow hedges recognised in other comprehensive income:
Hedging for the year
Transferred to profit or loss
Tax attributable to hedges for the year
Closing hedging reserve Total reserves
Opening reserves
Change in reserves for the year:
Translation reserve
Hedging reserve
Tax attributable to changes in reserves for the year
Closing reserves
31 March 2014
31 March 2013
-16 -37 0 -53
-3
6 -6 -2 -5
-19
-37 0 -2 -58
31 March 2013
340,000
340,000
31 March 2013
28,436
28,436
  1,414
 1,414
    -53
2
–
 -51
 -5
4
-4
-1
 -6
 -58
2
0
-1
 -57
  Finished goods and goods for resale
1,443
        NOTE 18
PREPAID EXPENSES AND ACCRUED INCOME Group
Parent Company
  31 March 2014
31 March 2013
31 March 2014
31 March 2013
3 0 – 0 – – 3
–
– – – 6
   33 6 5 5 7 3 9
19
16 3 8
 33
2
4
–
2
–
5
0
9
–
4
–
12
1
24
–
19
–
4
–
6
 0
 122
  114
 3
  Prepaid expenses
Rent
Insurance premiums Marketing costs Leasing
Computer costs Packaging
Other prepaid expenses
Accrued income
Deliveries of goods
Commission and bonus income
Marketing income Other accrued income Total
REPURCHASED OWN SHARES INCLUDED IN THE CAPITAL ITEM “RETAINED EARNINGS, INCLUDING NET PROFIT FOR THE YEAR”
          340,000
 340,000
    Opening repurchased Class B shares
Closing repurchased own shares
SHARE CAPITAL
Stated in thousands of shares
Issued as of 1 April
Issued as of 31 March – paid in full
31 March 2014
31 March 2014
        28,436
 28,436
      As of 31 March 2014, the registered share capital comprised 1,067,812 Class A shares and 27,368,604 Class B shares. All shares have a quotient value of SEK 2.00. All shares entitle their holders to the same rights to the Company’s remaining net assets. For shares held in treasury (see below), all rights are rescinded until these shares have been reissued.
OTHER CONTRIBUTED CAPITAL
Other contributed capital refers to equity contributed by the owners. This includes premium reserves transferred to the statutory reserve on 31 March 2006. Provisions to the share premium reserve from 1 April 2006 and onwards are recognised as contributed capital.
RESERVES
Translation reserve
The translation reserve includes all exchange-rate differences arising from the translation of financial statements from foreign businesses that have prepared their financial statements in a currency other than the currency in which the Group’s financial statements are presented. The Parent Company and the Group present their financial statements in SEK. The translation reserve also comprises exchange-rate differences that arise as a result of the remeasurement of liabilities recognised as hedging instruments for net investments in a foreign business.
Hedging reserve
The hedging reserve comprises the effective portion of the accumulated net change in the fair value of a cash-flow hedging instrument for hedging transactions that have not yet occurred.
RETAINED EARNINGS, INCLUDING NET PROFIT FOR THE YEAR
Retained earnings, including net profit for the year, include profit earned in the Parent Company,
its subsidiaries and associated companies. Earlier allocations to the statutory reserve, not including premium reserves, are included in this capital item.
B&B TOOLS ANNUAL REPORT 2013/14 47
 
 NOTES
 NOTE 19, CONT.
REPURCHASED SHARES
NOTE 20
EARNINGS PER SHARE
EARNINGS PER SHARE FOR THE GROUP AS A WHOLE
Repurchased shares include the acquisition cost of treasury shares held by the Parent Company, its subsidiaries and associated companies. As of 31 March 2014, the Group held 340,000 own shares (340,000) in treasury.
CAPITAL MANAGEMENT
B&B TOOLS’ long-term targets
B&B TOOLS has an internal profitability target for the Group as a whole and all of its profit units. The measure that is used is called P/WC, which refers to operating profit in relation to utilised working capital for the profit unit being measured. The Group’s goal is for P/WC to amount to at least 45 percent per year for the Group as a whole and for each individual operating area. In other words, the working capital that is utilised for each individual operating unit should generate a return of at least 45 percent annually. The working capital that is required for the Group’s various units is simplified into inventories plus accounts receivable less accounts payable.
Each Group company develops its own business plans and priorities based on its performance in relation to a P/WC of at least 45 percent.
Dividend
After the balance-sheet date, the Board of Directors proposed the following dividend. The dividend is subject to approval by the Annual General Meeting to be held on 21 August 2014.
Before dilution
After dilution
  2013/2014
2012/2013
2013/2014
2012/2013
7,90
  7,60
  7,90
  7,60
  Earnings per share, SEK
  The calculation of the numerators and denominators used in the above calculations of earnings per share is specified below.
EARNINGS PER SHARE BEFORE DILUTION
The calculation of earnings per share for 2013/2014 was based on net profit for the year attributable to the ordinary shareholders in the Parent Company amounting to MSEK 214 (222) and a weighted average number of shares outstanding during 2013/2014 amounting to 28,096,000 (28,096,000). The two components have been calculated in the following manner:
Net profit for the year attributable to Parent Company shareholders, before dilution
2013/2014
2012/2013
222
222
2012/2013
28,436 -340
28,096
  214
 214
  MSEK
SEK 3.50 (3.00) per share
31 March 2014
98
31 March 2013
84
Net profit for the year attributable to Parent Company shareholders
Profit attributable to Parent Company shareholders, before dilution
           During the past nine years, the ordinary dividend has amounted to approximately 38 percent of earnings per share. This means that over one-third of earnings per share have been paid out in the form of ordinary dividends.
Weighted average number of shares outstanding, before dilution
No changes were made to the Group’s capital management during the year.
Stated in thousands of shares
Total number of shares, 1 April
Effect of holding of treasury shares
Number of shares for calculation of earnings per share
EARNINGS PER SHARE AFTER DILUTION
2013/2014
  28,436
-340
 28,096
    Year
2013/2014 2012/2013 2011/2012 2010/2011 2009/2010 2008/2009 2007/2008 2006/2007 2005/2006 2004/2005
Earnings Dividend
per share, SEK
7.60 7.90 8.10 6.90 4.80
10.20 15.10 10.35
7.45 7.25
per share, SEK
3.501) 3.00 3.00 3.00 2.50 2.50 5.00 4.00 3.50 2.75
32.75
Pay-out ratio, %
46% 38% 37% 43% 52% 25% 33% 39% 47% 38%
38%
The calculation of earnings per share after dilution for 2013/2014 was based on profit attributable to the ordinary shareholders in the Parent Company amounting to MSEK 214 (222) and a weighted average number of shares outstanding during 2013/2014 amounting to 28,096,000 (28,096,000). The two components have been calculated in the following manner:
Net profit for the year attributable to Parent Company shareholders, after dilution
   2013/2014
2012/2013
222
222
2012/2013
28,436 -340
28,096
  214
 214
   Total 85.65
1) As proposed by the Board of Directors.
Net profit for the year attributable to Parent Company shareholders
Profit attributable to Parent Company shareholders, after dilution
     Weighted average number of shares outstanding, after dilution
Stated in thousands of shares
Total number of shares, 1 April
Effect of holding of treasury shares
Number of shares for calculation of earnings per share
2013/2014
  28,436
-340
 28,096
      48 B&B TOOLS ANNUAL REPORT 2013/14
As of 31 March 2014, B&B TOOLS AB had an outstanding call option programme for which the share price exceeded the redemption price for the programme. The dilution effect that arose during the final quarter of the year had an insignificant effect on the full-year. Details about this call option programme are provided in Note 5 Employees and personnel costs.

NOTE 21
PROVISIONS FOR PENSIONS
B&B TOOLS offers pension solutions through a number of defined-benefit and defined-contribution plans. The plans are structured in accordance with local regulations and local practices. In recent years, the Group has attempted to switch to defined-contribution pension solutions and the cost of such plans comprises an increasingly significant portion of the total pension cost. The plans cover essentially all Group employees. Defined-benefit plans are only available in Sweden, Norway and Taiwan. In other countries in which the Group is active, defined-contribution plans are offered.
DEFINED-CONTRIBUTION PENSION PLANS
These plans mainly cover retirement pensions and family pensions. Premiums are paid on an ongoing basis during the year by each Group company to separate legal entities, such as insurance companies. The size of the premiums is based on salary. The pension cost for the period is included in profit or loss.
DEFINED-BENEFIT PENSION PLANS
These plans mainly cover retirement pensions. Vesting is based on the number of years of service. For each year of service, the employee earns an increased right to pension, which is recognised as benefits earned during the year and as an increase in pension obligations. The defined-benefit plans are exposed to actuarial risks, such as length of life, currency, interest-rate and investment risks. Approximately 89 percent of the pension obligations’ gross present value pertains to Swedish PRI pensions, which is an unfunded pension plan.
Changed accounting policies regarding IAS 19 impacted the comparative figures for 2012/2013 in the Note. Also refer to Note 1 Accounting policies on pages 30 –35.
Commitments for employee benefits, defined-benefit plans
The following provisions for pension obligations have been made in the balance sheet:
Pension obligations funded plans
Opening balance
Benefits earned during the year
Interest expense
Benefits paid
Remeasurement recognised in other comprehensive income, see separate specification
Redemption of pension obligations
Exchange-rate differences
Pension obligations funded plans, present value
Present value of pension obligations specified by category (%)
Active
Paid-up policy holders Pensioners
Total
Plan assets
Opening balance
Interest income recognised in profit or loss
Funds contributed by employers
Funds paid to employers
Remeasurement recognised in other comprehensive income, see separate specification
Redemption of pension obligations
Exchange-rate differences
Plan assets, fair value
31 March 2014
31 March 2014
31 March 2014
31 March 2013
58 2 1 -3
-4 – -3 51
31 March 2013
22 37 41
100
31 March 2013
54 2 3 -3
-3 – -3 50
31 March 2013
–
4 35 8 3 50
31 March 2013
473 32 -21 -3 3
NOTES
   51
0
2
-4
6
-2
-1
 52
        21
35
44
 100
        50
2
1
-3
1
-1
-1
 49
    Group
Pension obligations unfunded plans, present value Pension obligations funded plans, present value Plan assets, fair value
Net pension obligations
31 March 2014
31 March 2013
458 51 -50 459
Plan assets comprise funds paid to and managed by insurance companies. The plan assets are distributed among various classes of assets as follows:
    446
52
-49
 449
     3
5
32
7
2
 49
     The Group has a number of defined-benefit pension plans that are all managed individually. Funded plans are recognised on a net basis in the balance sheet. Accordingly, obligations are recognised in the balance sheet in the following net amounts:
Plan assets
Cash and cash equivalents Equity instruments
Debt instruments Properties
Other assets
Plan assets, fair value
No plan assets have a listed price on an active market.
Provision for pension obligations
Opening balance
Pension costs, defined-benefit plans
Benefits paid
Funds contributed by employers
Funds paid to employers
31 March 2014
31 March 2014
    31 March 2014
31 March 2013
6 -465 -459
347
  2
-451
 -449
 354
   Plan assets for pension obligations
Provisions for pensions and similar commitments Net liabilities according to the balance sheet
Of which, credit insured through PRI Pensionsgaranti
Performance of pension obligations and plan assets
  459
21
-23
-1
3
-6
-1
-3
0
 449
       Pension obligations, plan assets and provisions for pension obligations for the defined-benefit pension plans have developed as follows:
Remeasurement recognised in other comprehensive income, see separate specification
Pension obligations unfunded plans
Opening balance
Benefits earned during the year
Interest expense
Benefits paid
Remeasurement recognised in other comprehensive income, see separate specification
Reclassifications
Exchange-rate differences
Pension obligations unfunded plans, present value
31 March 2014
31 March 2013
469 15 16 -18
-24 - 0 458
-25 – Reclassifications – Exchange-rate differences 0 Closing balance 459
Redemption of pension obligations
  458
6
15
-19
-11
-3
0
 446
          B&B TOOLS ANNUAL REPORT 2013/14 49
 
 NOTES
 NOTE 21, CONT.
Pension costs
Cost recognised in net profit for the year
Pensions earned during the period
Net interest expense
Pension costs, defined-benefit plans in net profit for the year
Pension costs, defined-contribution plans
Pension costs in net profit for the year
2013/2014 2012/2013
17 15
32
115
147
Financing
As of 31 March 2014, the average weighted term of the total pension obligation was 16.2 years, of which unfunded PRI pensions in Sweden had an average weighted term of 16.7 years.
B&B TOOLS estimates that approximately MSEK 24 (23) will be paid in 2014/2015 to existing defined-benefit pension plans.
Group Sweden Norway Taiwan
  6
15
 21
 100
 121
           Pension costs are distributed in profit or loss between “Personnel costs” and “Net financial items”, with the latter comprising the net amount of interest on the obligations and interest on the plan assets. Of the total pension costs of MSEK 121 (147), MSEK 15 (15) is included in “Net financial items.”
2012/2013
Discount rate, 1 April, %
Discount rate, 31 March, %
Expected salary increase, %
Expected inflation, %1)
Expected remaining period of service, years
3.75 2.60 1.55 3.50 3.80 1.63 2.75 3.25 2.75 1.75 0.10 N/A
10.90 2.80 19.00
Remeasurement recognised
in other comprehensive income
Actuarial gains and losses on changes in demographic assumptions
Actuarial gains and losses on changes in financial assumptions
Effect of experience-based assessments
Other
Total remeasurement, pension obligations
Difference between actual return and return according to discount rate on plan assets
Total remeasurement, plan assets
Total remeasurement in other comprehensive income
Actuarial assumptions
Group Sweden
2013/2014
Discount rate, 1 April, % 3.50 Discount rate, 31 March, % 3.75 Expected salary increase, % 2.75 Expected inflation, %1) 1.75 Expected remaining period of service, years 11.30
2013/2014 2012/2013
–
16 8 3 27
-2
-2
25
Norway Taiwan
3.80 1.63 3.50 1.88 3.50 2.75 0.10 N/A 5.50 18.00
1) Inflation assumption is equivalent to pension indexation, which applies in both Sweden and Norway.
Parent Company
A discount rate of 3.84 percent (3.84) was applied to the calculation of the amount of the pension obligation for the Parent Company.
  -4
19
-8
-2
 5
1
 1
 6
     Parent Company
Pension obligations unfunded plans, present value as of 31 March
Net pension obligations
Net liabilities in the balance sheet
31 March 2014
31 March 2013
  48
 48
 48
  50
50 50
            As of 31 March 2014, the Parent Company has one defined-benefit plan pertaining to PRI. These obligations are recognised in the balance sheet in the following amounts:
 31 March 2014
31 March 2013
50
50
50
  48
 48
 48
  Provisions for pensions and similar commitments
Net liabilities according to the balance sheet
Of which, credit insured through PRI Pensionsgaranti
       1) Inflation assumption is equivalent to pension indexation, which applies in both Sweden and Norway.
Length of life assumptions
Length of life assumptions are based on published statistics and mortality figures.
Pension obligations for the defined-benefit pension plans have developed as follows:
  50
0
2
-4
 48
  Remaining lengths of life are presented in the table below.:
Length of life assumptions at 65 years of age – retired members:
Men 20.4
Women 23.7
Length of life assumptions at 65 years of age for members who are 40 years of age:
Men 23.5 Women 25.4
Sensitivity analysis
The discount rate is the parameter that is of the greatest significance to the calculation of the present value of outstanding pension obligations. A 0.50-percentage point increase in the discount rate would reduce the total pension obligation by approximately MSEK 37, while a 0.50-percentage point decrease in the discount rate would increase the total pension obligation by approximately MSEK 41.
Pension obligations unfunded plans
Opening balance
Benefits earned during the year
Interest expense
Benefits paid
Pension obligations unfunded plans, present value
Provision for pension obligations
31 March 2014
31 March 2014
2013/2014
31 March 2013
51 0 2 -3 50
31 March 2013
51 2 -3 50
2012/2013
0 2 2
14
16
Sweden Norway
 21.3 24.6
      50
2
-4
 48
  23.7 Opening balance
27.1 Pension costs, defined-benefit plans
Benefits paid
Closing balance Pension costs
Pensions earned during the period, personnel costs Interest on obligation, interest expense
Pension costs, defined-benefit plans
Pension costs, defined-contribution plans
Pension costs
      0
2
 2
 4
 6
          50 B&B TOOLS ANNUAL REPORT 2013/14

NOTE 22
OTHER PROVISIONS
Group
Provisions classified as non-current liabilities Other
Total
Specification
Carrying amount at the beginning of the period Divested businesses
Reclassifications
Other
Carrying amount at the end of the period
NOTE 23
OTHER LIABILITIES Group
Other current liabilities Derivatives
Advance payments from customers Employee withholding taxes
VAT liability
Other operating liabilities
Total other current liabilities Total other liabilities
31 March 2014
31 March 2014
31 March 2014
31 March 2013
2
2
31 March 2013 0 – – 2 2
31 March 2013
0
1 34 67 3 105
105
NOTE 24
ACCRUED EXPENSES AND DEFERRED INCOME Group
Parent Company
NOTES
   3
 3
    31 March 2014
31 March 2013
31 March 2014
31 March 2013
171) 51)
141)
– 0 0 0 – – – 142)
16 0
– – –
66
   227 9 107
34 4 4 4 5 2 24 53 18 9
0 3 3
 214
4
3
2
102
7
43
–
2
0
3
0
2
–
6
–
1
–
12
–
38
4
6
6
6
0
1
1
3
–
2
 –
 444
  506
 24
   Accrued expenses
Salaries and remuneration to employees
Pension costs
Social security contributions
Bonuses, refunds to customers/ suppliers
Car and travel expenses Directors’ and auditors’ fees Other consulting fees Marketing costs
Guarantee costs
Shipping costs
Operating and leasing costs Interest expense
Other accrued expenses
Deferred income
Rent
Marketing income Other deferred income
1) See Note 5 Employees and personnel costs. 2) See Note 28 Operational leasing.
      2
-2
3
–
 3
        2
0
31
70
4
 107
 107
            B&B TOOLS ANNUAL REPORT 2013/14 51
 
 NOTES
 NOTE 25
SPECIFICATION OF INTEREST-BEARING NET LOAN LIABILITIES BY ASSET AND LIABILITY
  Group
ASSETS
Intangible non-current assets Tangible non-current assets Financial non-current assets Deferred tax assets
Total non-current assets
Current assets
Inventories
Tax assets
Accounts receivable
Prepaid expenses and accrued income Other receivables
Cash and bank
Total current assets
Total assets
LIABILITIES
Non-current liabilities
Non-current interest-bearing liabilities Provisions for pensions
Other provisions
Deferred tax liabilities
Total non-current liabilities
Current liabilities
Current interest-bearing liabilities Accounts payable
Tax liabilities
Other liabilities
Accrued expenses and deferred income
Total current liabilities
Total liabilities Interest-bearing net liabilities
Interest-bearing
31 March 2014
Non-interest- bearing
Total
31 March 2013
Non-interest-
Interest-bearing bearing Total
– 1,781 1,781
– 252 252 10 11 21 – 118 118
10 2,162 2,172
– 1,443 1,443 – 39 39 – 1,192 1,192 – 114 114 – 65 65
214 – 214
214 2,853 3,067
224 5,015 5,239
1,129 – 1,129 465 – 465 – 2 2 – 104 104
1,594 106 1,700
3 – 3 – 823 823 – 37 37 – 105 105 – 506 506
3 1,471 1,474
1,597 1,577 3,174
-1,373
  – 1,792 1,792
– 208 208
5 11 16
– 102 102
 5 2,113 2,118
 – 1,414 1,414
– 43 43
– 1,299 1,299
– 122 122
– 45 45
53 – 53
 53 2,923 2,976
 58 5,036 5,094
 400 – 400
451 – 451
–33
– 79 79
 851 82 933
 475 – 475
– 885 885
– 47 47
– 107 107
– 444 444
 475 1,483 1,958
 1,326 1,565 2,891
 -1,268
                           As of 1 April 2013, B&B TOOLS primarily recognises the operational net loan liability, which is calculated excluding provisions for pensions. The operational net loan liability on 31 March 2014 amounted to MSEK 819 (914).
52 B&B TOOLS ANNUAL REPORT 2013/14

NOTE 26
EXPECTED RECOVERY PERIODS FOR ASSETS, PROVISIONS AND LIABILITIES
Group
Amounts expected to be recovered
ASSETS
Intangible non-current assets1) Tangible non-current assets1)
Financial non-current assets
Shares in associated companies
Other securities held as non-current assets Other long-term receivables
Deferred tax assets
Total non-current assets
Current assets
Within 12 months After 12 months
3 1,789 35 173
– 11 – 1 0 4 – 102
38 2,080
Total
1,792 208
11 1 4 102
2,118
1,414 43 1,299 122 45 53
2,976
5,094
After 5 years Total
– 400 353 451 0 3 28 79
381 933
475 885 47 107 444
1,958
381 2,891
NOTES
    Inventories 1,414 Tax assets 43 Accounts receivable 1,299 Prepaid expenses and accrued income 122 Other receivables 45 Cash and bank 53
Total current assets 2,976
Total assets 3,014 2,080
   Group
Amounts expected to be paid
LIABILITIES
Non-current liabilities
Non-current interest-bearing liabilities Provisions for pensions
Other provisions
Deferred tax liabilities
Total non-current liabilities
Current liabilities
Current interest-bearing liabilities2) Accounts payable
Tax liabilities
Other liabilities
Accrued expenses and deferred income
Total current liabilities
Total liabilities
Within 12 months
– 18 – 13
31
475 885 47 107 444
1,958
1,989
After 12 months
400 80 3 38
521
521
      1) Expected annual depreciation and amortisation are recognised in the amounts expected to be recovered within 12 months.
2) After the end of the financial year, a short-term bank loan in EUR of MSEK 179 was replaced by a long-term bank loan of MSEK 200 maturing on 31 December 2017.
B&B TOOLS ANNUAL REPORT 2013/14 53
 
 NOTES
 NOTE 26, CONT.
Parent Company
Amounts expected to be recovered Within 12 months After 12 months
ASSETS
Intangible non-current assets1) 0 0 Tangible non-current assets1) 1 1
Financial non-current assets
Shares in Group companies – 104 Receivables from Group companies – 3,743 Deferred tax assets – 9
Total non-current assets 1 3,857
Current assets
Accounts receivable 1 Receivables from Group companies 260 Tax assets 2 Other receivables 1 Prepaid expenses and accrued income 3
Total current assets 267
Total assets 268 3,857
Total
0 2
104 3,743 9
3,858
1 260 2 1 3
267
4,125
After 5 years Total
29 48
29 48
400 200 0
600
464 1,117 9 24
1,614
29 2,262
      Parent Company
Amounts expected to be paid
PROVISIONS
Provisions for pensions and similar commitments
Total provisions
LIABILITIES
Non-current liabilities Liabilities to credit institutions Liabilities to Group companies Other liabilities
Total non-current liabilities
Current liabilities
Liabilities to credit institutions2) Liabilities to Group companies
Other liabilities
Accrued expenses and deferred income
Total current liabilities
Total provisions and liabilities
Within 12 months After 12 months
4 15
4 15
   400 200 0
600
  464 1,117 9 24
1,614
  1,618 615
 1) Expected annual depreciation and amortisation are recognised in the amounts expected to be recovered within 12 months.
2) After the end of the financial year, a short-term bank loan in EUR of MSEK 179 was replaced by a long-term bank loan of MSEK 200 maturing on 31 December 2017.
54 B&B TOOLS ANNUAL REPORT 2013/14

NOTE 27
FINANCIAL RISK MANAGEMENT
The operations of the B&B TOOLS Group entail exposure to a number of financial risks. Changes, particularly in foreign-exchange rates and interest-rate levels, affect the Group’s earnings and cash flow. Financing risks also arise and are managed within the framework of the Group’s adopted policies.
FINANCIAL OPERATIONS
The goal of the Group’s financial operations is to ensure a high level of efficiency in the areas of investments, liquidity flows, borrowing, foreign-currency management and granting of credit.
The Board of Directors determines the Group's Financial Policy each year, including the guide- lines, goals and framework for treasury management and for managing the financial risks in the Group. The Financial Policy defines and identifies the financial risks that may arise, and regulates the distribution of responsibility between the Board of Directors, the President & CEO, the Chief Financial Officer, the Treasury function as well as subsidiary presidents and CFOs.
The Group’s central financial operations comprise securing the Group’s long-term supply of liquidity for investments and working capital in an efficient manner, as well as ensuring that systems are available for efficient cash management in the Group companies. All foreign-currency manage- ment is handled within the framework of the established policy.
The Parent Company has a central Treasury function whose task is to manage the Group’s external borrowing, investments of surplus liquidity, agreements and conditions governing cash pooling, pledging of the Group’s assets and issuance of contingent liabilities.
FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS AND HEDGE ACCOUNTING
The Group uses financial derivative instruments to manage foreign-exchange risks and interest- rate risks that arise during operations. Derivative instruments held for hedging comprise interest swap agreements, interest caps and foreign-exchange forward contracts.
The Group identifies certain derivatives as a hedge on a highly probable forecast transaction (cash-flow hedging). These derivative instruments are hedged, which means that the instruments are recognised in the balance sheet at fair value and that any change in the value of these instru- ments is recognised as equity in other comprehensive income until its underlying cash flow is reflected in profit or loss. Also refer to Note 1 Accounting policies.
FOREIGN-EXCHANGE RISKS
For B&B TOOLS, foreign-exchange risk arises in the subsidiaries as follows: as a result of future payment flows in foreign currencies, referred to as a transaction exposure, and through portions of the Group’s equity comprising net assets of foreign subsidiaries and through the Group’s profit comprising profit from foreign subsidiaries, referred to as a translation exposure.
Transaction exposure
Transaction exposure comprises future contracted and forecast receipts and disbursements in foreign currencies for subsidiaries, which, in the Group’s case, mainly involves purchases and sales of goods. The total transaction exposure for key currencies is shown in the table below.
Annual net flow by currency (MSEK)
adjusted to the new foreign-exchange rates. A smaller proportion of foreign-exchange forward con- tracts have terms of six to 12 months and are based on forecasts.
The nominal amounts of outstanding foreign-exchange forward contracts as of 31 March 2014 were as follows:
Foreign exchange contract (MSEK)
NOK/SEK1)
USD/SEK
EUR/SEK1)
DKK/SEK1)
USD/CNY1)
JPY/SEK
PLN/SEK1)
1) Foreign-exchange forward contracts for sale of currency.
Translation exposure of earnings
Nominal value as of 31 March 2014
Nominal value as of 31 March 2013
106 75 20 6 3 0 0
NOTES
   213
54
57
4
10
2
3
    The Group’s earnings are affected by the translation of the income statements of foreign subsidiaries, for which translation is carried out at the average exchange rate for the financial year. In cases when the local currency of the foreign subsidiary changes in relation to SEK, the Group’s recognised revenue and earnings that were translated to SEK also change.
Currency translation for the financial year generated an impact on operating profit of approxi- mately MSEK -8 (+1) compared with the preceding year’s average rates.
The table below shows how much the currency translation impacted the Group’s revenue (MSEK).
Group Revenue
Revenue in 2013/2014 translated to the average rate for 2012/2013
Currency translation
NOK
EUR
Other currencies
Total currency translation
Revenue in 2013/2014
The Group has net exposures in several foreign currencies. If the prices of the exposure currencies changed by 5 percent based on the 2013/2014 income statement, the effect on revenue would amount to approximately MSEK 188 (183) and the effect on operating profit to approximately MSEK 8 (6) over a 12-month period, all other things being equal.
  7,776
-143
14
1
 -128
 7, 648
    Currency 2013/2014 2012/2013
NOK 627 Currency EUR -74 DKK
USD -189 EUR
TWD -101 GBP
DKK 29 NOK
PLN 28 PLN
CNY -23 TWD
GBP -35 USD
JPY -15
Average rate
Balance-sheet rate
The following rates were applied in the year-end accounts:
  812
66
-204
-88
36
22
-20
-20
-17
    2013/2014
2012/2013
31 March 2014
31 March 2013
1.119 8.342 9.857 1.112 1.994 0.218 6.516
  1.172
  1.156
8.612 10.544 1.156 2.065 0.226 6.677
  1.199
8.742
8.948
10.377
10.810
1.087
1.083
2.076
2.145
0.218
0.214
6.531
 6.500
       The Group has its primary customer markets in Sweden, Norway and Finland, with sales in SEK, NOK and EUR, respectively. A large portion of purchasing takes place outside the Nordic region and is mainly paid in EUR, USD and TWD.
The effects of exchange-rate changes are reduced on the basis of purchases and sales in the same currency, currency clauses and foreign-exchange forward contracts.
Risk exposure is limited since the Group’s sales largely comprise products that are sold at a fixed price in the local currency according to a price list valid over a period of about six months.
Group companies hedge parts of their future currency outflows in foreign currency using foreign-exchange forward contracts, in accordance with the Financial Policy. Most of the hedging of exchange-rate changes is conducted for the period deemed necessary to allow sales prices to be
Translation exposure of equity
The value of the net assets of foreign subsidiaries is translated to SEK at year-end at the exchange rate in effect on the balance-sheet date. The exchange-rate difference between the years is recognised against equity under other comprehensive income. To a certain degree, loans in the corresponding currency are used to hedge the Group against the foreign-exchange risk that arises when equity in subsidiaries is translated. Translation of the balance sheets of foreign subsidiaries caused equity to increase by approximately MSEK 2 (-37) during the year.
B&B TOOLS ANNUAL REPORT 2013/14 55
 
 NOTES
 NOTE 27, CONT.
Net assets in foreign subsidiaries by currency (MSEK)
If market interest rates increased by 1 percentage point, the impact on net interest income on an annual basis would be MSEK 9, taking into consideration interest derivatives and on the basis of the loan structure on 1 April 2014.
LIQUIDITY AND REFINANCING RISKS
Liquidity and refinancing risk pertains to the risk that the Group is unable to fulfil its payment obliga- tion due to insufficient liquidity and that the possibility of financing is limited when loans are due for rescheduling.
Borrowing and trading in financial instruments is conducted with one of the large Nordic com- mercial banks and the management of loans is handled by the Parent Company’s Treasury function. At financial year-end, the Parent Company had access to a committed credit facility of MSEK 400 (300), of which MSEK 215 was unutilised. The credit facility is renewed on an annual basis with a maturity date of 31 December 2014. In addition to this committed credit facility, the Group has an unutilised loan commitment totalling MSEK 221. Current investments of any surplus liquidity are made on terms of one to three months at current market interest rates. The counterparty for deposits is always one of the large Nordic commercial banks.
The Group’s net loan liability, comprising interest-bearing liabilities and provisions less interest- bearing assets, is presented in Note 25.
Currency
NOK EUR TWD CNY PLN DKK
INTEREST-RATE RISKS
31 March 2014
31 March 2013
380 16 66 25 14 -21
  410
126
54
23
19
-5
    Interest-rate risk refers to the risk that changes in the market interest rate will have a negative impact on the Group’s net interest income. The speed at which an interest-rate change has an effect depends on the length of the period of fixed interest on the loans and the type of hedging instruments used.
The Group uses different forms of interest derivatives for the purpose of managing the risk of higher market interest rates in the future. These are managed by the Parent Company. Using various interest derivative instruments, the Group converts its borrowing to the desired fixed- interest structure. Refer to the table below.
Remaining Hedged
Guaranteed interest rate1)
4.50% 6.00% 6.00%
Starting date
31 March 2008
30 March 2012 28 September 2012
Expiration date
31 March 2015 30 June 2015 30 June 2015
Hedging instruments
derivative instrument
Interest swap agreement
Interest cap Interest cap
1) Excluding bank margin.
item
MSEK 200 MSEK 300 MSEK 300
  Classification of financial instruments
Group (MSEK)
Financial assets measured at fair value
Equities and participations
Financial assets not measured at fair value
Long-term receivables Accounts receivable
Other receivables
Cash and cash equivalents
Total financial assets
Financial liabilities measured at fair value
Carrying amount as of 31 March 2014
Financial assets Loan receivables and available for sale accounts receivable
1
2 1,299 43 53
1 1,397
Other liabilities Total
1
2 1,299 43 53
1,398
7
868 868 885 885 107 107
1,860 1,867
Other liabilities Total
4,003 1 1
4,005
7
864 864 1,317 1,317 0 0 2 2
2,183 2,190
    Derivatives 7
Financial liabilities not measured at fair value
Bank loans Accounts payable Other liabilities
Total financial liabilities 7
Hedging Parent Company (MSEK) instruments
Financial assets not measured at fair value
Receivables from Group companies Accounts receivable
Other receivables
Total financial assets
Financial liabilities measured at fair value
Derivatives 7
Financial liabilities not measured at fair value
Bank loans
Liabilities to Group companies Accounts payable
Other liabilities
Total financial liabilities 7
Carrying
amount as of 31 March 2014
Loan receivables and accounts receivable
4,003 1 1
4,005
        56 B&B TOOLS ANNUAL REPORT 2013/14

NOTE 27, CONT.
Group (MSEK)
Financial assets measured at fair value
Hedging instruments
Carrying amount as of 31 March 2013
Financial assets Loan receivables and available for sale accounts receivable
2
2 1,192 61 214
2 1,469
Other liabilities Total
3 2
2 1,192 61 214
1,474
12
1,120 1,120 823 823 105 105
2,048 2,060
Other liabilities Total
3,935 4 142
4,081
12
1,117 1,117 1,498 1,498 4 4 1 1
2,620 2,632
NOTES
   Derivatives 3 Equities and participations
Financial assets not measured at fair value
Long-term receivables Accounts receivable
Other receivables
Cash and cash equivalents
Total financial assets
Financial liabilities measured at fair value
3
  Derivatives 12
Financial liabilities not measured at fair value
Bank loans Accounts payable Other liabilities
Total financial liabilities 12
Hedging Parent Company (MSEK) instruments
Financial assets not measured at fair value
Receivables from Group companies Other receivables
Cash and cash equivalents
Total financial assets
Financial liabilities measured at fair value
Derivatives 12
Financial liabilities not measured at fair value
Bank loans
Liabilities to Group companies Accounts payable
Other liabilities
Total financial liabilities 12
The carrying amounts for financial assets and financial liabilities not measured at fair value above are, however, equivalent to fair value in all material respects.
Calculation of fair value
Derivatives
Derivatives belong to Level 2 of the fair value hierarchy. The fair value of derivatives comprising foreign-exchange forward contracts and interest swap agreements is based on listings with banks. Similar contracts are traded on an active market and the prices reflect the actual transactions of comparable instruments. Other than derivatives, there are essentially no financial instruments that are continuously measured at fair value in the balance sheet and there are no assets or liabilities that are classified according to Levels 1 or 3 in the fair value hierarchy.
Accounts receivable, bank loans, accounts payable and other items
The Group has no bank loans that are measured at fair value in profit or loss. For accounts receivables, accounts payable and other items whose fair value is stated as their carrying amount, which is deemed to accurately reflect the fair value.
Borrowing and maturity structure
The Group’s borrowing amount to MSEK 868 (1,120). During the financial year, the Group’s financing was restructured and previous loans were amortised in their entirety and new loans were raised. Overall, the average remaining maturity for both the Group’s and the Parent Company’s interest- bearing financial liabilities is 2.2 years (2.8 years). See the tables below.
Carrying
amount as of 31 March 2013
Loan receivables and accounts receivable
3,935 4 142
4,081
        B&B TOOLS ANNUAL REPORT 2013/14 57
 
 NOTES
 NOTE 27, CONT. Group
Maturity structure
Interest-bearing financial liabilities
Derivatives, forward contracts and swap contracts
Accounts payable and other non-interest-bearing financial liabilities
Total financial liabilities
Parent Company Maturity structure
Interest-bearing financial liabilities
Derivatives, forward contracts and swap contracts
Liabilities to Group companies (excluding interest) 1)
Accounts payable and other non-interest-bearing financial liabilities
Total financial liabilities
Group
Maturity structure
Interest-bearing financial liabilities
Derivatives, forward contracts and swap contracts
Accounts payable and other non-interest-bearing financial liabilities
Total financial liabilities
Parent Company Maturity structure
Interest-bearing financial liabilities
Derivatives, forward contracts and swap contracts
Liabilities to Group companies (excluding interest) 1)
Accounts payable and other non-interest-bearing financial liabilities
Total financial liabilities
31 March 2014
Carrying Future amount payment amount
within 3 months
4
2 992
998
within 3 months
4
2 1,117 2
1,125
within 3 months
10 2 927
939
within 3 months
10 2 1,201 5
1,218
Matures
after 3 months within 1 year
478 12 –
490
after 1 year within 5 years
415 – –
415
after 1 year within 5 years
415 – 200 –
615
after 1 year within 5 years
1,194 6 2
1,202
after 1 year within 5 years
1,194 6 297 –
1,497
31 March 2013
1,129
1,129
– 3
–
3 1,132
   868 7 992
1,867
31 March 2014
897 14 992
1,903
  Matures
  Carrying amount
864 7 1,317 2
2,190
31 March 2013
Future payment amount
893 14 1,317 2
2,226
after 3 months within 1 year
474 12 – –
486
   Matures
  Carrying amount
1,120 12 928
2,060
31 March 2013
Future payment amount
1,238 13 929
2,180
after 3 months within 1 year
34 5 –
39
   Matures
  Carrying amount
1,117 12 1,498 5
2,632
Future payment amount
1,235 13 1,498 5
2,751
after 3 months within 1 year
31 5 – –
36
31 March 2014
   1) Interest on liabilities to Group companies is not capitalised, but is instead settled every quarter via the Parent Company’s Group account structure. The contractual terms and conditions for interest-bearing liabilities are presented in the tables below.
Group
Non-current liabilities
Bank loans including derivatives
Total non-current liabilities
Current liabilities
Committed credit facility
Current portion of bank loans 2)
Other current interest-bearing liabilities including derivatives
Total current liabilities
Total interest-bearing liabilities
  400
 400
 185
283
7
 475
 875
             2) After the end of the financial year, a short-term bank loan in EUR of MSEK 179 was replaced by a long-term bank loan of MSEK 200 maturing on 31 December 2017.
58 B&B TOOLS ANNUAL REPORT 2013/14

NOTES
 NOTE 27, CONT.
Bank loans
Non-current
Interest-only Interest-only Interest-only Interest-only Interest-only Bank loan Interest-only Interest-only
Current
Bank loan1) Interest-only Other
Currency Nom. interest
SEK 3.00% SEK 3.20% SEK 4.28% SEK 4.61% SEK 4.59% EUR 3.70% SEK 2.67% SEK 2.4%
EUR 3.70% SEK 2.42%
1.72%
Local currency
Maturity
30 June 2015 30 June 2016 30 June 2015 30 June 2016 30 June 2017 30 April 2014
31 December 2015 31 December 2016
30 April 2014 31 December 2014
MSEK
179 685 4
868
Nom. value
275 275 100 100 200
20 100 300
20 100
31 March 2014
Carrying amount
31 March 2013
Carrying amount
275 275 100 100 200 167
–
–
1 117
– – 3 3
300 -300 0
31 March 2013
Carrying amount
275 275 100 100 200 167
–
–
1,117
– – –
300 -300 0
   –
–
–
–
–
–
100
300
 400
 179
100
4
 283
 400
-215
 185
   bank loan bank loan bank loan bank loan bank loan
bank loan bank loan
bank loan
          Committed credit facility
Approved credit limit Unutilised portion
Utilised credit amount
As of 31 March 2014, loans from credit institutions were divided among the following currencies:
    EUR 20 SEK 685 Other
Total
  1) After the end of the financial year, the short-term bank loan was replaced by a long-term bank loan of MSEK 200 maturing on 31 December 2017.
Parent Company
31 March 2014
Carrying amount
   Liabilities to Non-current Interest-only Interest-only Interest-only Interest-only Interest-only Bank loan Interest-only Interest-only
Current
Bank loan1) Interest-only
credit institutions
bank loan bank loan bank loan bank loan bank loan
bank loan bank loan
bank loan
Currency Nom. interest
SEK 3.00% SEK 3.20% SEK 4.28% SEK 4.61% SEK 4.59% EUR 3.70% SEK 2.67% SEK 2.42%
EUR 3.70% SEK 2.42%
1.72%
Maturity
30 June 2015 30 June 2016 30 June 2015 30 June 2016 30 June 2017 30 April 2014
31 December 2015 31 December 2016
30 April 2014 31 December 2014
Nom. value
275 275 100 100 200
20 100 300
20 100
    –
–
–
–
–
–
100
300
 400
 179
100
 279
 400
-215
 185
            Committed credit facility
Approved credit limit Unutilised portion
Utilised credit amount
    1) After the end of the financial year, the short-term bank loan was replaced by a long-term bank loan of MSEK 200 maturing on 31 December 2017.
B&B TOOLS ANNUAL REPORT 2013/14 59
 
 NOTES
 NOTE 27, CONT.
Pension liabilities within the framework of the PRI system constitute a significant portion of the Group’s total non-current interest-bearing liabilities. Pension liabilities are calculated by PRI based on the benefit plan the employees have for retirement pension and survivors’ pension under the ITP plan and are recognised in the consolidated balance sheet as a provision, with an addition for adjustments in accordance with IAS 19.
Credit risks
In its commercial and financial transactions, the Group is exposed to counterparty credit risk. Credit risk or counterparty risk pertains to the risk of loss if the counterparty does not fulfil its obligations. The Group is exposed to credit risk through its financial transactions, meaning the investment of surplus liquidity and implementation of foreign-exchange forward contracts, and in connection with accounts receivable and advance payments to suppliers in the commercial operations.
The Financial Policy stipulates that only the major Nordic commercial banks are suitable for the Reserves for doubtful accounts receivable and maturity structure are presented in the table below.
Accounts receivable
Accumulated reserve for doubtful accounts receivable Accounts receivable, net
A maturity analysis is presented below:
Maturity analysis:
– not past due
– receivables past due by 1–30 days – receivables past due by 31–60 days – receivables past due by 61–90 days – receivables past due by >90 days Total receivables
NOTE 28
OPERATIONAL LEASING
Leasing agreements in which the Group/the Company is the lessee1) Non-terminable leasing fees amount to:
Within 1 year
Between 1 and 5 years Later than 5 years
Total
Expensed leasing fees for the period
Assets held through operational leasing agreements Minimum leasing fees2)3)
Total leasing costs
investment of surplus liquidity and foreign-exchange forward contract subscriptions.
In order to capitalise on the operation’s knowledge of customers and suppliers, credit risk
assessments in commercial transactions are managed by each company. The credit risk is spread over a wide range of customers and is a good reflection of the Group’s trading where the total revenue is built up of many business transactions and a favourable risk spread of sales across varying industries and companies. No individual customer accounts for more than three percent
of the total credit exposure over a one-year period. To minimise the risk of credit losses, the Group companies apply credit policies that limit outstanding amounts and credit periods for individual customers. The size of each customer’s credit is assessed individually. A credit rating is performed for all new customers. The intention is that credit limits will reflect the customer’s payment capacity. Historically, B&B TOOLS’ credit losses have been low.
The credit quality of the receivables that have neither matured for payment nor been impaired is deemed favourable.
Group 31 March 2014
Parent Company
  31 March 2013
31 March 2014
31 March 2013
– – –
– – – – – –
  1,346
 1,241 -49
 1
-47
 –
 1,299
  1,192
 1
 994 178 14 13 42
1,179
1
96
0
17
–
5
–
49
 –
 1,346
  1,241
 1
           Group 2013/2014
2012/2013
Parent Company
2013/2014 2012/2013
     233 556 365
 264
5
558
7
327
 –
 1,149
  1,154
 12
 250
263
 7
 263
  250
 7
   6 12 – 18
18
18
        1) Refer to Note 30 Pledged assets and contingent liabilities.
2) The cost for the remaining time on the applicable lease for a number of unutilised premises was charged in 2012/2013.
3) New leases were signed in conjunction with the property sales in 2012/2013 and 2013/2014. Commitments under signed leases and leasing costs are included in the table above since after testing they were classified as operational
leasing agreements.
Refers to costs for assets held through operational leasing agreements, such as rented premises, vehicles, other machinery and equipment.
NOTE 29
INVESTMENT COMMITMENTS
No significant investment commitments existed at financial year-end.
60 B&B TOOLS ANNUAL REPORT 2013/14

NOTES
 NOTE 30
PLEDGED ASSETS AND CONTINGENT LIABILITIES
Pledged assets
In the form of pledged assets for own liabilities and provisions
Corporate mortgages
Total pledged assets
Contingent liabilities
Guarantees for subsidiaries1) Guarantees, other
Total contingent liabilities
1) Parent Company guarantees for subsidiaries essentially pertain to PRI obligations.
Group 31 March 2014
Parent Company
  31 March 2013
31 March 2014
31 March 2013
–
–
297 1 298
   1
 1
 –
 1
  1
 –
 18
306
16
 1
 16
  18
 307
           In conjunction with the sale of the logistics properties in Alingsås and Ulricehamn in December 2012, one of the Group’s companies entered into leases that expire at the end of 2027.
The Parent Company, B&B TOOLS AB, has entered into an agreement guaranteeing the Group company’s fulfilment of these leases with a total annual leasing cost of approximately MSEK 35.
NOTE 31
RELATED PARTIES
The B&B TOOLS Group’s related parties are primarily members of senior management. Disclosures concerning the Group’s transactions with these related parties
are available in Note 5 Employees and personnel costs on pages 38– 40. The Parent Company also has transactions with subsidiaries that are priced based on market terms.
NOTE 32
GROUP COMPANIES
PARENT COMPANY HOLDING OF SHARES IN GROUP COMPANIES
Corp. Reg. No.
556616-0353 556706-2699 556787-7559
Reg. office
Stockholm Stockholm Stockholm
Number of shares
1,000 1,000 1,000
Holding, %
100 100 100
Carrying amount as of 31 March 2014
Carrying amount as of 31 March 2013
  1
93
10
 104
 104
 104
 104
   B&B TOOLS International AB B&B TOOLS Invest AB
B&B TOOLS Fastigheter AB
Total
Carrying amount at the beginning of the year
Accumulated cost
At the beginning of the year
Carrying amount at year-end
NOTE 33
UNTAXED RESERVES
1 93 10 104
104
104
104
31 March 2013
1 0 1
53 49 5 44 49 0 – 200
          The distribution of untaxed reserves recognised in the Parent Company’s balance sheet is shown below.
For the Group, these reserves are eliminated in their entirety. Refer to Accounting policies in Note 1.
Of the Parent Company’s total untaxed reserves amounting to MSEK 192 (201), MSEK 42 (44) comprises deferred taxes included in the Group’s recognised deferred tax liability.
Parent Company 31 March 2014
    1
-1
 0
 –
49
5
44
49
0
45
 192
   Accumulated accelerated depreciation
Non-current assets
Opening balance 1 April
Change in accelerated depreciation for the year Closing balance 31 March
Tax allocation reserve
Allocation to tax 2009 Allocation to tax 2010 Allocation to tax 2011 Allocation to tax 2012 Allocation to tax 2013 Allocation 2012/2013 Allocation 2013/2014 Closing balance 31 March
          B&B TOOLS ANNUAL REPORT 2013/14 61
 
 NOTES
 NOTE 34
CASH-FLOW STATEMENT
Cash and cash equivalents
The following subcomponents are included in cash and cash equivalents: Cash and bank
Total according to the balance sheet
Total according to the cash-flow statement
Interest paid and dividends received
Dividends/Group contributions received Interest received
Interest paid
Total
Adjustments for non-cash items
Depreciation and amortisation
Impairment losses/Reversal of impairment losses Profit/loss from the sale of companies and facilities Change in reserve for non-recurring costs
Change in other provisions
Change in pension obligations
Adjustment for Group contributions not received Hedge accounting
Adjustment for interest paid/received
Other
Total
Disposal of subsidiaries and other business units Divested assets:
Tangible non-current assets
Operating receivables
Total assets
Divested provisions and liabilities:
Non-current liabilities
Current liabilities
Total provisions and liabilities
Capital gain
Total
Purchase consideration received
Effect on cash and cash equivalents
Group 31 March 2014
Group 2013/2014
Group 2013/2014
Parent Company
  31 March 2013
2012/2013
2012/2013
31 March 2014
31 March 2013
142 142 142
   214
 53
 0
 53
 214
0
 53
  214
  0
         Parent Company
2013/2014 2012/2013
253 125 -49 329
Parent Company
2013/2014 2012/2013
3 1 –
39 – 2 52 0 15 – 112
    –
 –
6 -52
 338
5
151
-59
 -56
 -54
  -46
 433
           42
 65 1 -243 136 0 32 – 0 15 -1
 2
3
0
6
–
-103
-33
0
–
23
3
–
-27
0
0
-12
-10
0
 –
 -41
  5
 -65
       Group 2013/2014
2012/2013
149 3 152
-16 -6 -22
245
375
375
375
   39
2
 41
 -1
-1
 -2
 3
 42
 42
 42
                   62 B&B TOOLS ANNUAL REPORT 2013/14

In accordance with IFRS, goodwill and certain brands are not amortised. Instead, annual tests for indications of impairment are performed. Other intangible and tangible non-current assets are amortised and depreciated, respectively, over the period the asset is deemed to generate income. All intangible and tangible non-current assets are subject to annual testing for indications of impair- ment. Impairment tests are based on a review of forecast future cash flows. The assumptions used when conducting impairment testing are described in Note 12.
INVENTORY OBSOLESCENCE
Since B&B TOOLS conducts trading operations, inventories constitute a large asset item in the consolidated balance sheet. The Group measures inventories at the lower of cost and net realisable value. The cost of inventories is calculated by applying the “first-in, first-out” (FIFO) method or using a method based on a weighted average and includes expenditures arising during the acquisition of the inventory assets and transportation thereof to their current location and state. When calculating net realisable value, articles with redundancy and a low rate of turnover, discontinued and damaged articles, and handling costs and other selling expenses are taken into consideration. If general demand for the Group’s product range changes significantly and assumptions of the net realisable value of articles differ from the actual outcome, earnings in the financial statements may be affected.
B&B TOOLS ANNUAL REPORT 2013/14 63
NOTES
 NOTE 35
EVENTS AFTER THE BALANCE-SHEET DATE
After the balance-sheet date on 31 March 2014, another 15 Group properties in Sweden and Finland were disposed of between April and mid-June. These property sales had a marginal impact on earn- ings per share and the disposals had a positive impact of approximately MSEK 75 on cash flow.
On 1 April 2014, the former business area Work Environment & Consumables was divided into two units – Gigant and Grunda, which in the future will be reported as two separate operating areas.
No other significant events affecting the Group have occurred after the balance-sheet date.
NOTE 36
KEY ESTIMATES AND JUDGEMENTS
Estimates and judgements have been made based on the information available at the time this report was submitted. These estimates and judgements may be subject to change at a later date, partly due to changes in factors in the operating environment.
Below is an account of the most significant judgements, which is subject to a risk that future events and new information may change the basis for current estimates and judgements applied.
IMPAIRMENT TESTING OF GOODWILL AND OTHER NON-CURRENT ASSETS
LEGAL PROCEEDINGS AND DISPUTES
The Group recognises a liability when a legal obligation exists and it is likely that an outflow of financial resources will be required to settle the obligation and a reliable estimate of the amount can be made. Outstanding legal issues are reviewed on a continuous basis to determine the need to set aside provisions in the financial statements. During these reviews, all cases are taken into consideration using the Group’s internal legal competence and, when necessary, external legal counsel is also consulted. Insofar as the judgements concerning the factors considered do not correspond to the actual outcome, the financial statements may be affected.
TAXES
Changes in tax legislation in Sweden and other countries where B&B TOOLS conducts business may change the amount of recognised tax liabilities and tax assets. Interpretations of current tax legislation may also affect the recognised tax liability/tax asset.
Judgements are made to determine both current and deferred tax liabilities/tax assets, particularly with respect to the value of deferred tax assets. Judgements are made as to whether the deferred tax assets will be utilised to offset future taxable income. The actual result may differ from these judgements, partly due to changes in business climate, changed tax legislation and the outcome of not yet completed examinations of tax returns by tax courts.
PENSION OBLIGATIONS
In determining B&B TOOLS’ pension obligations under defined-benefit pension plans, certain assumptions have been made with respect to discount rates, inflation, salary increases, long-term returns on plan assets, mortality rates, retirement rates and other factors that may be of importance. These actuarial assumptions are reviewed on an annual basis and are changed when appropriate. Should these actuarial assumptions differ significantly from the actual future outcome, the Group’s actuarial gains or losses will change, which may impact other comprehensive income.
NOTE 37
INFORMATION ABOUT THE PARENT COMPANY
B&B TOOLS AB, Corporate Registration Number 556034-8590, is a Swedish limited liability com- pany with its registered office in Stockholm, Sweden. The Parent Company’s Class B shares are registered on the Mid Cap list of NASDAQ OMX Stockholm, Sweden. The address of the head office is: Box 10024, SE-100 55 Stockholm, Sweden.
The consolidated financial statements for the 2013/2014 financial year comprise the Parent Company and its subsidiaries, together termed the Group.
 
 PROPOSED ALLOCATION OF PROFIT
PROPOSED ALLOCATION OF PROFIT
According to the consolidated balance sheet, retained earnings including net profit for the year amounted to MSEK 2,132 as of 31 March 2014, of which MSEK 214 comprised net profit for the year.
The following amounts are at the disposal of the Annual General Meeting of the Parent Company B&B TOOLS AB:
Retained earnings SEK 1,035,448 thousand Net profit for the year SEK 492,103 thousand SEK 1,527,551 thousand
The Board of Directors and the President & CEO propose that the available funds be allocated as follows:
Dividends to shareholders, SEK 3.50 per share SEK 98,337 thousand1) To be brought forward SEK 1,429,214 thousand SEK 1,527,551 thousand
The income statements and balance sheets of the Group and the Parent Company are subject to adoption by the Annual General Meeting to be held on 21 August 2014.
BOARD’S ASSURANCE
The Board of Directors and the President & CEO regard this Annual Report to be prepared in accordance with generally accepted accounting policies and the consolidated financial statements to be prepared in accordance with the international accounting standards referred to in Regulation (EC) No. 1606/2002 of the European Parliament and the European Council issued on 19 July 2002 on the application of international accounting standards, that they are deemed to provide a true and fair view of the Company's and the Group's position and earnings, and that the Administration Report provides a true and fair overview of the performance of the Company's and the Group's operations, position and earnings and describes the significant risks and uncertainty factors that the Company and the companies in the Group face.
         Per Axelsson
Director
Joakim Rubin
Director
Anders Börjesson
Chairman
Stockholm, 13 June 2014
Roger Bergqvist
Director
Lillemor Svensson
Director – employee representative
Ulf Lilius
President & CEO
Our audit report was submitted on 13 June 2014
KPMG AB
Tom Hedelius
Vice Chairman
Charlotte Hansson
Director
Anette Swanemar
Director – employee representative
George Pettersson
Authorised Public Accountant Auditor in Charge
Matilda Schwartzman Berg
Authorised Public Accountant
1) Calculated based on the number of shares as of 31 March 2014, and with due consideration for the 340,000 repurchased Class B shares held in treasury.
64 B&B TOOLS ANNUAL REPORT 2013/14

Auditor’s report
Translation of Swedish original
To the Annual General Meeting of the Share- holders of B&B TOOLS AB (publ), Corporate Identity Number 556034–8590
REPORT ON THE ANNUAL ACCOUNTS
AND CONSOLIDATED ACCOUNTS
We have audited the annual accounts and consolidated accounts
of B&B TOOLS AB (publ) for the financial year 1 April 2013
– 31 March 2014. The annual accounts and consolidated accounts of the Company are included in the printed version of this document on pages 16–64.
Responsibilities of the Board of Directors and the Chief Executive Officer for the annual accounts and consolidated accounts
The Board of Directors and the Chief Executive Officer are responsible for the preparation and fair presentation of these annual accounts in accordance with the Annual Accounts Act and of the consolidated accounts in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards, as adopted by the EU, and the Annual Accounts Act, and for such internal control as the Board of Directors and the Chief Executive Officer determine is necessary to enable the preparation
of annual accounts and consolidated accounts that are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error.
Auditor’s responsibility
Our responsibility is to express an opinion on these annual accounts and consolidated accounts based on our audit. We con- ducted our audit in accordance with International Standards on Auditing and generally accepted auditing standards in Sweden. Those standards require that we comply with ethical requirements and plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the annual accounts and consolidated accounts are free from material misstatement.
An audit involves performing procedures to obtain audit evidence about the amounts and disclosures in the annual accounts and con- solidated accounts. The procedures selected depend on the auditor’s judgement, including the assessment of the risks of material mis- statement of the annual accounts and consolidated accounts, whether due to fraud or error. In making those risk assessments, the auditor considers internal control relevant to the company’s prepa- ration and fair presentation of the annual accounts and consolidated accounts in order to design audit procedures that are appropriate in the circumstances, but not for the purpose of expressing an opinion on the effectiveness of the company’s internal control. An audit also includes evaluating the appropriateness of accounting policies used and the reasonableness of accounting estimates made by the Board of Directors and the Chief Executive Officer, as well as evaluating the overall presentation of the annual accounts and consolidated accounts.
We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our audit opinions.
Opinions
In our opinion, the annual accounts have been prepared in accord- ance with the Annual Accounts Act and present fairly, in all mate- rial respects, the financial position of the Parent Company as of 31 March 2014 and of its financial performance and its cash flows for the year then ended in accordance with the Annual Accounts Act. The consolidated accounts have been prepared in accordance with the Annual Accounts Act and present fairly, in all material respects, the financial position of the Group as of 31 March 2014 and of their
financial performance and cash flows for the year then ended in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards, as adopted by the EU, and the Annual Accounts Act. A Corporate Governance Report has been prepared. The statutory Administration Report and the Corporate Governance Report are consistent with the other parts of the annual accounts and consolidated accounts.
We therefore recommend that the Annual General Meeting of Shareholders adopt the income statement and balance sheet for the Parent Company and the Group.
REPORT ON OTHER LEGAL
AND REGULATORY REQUIREMENTS
In addition to our audit of the annual accounts and consolidated accounts, we have also audited the proposed appropriations of the Company’s profit or loss and the administration of the Board of Directors and the Chief Executive Officer of B&B TOOLS AB (publ) for the financial year 1 April 2013 – 31 March 2014.
Responsibilities of the Board of Directors
and the Chief Executive Officer
The Board of Directors is responsible for the proposal for appropriations of the Company’s profit or loss, and the Board of Directors and the Chief Executive Officer are responsible for administration under the Companies Act.
Auditor's responsibility
Our responsibility is to express an opinion with reasonable assurance on the proposed appropriations of the Company’s profit or loss and on the administration based on our audit. We conducted the audit in accordance with generally accepted auditing standards in Sweden.
As basis for our opinion on the Board of Directors’ proposed appropriations of the Company’s profit or loss, we examined the Board of Directors’ reasoned statement and a selection of support- ing evidence in order to be able to assess whether the proposal
is in accordance with the Companies Act.
As basis for our opinion concerning discharge from liability,
in addition to our audit of the annual accounts and consolidated accounts, we examined significant decisions, actions taken and circumstances of the Company in order to determine whether any member of the Board of Directors or the Chief Executive Officer is liable to the Company. We also examined whether any member
of the Board of Directors or the Chief Executive Officer has, in any other way, acted in contravention of the Companies Act, the Annual Accounts Act or the Articles of Association.
We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our opinions.
Opinions
We recommend to the Annual Meeting of Shareholders that the profit be appropriated in accordance with the proposal in the statutory Administration Report and that the members of the Board of Directors and the Chief Executive Officer be discharged from liability for the financial year.
Stockholm, 13 June 2014 KPMG AB
George Pettersson
Authorised Public Accountant Auditor in Charge
Matilda Schwartzman Berg
Authorised Public Accountant
AUDITOR’S REPORT
  B&B TOOLS ANNUAL REPORT 2013/14 65
 
BOARD OF DIRECTORS
 BOARD OF DIRECTORS AND GROUP MANAGEMENT
    Anders Börjesson, Chairman of the Board
Charlotte Hansson, Director
Tom Hedelius,
Vice Chairman of the Board
Joakim Rubin, Director
Per Axelsson, Director
Lillemor Svensson,
Director – employee representa- tive
Joakim Rubin
Saltsjöbaden, born 1960. Director since 2011. M.Sc. Eng. Funding partner Zeres Capital, Senior partner of CapMan Public Market Fund and Director of Intrum Justitia AB and ÅF AB. Shares owned: –
Lillemor Svensson
Alingsås, born 1954. Director since 2006. Employee representative.
Shares owned: –
Anette Swanemar
Ulricehamn, born 1959. Director since 2010. Employee representative.
Shares owned: –
Roger Bergqvist, Director
Anette Swanemar,
Director – employee representa- tive
AUDITORS KPMG AB
George Pettersson
Authorised Public Accountant. Stockholm, born 1964. George Pettersson serves as the Auditor in Charge for such listed companies as Addtech AB, Holmen AB, Hufvudstaden AB, Kungsleden AB, Nobia AB, Sandvik AB and Skanska AB. George Pettersson has been B&B TOOLS AB’s Auditor in Charge since 2007.
Matilda Schwartzman Berg Authorised Public Accountant. Stockholm, born 1976. Matilda Schwartzman Berg has been B&B TOOLS AB’s auditor since 2011.
During 2013/2014, KPMG AB conducted audit assignments for approximately
20 percent of the companies listed on NASDAQ OMX Stockholm.
    BOARD OF DIRECTORS:
 Anders Börjesson
Stockholm, born 1948. Chairman of the Board since 2012. Director since 1990. M.Sc. Econ. Chairman of Addtech AB, Cibenon AB and Lagercrantz Group AB. Director of Bostad Direkt AB, Futuraskolan AB, Inomec AB and Ventilationsgrossisten Nordic AB.
Shares owned: 484,386 Class A shares and 1,443 Class B shares.
Tom Hedelius
Stockholm, born 1939. Vice Chairman of the Board since 2012. Director since 1982.
M.Sc. Econ., Honorary Doctor of Econ. Honorary Chairman of Svenska Handelsbanken. Chairman of the Anders Sandrew Foundation and the Jan Wallander & Tom Hedelius Foundation. Vice Chairman of Addtech AB
and Lagercrantz Group AB.
Shares owned: 484,386 Class A shares.
Per Axelsson
Eksjö, born 1950. Director since 2001. M.Sc. Econ. Director of AB Julius Ekboms and AB Karl Hedin Bygghandel.
Shares owned: 2,688 Class A shares and 70,000 Class B shares (company). 3,000 Class B shares.
Roger Bergqvist
Järfälla, born 1948. Director since 2012. Director of BE Group AB, Corroventa AB, Lagercrantz Group AB, Proact IT Group AB and Ventilationsgrossisten Nordic AB. Shares owned: 30,000 Class B shares.
Charlotte Hansson
Nacka, born 1962. Director since 2012. M.Sc. Chief Executive Officer of MTD AB. Director of BE Group AB, Deltaco AB, Formpipe AB and Orio AB.
Shares owned: 3,800 Class B shares.
66 B&B TOOLS ANNUAL REPORT 2013/14
NB: Information on the Board of Directors’ holdings of shares pertains to circumstances as of 13 June 2014.

GROUP MANAGEMENT
     Ulf Lilius, President & CEO
Carl Johan Lundberg, Executive Vice President
Mikael Malmgren, CEO of Skydda
Eva Hemb, Chief Financial Officer
Jens Henriksen, CEO of TOOLS Norway
Mika Kärki, CEO of TOOLS Finland
Jens Henriksen
Born 1969. CEO of TOOLS AS. Employee of the Group since 2009. M.Sc. Eng.
Shares owned: 11,824 Class B shares.
Call options: 13,300.
Torbjörn Eriksson
Born 1967. CEO of TOOLS Sverige AB. Employee of the Group since 1998. Shares owned: 500 Class B shares. Call options: 13,300.
Jimmy Norlinder
Born 1971. CEO of TOOLS Momentum AB. Employee of the Group since 1995. Eng. (Hydraulics and automatic control). Shares owned: 4,787 Class B shares.
Call options: 13,300.
Pontus Boman, CEO of ESSVE
Torbjörn Eriksson, CEO of TOOLS Sweden
    Stefan Lind, CEO of Luna
   Jimmy Norlinder, CEO of Momen- tum
Olof Nyberg, CEO of Gigant Arbetsplats and Grunda
GROUP MANAGEMENT:
Ulf Lilius
Born 1972. President & CEO. Employee of the Group since 2002. B.Sc. Econ.
Shares owned: 1,344 Class A shares and 128,227 Class B shares (family). 35,000 Class B shares (company).
Call options: 13,300.
Carl Johan Lundberg
Born 1951. Executive Vice President and head of the Business Infrastructure unit. Employee of the Group since 1987. M.Sc. Eng.
Shares owned: 34,771 Class B shares.
Call options: 13,300.
Eva Hemb
Born 1966. Chief Financial Officer. Employee of the Group since 2010. M.Sc. Econ. Shares owned: 5,808 Class B shares.
Call options: 13,000.
Pontus Boman
Born 1971. CEO of ESSVE Produkter AB. Employee of the Group since 2007. M.Sc. Eng. Shares owned: 8,073 Class B shares.
Call options: 13,300.
Stefan Lind
Born 1963. CEO of Luna Verktyg & Maskin AB. Employee of the Group since 2005. M.Sc. Econ. Shares owned: 5,550 Class B shares.
Call options: 10,000.
Mikael Malmgren
Born 1978. CEO of Skydda Protecting People Europe AB. Employee of the Group since 2009. B.A.
Shares owned: 1,700 Class B shares. Call options: 13,000.
Olof Nyberg
Born 1975. CEO of Gigant Arbetsplats AB and Grunda AB. Employee of the Group since 2009. M.Sc. Eng.
Shares owned: 10,668 Class B shares. Call options: 13,300.
Mika Kärki
Born 1966. CEO of B&B TOOLS Holding Fi Oy. Employee of the Group since 2008. Member of Group management as of 1 April 2014.
M.Sc. Eng.
Shares owned: – Call options: 13,300.
NB: Information on the Group management's holdings of shares pertains to circumstances as of 13 June 2014.
B&B TOOLS ANNUAL REPORT 2013/14 67

THE B&B TOOLS SHARE
 THE B&B TOOLS SHARE
The Class B share of B&B TOOLS is listed on NASDAQ OMX Stockholm (“Stockholm Stock Exchange”). During the operating year, the total trading volume was MSEK 951. The share price rose 40 percent during the year, and at the end of the operating year, B&B TOOLS had a market capitalisation of MSEK 3,384.
MARKET LISTING
The Class B share of B&B TOOLS was floated on the Stockholm Stock Exchange in 1976, and listed on the A list in 1984. The share is currently listed on the Mid Cap list of NASDAQ OMX Stockholm in the Industrials sector. The share is traded under the symbol BBTO-B.
PERFORMANCE OF THE B&B TOOLS SHARE DURING 2013/2014
During the period from 1 April 2013 to 31 March 2014, the market price of the B&B TOOLS share increased 40 percent to SEK 119.00, which was the final price paid on 31 March 2014. During the same period, OMX Stockholm rose 17 percent. The highest and lowest prices paid during the operating year were SEK 133.00 (quoted on 30 January 2014) and SEK 71.50 (19 April 2013), respectively.
The total return on the B&B TOOLS share, including reinvested dividends, amounted to 45 percent during 2013/2014. The SIX Return Index of the Stockholm Stock Exchange (SIXRX) was 21 percent during the same period.
As of 31 March 2014, B&B TOOLS’ total market capitalisation amounted to MSEK 3,384 (2,417). During the year, 9.5 million shares (9.1) in B&B TOOLS AB were traded, at a total value of MSEK 951 (547), corresponding to 34 percent (32) of the total number of shares outstanding in the Company.
The financial analysts who monitor B&B TOOLS are presented on page 73.
SHARE CAPITAL
As of 31 March 2014, the share capital amounted to MSEK 57. The total number of shares was 28,436,416. Of the shares out- standing, 1,067,812 were Class A shares carrying ten votes each and 27,368,604 were Class B shares carrying one vote each. All shares carry equal rights to the Company’s assets and earnings. A conversion provision in the Articles of Association allows for conversion of Class A shares to Class B shares.
During the 2013/2014 operating year, there were no changes in the total number of shares. During the year, 3,124 Class A shares were converted to Class B shares.
Of the total number of shares as of 31 March 2014, the Company had repurchased 340,000 Class B shares, corresponding to 1.2 percent of the total number of shares and 0.9 percent of the total number of votes. After a deduction for the shares repurchased by the Company, the number of shares outstanding as of 31 March 2014 totalled a net amount of 28,096,416.
The weighted number of shares, with deductions for the shares repurchased by the Company, amounted to 28,096,416 for the 2013/2014 operating year.
DIVIDEND
The dividend proposed by the Board of Directors for the 2013/2014 operating year is SEK 3.50 (3.00) per share, corre- sponding to a total of MSEK 98 (84). The pay-out ratio is
46 percent (38) of earnings per share.
SHARE PRICE DEVELOPMENT 2009-2014
SHARE PRICE DEVELOPMENT 2013/2014
SEK
Number of shares, thousands
SEK
Number of shares, thousands
     140 120 100
80 60 40 20
0
   2009 2010 Shares traded, thousands
2011 2012
2013
OMX Stockholm
2014
apr
may jun jul Shares traded, thousands
2012/2013
85.00 2,417 3.00 28,436 4,161 93.00 43.90 3.5
aug
sept
oct nov
dec
jan feb mar OMX Stockholm
     HISTORICAL DATA FOR THE B&B TOOLS SHARE
Share price as of 31 March, SEK
Market capitalisation as of 31 March, MSEK
Dividend, SEK
Shares outstanding, thousands
Number of shareholders as of 31 March
Highest share price during the operating year, SEK
Lowest share price during the operating year, SEK
Dividend yield 2), %
1) As proposed by the Board of Directors.
2) Dividend divided by the share price on 31 March for each operating year.
2013/2014
2011/2012
59.25 1,685 3.00 28,436 4,705 123.50 49.30 5.1
2010/2011
113.50 3,228 3.00 28,436 4,263 123.75 91.00 2.6
2009/2010
105.75 3,007 2.50 28,436 4,434 113.25 43.60 2.4
  119.00
3,384
3.501)
28,436
4,118
133.00
71.50
2.91)
    68 B&B TOOLS ANNUAL REPORT 2013/14
2,500 2,000 1,500 1,000 500 0
 140 120 100
80 60 40
1,600 1,400 1,200 1,000 800 600 400 200 0
   B&B TOOLS Class B share
 B&B TOOLS Class B share

SHAREHOLDER STRUCTURE
As of 31 March 2014, B&B TOOLS AB had 4,118 shareholders (4,161). Institutional investors, such as mutual funds, insurance companies and pension funds in Sweden and abroad, own approximately 78 percent (78) of the total number of shares. The proportion of foreign ownership is approximately 29 percent (27) of the total number of shares. The table below shows the owner- ship structure on 31 March 2014.
EMPLOYEE OWNERSHIP OF B&B TOOLS
Information concerning shareholdings and share-based incentive programmes for the Board of Directors and Group management is presented on pages 66–67. For further information regarding the terms of the share-based incentive programmes, refer to Note 5 on pages 38–40.
MAJOR SHAREHOLDERS AS OF 31 MARCH 20141)
Anders Börjesson
Tom Hedelius
Swedbank Robur funds
CapMan Public Market Investment SEB Asset Management
CLASSES OF SHARES AS OF 31 MARCH 20141) Number of
Proportion of Capital
3.8% 96.2%
100.0%
Shares Number
468,067
488,228 1,261,507 902,588 2,068,247 2,184,241 20,723,538
28,096,416
THE B&B TOOLS SHARE
    Class A shares Class B shares
Repurchased Class B shares
Total number of shares outstanding
1) Source: Euroclear Sweden.
shares
1,067,812 27,028,604
28,096,416
340,000
28,436,416
Votes
28.3% 71.7%
100.0%
% of total
1.7% 1.7% 4.5% 3.2% 7.4% 7.8%
73.7%
100.0%
    OWNERSHIP STRUCTURE AS OF 31 MARCH 20141) Owners
  Size class,
number of shares Number
1–500 2,680 501–1,000 593 1,001–5,000 557 5,001–10,000 122 10,001–50,000 96 50,001–100,000 27 100,001– 43
Total 4,118
1) Source: Euroclear Sweden.
Number of
% of total
65.1% 14.4% 13.5%
3.0% 2.3% 0.7% 1.0%
100.0%
     Class A shares
484,386 484,386
Class B shares
1,443
2,994,787 2,380,000 1,915,010 1,738,089 1,455,185 1,390,000
600,000 531,505 525,000 517,578 509,143 500,000
11,970,864
27,028,604
340,000
27,368,604
Percentage of Capital Votes
1.7% 12.8%
1.7% 12.8% 10.7% 7.9% 8.5% 6.3% 6.8% 5.1% 6.2% 4.6% 5.2% 3.9% 4.9% 3.7% 2.1% 1.6% 1.9% 1.4% 1.9% 1.4% 1.8% 1.4% 1.8% 1.4% 1.8% 1.3% 43.0% 34.4%
100.0% 100.0%
100.0% 100.0%
Number of shares
7,635,606 7,649,606 7,658,206
11,487,309 14,315,180 28,630,360 28,630,360 28,637,356 29,051,949 27,225,749 28,436,416
 SEB Funds
Fourth AP Fund
SHB Pension Fund Insurance Association
Sandrew Aktiebolag
Handelsbanken Funds
Fidelity Puritan Trust
The Foundation for Baltic and East European Studies
Third AP Fund
Skandia Leben (FL) AG
Other 99,040
1,067,812
Additional: Repurchased Class B shares
Total 1,067,812
1) Source: Euroclear Sweden.
SHARE CAPITAL DEVELOPMENT
    Year Transaction Change, SEK
1988/89
1989/90 Conversion 140,000 1990/91 Conversion 86,000
Share capital, SEK
76,356,060 76,496,060 76,582,060
114,873,090 143,151,800 286,303,600
57,260,720 57,274,712 58,103,898 54,451,498 56,872,832
 1993/94 Stock dividend against retained earnings
1993/94 Non-cash issue to shareholders of Engros AB Ferro
1997/98 Stock dividend against statutory reserve
2002/03 Reduction of the share’s nominal value against non-restricted equity
2002/03 Conversion 13,992 2003/04 Conversion 829,186 2004/05 Cancellation of repurchased Class B shares -3,652,400 2004/05 Conversion 2,421,334
The Board of Directors is not authorised to make decisions regarding new share issues.
38,291,030
28,278,710 143,151,800 -229,042,880
 B&B TOOLS ANNUAL REPORT 2013/14 69
 
TEN-YEAR SUMMARY
 TEN-YEAR SUMMARY
MSEK
Earnings information
Revenue
Shares in profit of associated companies Other operating income
Total operating revenue
Operating expenses, excluding non-recurring items
of which, depreciation, amortisation and impairment losses
Operating profit, excluding non-recurring items Non-recurring items
Operating profit, including non-recurring items Financial income and expense
Profit after net financial items
Taxes
Profit after taxes, but before profit/loss from discontinued operations
Profit/loss from discontinued operations, net after taxes
Net profit for the year
Of which, attributable to:
Parent Company shareholders Non-controlling interest
Balance information
Intangible non-current assets Tangible non-current assets Financial non-current assets Inventories
Current receivables
Cash and cash equivalents Total assets
Equity attributable to Parent Company shareholders Non-controlling interest
Total equity
Interest-bearing liabilities and provisions Non-interest-bearing liabilities and provisions Total equity and liabilities
Capital employed Operational net loan liability2)
2013/2014 12/131) 11/121) 10/111)
7,666 8,201 7,885
09/10 08/09 07/08
7,648 9,325 9,133 1 1 1 5 39 12
7,654 9,365 9,146
-7,393 -8,743 -8,472 -69 -63 -67
261 622 674 – -111 –
261 511 674 -68 -108 -74
193 403 600 -59 -112 -168
134 291 432 – – –
134 291 432
134 285 421 0 6 11
1,857 1,913 1,755 505 545 529 124 146 110
1,458 1,768 1,667 1,340 1,439 1,570 209 209 226
5,493 6,020 5,857
1,769 1,739 1,551 0 18 20
1,769 1,757 1,571
1,952 2,179 2,008 1,772 2,084 2,278
5,493 6,020 5,857
3,721 3,936 3,579 -1,734 -1,959 -1,769
06/07 05/06 04/05
6,823 5,058 3,863 – – – 6 18 6
6,829 5,076 3,869
-6,386 -4,774 -3,667 -66 -74 -92
443 302 202 – 4 -4
443 306 198 -36 -15 -13
407 291 185 -117 -81 -49
290 210 136 – -1 64
290 209 200
288 207 198 2 2 2
1,033 504 312 500 419 350 81 60 51 1,268 868 731 1,369 927 738 170 276 152
4,421 3,054 2,334
1,239 1,085 935 12 13 22
1,251 1,098 957
1,202 671 381 1,968 1,285 996
4,421 3,054 2,334
2,453 1,769 1,338 -1,018 -389 -224
  7,648
0
15
 7,663
 -7,323
-45
 340
–
 340
-54
 286
-72
 214
–
 214
 214
–
1,792
208
118
1,414
1,509
53
 5,094
 2,203
–
 2,203
 1,326
1,565
 5,094
 3,529
-819
   0 83)
7,674
-7,436 -66
238 513)
289 -73
216 6
222 –
222
222 0
1,781 252 139 1,443 1,410 214
5,239
2,065 –
2,065
1,597 1,577
5,239
3,662 -914
1 64)
8,208
-7,791
–67 -65
1 8
7,894
    -7,547
  417 -84)
409 -91
318 -91
227 –
227
227 0
1,815 407 158 1,684 1,471 85
5,620
1,950 0
1,950
1,962 1,708
5,620
3,912 -1,414
347 –
347 -67
280 -86
194 –
194
194 0
1,813 472 149 1,523 1,389 92
5,438
1,840 0
1,840
1,911 1,687
5,438
3,751 -1,407
                        1) As of 2010/2011, comparative figures were adjusted due to changes in accounting policies. Refer also to Note 1.
2) As of 2010/2011, comparative figures were adjusted due to a changed definition (previously, financial net loan liability).
3) Non-recurring items include MSEK 245 relating to capital gains from property sales, which are recognised as “Other operating income” in the consolidated income statement. 4) Non-recurring items include MSEK 31 relating to capital gains from property sales, which are recognised as “Other operating income” in the consolidated income statement.
70 B&B TOOLS ANNUAL REPORT 2013/14

2013/2014
12/13 11/12 10/11 09/10
3.8 5.0 4.4 3.4 2.8 3.9 3.6 2.5 5 7 6 5 8 11 9 7 11 12 11 8 6 12 11 8 11 12 11 8 39 35 34 32 39 35 34 32
2,780 2,880 2,840 2,844 2,827 2,861 2,837 2,980 262 114 103 368
7.90 8.10 6.90 4.80 7.90 8.10 6.90 4.80 9.30 4.05 3.65 13.20 9.30 4.05 3.65 13.15
73.50 69.40 65.50 63.05 73.50 69.40 65.50 63.00 85.00 59.25 113.50 105.75
3.00 3.00 3.00 2.50
116 85 173 168 116 85 173 168 11 7 16 22 11 7 16 22 3.5 5.1 2.6 2.4
08/09 07/08 06/07 05/06 04/05
5.5 7.4 6.5 6.0 5.1 4.3 6.6 6.0 5.8 4.8 9 14 12 12 9 14 23 22 20 16 17 31 25 20 23 22 31 25 20 17 17 31 25 20 22 29 27 28 36 41 29 27 28 36 41
3,183 3,315 2,697 1,978 1,630 3,333 2,987 2,289 1,817 1,696 377 360 420 292 257
10.20 15.10 10.35 7.45 7.25 10.20 15.00 10.25 7.35 7.10 13.50 12.90 15.10 10.50 9.45 13.45 12.80 15.00 10.40 9.20 62.35 55.60 44.60 38.95 33.75 62.10 55.20 44.15 38.50 33.50 44.20 173.50 214.00 137.00 80.00
2.50 5.00 4.00 3.50 2.75
71 312 480 352 237 71 314 485 356 239 4 11 21 18 11 4 12 21 19 11 5.7 2.9 1.9 2.6 3.4
TEN-YEAR SUMMARY
   4.4
3.7
7
10
10
10
10
43
43
2,655
2,724
210
7.60
7.60
7.45
7.45
78.40
78.40
119.00
3.50 1)
152
152
16
16
2.91)
   Key financial ratios
Operating margin, %
Profit margin, %
Return on total capital, % Return on capital employed, % Return on equity, %
Ditto, excluding non-recurring items, % Return on equity after dilution, % Equity/assets ratio, %
Equity/assets ratio after dilution, %
Other data
Number of employees at the end of the period Average number of employees
Cash flow from operating activities, MSEK
Per-share data
Earnings,SEK
Earnings after dilution, SEK
Cash flow from operating activities, SEK Ditto, after dilution, SEK
Equity,SEK
Equity after dilution, SEK
Share price at 31 March, SEK Dividend,SEK
Other share-related data
Share price/equity, %
Share price/equity after dilution, % Price/earnings ratio, multiple Price/earnings ratio after dilution, multiple Dividend yield, %
1) As proposed by the Board of Directors.
  B&B TOOLS ANNUAL REPORT 2013/14 71

DEFINITIONS
 DEFINITIONS
 Calculation of key financial ratios after dilution
Key ratios after dilution are calculated in accordance with IAS 33. The number of shares after dilution has been calculated as the weighted average during the financial year for the earnings and cash-flow-based key ratios.
Capital employed
Balance-sheet total less non-interest- bearing liabilities.
Cash flow per share
Cash flow for the year from operating activities divided by the weighted number of shares.
Dividend yield
Dividend per share relative to share price at 31 March.
Earnings per share
Net profit/loss for the year attributable to the Parent Company’s shareholders divided by the weighted number of shares.
Equity/assets ratio
Equity as a percentage of the balance-sheet total.
Equity per share
Equity attributable to Parent Company shareholders divided by the number of shares at the end of the financial year.
Non-recurring items
Significant earnings items attributable to capital gains or losses on the sale of busi- nesses or significant non-current assets, impairment losses and restructuring expenses.
Number of shares at the
end of the financial year
Number of shares as of 31 March, net, after deduction for shares repurchased by the Company.
Operating margin
Operating profit/loss relative to revenue.
Operational net loan liability
Interest-bearing liabilities and provisions excluding provisions for pensions less cash and cash equivalents and interest- bearing financial non-current assets excluding pension funds.
Price/earnings ratio
The share price at 31 March divided by earnings per share.
Profit margin
Profit/loss after net financial items relative to revenue.
P/WC
Operating profit relative to average work- ing capital, defined as inventories plus accounts receivable less accounts payable.
Return on capital employed
Profit/loss after net financial items, includ- ing reversed financial expenses, relative to average capital employed.
Return on equity
Net profit/loss for the period relative to average equity.
Return on total capital
Profit/loss after net financial items, includ- ing reversed financial expenses, relative to average total capital (balance-sheet total).
Revenue
Own invoicing, commission income from commission sales and side revenues.
Share price/equity
The share price relative to equity per share at the end of the financial year.
Weighted number of shares
Average number of shares during the finan- cial year, adjusted for repurchased shares.
Amounts
The amounts stated in the Notes refer to MSEK (SEK million) unless otherwise stated.
   Production: Byn Kommunikationsbyrå in collaboration with B&B TOOLS. Translation: The Bugli Company Printing: Norrköpings Tryckeri. Photo: Jann Lipka. This Annual Report is in all respects a translation of the Swedish original Annual Report. In the event of any differences between this translation and the Swedish original, the latter shall prevail.
72 B&B TOOLS ANNUAL REPORT 2013/14

FINANCIAL INFORMATION FOR 2014/15 AND ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING 2014
   FINANCIAL CALENDAR 2014/15
For the 2014/2015 operating year, reports will be published as follows:
Interim Report (3 months)
1 April – 30 June 2014 Published: 17 July 2014
Interim Report (6 months)
1 April – 30 September 2014 Published: 6 November 2014
Interim Report (9 months)
1 April – 31 December 2014 Published: 10 February 2015
Financial report 2014/15
1 April 2014 – 31 March 2015 Published: 12 May 2015
Annual Report 2014/15
1 April 2014 – 31 March 2015 Published: July 2015
Interim reports, financial reports, annual reports and press informa- tion can be ordered digitally through the subscription service on B&B TOOLS’ website at www.bbtools.com. The printed Annual Report is distributed to those shareholders who have requested a copy.
All reports are published in Swedish and English.
Carnegie Investment Bank
Christian Hellman, +46 8 676 88 00
Handelsbanken Capital Markets
Jon Hyltner, +46 8 701 10 00
Remium Nordic
Karl-Johan Bonnevier, +46 8 454 32 00
SEB Markets
Christopher Lyrhem, +46 8 522 295 00
INVESTOR RELATIONS
Mats Karlqvist, Head of Investor Relations, mats.karlqvist@bbtools. com, telephone +46 70 660 31 32.
WELCOME TO
THE 2014 ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING!
TIME AND LOCATION
B&B TOOLS AB’s Annual General Meeting will be held on Thursday, 21 August 2014, at 4:30 p.m. at IVAs Konferenscenter, Grev Turegatan 16, Stockholm, Sweden.
RIGHT OF PARTICIPATION AND HOW TO PROVIDE NOTICE OF ATTENDANCE
Shareholders who wish to participate in the proceedings of the Annual General Meeting must: a) be recorded in the share register maintained by Euroclear Sweden AB
not later than Friday, 15 August 2014, and
b) notify the Company of their intention to attend not later than 3:00 p.m.
on Friday, 15 August 2014.
Notices should be submitted by mail to ”Annual General Meeting 2014”, B&B TOOLS AB, Box 10024, SE-100 55 Stockholm, Sweden, by telephone at +46-10-454 79 60 or by e-mail to arsstamma2014@bbtools.com.
Notices must contain information about the shareholders’ name, personal or corporate registration number, telephone number (daytime), registered shareholding and the names of any assisting counsel.
HOW TO BECOME REGISTERED IN THE SHARE REGISTER
Shares are registered in the share register maintained by Euroclear Sweden AB in the name of either the owner or the owner’s nominee. Shareholders who have not registered their nominees in the share register are themselves registered in the share register. Shareholders whose shares are managed by a third party may have chosen to have their shares registered in the name of a nominee. To be able to participate in the Meeting, shareholders who own nominee-registered shares must request in advance that their shares be temporarily regis- tered in their own names as of 15 August 2014. Accordingly, the nominee should be con- tacted in ample time prior to 15 August 2014.
PROXIES
The rights of shareholders at the Annual General Meeting may be exercised by proxy. A power of attorney for legal entities must be signed by an authorised signatory and a copy of a current certificate of incorporation naming the authorised signatories must be attached. A copy of the power of attorney must be submitted together with the notice and shall be presented in its original prior to the start of the Meeting
PAYMENT OF DIVIDEND
The Board of Directors has proposed a dividend of SEK 3.50 per share for 2013/2014. The resolution of the Annual General Meeting regarding the dividend will include the date by which shareholders must be recorded in the share register maintained by Euroclear Sweden AB in order to be entitled to receive a dividend. The Board of Directors has pro- posed Tuesday, 26 August 2014 as the record date. On condition that the Annual General Meeting adopts this proposal, dividends are expected to be disbursed by Euroclear Sweden AB on Friday, 29 August 2014 to the shareholders recorded in the share register as of the record date.
  FINANCIAL ANALYSTS WHO MONITOR B&B TOOLS
  B&B TOOLS ANNUAL REPORT 2013/14 73

           B&B TOOLS AB (publ)
Address: Box 10024, Linnégatan 18, SE-100 55 Stockholm, Sweden Telephone: +46 10 454 77 00 Fax: +46 10 454 77 01
E-mail: info@bbtools.com Corp. Reg. No: 556034-8590 www.bbtools.com
