ANNUAL REPORT 2014

ANNUAL REPORT 2014

KEY FIGURES

Key figures

(in EUR million, unless stated otherwise)*
Revenue Order book
EBITDA Net result from joint ventures and associates Operating result Net profit
Net group profit Depreciation, amortization and impairment losses Cash flow
Shareholders' equity
Personnel (headcount)

2014
3,167 3,286
945.9 56.4
652.3 490.3
492.2 293.5 785.7
3,152
8,446

2013
3,144 3,323
757.2 63.7
463.4 365.7
365.3 293.8 659.1
2,525
8,459

RATIOS (IN PERCENTAGES)
Operating result as % of revenue Return on capital employed Return on equity Solvency

20.6 13.8 17.3 53.4

14.7 13.0 16.5 47.6

FIGURES PER SHARE (IN EUR)
Profit Dividend Cash flow

4.03 1.60 6.46

3.09 1.24 5.56

* A s of 1 January 2014 Boskalis applies IFRS11 which impacts the way joint ventures and associated companies are recognized. The full year 2013 comparative figures have been adjusted accordingly. Please refer to the glossary for definitions of the terms used.

SHARE INFORMATION (Share price in EUR)
High Low Close Average daily trading volume Number of issued ordinary shares at year-end (x 1,000) Average number of outstanding shares (x 1,000) Stock market capitalization (in EUR billion)

2014

2013

47.18 33.71 45.45 354,053 122,938 121,606 5.588

38.58 26.92 38.41 336,227 120,265 118,445 4.619

DEVELOPMENT BOSKALIS SHARE PRICE 2014, A4E8X INDEX REBASED TO BOSKALIS (in EUR)

46

44

42

40

38

36

34

32 JAN

FEB MAR APR MAY JUN

JUL AUG SEP OCT NOV DEC

Boskalis AEX

ANNUAL REPORT 2014 ­ BOSKALIS

REVENUE (in EUR million) 3,144 3,167

NET PROFIT (in EUR million) 490.3
365.7

CAPITAL EXPENDITURE (in EUR million) 12
36

209

301

2013 2014

2013 2014

2013 2014 Net capital expenditure Disposals

REVENUE BY SEGMENT (in EUR million) 271

1,238

1,665

Dredging & Inland Infra Offshore Energy Towage & Salvage Eliminations (-7)

REVENUE BY GEOGRAPHICAL AREA (in EUR million)

405 274 174
833

714 767

The Netherlands Rest of Europe Australia / Asia
Middle East Africa North, Central and South America

ORDER BOOK (in EUR million) 3,323 3,286
2013 2014

ACQUIRED ORDERS (in EUR million) 2,941
2,785

FLEET UTILIZATION (in weeks per year)

44

43

44

40

36

16

2013 2014

2013

2014

Hoppers Cutters HTVs

1
ANNUAL REPORT 2014
This Annual Report contains forward-looking statements. These statements are based on current expectations, estimates and projections of Boskalis' management and information currently available to the company. These forecasts are not certain and contain elements of risk that are difficult to predict and therefore Boskalis does not guarantee that its expectations will be realized. Boskalis is under no obligation to update the statements contained in this Annual Report. Some of the projects referred to in this report were carried out in cooperation with other companies. This is an English translation of the official Annual Report in the Dutch language. In the event of discrepancies between the two, the Dutch version shall prevail.

2
TABLE OF CONTENTS

3

4

CHAIRMAN'S STATEMENT

6

BOSKALIS AT A GLANCE

20

REPORT OF THE

SUPERVISORY BOARD

30

REPORT OF THE BOARD

OF MANAGEMENT

61

FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

2014

132 OTHER INFORMATION

chairman's statement

4
CHAIRMAN'S STATEMENT
Dear shareholders, We look back on an exceptional year in which many records were broken. Despite the very challenging market conditions our revenue of EUR 3.2 billion and net profit of EUR 490 million mean that we concluded the best year in the history of our company. A magnificent result to which all the business units contributed, because over the past year activities across our broad portfolio turned in an excellent performance with good fleet utilization and project results. A number of exceptional gains also made a substantial contribution to the result including settlement results on old projects at Dredging and Salvage and cancellation fees at Dockwise. Moreover we succeeded in maintaining the level of the order book, which stands at EUR 3.3 billion.
MANY HIGHLIGHTS
DREDGING & INLAND INFRA The Dredging & Inland Infra division worked hard and with success on a large number of projects all over the world, including the port construction project Superporto do Açu (Brazil), the Bronka port project in St. Petersburg (Russia), the SAAone project and the reinforcement of the Hondsbossche and Pettemer Sea Defense (the Netherlands), the JNPT port project in Mumbai (India), the Ichthys LNG export facility (Australia), the deepening of the access channel to the port of Southampton (UK), and land reclamation in Incheon (South Korea).
On project The Base in Qatar we used new innovative techniques to set a new benchmark for using cutters to dredge very hard soil. In addition we successfully achieved the contractual conclusion of the Gorgon project in Australia.
Major new contracts included Finger Pier 1 in Singapore, the Room for the River project IJsseldelta in the Netherlands, the construction of the artificial island Pluit City in Indonesia and the expansion of the Suez Canal in Egypt. These projects provide a good foundation for the utilization of both the hopper and cutter fleet in 2015.
OFFSHORE ENERGY In the Offshore Energy division construction work on the West of Duddon Sands wind farm in the Irish Sea was successfully completed, significant progress was made on the Malampaya project in the Philippines, and various activities were executed in connection with the DolWin offshore wind farm. For this last project we transported

ANNUAL REPORT 2014 ­ BOSKALIS

5

a huge 15,000-tonne platform from Dubai to Norway. In the course of 2015, we will tow the platform to the wind farm and install it. In late 2014 we were awarded the contract for part of the construction of the Wikinger wind park in the German section of the Baltic Sea, a project on which a wide range of Boskalis and Dockwise equipment will be deployed.
Over the past year Dockwise started work on the sizable Wheatstone project with almost 50 transports from China and Malaysia to Australia. Dockwise can reflect on a very busy year, with the best result in the company's history.
In early 2014 we expanded the Offshore Energy division with the acquisition of Fairmount ­ five heavy anchor handling tugs, which are already finding their way to clients through our numerous distribution channels. The offshore equipment of Marine Services saw frequent deployment with clients such as Heerema, Saipem and Seaway Heavy Lifting, while Subsea Services also had a busy year with a very good utilization of the diving support vessels.

implemented at the Offshore Energy division and Boskalis Nederland, with Salvage set to follow this coming year.
EXECUTION OF THE BUSINESS PLAN
Optimizing both the organization and the processes and systems is a major topic in the Corporate Business Plan 2014-2016. We can conclude after the first year that important steps have been taken with the choice for the divisional structure and its implementation; our Dutch Dockwise and Fairmount colleagues moving into our office in Papendrecht; a new, tighter method of business reporting and with the introduction of a single, standardized ERP system. Furthermore, we further reduced the net debt to well below one times EBITDA, despite the start of our share buy-back program and our acquisition of a 20 per cent stake in Fugro. We are interested in Fugro because of the strong market positions of its core activities, its good reputation and the natural fit with our activities.
OUTLOOK

TOWAGE & SALVAGE
2014 was an exceptional year for Towage. In the summer we managed to complete the agreement with SAAM on combining our harbour towage operations in North and South America thereby creating the joint venture SAAM SMIT Towage. In addition, as the year edged towards its close, our joint venture Smit Lamnalco reached an agreement on the acquisition of PB Towage in Australia, and we signed an MoU with Kotug regarding the intended merger of our combined towage operations in Northwest Europe. This partnership puts the finishing touch to our Towage strategy aimed at forming strategic partnerships with regional players. Through the Smit Lamnalco, Keppel Smit Towage and SAAM SMIT Towage partnerships and the joint venture with Kotug we operate more than 450 vessels in over 90 ports in 35 countries: truly a fabulous group with a great spread.
Salvage had a quiet year in terms of emergency response jobs, but started 2014 with two prestigious wreck removal projects: a jack-up platform off the coast of Angola and, closer to home, the car carrier Baltic Ace off the Dutch coast.

If the past few years have taught us anything, it is that it has become increasingly difficult to forecast developments. You only have to look at last year's roller coaster ­ the exchange rates of the US dollar, Swiss franc and euro, the coal price, the ruble, the steel price and, last but not least, the oil price. A year ago no one would have believed an oil price of 50 to 60 dollars per barrel was possible. Our company is therefore operating in fundamentally different market conditions, certainly as far as the offshore sector is concerned. But it also puts pressure on infrastructure investments in economies that are dependent on oil exports: Russia, Brazil, Nigeria and the Middle East. This however not only creates threats but it also offers opportunities for the acquisition of quality assets and even companies. Opportunities that we will weigh with caution to ensure we preserve the good health of the company.
On behalf of the Board of Management I want to thank all colleagues for the tremendous effort they once again put in during 2014, as well as our clients, partners and shareholders for the trust they put in us.

SAFETY

The broadening of our activities into Offshore Energy and the execution of the many projects did not affect our safety performance. With the aid of our NINA safety program (No Injuries No Accidents) we managed to further reduce our LTIF figure, from 0.11 in 2013 to 0.09 in 2014. We are extremely proud of the fact that the number of accidents has fallen by more than 85% since NINA was first introduced in 2010. In 2014 the NINA program was further

Peter Berdowski

ANNUAL REPORT 2014 ­ BOSKALIS

6
BOSKALIS AT A GLANCE
Work on the Room for the River project, River IJssel flood plains at Olst in the Netherlands

7

8

COMPANY PROFILE

9

ACTIVITIES

10

STRATEGY

16

SHAREHOLDER

INFORMATION

8
COMPANY PROFILE
Royal Boskalis Westminster N.V. (Boskalis) is a leading dredging & marine expert creating new horizons for all its stakeholders.

Boskalis at a glance

ANNUAL REPORT 2014 ­ BOSKALIS

In addition to our traditional dredging activities we offer a broad range of maritime services for the offshore energy sector. In addition, we provide towage services as well as emergency response and salvage related services.

sustained growth. Our main clients are oil, gas and power companies, port operators, governments, shipping companies, international project developers, insurance companies and mining companies.

As a partner we are able to realize complex infrastructural works for our clients within the chain of design, project management and execution, on time and within budget, even at vulnerable or remote locations around the world. We strive for sustainable design and realization of our solutions.
Demand for our services is driven by growing energy consumption, growth in global trade, growth in world population and climate change. Boskalis operates worldwide but concentrates on seven geographic regions which have the highest growth expectations for the energy and ports markets. This spread gives us both a solid foundation and the flexibility to be able to secure a wide range of projects, as well as providing good prospects for balanced and

Boskalis has around 8,500 employees, excluding our share in associated companies. The safety of our own employees and those of our subcontractors is paramount. Boskalis operates a progressive global safety program which is held in high regard in the industry and by our clients. We operate on behalf of our clients in over 75 countries across six continents. Our versatile fleet consists of 1,000 vessels and equipment. Our head office is based in the Dutch city of Papendrecht. Royal Boskalis Westminster N.V. shares have been listed on Euronext Amsterdam since 1971 and included in the AEX-Index.

9
ACTIVITIES

Boskalis is renowned for its innovative approach and specialist knowledge of environmentally friendly techniques. With our great expertise, multidisciplinary approach and extensive experience in engineering and project management we have proven time and again that we are able to realize complex projects on time and within budget, even at difficult locations.

Lamnalco, which is 50% owned by Boskalis. These include assistance with the berthing and unberthing of tankers at oil and LNG terminals and additional support services such as pilotage, subsea inspection and maintenance, firefighting, and the coupling and uncoupling of terminal connections. With our versatile fleet of over 450 vessels we assist vessels in over 90 ports in 35 countries, including oil and chemical tankers, container ships, reefers, RoRo ships and mixed cargo ships.

DREDGING & INLAND INFRA
Traditionally, dredging is the core activity of Boskalis. It involves all activities required to remove silt, sand and other layers from the water bed and in some cases using it elsewhere, for example for coastal protection or land reclamation. The services we provide also include the construction and maintenance of ports and waterways, and coastal defense and riverbank protection, as well as associated specialist services such as underwater rock fragmentation. In addition, Boskalis is active in the extraction of raw materials using dredging techniques. Our global spread, high professional standards, versatile state-of-the-art fleet and conscious focus on cost efficiency have earned us a recognized position as a global market leader in dredging. In the Netherlands, Boskalis also operates as a contractor of dry infrastructure projects. This involves the design, preparation (by means of dry earthmoving) and execution of large-scale civil infra works, such as the construction of roads and railroads, bridges, dams, viaducts and tunnels. In doing so, we also perform specialist works such as soil improvement and land remediation.

SALVAGE
Through SMIT Salvage we provide services relating to the salvage of ships and wreck removal. SMIT Salvage provides assistance to vessels in distress and is able to spring into action at any time and anywhere in the world. We are able to do so by operating out of four locations which are strategically situated in relation to the main international shipping routes: Houston, Cape Town, Rotterdam and Singapore. Clearance of wrecks of sunken ships and offshore platforms almost always takes place at locations where the wreck forms an obstruction to traffic or presents an environmental hazard. We have the advanced technology and expertise needed to remove hazardous substances such as bunker fuel from wrecks and boast a successful track record in salvaging ships and platforms under challenging circumstances.

OFFSHORE ENERGY
With the offshore services of Boskalis and our subsidiaries Dockwise and Fairmount we support the activities of the international energy sector, including oil and gas companies and providers of renewable energy such as wind power. We are involved in the development, construction, maintenance and decommissioning of oil and LNGimport/export facilities, offshore platforms, pipelines and cables and offshore wind farms. In performing these activities Boskalis applies its expertise in the areas of heavy transport, lift and installation work, as well as diving and ROV services complemented with dredging, offshore pipeline, cable and rock installation. With VBMS (50% owned by Boskalis) we are a leading player in the European market for offshore cable installation.

TOWAGE
In ports around the world assistance is provided to incoming and outgoing oceangoing vessels through Boskalis' joint ventures and associated companies Keppel Smit Towage, SAAM SMIT Towage and the forthcoming joint venture with Kotug. In addition we offer a full range of services for the operation and management of onshore and offshore terminals through Smit

ANNUAL REPORT 2014 ­ BOSKALIS

10

STRATEGY

Boskalis operates around the world and is a leading player in the field of dredging, offshore energy and maritime services. With its broad portfolio of specialist activities combined with innovative all-round solutions Boskalis is both an expert and a leader in its market segments. Systematic execution of the strategy is an important pillar underpinning Boskalis' success.

BOSKALIS 2014 - 2016

FOCUS EXPAND STRENGTHEN

In early 2014 Boskalis presented its Corporate Business Plan for 2014-2016 and in the past year we have made good progress in realizing this plan. Updating the strategy (Focus, Expand & Strengthen) in early 2014 was a natural consequence from the completed 2011-2013 planning period in combination with the successful acquisition of Dockwise in 2013. Boskalis can leverage its broad range of services to `push back boundaries' for its clients, to cater their needs under increasingly complex circumstances across the globe through optimum use of staff and equipment (`assets'). In the higher market segment there is demand for high-quality services and innovative and sustainable solutions, with an increasing need to add more value. This ties in seamlessly with our mission and vision.

BOSKALIS AT A GLANCE

MARKET DEVELOPMENTS
The Corporate Business Plan 2014-2016 was formulated with a clear view on the long-term trends, with Boskalis also being mindful of the (strongly) fluctuating market conditions in the short term. With regard to market developments we are currently seeing a clear divide between the short and the longer term.
Developments in the short term are unstable and unpredictable. This was true to an extreme degree in the past year, with the oil price dropping from over USD 110 a barrel to below USD 50 in early 2015 in the space of a few months. In particular this translates into reluctance to invest in new complex and costly offshore projects.

ANNUAL REPORT 2014 ­ BOSKALIS

160

Offshore fields

not yet in production

120 Onshore fields
not yet in production

80

Offshore fields

in production

40

Onshore fields

in production

0

`00

`05

`10

`15

`20

`25

`30

Figure 2: Oil & gas production in million barrels equivalent

11

In the medium to long term the global megatrends that underlie our strategy will remain in force. Growth in global population and wealth is of a structural nature and is the driver behind the growth in global trade and demand for raw materials and energy.
These indisputable trends are the key drivers of long-term growth in the ports and energy market segments. Positive developments for Boskalis can be identified in two underlying trends: (i) despite the slower growth in seaborne trade, there is demand for larger and deeper ports with associated infrastructure to accommodate larger oceangoing vessels with deeper drafts, and (ii) the growing demand for energy and the associated increase in offshore exploration and production, also in vulnerable regions, which in turn increases the need for sustainable solutions.

Boskalis continues to focus its activities and services (see figure 3) on markets that demonstrate structural growth in the longer term. The key activities are:  Dredging  Offshore Energy
The key market segments are:  Energy (oil, gas and wind)  Ports
STRATEGIC FRAMEWORK
The Boskalis strategy for 2014-2016 is a natural consequence from our mission and vision.

The growing demand for energy and the ­ inevitable ­ associated additional offshore exploration and production are evident from research findings (see figure 2). The development of new offshore fields will be required if production volumes are to be at least maintained or increased. Despite the current relatively low oil price, new offshore developments will still need to be started up if demand remains stable.
Global population growth is fueling sustained structural demand for our land reclamation and infra activities. Climate change is forcing governments on several continents to take steps to protect their populations against flooding and rising sea levels. As a result we see growing demand for integrated sustainable solutions for complete maritime infrastructures (for example Jakarta Bay in Indonesia).

We are a leading global dredging & marine expert that creates new horizons for all our stakeholders. We offer a unique combination of people, vessels and activities. Against the highest standards of safety and sustainability, we provide innovative and competitive all-round solutions for our clients in the offshore industry, ports and coastal and delta regions.
With a broad, integrated range of maritime activities and (logistical) services Boskalis holds a unique position in the global maritime market. This translates into a host of opportunities with both existing and new clients, the offshore oil and gas sector being a case in point. We want to strengthen and expand this position, for example by fully leveraging the synergies that exist within the group and through organic and acquired growth.
Our 2014-2016 strategy for growth is based on three pillars: Focus, Expand & Strengthen.

Energy Ports Other
Dredging & Inland Infra Offshore Energy Towage & Salvage
Figure 3: Boskalis - breakdown of revenue by market segment and activity

FOCUS
The Focus pillar of our strategy is aimed at:  Value-Adding Assets  Specific market segments  Seven geographic regions
Value-Adding Assets The strength of Boskalis lies in its ability to deploy its equipment (assets) to cater to both the top and the lower end of the market. Boskalis will sustain its success as long as we use our broad range of equipment, staff and competencies to provide a balanced service to the various client groups. However, their requirements vary widely, both within and between the market segments, which means that choices have to be made. Boskalis focuses on ValueAdding Assets and having them available.
We have clients who need us to deliver integrated, innovative services or turnkey solutions. In order to meet these client requirements we need competencies that complement and reinforce one another, such as risk management and engineering. In addition we need to be able to act as lead contractor and project management experience is essential. Boskalis is strongly positioning itself on a global scale in this segment with its higher margin potential and in doing so is moving towards the top of the S curve (see figure 4).

ANNUAL REPORT 2014 ­ BOSKALIS

12
in-port services such as harbour towage. In addition, we can be of service to these same ship owners and operators as well as their underwriting agents with our salvage capabilities.

Added Value

ASSETS Complexity

Geographic regions Within the market segments we target our services at seven geographic regions. The key developments are taking place and the best opportunities for our activities lie in:
1. Northwest Europe 2. East and West Africa 3. Middle East 4. Southeast Asia 5. Australia 6. Brazil 7. Gulf of Mexico

Boskalis at a glance

Figure 4: S curve - creating value with assets
At the bottom of the S curve we find clients looking for relatively straightforward and standard services, such as equipment hire or simple transportation. Cost leadership is an important precondition in this segment. By operating our assets at various points on the Scurve we create a balance between the complex projects with a higher margin at the top of the curve and the stable volumes at the bottom, on balance allowing us to optimize the utilization of the fleet.
Specific market segments Our core activities are focused on markets and market segments where the opportunities for growth and expansion are greatest. In each of these markets we offer our services both in combination and separately.
Energy The oil and gas market is very important in terms of both size and growth potential. For oil and gas companies we create new land, realize pipeline infrastructures and ports and take care of their maintenance. We also execute offshore projects for these clients and provide an ever-growing broad range of maritime services, including subsea services, heavy and specialist transport, lift andinstallation work. This enables us to use Dockwise vessels to transport fully integrated offshore production facilities from Asia, where they are built, to the other side of the world where we also execute their installation. We also provide onshore and offshore terminal services through our 50% holding in Smit Lamnalco. In addition to this traditional segment the energy market comprises the strongly growing renewables market, where the emphasis for Boskalis lies on the construction of offshore wind farms, including the installation of the wind turbine foundations and, through our 50% holding in VBMS, the cabling.

EXPAND
The Expand pillar of our strategy is mainly focused on the Offshore Energy activity. Despite the current conditions in the oil and gas sector, with relatively low oil prices and reluctance on the part of the clients to undertake major investments in new offshore projects, this market segment offers a lot of opportunities in the longer term. Even in a market that can be described as challenging in the short term there are opportunities, like anti-cyclical investments or acquisitions.
Following the acquisitions of SMIT, Dockwise and Fairmount, Boskalis is extremely well-equipped to supply clients in the offshore energy sector under increasingly complex conditions with people and own equipment globally. In addition the combination of assets along with Boskalis' project management experience and engineering knowledge enables an accelerated realization of the strategic ambition to carry out integrated Transport, Logistics & Installation (TL&I) projects (see figure 5).

Exploration
Production
Refining & processing

Transport

Offshore Drilling Rigs:

Jack-Ups and Semi

+

Submersibles

Fixed (jacket/topside)

& Floating structures

++

(FPSOs)

Shore side facilities:

LNG trains,

+

petrochemical facilities

Decommissioning Fixed Structures

Logistics Installation
++ ++
+

Renewables Offshore Wind Farms

+

+

+

Figure 5: Growth opportunities in Transport, Logistics & Installation

Ports The design and construction of new ports and the expansion and maintenance of existing ports on behalf of governments and port operators is another important market. Here we bring our dredging and earthmoving activities into play, with civil engineering work at times also playing a major role. Dockwise is involved in the transportation of port-related equipment such as container cranes, and at the operational stage we provide shipping companies with

Transport Boskalis has a strong position in dry heavy marine transport, for example of extremely heavy offshore platforms and Floating Production, Storage and Offloading units (FPSOs). As stated in the Corporate Business Plan 2014-2016 it is our ambition to selectively expand this market position with assets to further strengthen the broad Boskalis portfolio from wet towage to dry transport.

ANNUAL REPORT 2014 ­ BOSKALIS

13

Superporto do Açu ­ building the biggest port of South America in Brazil

Results: In early 2014 we acquired Fairmount as part of the Expand strategy. With five large anchor handling tugs we expanded our position in wet towage. In early 2015 the White Marlin was taken into service, a new Dockwise type I vessel with a deadweight of 72,000 metric tons. 2014 was a record year for Dockwise with several high-profile large transports.
Logistics Boskalis particularly sees opportunities for growth in onshore developments at remote locations. There is a global requirement for logistics services in connection with the shipping and installation of for example prefab modules for LNG production. Boskalis leverages the opportunities in this sector by combining its broad knowledge of project management with its own specialist equipment.
Results: In 2014 we also achieved various good results in Logistics. The Gorgon project in Western Australia was successfully concluded with the delivery of the final modules for the project. A lot of work was also carried out on the Ichthys project in Northern Australia, which we expect to conclude in late 2015. In 2014, we started work on the sizable Wheatstone logistics project, involving a total of almost 50 transports from Malaysia and China to Australia. We notice in the market that this type of modular construction for projects in remote locations is very attractive and therefore offers opportunities for the future.

Installation The transportation and subsequent installation of facilities (T&I) is a large and interesting market where a great deal of knowledge and experience is required. It particularly offers Boskalis opportunities for employing its engineering knowledge, experience in risk management and its versatile fleet.
Results: We successfully expanded our T&I track record in 2014. In the Philippines we carried out a significant part of the Malampaya project for Shell, in Malaysia Dockwise successfully completed the transport and float-over installation of the Tapis R topside, while the Heera topside was transported from Vietnam to India, where it was installed. Dockwise transported a large offshore converter station from the United Arab Emirates for which the float-over installation is scheduled to take place in the second half of 2015.
To ensure the successful implementation of the growth strategy in this sector Boskalis will make selective investments in assets such as marine transport equipment and ships with installation technology, as well as in competencies. In the year under review we invested in three new Giant barges, one of which has been further adapted into a self-propelled construction vessel with accommodation and a crane with a lift capacity of 600 tons.
For our installation activities we have announced our intention to invest in specific equipment for the support of offshore construction work, such as multifunctional construction support vessels and lifting capacity. We anticipate that the current market turbulence will present not only threats, but also opportunities for the acquisition

ANNUAL REPORT 2014 ­ BOSKALIS

14

of interesting assets as well as companies. We will weigh such opportunities with the necessary care.
STRENGTHEN
The Strengthen pillar of our strategy mainly concentrates on Dredging & Inland Infra and Towage & Salvage. These activities are focused on large market segments with structural growth. However, we expect the pace of this growth to be slow in the short term. Moreover, Boskalis' scope for growth in Dredging is limited given that it already holds a large share of this highly consolidated market.

business-specific characteristics and success factors:  Dredging & Inland Infra  Offshore Energy  Towage & Salvage
Results: The new divisional model became effective on 1 January 2015 and the implementation is proceeding well. The model together with the harmonization of systems lays an important foundation for sustained growth. The various steps are described in detail on pages 18 and 19.

Boskalis at a glance

Dredging & Inland Infra Boskalis has a very strong global presence in the dredging market with a modern and versatile fleet. This puts Boskalis in a good position to take advantage of opportunities in the market. Relatively modest replacement and other investments will enable Boskalis to maintain and where appropriate expand its market position. As per the beginning of the Business Plan 2014-2016 period, these investments mainly concern a replacement mega cutter, two 4,500 m3 hoppers and the construction of a new jumbo backhoe.
Results: In terms of equipment Boskalis took a medium-sized hopper with a capacity of 4,500 m³ into service in mid-2014 and a second early 2015 and construction work on the mega cutter is continuing apace. In addition, in the past year Boskalis was awarded the sizable contract for the Suez Canal expansion under competitive conditions, as well as recently acquiring the contract for the Pluit City project off the coast of Jakarta in Indonesia. At Inland Infra we sold the De Jong road maintenance activities, testament to the fact that we engage in active and dynamic portfolio management.
Towage & Salvage Under the Corporate Business Plan the emphasis at Harbour Towage lies on the further development and strengthening of regional partnerships, with the focus also set on an efficient cost and capital structure. The terminal activities of Smit Lamnalco make a major contribution to the growth of these activities. Boskalis will make further investments in these partnerships as and when opportunities arise. At Salvage the group's global network is brought into play for the emergency response activities while Boskalis' engineering and contract and risk management expertise are used in wreck removal projects.

Stake in Fugro Boskalis entered the 2014-2016 Business Plan period with a sound balance sheet and a healthy cash flow. This starting position allows room for investment, but also gives us the option of responding to interesting opportunities in the market. It is against this background that Boskalis acquired an interest in Fugro in late 2014, a stake which is now 20 per cent. The strategy of Boskalis is focused on offshore and (maritime) infrastructure, making use of the combination of high-end know-how and maritime assets. This fits very well with the activities of Fugro. The two companies have a lot in common in the area of assets, knowledge, capital intensity, global coverage, client base and are both global leaders in niche markets. We support the strategy of Fugro as realigned in November 2014 and announced recently that our stake is not a prelude to the launch of a bid.
In conclusion A total capital expenditure program of around EUR 500 million is projected for the existing activities for 2015 and 2016, excluding acquisitions. This is in line with depreciation. A healthy balance sheet is essential, whereby we aim for a net debt : EBITDA ratio in a range of 1 to 1.5. We are committed to a stable dividend policy for our shareholders. In light of the uncertain market conditions and the acquired stake in Fugro we consider it prudent to suspend the share buy-back program for the period of one year.

ANNUAL REPORT 2014 ­ BOSKALIS

Results: In the past year major steps have been taken in the further roll-out of the joint venture model for Towage. These include the establishment of the joint venture with SAAM for the North and South America region, the acquisition by Smit Lamnalco of PB Towage, the secondlargest player in Australia, and the announcement of the intention to establish a joint venture for the combined European harbour towage operations of Kotug and SMIT. Please refer to page 28 and 29 for further details on the towage joint ventures.

Organization Furthermore, the Strengthen pillar is aimed at streamlining the organization in order to reinforce the focus on the business. A new organizational structure has been put in place with three divisions, each with its own operational support functions, such as engineering, fleet management and crewing. The divisions have

15 Preparing the seabed for the installation of a platform off the coast of the Philippine island of Palawan

ANNUAL REPORT 2014 ­ BOSKALIS

Boskalis at a glance

16
SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION
It is important to us that the value of our share adequately reflects our performance and the development in our markets. We therefore strive to inform our stakeholders as completely and transparently as possible about our strategy and policy and the ensuing financial performance.
OPEN DIALOG Transparent and regular communication with our stakeholders is something we value highly. We consider our financial stakeholders to include existing and potential shareholders, other investors and their brokers as well as the media. It is important to us to provide them with clear and accessible information. The Boskalis share is covered by the major Dutch brokers as well as a number of foreign brokers and their analysts, whom we also consider as financial stakeholders. They aim to provide their clients with good advice and information about our company and the general developments in the markets that are relevant for us. Questions from stakeholders are answered candidly and wherever possible we take the initiative in raising important issues; for example following an important announcement we contact shareholders proactively. We maintain regular contact with major investors

ANNUAL REPORT 2014 ­ BOSKALIS

17

and analysts, for example by organizing annual visits to project sites or vessels. In 2014 we held approximately 300 meetings with investors from Western Europe, the United States, Australia and Canada, both during roadshows and conferences and in one-on-ones. Meetings with investors and analysts are held using publicly available presentations, and stock price-sensitive information is never shared.
DUTCH INVESTOR RELATIONS AWARD

Next 150 index and the STOXX Europe 600 Index. Tickers: Bloomberg: BOKA:NA, Reuters: BOSN.AS
In 2014, around 90 million Boskalis shares were traded on Euronext Amsterdam (2013: 87 million). The average daily trading volume in 2014 was over 354,000 shares. In the course of 2014 the share price rose by 18% from EUR 38.41 to EUR 45.45. The market capitalization increased by 21% compared to the end of 2013 to EUR 5.59 billion.

At the presentation of the Dutch IR Awards 2015 in early January Boskalis received an honorable award. Martijn Schuttevâer, Director of Investor Relations at Boskalis, was chosen as best IR professional in the AEX-Index, as he was in 2013. The Dutch IR Awards are presented each year by the Dutch Society for Investor Relations (NEVIR) to companies and professionals that excel in maintaining their relationships with investors an analysts by means of good and clear disclosure, accessibility, knowledge and reliability.
CORPORATE WEBSITE

SHAREHOLDERS
The following shareholders are known to have been holders of at least 3% in Boskalis as at 31 December 2014:
HAL Investments B.V.: 34.52% Sprucegrove Investment Management Limited: 4.93% Marathon Asset Management: 3.78% Standard Life Investments Plc: 3.32% Oppenheimer Funds, Inc.: 3.07% Sarasin & Partners LLP: 3.01%

Our corporate website provides a constantly updated source of information about our core activities and ongoing projects. The Investor Relations section offers share information and other developments relevant to shareholders, as well as the latest and archived press releases and analyst and company presentations.

Besides these large shareholders, an estimated 18% of the shares are held by shareholders in the United Kingdom, 6% in the Netherlands, 5% in the United States and Canada and the remainder in mainly France, Germany and Scandinavia.

SHARE INFORMATION
Boskalis' authorized share capital of EUR 240 million is divided into 200 million shares, comprising 150 million ordinary shares and 50 million cumulative protective preference shares. The issued capital as at 1 January 2014 consisted of 120,265,063 ordinary shares.
Seventy-five per cent (75%) of shareholders opted to have their 2013 dividend distributed in the form of a stock dividend, in light of which we issued 2,672,757 new shares on 11 June 2014.
Within the framework and based on the principles of its Corporate Business Plan 2014-2016 in early 2014 Boskalis announced its intention to execute a share buy-back program involving up to 10million shares. On 14 August 2014 the program started and in the course of the year 629,123 shares were repurchased at an average price of EUR 40.76. The program is subject to the development of the financial results and maintaining the desired balance sheet ratios, whereby we aim for a net debt : EBITDA ratio within a bandwidth of 1 to 1.5. We are committed to a stable dividend policy for our shareholders. In light of the uncertain market conditions and the acquired stake in Fugro we consider it prudent to suspend the share buy-back program for the period of one year.

DIVIDEND POLICY
The main principle underlying the Boskalis dividend policy is to distribute 40% to 50% of the net profit from ordinary operations as dividend. At the same time Boskalis aims to achieve a stable development of the dividend in the longer term. The choice of dividend (in cash and/or entirely or partly in shares) takes into account both the company's desired balance sheet structure and the interests of shareholders.

FINANCIAL AGENDA 2015

12 March

Publication of 2014 annual results

12 May

Trading update on first quarter of 2015

12 May

Annual General Meeting of Shareholders

14 May

Ex-dividend date

15 MayRecord date for dividend entitlement (after market

close)

1 JuneFinal date for stating of dividend preference

4 JuneDetermination and publication of conversion rate

for dividend based on the average share price

on 2, 3 and 4 June (after market close)

9 June

Date of dividend payment and delivery of shares

20 August

Publication of 2015 half-year results

13 November Trading update on third quarter of 2015

ANNUAL REPORT 2014 ­ BOSKALIS

On balance, the issued share capital as at 31 December 2014 consisted of 122,937,820 ordinary shares of which 629,123 ordinary shares were repurchased.

Royal Boskalis Westminster N.V. shares are listed on Euronext Amsterdam and are included in indices such as the Euronext

18
DIVISIONAL MODEL STRENGTHENS BUSINESS FOCUS

In March 2014 Boskalis announced a review of its organizational structure as part of the Corporate Business Plan 2014-2016. Given the strong growth in the past years the step was a condition for enabling further growth in a responsible way. As from 1 January 2015 Boskalis comprises three divisions: Dredging & Inland Infra, Offshore Energy and Towage & Salvage.

"As a result of the acquisitions of SMIT, MNO Vervat, Dockwise and Fairmount our organization has grown considerably in a short space of time and the business structure and processes have become more complex," said Group HR director Jan den Hartog. "This necessitated a review of our original organizational structure. One of the results of this review has been the introduction of a divisional model in which each division has its own operational support functions, such as tendering, engineering, fleet management and crewing. We started working out the details of the new structure in the spring of 2014 with the actual implementation taking place on 1 January 2015."
MARKET-SPECIFIC DYNAMICS
The three-division structure is based on the business-specific characteristics and success factors of the divisions' different activities. "The new operational model allows us to further streamline the business units and reinforce the focus on clients and projects. On Offshore Energy projects the emphasis is different than for dredging," explained Den Hartog. "As an indication, on an offshore project over 80% of the available time and resources is spent on calculations and precision

19

The new office building of the Dredging & Inland Infra division

engineering, with the actual execution only taking up a relatively small part in comparison. In the case of most dredging projects this ratio is reversed." The activities of the divisions are also characterized by for example the deployment of own equipment within the division.
SYNERGIES
"Although the divisions work autonomously from one another, where possible we pool the competencies," continued Den Hartog. "There is a lot of of scope for crosspollination by using each other's knowledge and expertise." Recent offshore projects such as Malampaya, DolWin II and Wikinger demonstrate that the various specialisms complement each other well. The broad knowledge surrounding survey techniques gleaned from dredging and our many years of experience in the area of soil mechanics can be applied to great effect on offshore Transport & Installation projects. On the Suez Canal expansion the disciplines also reinforce one another, for example during the comprehensive mobilization, which involved the deployment of several Dockwise transport vessels. Den Hartog emphasized that synergy between the divisions is not an end in itself. "We work together where we can, but the divisions perform their activities completely autonomously," he said. "To enable this, tasks which were previously handled at group level, such as tendering, engineering and crewing, have now been transferred to the divisions. This results in clear ownership of people and equipment, and enables us to focus more effectively on the specific demands of the various markets."
RELOCATION COMPLETED
The various acquisitions have resulted in a strong increase in the number of employees in light of which the Papendrecht campus has undergone major expansion with a new office building. "In January 2015 we embarked on a major relocation plan to ensure that everyone literally and figuratively got their own place in the new divisional structure," said Den Hartog. "First of all, in February 2015 the employees of the Dredging & Inland Infra division moved into the new building where all the division's disciplines are housed together under the same roof. This paved the way for the move of the Dockwise and Fairmount employees to Papendrecht, who form part of the Offshore Energy division, which also has its own building on the campus. The entire relocation operation will be completed in the second quarter of 2015."
HARMONIZATION
Along with the implementation of the new organizational structure Boskalis has started harmonizing various business processes and support systems, a process in which the drive for efficiency and good information provision and communication are key. "An important part of this process is aligning the various ICT applications," said Den Hartog. "We have started implementing a new ERP system (Enterprise Resource Planning) to replace the various systems used by the former companies. As part of this process the various HR systems, which are currently still in use, will be replaced by a single integrated employee information system."
COHESION
The Boskalis activities relating to towage services and salvage work were transferred to the Towage & Salvage division with effect from 1 January 2015. "In practice not a lot will change for this division," said Den Hartog. Furthermore he does not expect the introduction of the divisional model to create an `island culture' within Boskalis. "On the contrary," he said. "The findings of the internal culture survey, which we conducted prior to this process, show a great deal of similarity between the profiles of the Boskalis employees and those of their colleagues at the relevant companies. We expect that the introduction of the divisional model can reinforce the cohesion already present."

20
REPORT OF THE SUPERVISORY BOARD
Dredging work for the construction of the Hondsbossche and Pettemer Sea Defense in the Netherlands

21

report of the supervisory board

22
REPORT OF THE SUPERVISORY BOARD
The Supervisory Board wishes to thank all employees and the Board of Management of Boskalis for their outstanding achievement in 2014. The Board compliments them on the accomplished record results.
In accordance with Article 27 of the Articles of Association of Royal Boskalis Westminster N.V., the Supervisory Board presents the 2014 annual report to the Annual General Meeting of Shareholders. The annual report, including the financial statements and the management statement, was drawn up by the Board of Management. The financial statements are accompanied by the report of the company's external auditor Ernst & Young Accountants LLP, which is included on pages 128 to 131 of this report.
We recommend the following to the Annual General Meeting of Shareholders:  The adoption of the financial statements, including the proposed profit
appropriation;  The discharge of the members of the Board of Management in respect of
their management activities during 2014;  The discharge of the members of the Supervisory Board for their
supervisionof management during 2014; and  The distribution to shareholders of a dividend of EUR 1.60 per ordinary
share to be paid in ordinary shares, unless the shareholder opts to receive a cash dividend.
COMPOSITION OF THE BOARD OF MANAGEMENT
At the start of the 2014 reporting year the Board of Management consisted of five members. On 13 May 2014 Mr. A. Goedée resigned as member of the Board of Management having concluded his one-year term of appointment. There were no other changes to the composition of the Board of Management during the year under review.
COMPOSITION OF THE SUPERVISORY BOARD
In 2014 the Supervisory Board consisted of six members. On 13 May 2014 the Annual General Meeting considered the re-appointment of Mr. H.J. Hazewinkel, on the recommendation of the Supervisory Board. Supported by the Works Council, the Annual General Meeting re-appointed Mr. H.J. Hazewinkel to the Supervisory Board for a period of four years. There were therefore no changes to the composition of the Supervisory Board during the year under review.
ACTIVITIES OF THE SUPERVISORY BOARD
The Supervisory Board held five regular meetings with the Board of Management of the company and scheduled two additional meetings, of which one by conference call. The attendance rate at the meetings of the Supervisory Board is 92.86%. One member has been unable to attend two meetings due to

ANNUAL REPORT 2014 ­ BOSKALIS

23

personal circumstances and one member could not be present on one of the extra meetings due to other commitments. The Supervisory Board also met several times without the Board of Management being present. During the year under review no Supervisory Board members were absent from meetings due to a potential conflict of interest. The Supervisory Board held its meetings to discuss the annual and half-year results in the presence of the external auditor. During the year under review the General Meeting of Shareholders appointed Ernst & Young Accountants LLP as the company's external auditor with effect from 1 January 2014.
Permanent items on the agenda of the Supervisory Board are: the development of the results, the balance sheet, the safety performance, and industry and market developments.
With regard to the market developments, the order book and potential large projects as well as the status of important contracted projects are discussed. During the year under review subjects discussed included the contracting of large projects such as the Suez Canal expansion in Egypt, the Wikinger wind farm project in Germany, the IJsseldelta project in the Netherlands and the salvage of the jack-up platform Perro Negro off the coast of Angola and the car carrier Baltic Ace in the North Sea, as well as the execution of projects such as the Hondsbossche and Pettemer Sea Defense in the Netherlands, Malampaya in the Philippines, Superporto do Açu in Brazil and Lelydorp in Suriname. Furthermore also the settlement effects of projects, which were already technically concluded, like the Gorgon project in Australia, have been discussed. In these discussions the Supervisory Board devoted attention to the various operational, geopolitical and financial risks, and, where applicable, judged provisions made by the Board of Management.
Other topics under scrutiny in 2014 included the corporate budget, liquidity, acquisition and investment proposals, the organizational structure and the staffing policies.

The Supervisory Board examined the company's strategy and the risks associated with it. During the year under review a separate meeting of the Supervisory Board was organized to discuss the new Corporate Business Plan of the Board of Management. After approval by the Supervisory Board the strategy was incorporated in the new Corporate Business Plan for 2014-2016. The Audit Committee regularly assessed the structure and operation of the internal risk management and control systems associated with the strategy and discussed these with the Supervisory Board. No significant changes were made to the internal risk management and control systems during the year under review. In this context the Supervisory Board devoted attention to the company's overall insurance situation, following the integration of SMIT, MNO Vervat, Dockwise and Fairmount. Further information about the company's risk management can be found at pages 49 to 54 of this annual report. Furthermore the Supervisory Board discussed the company's new organizational structure as one of the elements of the Corporate Business Plan.
In 2014 the Supervisory Board gave consideration to the acquisition of the activities of Fairmount and the conclusion of a joint venture agreement with SAAM for the joint operation of harbour towage activities in Canada, Central and South America, as well as the intended transaction to continue the harbour towage operations in Germany, the Netherlands, Belgium and London with Kotug. In addition a great deal of attention was paid to the acquisition of a strategic stake in Fugro N.V. The activities of Fugro are consistent with the company's strategy and are a good fit with Boskalis' operations. During the year under review the share buy-back program proposed by the Board of Management to acquire its own shares in the company was also a topic of discussion of the Supervisory Board. On 13 May 2014 the General Meeting of Shareholders authorized the repurchase of up to 10% of the company's total issued share capital in the period 2014-2016. The program is subject to the development of the financial results and to the desired balance sheet ratios being maintained.

Special attention was paid to the company's policy on safety, health and the environment as well as the societal aspects of doing business.
With regard to the safety policy the Supervisory Board was given a presentation on the development and further rollout of the company's safety program NINA (No Injuries No Accidents) and discussed the way this program will be implemented at the new business units of the company.
Attention was also paid to corporate social responsibility, with a comprehensive discussion by the Supervisory Board of the Boskalis Corporate Social Responsibility report. In this context the Supervisory Board also monitored the further rollout of the procedures connected with anti-corruption legislation as well as the introduction of new agent contracts.

During the year under review the Supervisory Board paid a working visit to Qatar. During this visit the Supervisory Board familiarized itself with the activities of the various Boskalis business units in the Middle East, including Smit Lamnalco. In the course of doing so extensive attention was paid to the market trends and possible new projects in the region. In addition the Supervisory Board visited the project The Base in Doha, where the company is constructing two navigation channels. The chairman of the Supervisory Board also paid a visit to the Dockwise vessel the Vanguard.
A number of Supervisory Board members met with the Works Council to discuss the results, the corporate strategy, the market developments and the current situation in relation to the pension funds as well as the effects of the integration with MNO Vervat and Dockwise.

ANNUAL REPORT 2014 ­ BOSKALIS

24

The Supervisory Board has instituted three core committees ­ the Audit Committee, the Remuneration Committee and the Selection and Appointment Committee. They performed their tasks as follows:
AUDIT COMMITTEE
Members of the Audit Committee At the beginning of the year under review the Audit Committee consisted of two members: Mr. Niggebrugge (chairman) and Mr.Van Wiechen. On 13 May 2014 Mr. Hessels was appointed as third member of the Audit Committee. Mr. Niggebrugge fulfills the role of financial expert in the Audit Committee.
Duties and responsibilities of the Audit Committee The main duties of the Audit Committee are to advise the Supervisory Board on:  Supervising, monitoring and advising the Board of Management
concerning the operation of the internal risk management and control systems, including the supervision of compliance with therelevant legislation and regulations, and supervision of the operation of the codes of conduct.  Supervising the provision of financial information by the company, the tax planning, the application of information, communication and communication technology, and the financing of the company.  Maintaining regular contacts with the external auditor and supervising the relationship with the external auditor as well as the compliance with and implementation of the external auditor's recommendations.  Nominating an external auditor for appointment by the General Meeting of Shareholders.  The financial statements, the annual budget and significant capital investments by the company.  Supervising the functioning of the internal audit function.

Activities during 2014 The Audit Committee in full met on three occasions during 2014. Regular topics discussed during these meetings included: the 2013 financial statements, the (interim) financial reporting for the 2014 financial year, the results relating to large projects and operating activities, developments in IFRS regulations, in particular those relating to joint venture accounting, risk management and control, developments in the order book, share price developments, the repurchase of the company's shares, the financing and liquidity of the company and cost control.
Other topics of discussion included the impact of the situation on the financial markets, insurance matters, the company's tax position, the internal control procedures and administrative organization, the relevant legislation and regulations and the Corporate Governance Code. The follow-up of the Management Letter issued by the external auditor as part of the audit of the 2013 financial statements was also discussed.
In addition, the Audit Committee focused more specifically on the refinancing of the company and the transfer of the administration of the pension scheme from the company pension fund to the multisector pension fund PGB. Extra attention was also paid to the further strengthening and integration of the accounting and reporting processes and systems within the group in the context of the acquisitions made in recent years.
Together with the internal auditor the Audit Committee discussed the activities performed by the internal auditor during 2014 as well as the internal Audit Plan for 2015.
In addition to the chairman of the Board of Management and the Chief Financial Officer, the Group Controller and the external auditor were also present at the meetings of the Audit Committee.

report of the supervisory board

ANNUAL REPORT 2014 ­ BOSKALIS

25

During the year under review meetings were also held with the external auditor without the company's Board of Management being present. The Audit Committee discussed the audit fees and the audit approach with the external auditor. The Audit Committee also established the independence of the external auditor.
Reports and findings of the meetings of the Audit Committee were presented to the entire Supervisory Board.

Remuneration policy for the Supervisory Board The remuneration policy for the Supervisory Board was adopted by the General Meeting of Shareholders on 10 May 2012. During the year under review the remuneration policy was executed in accordance with the remuneration policy as adopted. The Remuneration Report 2014 can be found on the website.
SELECTION AND APPOINTMENT COMMITTEE

REMUNERATION COMMITTEE
Members of the Remuneration Committee The Remuneration Committee consists of two members: Mr. Van Woudenberg (chairman) and Mr. Kramer.
The Remuneration Committee regularly avails itself of the services of an independent remuneration adviser selected by the Supervisory Board, and ascertained that this remuneration adviser does not provide advice to the members of the Board of Management.
Duties and responsibilities of the Remuneration Committee The Remuneration Committee performs the following duties:  Submitting proposals to the Supervisory Board concerning the
remuneration policy to be pursued for the members of the Board of Management. The policy is submitted to the General Meeting of Shareholders for approval.  Investigating whether the agreed remuneration policy is still up to date and if necessary proposing policy amendments.  Submitting proposals to the Supervisory Board concerning the remuneration of individual members of the Board of Management (in accordance with the remuneration policy adopted by the General Meeting of Shareholders).  Preparing the remuneration report on the remuneration policy pursued, subject to adoption by the Supervisory Board.
Activities during 2014 The Remuneration Committee met on two occasions during 2014, with both members attending all the meetings. In addition the Committee also held regular consultations outside these meetings. Further details of the activities of the Remuneration Committee can be found in the 2014 Remuneration Report.
Reports and findings of the meetings of the Remuneration Committee were presented to the entire Supervisory Board.
Remuneration policy for the Board of Management The remuneration policy for the Board of Management was adopted by the Extraordinary General Meeting of Shareholders on 21 January 2011. The remuneration policy is consistent with the strategy and core values of Boskalis, which are centered on long-term orientation and continuity, and take into account the interests of Boskalis' shareholders, clients, employees as well as the `wider environment'. Throughout 2014 the remuneration policy was executed in accordance with the remuneration policy as adopted by the Extraordinary General Meeting of Shareholders. The full text of the Remuneration policy as well as the Remuneration Report 2014 can be found on the website.

Members of the Selection and Appointment Committee The Selection and Appointment Committee consists of two members: Mr. Hessels (chairman) and Mr. Van Woudenberg.
Duties and responsibilities of the Selection and Appointment Committee The duties of the Selection and Appointment Committee concern the following matters:  Drawing up selection criteria and appointment procedures with
respect to members of the Supervisory Board and members of the Board of Management of the company.  Conducting a periodic assessment of the size and composition of the Supervisory Board and the Board of Management and drawing up the profile.  Conducting a periodic assessment of the functioning of individual members of the Supervisory Board and Board of Management and reporting thereon to the Supervisory Board.  Proposing appointments and re-appointments.  Supervising the policy of the Board of Management with respect to selection criteria and appointment procedures for the senior management of the company.
Activities during 2014 In 2014 the Selection and Appointment Committee held one meeting in full. In addition, the Committee consulted by telephone on several occasions. During the year under review, the Selection and Appointment Committee discussed a balanced composition of and succession planning for the Board of Management and the composition and size of the Supervisory Board, bearing in mind the Board's profile and retirement rota.
According to the Supervisory Board retirement rota, the term of office of Mr. Hazewinkel ended in 2014. The Supervisory Board simultaneously informed both the shareholders and the Works Council of the resulting vacancy. Mr. Hazewinkel let it be known that he was available for re-appointment. The Supervisory Board proposed to the General Meeting of Shareholders that Mr.Hazewinkel be re-appointed to the Supervisory Board. The proposal to re-appoint rested on the fact that Mr. Hazewinkel has extensive experience as a member of the Supervisory Board and puts this membership into practice with great expertise. The recomm endation to re-appoint Mr. Hazewinkel was in accordance with the law and the company's Articles of Association. The recommendation to re-appoint Mr. Hazewinkel had the full support of the Works Council. On 13 May 2014, the General Meeting of Shareholders re-appointed Mr. Hazewinkel for a period of four years.
Furthermore, the Selection and Appointment Committee discussed the extension of the term of appointment of Mr. F.A. Verhoeven as a member of the Board of Management. The Supervisory Board

ANNUAL REPORT 2014 ­ BOSKALIS

report of the supervisory board

26
adopted this proposal and, having sought the opinion of the General Meeting of Shareholders, on 13 May 2014 extended Mr. Verhoeven's appointment to the Board of Management until the General Meeting of Shareholders in 2016.
A further topic of discussion was the re-appointment of Mr. T.L. Baartmans as a member of the Board of Management. The experience of Mr. Baartmans and the competent and conscientious way in which he performs his job led the Supervisory Board to decide to submit the proposed resolution to re-appoint Mr. Baartmans for a period of four years for discussion by the General Meeting of Shareholders to be held on 12 May 2015.
Reports and findings of the meetings of the Selection and Appointment Committee were presented to the entire Supervisory Board.
DUTCH CORPORATE GOVERNANCE CODE
Since the introduction of the Dutch Corporate Governance Code (the "Code") in 2004, the principles of proper corporate governance and best practice provisions set out in the Code have regularly been discussed at Supervisory Board meetings. The principal points of the Boskalis Corporate Governance policy can be found on pages 56 and 57 of this annual report.
In the opinion of the Supervisory Board, the provisions of the Code regarding the independence of the members of the Supervisory Board have been complied with. The Supervisory Board considers Mr. van Wiechen not to be independent in the light of the Code.
Outside the presence of the board members, the Supervisory Board discussed the performance of the Board of Management. It also discussed the performance of the Supervisory Board, the chairman of the Supervisory Board, the three committees and the individual members of the Supervisory Board as compared to the profile. This evaluation took place with the aid of a questionnaire as well as through collective and bilateral discussions between the members of the Supervisory Board, the chairman of the Supervisory Board and the chairman of the Board of Management. In its opinion the Supervisory Board functions well, with a few minor points for improvement in 2015.
The Supervisory Board wishes to thank all employees and the Board of Management of Boskalis for their outstanding achievement in 2014. The Board compliments them on the accomplished record results.
Papendrecht/Sliedrecht, 11 March 2015
Supervisory Board Mr. J.M. Hessels, chairman Mr. H.J. Hazewinkel, deputy chairman Mr. M.P. Kramer Mr. M. Niggebrugge Mr. J.N. van Wiechen Mr. C. van Woudenberg

ANNUAL REPORT 2014 ­ BOSKALIS

27
The Dockwise Vanguard loaded with the FPSO Goliat with a diameter of 107 meters

ANNUAL REPORT 2014 ­ BOSKALIS

28
GLOBAL TOWAGE OPERATIONS WITH A PLATFORM FOR GROWTH

The joint venture between SMIT and Kotug for the European harbor towage services announced in December 2014 forms the last building block of our towage joint venture strategy. We now have five joint ventures providing harbour towage and terminal services, giving us a prominent presence on all continents. We provide our services to clients in more than 90 major ports in 35 countries. The joint venture fleet of 450 ships and around 4,500 experienced crew generates a revenue of approximately 1 billion US dollars. This places us among the top global operators and provides us with a strong platform for further growth.

KEPPEL SMIT TOWAGE
The origins of our towage activities lie in Rotterdam with our subsidiary SMIT. Long before its takeover by Boskalis in 2010 SMIT already had a presence in major ports on several continents, with for example the Keppel Smit Towage joint venture in Southeast Asia having been a stable and reliable partner in the ports of Singapore, Malaysia and Indonesia for many years now. We have built up a strong position in this region and are expanding our activities where possible.
SMIT LAMNALCO
Following the acquisition of SMIT we pursued our plan to establish more regional joint ventures for the towage and terminal activities. The establishment of Smit Lamnalco in 2011, resulting from the merger of Lamnalco and the terminal activities of SMIT, was the first major step. This combined company traditionally focuses on the Middle East and West Africa, providing terminal services to the oil and gas industry. Smit Lamnalco is well equipped to operate in remote areas under challenging conditions against the highest standards applicable in the oil and gas industry. Our Corporate Business Plan 2014-2016 states that we aim for further growth through consolidation and that we are prepared to invest in this. It is our view that the activities have more clout when they are placed at arm's length in joint ventures.

29
These activities generate a stable cash flow, which means that they are able to raise capital independently in order to finance growth. A good example of this is Smit Lamnalco's recent acquisition of PB Towage, the second-largest provider of towage services in Australia. We envisage a new cluster of activities emerging in this region for Smit Lamnalco, which is already active in Papua New Guinea and Gladstone in Australia.

SAAM SMIT TOWAGE
Our harbour towage services have a prominent presence in the Americas through our SAAM SMIT Towage joint venture, established in July 2014. The new combined company is active in all the major ports of Brazil, Mexico, Panama and on the west coast of Canada. The merger has created a leading regional player with a great ability to respond to developments in the market. In addition, SAAM SMIT Towage is able to benefit from the economies of scale resulting from the merger.

EUROPE
We had been on the lookout for a good partner in Europe for some time. The announcement in December 2014 of our intention to form a partnership with Kotug is the realization of our ambitions to extend the effective and efficient provision of our towage services to clients in the major ports of Northwest Europe. We expect to further shape this partnership in 2015.

STABLE MARKET, STABLE CASH FLOW
The global market for towage services is a stable and mature market, which enables our towage activities and terminal services to generate a stable cash flow. The fleet is relatively young, which means that no major replacement investments are needed. There are, however, differences between the two activities. In the ports we provide harbour towage services to a large number of clients, usually under short-term contracts which are primarily governed by availability and price. By contrast, at oil and gas terminals we supply a range of services to a single client (the terminal operator), often at remote locations. In addition to towage services we provide pilotage, maintenance and firefighting services. These contracts are often long term, sometimes for periods longer than 10 years.
The stable cash flow enables the joint ventures to finance themselves very efficiently with a relatively high proportion of debt, which has a positive impact on the return on invested capital. It also enables the joint ventures to effectively achieve independent growth and development.

KEY FIGURES
Based on full year 2014 and a 100 per cent interest, the combined key figures of the Towage activities were:

(In EUR million)
Revenue EBITDA EBIT Order book Net debt

2014
641 256 160 1,226 622

Included are the European activities of SMIT, SMIT Americas (Q1 and Q2) and the joint ventures SAAM SMIT Towage (Q3 and Q4), Keppel Smit Towage and Smit Lamnalco all on a 100 per cent basis. Including the activities of PB Towage and the intended joint venture with Kotug, the total revenue amounts to approximately 1 billion US dollars in 2014.

30
REPORT OF THE BOARD OF MANAGEMENT

31

32

MARKET DEVELOPMENTS

33

FINANCIAL

PERFORMANCE

44

ORGANIZATIONAL

DEVELOPMENTS

48

CORPORATE SOCIAL

RESPONSIBILITY

49

RISK MANAGEMENT

56

CORPORATE

GOVERNANCE

58

OUTLOOK

59

STATEMENT OF

DIRECTORS'

RESPONSIBILITIES

32
MARKET DEVELOPMENTS

report of the board of management

The markets in which Boskalis operates are driven by growth in the world's population and prosperity, pushing up global trade and energy consumption. In addition there are the irreversible effects of climate change. Boskalis responds to these trends.

The extent to which these trends show positive development in the coming years will be strongly dependent on geopolitical stability and macro-economic growth. Positive investment decisions in relation to large maritime infrastructure projects, which generate work for Boskalis, are closely linked to this.
We see a stable market picture in terms of large-scale maritime infrastructure projects and the developments in and around ports. The tender pipeline with capital dredging projects for the expansion and deepening of ports and waterways, land reclamation projects and tunnel developments looks positive, while maintenance work has a strong recurring nature. In large ports the development of the number of shipping movements and thus the demand for towage services is likely to remain stable in the coming years. Based on this market assessment, conditions in the Dredging & Inland Infra and Towage markets are expected to remain stable.
In terms of developments in the offshore energy market we can see a difference between the short and the long term. The short term is strongly impacted by the low oil price, which is causing oil majors to postpone investment decisions realting to complex and costly offshore projects. However, in the medium to long term the development of prosperity and economic growth will drive the demand for energy. In the short term activities aimed at the capacity-driven spot markets such as Subsea Services and Transport are expected to be hit hardest. The picture at Marine Contracting and Subsea Contracting is more favorable, fuelled by developments in the areas of offshore wind, the decommissioning of old oil and gas platforms and LNG, for example in Western Canada.

Replacing pick points on board of a cutter suction dredger in Qatar

ANNUAL REPORT 2014 ­ BOSKALIS

33
FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE
Royal Boskalis Westminster N.V. (Boskalis) achieved net profit of EUR 490 million in 2014 (2013: EUR 366 million).
Revenue rose by 1 per cent to EUR 3.2 billion (2013: EUR 3.1 billion).
EBITDA rose by 25 per cent to EUR 946 million (2013: EUR 757 million) and the operating result (EBIT) was up 41 per cent at EUR 652 million (2013: EUR 463 million).
Across the board, 2014 was an operationally strong year with in addition a large number of exceptional items for a total amount on balance of EUR 200 million before tax. All three segments achieved a sharply higher result compared to 2013. Dredging & Inland Infra had a busy year with good fleet utilization, good project margins and substantial settlement results on old projects. Offshore Energy also had a good year with high fleet utilization and good project margins. Moreover, Dockwise contributed an extra quarter to earnings compared to 2013 and realized exceptional cancellation and rescheduling fees. Towage & Salvage reported a higher result with good results from the settlement of old salvage projects.
The order book remained virtually stable at EUR 3,286 million (end-2013: EUR 3,323 million).

OPERATIONAL AND FINANCIAL DEVELOPMENTS

As of 2014 Boskalis applies IFRS11 Joint Arrangements (IFRS11), the new standard for the recognition of joint ventures and associated companies. The comparative figures for 2013 have been adjusted to reflect this. The comparative net profit figures are not impacted by the adjustment.

For Boskalis the application of IFRS11 means that joint ventures and associated companies are no longer consolidated (on a proportional basis), but exclusively accounted for using the equity method. The main joint ventures and associated companies are Smit Lamnalco, VBMS, the partnerships in Singapore with Keppel (Keppel Smit Towage, Maju Maritime and Asian Lift) and, from

ANNUAL REPORT 2014 ­ BOSKALIS

BY SEGMENT (in EUR million)
Dredging & Inland Infra Offshore Energy Towage & Salvage Eliminations Total
2013 is adjusted for IFRS11
BY GEOGRAPHICAL REGION (in EUR million)
The Netherlands Rest of Europe Australia / Asia Middle East Africa North, Central and South America Total
2013 is adjusted for IFRS11

2014
1,664.8 1,238.6
270.6 -7.1
3,166.9

2013
1,725.5 1,067.4
363.0 -11.9 3,144.0

1,238.6

270.6

1,664.8

2014
714.1 766.9 832.7 173.8 274.4 405.0 3,166.9

2013
661.7 645.6 741.4 168.1 328.8 598.4 3,144.0

405.0 274.4 173.8
832.7

714.1 766.9

34

1July 2014, the joint ventures with SAAM (SAAM SMIT Towage). Boskalis' share in the net result of joint ventures and associated companies is included in the consolidated EBIT(DA), both for 2014 and the comparative figures for 2013.

segment declined mainly due to the loss of the year of the revenue from the harbour towage activities transferred to SAAM SMIT Towage in the second half.

Dockwise was fully consolidated in 2014, whilst in the first quarterof 2013 it was still recognized as result from associated companies based on the pro rata stake. As from the second quarter of 2013, Dockwise was consolidated in the Offshore Energy segment. The operations of Fairmount were acquired in March 2014 and consolidated as from the second quarter, also inthe Offshore Energy segment. As from the third quarter the SMIT harbour towage activities in North, Central and South America were transferred to the joint venture and associated company SAAM SMIT Towage and as a result are no longer included in theconsolidated figures from 1 July 2014.

RESULT
In 2014 the operating result before interest, taxes, depreciation, amortization and impairments (EBITDA) and including the contribution from our stake in the net result of joint ventures andassociated companies totaled EUR 945.9 million (2013: EUR757.2 million).
The operating profit (EBIT) was EUR 652.3 million (2013: EUR463.4 million). The operating profit includes the contribution from our stake in the net result of joint ventures and associated companies of EUR 56.4 million (2013: EUR 63.7 million).

REVENUE
During the past year revenue rose by 1% to EUR 3.167 billion (2013: EUR 3.144 billion). Adjusted for acquisitions, divestments and deconsolidation effects revenue fell by 2%.
Dredging & Inland Infra had a good year with good fleet utilization and a stable level of activity. Offshore Energy also had a good year with a rise in revenue and high fleet utilization. The increase in revenue in this segment is mainly due to the aforementioned impact of consolidating Dockwise for an extra quarter and Fairmount for three quarters. Revenue in the Towage & Salvage

All three segments posted sharply higher results compared to 2013.
Dredging & Inland Infra had a good year operationally with good fleet utilization and good project results. Furthermore, there was a substantial contribution from financial settlements on old projects in both the first and the second half of the year.
Offshore Energy also had a strong year with a high utilization of its equipment and good project results. Dockwise had a record year, in part due to cancellation and rescheduling fees relating to previously contracted transport capacity. Furthermore, Dockwise

report of the board of management

ANNUAL REPORT 2014 ­ BOSKALIS

Two SAAM SMIT Towage harbor tugs assisting a container vessel in Canada

35

contributed an extra quarter compared to 2013 and from the

ORDER BOOK*

2014

2013

second quarter there was a contribution from Fairmount, acquired (in EUR million)

in March 2014.

Dredging & Inland Infra Offshore Energy

2,014.2 1,207.4

2,000.5 1,322.9

The result at Towage & Salvage also increased, in part due to higher results from the harbour towage activities, a strong

Towage & Salvage Totaal

63.9 3,285.5

3,323.4

contribution from Smit Lamnalco and the financial settlement of salvage projects carried out in previous years.

* Excluding our stake in the order book of joint ventures and associated companies.

On balance non-allocated group costs equaled EUR 47.9 million (2013: EUR 6.0 million). In 2013 the result was positively impacted by a (revaluation) result relating to the acquisition of Dockwise and a substantial book gain arising from the sale of the40% stake in Archirodon.

RESULT BY SEGMENT (EBIT)*
(in EUR million) Dredging & Inland Infra Offshore Energy Towage & Salvage Non-allocated group costs Total

2014
380.1 236.1
84.0 -47.9 652.3

2013
255.2 147.0
67.2 -6.0 463.4

* Our share in the net result of the joint ventures and associated companies is included in the segment result. 2013 figures adjusted for IFRS11.

NET PROFIT

DREDGING & INLAND INFRA
Construction, maintenance and deepening of ports and waterways, land reclamation, coastal defense and riverbank protection, underwater rock fragmentation and the extraction of minerals using dredging techniques. Construction of roads and railroads, bridges, dams, viaducts and tunnels including earthmoving, soil improvement and remediation ­ mainly in the Netherlands.

DREDGING & INLAND INFRA
(in EUR million) Revenue EBITDA* Result from JVs and associates Operating result (EBIT)* Order book at year end

2014
1,664.8 487.5 3.1 380.1
2,014.2

2013
1,725.5 362.4 6.9 255.2
2,000.5

The operating result (EBIT) was EUR 652.3 million. Net of financing expenses of, on balance, EUR 35.9 million, profit beforetaxation was EUR 616.4 million. Net profit attributable toshareholders totaled EUR 490.3 million (2013: EUR 365.7 million).
As well as the aforementioned good fleet utilization rate and goodproject results, the sharp increase in the result is mainly attributable to sizable results from the financial settlement of both Dredging and Salvage projects whose technical completion took place earlier, as well as a major contribution from cancellation and rescheduling fees relating to previously contracted transport capacity at Offshore Energy. Conversely the result was negatively impacted by various impairment charges on smaller equipment, as well as a one-off charge relating to the harmonization across the group on how vessel dry-docking costs are accounted for. On balance the effect of these exceptional items was EUR 200 million before tax and EUR 154 million after tax.
ORDER BOOK
In 2014 Boskalis acquired, on balance, EUR 2,941 million worthof new contracts. At the end of the year the order book, excluding our share in the order book of joint ventures and associated companies, stood at EUR 3,286 million (end-2013: EUR 3,323 million).

* Our share in the net result of the joint ventures and associated companies is included in the EBIT(DA). 2013 figures adjusted for IFRS11.

REVENUE
Revenue in the Dredging & Inland Infra segment amounted to EUR1,665 million (2013: EUR 1,726 million).

REVENUE BY MARKET (in EUR million)
The Netherlands Rest of Europe Rest of the world Total
2013 figures adjusted for IFRS11.

2014
551.5 250.9 862.4 1,664.8

2013
488.8 264.8 971.9 1,725.5

The Netherlands In 2014 revenue in the Dutch market increased to EUR 551.5 million (2013: EUR 488.8 million). The strengthening of the Hondsbossche and Pettemer Sea Defense in the Dutch province of Noord-Holland generated a lot of work in 2014. Other work included a few smaller foreshore replenishments and maintenance work on the Europoort shipping fairway in the port of Rotterdam. A lot of work was executed on the various Room forthe River projects and work continued on the major SAAone project (A1-A6 motorway). Furthermore a large number of small and medium-sized infrastructure projects are in progress.

ANNUAL REPORT 2014 ­ BOSKALIS

36
SMIT Salvage removes oil from the ship Amadeo 1, which ran aground in Tierra del Fuego, Chile

report of the board of management

Rest of Europe Revenue in the rest of Europe declined slightly to EUR 250.9 million (2013: EUR 264.8 million). In the main home markets intensive work was carried out on a large number of maintenance projects on ports and waterways, including the Elbe and Weser rivers in Germany, and the deepening of the approach channel to the port of Southampton (UK). Furthermore, work commenced on the breakwater at Clacton-on-Sea (UK) and the Bronka port project in St. Petersburg (Russia) was executed.

FLEET DEVELOPMENTS
Utilization of the hopper fleet was good at 40 weeks (2013: 44weeks). At the start of the second quarter the trailing suction hopper dredger Fairway (35,500 m3) was taken back into service. In mid-June the new trailing suction hopper dredger Strandway (4,500 m3) was christened and in early 2015 her sister ship Freeway was also taken into service. Thanks to several large cutter projects the utilization rate of the cutter fleet rose sharply in 2014 to 36 weeks (2013: 16 weeks).

Rest of the world Outside of Europe revenue declined to EUR 862.4 million (2013: EUR 971.9 million). The Australia/Asia region was the main contributor to revenue with projects in South Korea, Vietnam, Singapore and Australia. In 2014 Boskalis was also engaged in projects in countries including Qatar (access channel), the Maldives (coastal protection and land reclamation) and Cameroon (maintenance work). In Central and South America work was carried out on the Superporto do Açu (Brazil) and Lelydorp I (Suriname) projects. The sizable project for the expansion of the Suez Canal got underway in the fourth quarter. All the necessary equipment has now been mobilized using various Dockwise vessels and everything is fully operational.

SEGMENT RESULT
Dredging & Inland Infra achieved an exceptionally high result in2014, with EBITDA of EUR 487.5 million and an operating resultof EUR 380.1 million (2013: EUR 362.4 million and EUR 255.2 million, respectively). This result includes our stake inthe net result of joint ventures and associated companies of EUR3.1 million (2013: EUR 6.9 million, mainly from the stake inArchirodon that was sold in mid 2013).
Besides the usual project results, which include good results on several larger projects nearing completion, there was a significant positive effect on the result from financial settlements of projects that were technically previously completed. This relates to projects in Italy, the Middle East and ­ mainly ­ the Far East. The biggest impact was from the Gorgon project (Australia), where agreement

ANNUAL REPORT 2014 ­ BOSKALIS

37

on the financial settlement was reached with both a large subcontractor and the client. Furthermore there was an absence of significant setbacks, a good contribution from the Dutch Inland Infra activities and a good utilization rate of the equipment.
ORDER BOOK

installation) as well as various rock-installation contracts, for example in the North Sea for Statoil. During the year under review Marine Contracting completed the multi-year West of Duddon Sands offshore wind farm project. The utilization rate of the equipment was good at both Subsea Services and Marine Services, the latter of which also comprises the Fairmount activities.

At end-2014 the order book stood at EUR 2,014 million (end2013: EUR 2,001 million). On balance EUR 1,678 million of new work was acquired during the course of the year. This included previously announced projects in Egypt (Suez Canal), Indonesia (Pluit), Singapore (Finger Pier I), the Netherlands (IJsseldelta), the United Kingdom (breakwater at Clacton-on-Sea) and Sweden (Marieholm tunnel), as well as many smaller contracts in the Netherlands and more than EUR 150 million worth of new contracts in the Middle East shared among various projects.

ORDER BOOK BY MARKET*
(in EUR million) The Netherlands Rest of Europe Rest of the world Total

2014
865.0 188.9 960.3 2,014.2

2013
1,033.6 303.1 663.8
2,000.5

In its first full year as part of the group Dockwise had a record year with high fleet utilization and an exceptionally strong result. The strong demand for Heavy Marine Transport services seen inthe first half of the year fell back slightly in the second half. InAustralia, in the course of the year work was successfully concluded on the Gorgon project, a lot of work was carried out on the Ichthys project and the extensive Wheatstone LNG project got fully underway. In addition Dockwise successfully performed several offshore float-over installations for projects including TapisR in Malaysia, SylWin off the coast of Germany and Ofon inNigeria. In early 2015 Dockwise loaded the Goliat FPSO, owned by Italian oil company ENI, onto the Dockwise Vanguard for transportation from South Korea to Europe. With a diameter of107 meters the Goliat is the largest cargo to have been transported by the Dockwise Vanguard so far.

* E xcluding our stake in the order book of joint ventures and associated companies. 2013 figures adjusted for IFRS11.

OFFSHORE ENERGY
Offshore dredging and rock installation projects, heavy transport, lift and installation work, diving and ROV services in support of the development, construction, maintenance and dismantling of oil and LNG import/export facilities, offshore platforms, pipelines and cables and offshore wind farms.

OFFSHORE ENERGY

2014

2013

FLEET DEVELOPMENTS
In 2014 the utilization rate of the Dockwise fleet was 84% (Q2-Q4 2013: 83%). During the year under review Boskalis strongly expanded its fleet of anchor handling tugs (AHTs) with the acquisition of Fairmount and its five vessels, each with a capacity of 205 tons bollard pull.
On 12 February 2015 the new Dockwise vessel White Marlin was christened and taken into service in Guangzhou, China. With a deadweight of 72,000 metric tons, the type I vessel strengthens Dockwise's leading position at the top end of the dry heavy marine transport market.

(in EUR million) Revenue EBITDA* Result from JVs and associates Operating result (EBIT)* Order book at year end

1,238.6 387.8 15.1 236.1
1,207.4

1,067.4 274.7 17.7 147.0
1,322.9

SEGMENT RESULT
In 2014 EBITDA for the Offshore Energy segment amounted to EUR 387.8 million and the operating result was EUR 236.1 million (2013: EUR 274.7 million and EUR 147.0 million, respectively).

ANNUAL REPORT 2014 ­ BOSKALIS

* O ur share in the net result of the joint ventures and associated companies is included in the EBIT(DA). 2013 figures adjusted for IFRS11.
REVENUE
Revenue in the Offshore Energy segment rose to EUR 1,239 million (2013: EUR 1,067 million). The increase was largely due to the contribution of Dockwise which, in addition to the consolidation effect of an extra quarter, had a very strong year with revenue of EUR 496.1 million (2013: EUR 331.6 million). The Fairmount activities acquired in March 2014 also contributed to the revenue growth.
Revenue at both Marine Contracting and Subsea Contracting was slightly lower than the very busy 2013. Subsea Contracting had a busy year, with projects in countries including Australia (Ichthys; offshore trenching and shore approach), Indonesia (Java to Bali power cable) and the Philippines (Malampaya; transport and

Dockwise's contribution to EBITDA and the operating result was EUR 248.1 million and EUR 149.0 million, respectively (2013: EUR 145.6 million and EUR 55.6 million, respectively). Compared to 2013 Dockwise contributed an extra quarter. In addition there was an above-average contribution from cancellation and rescheduling fees, in particular in the first half of the year. The Dockwise activities were fully integrated into the Offshore Energy division at the start of 2015.
As well as a positive contribution from Fairmount, which was acquired in March, there was a EUR 6.9 million impairment charge relating to several smaller units of equipment. In addition, from the second half of the year the way in which costs connected with dry-docking are accounted for was harmonized, bringing it in line both with the method used at Dockwise and Fairmount and with industry practice. This change in accounting estimates resulted in a one-off charge of EUR 10 million.

38
The result includes our stake in the net profit of joint ventures and associated companies, mainly VBMS and Asian Lift. The contribution from these activities was EUR 15.1 million (2013: EUR 17.7 million) with in particular a lower contribution from the Asian Lift partnership in Singapore relative to 2013.
ORDER BOOK At the end of 2014 the order book stood at EUR 1,207 million (end-2013: EUR 1,323 million). EUR 710.1 million of this related to projects and contracts for Dockwise (end-2013: EUR 686.5 million).

Rotterdam and Liverpool as well as ports in Belgium. The level of activity in these ports was moderate to good, with Rotterdam in particular being busy, with a relatively high level of offshorerelated services in addition to the regular towage operations.
Revenue at SMIT Salvage in 2014 was lower compared to 2013 due to a limited number of emergency response contracts. Two large wreck removal projects commenced in the second quarter: the sunken car carrier Baltic Ace in the North Sea and a jack-up rig off the coast of Angola. Both projects are expected to be completed in 2015.

report of the board of management

At the time of acquisition contracts held by Fairmount were valued at EUR 32.7 million and added to the order book.
In 2014 EUR 1,090 million of new work was acquired, including a contract to transport two very large new jack-up (drilling) rigs for Statoil; the transportation of an FPSO from Rotterdam to Asia by the Dockwise Vanguard; trenching, pipe-pulling and backfilling work for a gas pipeline in Azerbaijan; and work connected with the construction of the Wikinger offshore wind farm in Germany.

TOWAGE & SALVAGE
Towage: towage services and berthing and unberthing of oceangoing vessels in ports and at offshore terminals, management and maintenance both above and below the surface of onshore and offshore oil and gas terminals and associated maritime and management services. Salvage: providing assistance to vessels in distress, wreck removal, environmental care services and consultancy.

TOWAGE & SALVAGE

2014

2013

SEGMENT RESULT
EBITDA in the Towage & Salvage segment totaled EUR 118.6 million and the operating result was EUR 84.0 million (2013: EUR 103.9 million and EUR 67.2 million, respectively). This includes the results from the financial settlement of salvage projects that were carried out in 2011 and early 2013. The result includes our stake in the net result of joint ventures and associated companies, in particular Keppel Smit Towage, Smit Lamnalco and, from the third quarter, SAAM SMIT Towage. Thecontribution of these activities was EUR 38.3 million (2013: EUR 21.9 million). The result of Smit Lamnalco includes a book gain on the sale of its 40% stake in the associate IRSHAD.
ORDER BOOK
In early 2014 we acquired two large wreck removal contracts: for the Baltic Ace car carrier in the North Sea and a jack-up rig off the coast of Angola. At end-2014 the order book, which relates solely to the Salvage activities, stood at EUR 63.9 million (end2013: zero).

(in EUR million) Revenue EBITDA* Result from JVs and associates Operating result (EBIT)* Order book at year end

270.6 118.6
38.3 84.0 63.9

363.0 103.9
21.9 67.2
-

* Our share in the net result of the joint ventures and associated companies is included in the EBIT(DA). 2013 figures adjusted for IFRS11.

HOLDING AND ELIMINATIONS Non-allocated head office activities.
HOLDING AND ELIMINATIONS (in EUR million)
Revenue eliminations EBITDA* Net result from JVs and associates Operating result (EBIT)*

2014
-7.1 -48.1
0.0 -47.9

2013
-11.9 16.2 17.1 -6.0

ANNUAL REPORT 2014 ­ BOSKALIS

REVENUE
Revenue at the Towage & Salvage segment fell in 2014 to EUR 270.6 million (2013: EUR 363.0 million). The decline was mainly due to the further realization of the Towage strategy, which aims toplace activities in joint ventures where possible. In mid-2014 Boskalis established two joint ventures with SAAM S.A. of Chile, for the combined harbour towage operations in Brazil, Mexico, Panama and Canada under the joint name SAAM SMIT Towage. In accordance with IFRS11 these activities have been deconsolidated and are reported as result from joint ventures andassociated companies from the third quarter of 2014.
In addition to these harbour towage operations which have now been transferred, in 2014 Boskalis ­ operating under the name SMIT Harbour Towage ­ provided towage services in the ports of

* Our share in the net result of the joint ventures and associated companies is included in the EBIT(DA). 2013 figures adjusted for IFRS11.
SEGMENT RESULT The operating result mainly includes the usual non-allocated head office costs as well as various non-allocated (in many cases non-recurring) income and expenses.
A non-recurring non-cash pension charge of EUR 14.6 million was recognized in the first half of 2014 in connection with the change in the pension scheme for a large proportion of the Dutch (corporate) staff and the transfer of the scheme to an external pension fund administrator. In the second half of the year the pension scheme in question was amended to comply with new tax

39

Boskalis dredging equipment being loaded onto the Dockwise Trustee for deployment on the Suez Canal expansion project

rules that came into force on 1 January 2015. This resulted in a non-cash pension gain of EUR 15.4 million. This means that on balance these two changes did not have a material impact on theannual result.
The operating result in 2013 included a book gain of EUR 50.9 million arising from the sale of the 40% stake in Archirodon as well as an impairment charge of EUR 16.4 million relating to the SMIT trade name.
The result of associated companies in 2013 consisted almost completely of a (revaluation) result relating to the minority stake inDockwise prior to the full acquisition.
OTHER FINANCIAL INFORMATION
Depreciation, amortization and impairments totaled EUR 293.5 million in 2014 (2013: EUR 293.8 million).
Our stake in the net result from joint ventures and associated companies was EUR 56.4 million (2013: EUR 63.7 million). This result relates mainly to our share in the results of Smit Lamnalco, VBMS, the Singapore partnerships with Keppel (Keppel Smit Towage, Maju Maritime and Asian Lift) and, from the third quarter, SAAM SMIT Towage. The 2013 result also included our share in the result of Archirodon as well as a revaluation result on the minority stake in Dockwise prior to the full acquisition.

The tax charge increased in 2014 to EUR 124.2 million (2013: EUR 52.8 million). The tax rate was relatively high, at 20.1% (2013: 12.6%), mainly due to the fact that the higher results at Dredging & Inland Infra and Towage & Salvage were achieved in countries with relatively high tax rates, while the revaluation result in 2013 on the minority stake in Dockwise was untaxed.
CAPITAL EXPENDITURE AND BALANCE SHEET
In 2014 a total amount of EUR 313 million was invested in property, plant and equipment. Important investments in the Dredging segment related to the rebuilding of the 35,500 m³ Fairway mega hopper, two 4,500 m³ hoppers and the construction of a new mega cutter. The Fairway was brought into service at the start of the second quarter, the Strandway (4,500m³ hopper) in June and the Freeway (4,500 m³ hopper) in February 2015.
Investments in the Offshore Energy segment included the construction of three new Giant transport barges and the White Marlin, which was brought into service in early February 2015. The newly built multifunctional cable laying/offshore vessels Ndurance and Ndeavor came into service at the start of 2014.
Various smaller investments were made in the Towage & Salvage segment, including six tugs for SMIT Brasil prior to its handover to the joint venture with SAAM.

ANNUAL REPORT 2014 ­ BOSKALIS

40

Capital expenditure commitments at end-2014 were down at EUR125 million (end-2013: EUR 198 million). These commitments relate in part to the aforementioned investments, particularly the mega cutter.
In 2014 Boskalis paid out a cash sum of EUR 37.1 million in dividends for the 2013 financial year (2013: EUR 43.2 million) to those shareholders who opted to receive a cash dividend. This represented around 25% of the dividend, with the remaining 75% of the dividend being distributed in shares to shareholders who chose this option. In addition Boskalis purchased 629,123 own shares, representing a value of EUR 27.7 million, as part of the share buy-back program announced and launched in 2014.
In the fourth quarter of 2014 a sum of EUR 242.4 million was spent on acquiring a 19.9% stake in Fugro N.V., through the purchase of shares and depositary receipts at an average purchase price of EUR 14.35 per share. In accordance with IFRS these shares were valued at year-end at their fair market value, EUR 291 million. Theunrealized revaluation gain of EUR 48.6 million has been recognized under shareholders' equity.

OTHER DEVELOPMENTS
KOTUG
In late December Boskalis and Kotug International B.V. signed a Memorandum of Understanding (MoU) to merge their European harbour towage operations. The companies will establish a 50/50 joint venture for this purpose, combining the European harbour towage activities of SMIT with those of Kotug. This merger is the concluding step in Boskalis' strategy aimed at establishing regional partnerships for its harbour towage activities, as is the case with Smit Lamnalco, Keppel Smit Towage and, most recently, SAAM SMIT Towage. By joining forces opportunities are created to achieve cost and market synergies as well as a more efficient capital structure. The MoU will be implemented subject to customary conditions, such as due diligence and regulatory approval. In anticipation of this transaction, and in accordance with IFRS, the assets and liabilities that will be brought into the joint venture have been presented as Assets Held For Sale.

report of the board of management

The cash flow amounted to EUR 785.7 million (2013: EUR 659.1 million). The cash position at end-2014 was EUR 395.4 million (end-2013: EUR 354.3 million). The solvency ratio rose to 53.4% (end-2013: 47.6%).
The interest-bearing debt totaled EUR 914.2 million at year-end, ofwhich EUR 13.2 million is recognized as Assets Held For Sale. The net debt position stood at EUR 519 million. At the end of 2013 the gross debt position was EUR 1,034 million and the net debt position was EUR 674 million.
The largest component of the interest-bearing debt position relates to the long-term US Private Placements (USPP) and drawings under the syndicated credit facility. At the beginning of the second half, the existing syndicated facility, consisting of a USD 525 million term loan and a EUR 500 million revolving credit facility, was replaced by a revolving multi-currency credit facility. This new EUR600 million facility has a five-year tenor, with options to extend to seven years. A non-recurring charge of EUR 4.5 million has been included in the financing expenses relating to the write-off of the as yet unamortized costs of the original facility. Thenew and smaller facility was entered into on more favorable terms and is better suited to Boskalis' financing needs.
Boskalis must comply with a number of covenants as agreed with the syndicate of banks and the USPP investors. As at end-2014 Boskalis was operating well within these covenants. The main covenants relate to the net debt : EBITDA ratio, with a limit of 3, and the EBITDA : net interest ratio, with a minimum of 4. At the year-end the net debt : EBITDA ratio stood at 0.7 and the EBITDA : net interest ratio at 25.4.

PB TOWAGE
In mid-December Smit Lamnalco, which is 50% owned by Boskalis, substantially strengthened its position on the Australian market with the acquisition of PB Towage Australia. Following this transaction Smit Lamnalco is active in eight ports in Australia with a total of 29 vessels offering a combination of harbour towage, terminal and FPSO-related services.
DE JONG
After the balance sheet date, on 11 February 2015, Boskalis sold its road maintenance company Aannemingsbedrijf De Jong en Zoon Beheer B.V. and the associated De Jong subsidiaries (De Jong). Boskalis' strategy in the Netherlands is focused on large and medium-sized integrated infrastructure projects and an independent maintenance company does not fit within this strategy. In the 2014 financial statements the assets and liabilities of De Jong have been presented as Assets Held for Sale. The proceeds from the divestment are approximately EUR 30 million and have no material impact on Boskalis' result.
FUGRO STAKE
Boskalis entered the 2014-2016 Business Plan period with a sound balance sheet and a healthy cash flow. This starting position not only provides scope for necessary and desired investments, but also gives the company the option of responding to interesting opportunities in the market. It is against this background that Boskalis acquired a 19.9 per cent interest in Fugro in late 2014. Early January 2015, this was increased to 20.01 per cent. Boskalis' strategy is aimed at the offshore and (maritime) infrastructure markets, leveraging the company's combination of high end know how and maritime assets. This fits very well with the activities of Fugro. The two companies have much in common in terms of assets, knowledge, capital intensity, global spread and customer base, and are both global leaders in niche markets.

ANNUAL REPORT 2014 ­ BOSKALIS

41
SHARE BUY-BACK PROGRAM On 14 August 2014 Boskalis launched a share buy-back program of up to 10 million shares. The program is subject to the development of results and to the desired balance sheet ratios being maintained. To date 629,123 shares have been repurchased for a total sum of EUR 27.7 million. In light of the uncertain market conditions and the acquisition of the interest in Fugro we consider it prudent to suspend the share buy-back program for the period of one year.
Rock installation work for the West of Duddon Sands wind farm by the fallpipe vessel Seahorse

ANNUAL REPORT 2014 ­ BOSKALIS

42
EXCELLENT OPPORTUNITIES FOR VBMS IN THE RENEWABLE ENERGY MARKET

Prospects are good for the market for near and offshore wind farms in the next few years. Our strategic joint venture VBMS (VolkerWessels Boskalis Marine Solutions) is active in this market as a cable-laying company. This combination of specialized VolkerWessels and Boskalis companies has everything it needs to strengthen its leading position in Northwest Europe.

"Pooling resources with VolkerWessels in the area of offshore cable installation was a good move," according to Peter Devinck, Business Unit Director Subsea Contracting at Boskalis. "Together we form an excellent combination; the parent companies' various disciplines and expertise complement each other well: dredging and rock installation work combined with horizontal directional drilling and laying and connecting the cables to the wind turbine (termination). VolkerWessels has extensive experience with cable-laying projects in the North Sea while Boskalis has the knowledge of the soil conditions and working conditions at sea. Add to that the well-trained staff with international operational knowledge and experience, the ships and the support equipment and what you have is a great company."
WIND PROJECTS IN EUROPE
For the time being VBMS will focus on Northwest Europe given that several offshore wind farms are scheduled for construction here. Devinck: "In 2014 the situation surrounding wind energy looked less rosy for a while because of a lack of clarity with regard to various governments' subsidy policies. The German and British governments postponed projects, while the Netherlands changed its policy and revoked licenses. Now we can see the market picking up again. However, decisionmaking processes on offshore wind farms are long, which means that we expect 2015 to be a relatively quiet year. But for 2016 through 2020 there are many

The Trenchformer installs a power cable for the Luchterduinen wind farm, with the Ndurance in the background

43
wind projects in the pipeline again, in the United Kingdom, the Netherlands, Denmark and Germany. And for 2016 we already have projects such as Sandbank and Dudgeon in the order book. On balance, the order book of VBMS at 100 per cent was EUR 260 million at the end of 2014."
CHANGE IN DEMAND
VBMS is seeing clients take a different approach. "It used to be the case that wind park owners would enter into a separate contract for each individual part of this kind of project. Now clients prefer to do business with a single party or a consortium with the ability to provide an integrated solution. They are already in talks with cablelaying companies for projects scheduled for development in 2017 to 2020. Another development is that clients are asking VBMS to supply the cable as well."
EQUIPMENT FLEXIBILITY
VBMS handles various activities on a project. "We supply the cable, lay the cable, handle the connection to the offshore converter station, realize the shore approach and landfall and connect the cable to the high-voltage grid," explained Devinck. For the laying and burying of cables in the seabed VBMS is able to deploy not only its state-of-the-art cable-laying vessels the Stemat Spirit and the Ndurance but also the Trenchformer. This specialized unmanned vehicle was developed specifically to enable long interconnector cables to be the laid and buried in a single run. The Trenchformer moves across the seabed on rubber tracks and its ability to either jet or cut a cable trench means that it is able to work in both loose sandy soil and in stiffer clay. "For the Luchterduinen wind farm project off the Dutch west coast the first three kilometers of cable had to be laid in very shallow water. A cable-laying vessel would not have been able to get close enough to the shore. But the Trenchformer was: it laid and buried the cable at a depth of up to three meters in one run. The remaining 22 kilometers were laid by our specialist vessel the Ndurance, after which the Trenchformer also buried this section of the cable. This demonstrates that our equipment gives us the flexibility we need to be able to operate in all sorts of different circumstances," said Devinck.
GOOD UTILIZATION
With a revenue of EUR 221 million and EBITDA of EUR 23 million VBMS had a successful 2014. "Utilization of the vessels was high," said Devinck. "We carried out cable-laying work for projects including the Butendiek, Nordsee Ost, Baltic 1, Dantysk and Humber Gateway wind farms. Another attractive activity in addition to laying cables is inspecting, maintaining and repairing them. Cables regularly get damaged and we have already carried out a few repair projects. Taking on this sort of work as well is good for the utilization of the fleet."
OTHER ACTIVITIES
VBMS is also involved in laying interconnection cables between countries or islands. In April 2014 the Ndurance was deployed to carry out this kind of job between the Indonesian islands of Bali and Java. VBMS is seeing growing demand for this type of solution. Further opportunities lie in the offshore oil and gas industry, both in the North Sea and elsewhere around the world, for example the installation of flexible flowlines or umbilical cables. "In 2014 we installed a 20-kilometer umbilical cable for the Wintershall offshore gas platform in the North Sea. The client was so satisfied that we have been asked to lay a second cable in the third quarter of 2015. Another trend we see emerging is for offshore platforms in the Middle East to obtain their power supply from the shore, which requires reversed power cables. This is another development that presents opportunities for VBMS and so we are watching it closely."

report of the board of management

44
ORGANIZATIONAL DEVELOPMENTS
Dredging work for the construction of an artificial island off the coast of Masan, South Korea
SAFETY Safety is a core value of our company. We want our employees to be able to do theirwork safely and to get home safe and well. Our objective is `No Injuries No Accidents' (NINA) and this is also the name we chose for our safety program. Based on our values, the NINA safety program has yielded good results since its introduction in 2010. NINA makes working safely a shared responsibility that can be discussed openly at all levels of the organization, as well as with joint venture partners, clients and subcontractors. In our company, which has undergone major changes as a result of the recent acquisitions, it has become clear that NINA is an effective means to make the integration successful. NINA is part of our identity; the rules and values are a clear statement of what we stand for and that makes people feel proud. When we introduce NINA in new activities within the company we see that the program makes it easier to embrace the Boskalis identity. This positive energy can be felt throughout the entire company. NINA also attracts a great deal of positive attention both within and outside the industry and from our clients. The degree to which NINA has been implemented varies within our company. At Dredging we have been working according to this way of thinking for several years now. Here, NINA is widely accepted and has become a natural part of the work that we do. In 2013 introduction began at the new Offshore Energy division. 2015 will see the safety program introduced at Salvage and a further roll out within the Offshore Energy division including Dockwise as well as to the former MNO Vervat employees of Boskalis Nederland. By then NINA will have been introduced throughout the organization. In light of our strategy to place towage activities at arm's length in joint ventures, Towage applies its own safety program in close consultation with the respective joint venture partners.

ANNUAL REPORT 2014 ­ BOSKALIS

45

NINA is very valuable to our staff. The statistics paint a convincing picture. Since NINA was introduced in 2010 the Lost Time Injury Frequency (LTIF), a figure expressing the number of incidents per 200,000 hours worked resulting in sick leave, has fallen by more than 85% (from 0.67 to 0.09). Prevention is an important part of safety awareness. Employees can prevent accidents by using Safety Hazard Observation Cards (SHOCs) to report dangerous situations. The number of SHOC reports in 2014 was 7,636 (2013: 5,391), in addition to which 1,031 near misses were reported (2013: 611). We see SHOC and near miss reporting as a proxy measure for the proactive safety culture within the organization. NINA encourages reporting on such situations to allow us to make proactive adjustments. Despite both the relatively high risk profile associated with our activities and the considerable growth of our company, 2014 saw a further decline in the LTIF figure to 0.09 (from 0.11 in 2013). Both our LTIF figure and near misses score mean that we comfortably meet the standards applicable in the oil and gas industry that is so important to us. For detailed reporting on our safety policy and our safety performance, please refer to our CSR report.

within the divisions. Strengthening our offshore profile is a major driving force in this regard. We keep investing in the development of specific competencies, such as in the areas of work preparation, estimating, risk and contract management and project management. We expand our knowledge and expertise by attracting experienced offshore professionals as well as by training up own staff in this field.
OFFSHORE PROFESSIONALS PROGRAM In 2014 a group of young professionals enrolled in our modular Boskalis Offshore Professionals Program, developed in collaboration with an external training institute. The modules, which are based on actual cases, cover all the techniques needed for the preparation and execution of offshore projects.
In addition a group of cost engineers are following a two-year post-graduate course in this field. During this apprenticeship they are given expert coaching by a senior mentor.
PENSION

PERSONNEL AND ORGANIZATION
In the course of the year under review and in accordance with the Corporate Business Plan 2014-2016 preparations were undertaken for the new divisional structure. The broadening of our portfolio as a result of the SMIT, MNO Vervat, Dockwise and Fairmount acquisitions calls for a more focused management of our strategic activities. The dynamics in the different markets in which we now operate differ. In order to be able to respond to this effectively and professionally each division gets the operational support it needs to prepare and execute projects. This applies to expertise in areas such as design, tendering and engineering as well as to fleet management. Furthermore each division will be responsible for its own fleet, crew and operational pool.
At group level the corporate staff departments will continue to exist alongside the business support departments such as HR, ICT and Procurement & Logistics, which will provide their services across the divisions. The new organizational structure, effective from 1 January 2015, involves a large-scale internal relocation, with the Dredging & Inland Infra and Offshore Energy divisions each moving into their own premises at the campus in Papendrecht. Employee representation has been closely involved throughout in setting up the new organizational model and has issued a positive advice on the matter.

In 2014 we decided to join a larger, multi-sector pension fund and in doing so terminated the activities of the Boskalis Pension Fund. Our reasoning behind this was that is no longer practical for a fund the size of the Boskalis Pension Fund to hold an independent position in light of the changing Dutch pension legislation and pension fund supervision. Important aspects, which are part of our good terms of employment, such as the premium free career average pension plan and unconditional indexation, will not be affected by the move to the PGB (Pensioenfonds Grafische Bedrijven) pension fund.
FLEET DEVELOPMENTS
The introduction of the divisional structure means that Fleet Management will be organized differently. Responsibility for the dredging and offshore fleet has been split and assigned to the respective divisions. In 2015 Fleet Management for Dockwise and Fairmount will be integrated into that of the Offshore Energy division. For the Towage joint ventures the operational management of the fleet is done locally.
Boskalis makes targeted investments in the newbuild and renovation of ships that are important to retaining or expanding our strong market position. The investment program for the fleet is on track and comprised the following developments in 2014:

ANNUAL REPORT 2014 ­ BOSKALIS

INTEGRATION OF DOCKWISE The integration of Dockwise in the Boskalis organization will be completed as soon as the Dockwise colleagues in the Netherlands have moved to the Boskalis Campus in Papendrecht in the first quarter of 2015. We compared the terms of employment at Dockwise and Boskalis and have taken steps to harmonize them following positive advice from the employee representation.
OFFSHORE PROFILE Our training portfolio is constantly being developed to ensure that it continues to meet the need for specific knowledge and expertise

Dredging
 The mega hopper Fairway with a capacity of 35,500 m³ was taken into service in the first quarter of 2014.
 June 2014 saw the official naming of the medium-sized hopper Strandway, followed by her sister ship the Freeway in January 2015, each with a capacity of 4,500 m3.
 The construction of the mega cutter with a total installed capacity of 23,700 kW and a pumping capacity of 15,600 kW is progressing according to plan. Technical engineering took place in 2014 and the vessel will join the fleet in the course of 2017.
 At the end of 2014 a contract was signed for the building of a second jumbo backhoe dredger to expand the fleet.
 The mega hopper Queen of the Netherlands was modernized in

46

the summer of 2014, with the replacement of regulators and electrical motors of the sand pumps as well as the winches.  2014 saw the environmentally responsible dismantling of the cutter suction dredgers Para, Mercurius and Amstel. Please refer to our CSR report for a detailed account.
Offshore  The Giant 5 and 6 were delivered for the offshore fleet in
December 2014 and January 2015, respectively. The two oceangoing semi-submersible flat-top barges each have a load capacity of 21,000 tonnes. A third flat-top barge of the same type, the Giant 7, was ordered in September 2014 and is expected to be taken into service in August 2015. At the end of 2015 the Giant 5 will be converted to a crane vessel by fitting it out with a 600-tonne crane as well as with accommodation. The converted Giant 5 will be operational in early 2016.  The Dockwise fleet was expanded with the White Marlin, a new semi-submersible transport vessel for Dockwise with a transport capacity of 72,000 tonnes. The ship, a sister ship to the Black Marlin, was taken into service in February 2015.  The Asian Hercules III, a large sheerleg floating crane with a lift capacity of 5,000 tonnes, was also delivered in February 2015 and will be deployed by our Asian Lift Singapore joint venture.

level of filling. The soil press is used on dredging projects where there are significant differences in height. In the offshore industry these height differences are substantial: in some cases a foundation has to be filled at a depth of 200 meters. To demonstrate that this work method is fit for purpose we conducted tests involving the pumping of iron ore. These tests and models demonstrated that we are able to successfully execute the filling process in a controlled manner. The soil press will be used on forthcoming installation projects, including the installation of foundations for offshore wind turbines.
ICT
In 2014 we completed the preparations for implementing a company-wide ERP system, including analyzing the processes at the various business units. We have opted to apply the ERP system already used by Boskalis within most other business units as well. The ERP system will also provide the basis for facilitating the consolidation of the financial reporting at group level. The introduction of the improved consolidation software program takes place in tandem with the ERP implementation and will come on stream in late 2015. The two systems will make our internal reporting process more efficient.

report of the board of management

RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT
Knowledge development and knowledge sharing have taken on a wider significance with the new organizational structure. We continue to make targeted investments in applied and scientific research and in the development of new techniques that put us ahead. In addition, where possible we try to foster cross-pollination between our activities. In some cases this results in new insights and applications, or in the refinement of existing techniques.
CUTTING HARD SOIL
Boskalis conducts targeted research into how to use existing equipment to work as sustainably and efficiently as possible. We are expanding our knowledge into techniques for applying cutter technology to the cutting of very hard soil. Our Research & Development department is engaged in research into the use of a so-called strong rock cutter, a cutter head for dredging very hard rock. The new technique is being applied on a project in Qatar and is proving successful. It is realistic to presume that this technique can compete as an alternative to traditional drilling and blasting, a method used up until now for loosening very hard subsoil. We have demonstrated that this new technique enables us to cut off small pieces of rock and to perform very controlled work. We remove no more soil than is necessary. The technique also produces less noise than the traditional use of explosives.

The ICT-related service to the projects and the fleet underwent further improvement in 2014. To this end the ICT support organization has set up a dedicated team that is involved in the preparation of projects as a matter of course. The team organizes the required ICT facilities, such as workstations and network connections, both at office locations and on-board vessels ­ sometimes in remote parts of the world. The broadening of our business activities to the offshore energy sector means that the requirements for on-board ICT facilities are higher on average because they are also used by project personnel and representatives of the client. Various initiatives have been taken in order to meet the usual standard in this market segment. ICT support takes a lot of work out of the hands of the project organization by organizing the ICT facilities with local providers in good time. Where necessary ICT support staff are flown in to provide on-site support.

ANNUAL REPORT 2014 ­ BOSKALIS

SOIL PRESS AT OFFSHORE ENERGY
We have also identified opportunities for applying our knowledge of and experience with the dredging process to our new Offshore Energy activities. A good example is the ballasting of the foundations of offshore platforms (so-called gravity-based structures) to stabilize them on the seabed. This is done by filling the foundations, for example with iron ore. We use soil press technology to ensure that the offshore foundations achieve a good

47 Inspecting of an SPM buoy by a Boskalis diver in Qatar

ANNUAL REPORT 2014 ­ BOSKALIS

48
CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY
Our strategy is aimed at the sustainable design and execution of our solutions around the globe.

report of the board of management

In our CSR report we account for material and relevant non- financial aspects of our performance arising from our strategy andcore activities. We report in accordance with the international guidelines set out by the Global Reporting Initiative (version G3-1). In selecting the performance indicators and compiling our CSR report, the information requirements of our main stakeholders are taken into account. In mid-2013, we set ourselves the objective of having the entire CSR report verified by an independent external party within the next few years. The first important step towards this was taken with the independent verification of our safety performance in 2013. In addition, the scope for 2014 has been broadened considerably to include verification of, amongst others, all social and societal indicators.
Our strategy is aimed at the sustainable design and execution of our solutions around the globe. In order to fulfill our social, societal and environmental responsibilities as best we can our CSR policy focuses on the key areas where our impact is greatest:

 Our social performance is mainly concerned with our employees, with the objectives being to promote their safety, opportunities for self-development and well-being.
 Our societal performance is expressed in contributions to local communities, investment in education, research and knowledge transfer, and social sponsorship and donations.
 Our environmental performance is mainly concerned with limiting and preventing a negative impact on the environment, with objectives being the further expansion of our environmental expertise, the provision of eco-dynamic designs and the ongoing investment in and deployment of environmentally friendly equipment.
Since 2012 we have taken part in the CDP (Carbon Disclosure Project). Early in 2013 Boskalis Nederland reached the highest level of the CO2 performance ladder (level 5).
The 2014 CSR report (at GRI level B) is available on the corporate website www.boskalis.com/csr.

Seals resting on a stretch of newly constructed shoreline near Petten/Camperduin in the Netherlands

ANNUAL REPORT 2014 ­ BOSKALIS

49
RISK MANAGEMENT

STRATEGY AND BUSINESS DRIVERS

Boskalis' strategy is aimed at the opportunities and challenges that present themselves to the company. This strategy is based on three pillars: focus, on Value-Adding Assets, specific market segments and geographic regions; expand, in particular the Offshore Energy activities; and strengthen the core activities Dredging & Inland Infra and Towage & Salvage.
The markets in which Boskalis operates are mainly driven by longterm economic factors, such as the growth of the global population, expansion of the global economy and growth in international trade and transport volumes, particularly over water. The long-term prospects for these factors are favorable.
Effective management of risks and opportunities is essential for the successful delivery of the group's strategy and plans. Identifying, measuring and monitoring risks and opportunities, particularly with respect to tendering, preparation and execution of projects, is embedded in our management approach.
An overview of the key strategic, operational and financial risks and the risks with respect to financial reporting is set out below.
STRATEGIC AND MARKET RISKS
The Boskalis markets are heterogeneous and often develop differently. Our main (end) customer groups are national, regional and local governments, or associated institutions such as port authorities, private port operators and oil & gas and energy companies (operators as well as contractors). Other customer types are (container) shipping companies, mining companies and (infrastructure and real estate) project developers.
Despite the positive long-term growth prospects, our markets can be regularly ­ certainly in the short and medium term ­ negatively impacted by factors outside our control. Such factors include e.g. general and/or regional geo-political developments, such as political unrest, piracy, regime changes, government-imposed trade barriers, turmoil on the financial markets and crises in the financial sector. Such developments may negatively affect our activities in certain regions or even globally if they have major negative consequences for the economic developments in certain regions or for the global economy, or for exploration and exploitation activities in the energy and commodities markets. Boskalis aims to respond as effectively as possible to both positive and negative developments in individual markets through a global spread of its activities, an extensive and versatile fleet operating out of various international

locations, and strong positions in its core markets. Moreover, our activities are largely focused on the development, construction, installation and maintenance of infrastructure, which means that longer-term developments will generally outweigh short-term economic fluctuations.
Boskalis does not include contracts in the order book until agreement has been reached with the client. Although experience shows that, once agreement has been reached, cancellations or substantial reductions in the size of contracts are rare, such cancellations or substantial reductions of work in the portfolio cannot be ruled out. As a consequence, if such a cancellation or substantial reduction occurs, losses may arise from the unwinding or settlement of financial derivatives which were taken out to cover related currency risks and/or fuel cost risks, but for which the underlying transaction or cash flows can no longer be realized.
Boskalis deals with a variety of competitors in the various markets in which it operates. Such competitors vary from large, internationally operating competitors to more regional and local competitors with activities restricted to one or several (geographical or activityrelated) submarkets. With respect to a large part of our revenues, contracts are awarded through public or private tender procedures. Competition for most contracts is primarily price-based. However, many clients, particularly in the oil & gas sector and private port operators, are taking other factors ­ including quality-related ones, such as the assurance of a safety and environmental policy and compliance with relevant rules and guidelines ­ into consideration when awarding contracts. We have appropriate approval processes in place for the submission of tenders, including the evaluation of identified risks and/or potential risk factors associated with the execution of a particular project.
Almost all of Boskalis' activities are capital-intensive, with Dredging and, to a somewhat lesser extent, also Offshore Energy (in particular Heavy Marine Transport & Installation) being capital-intensive businesses with high entry and exit barriers, especially for companies operating globally. Because of the capital intensive nature of these activities, market prices are largely influenced by the balance between the demand for these services and the availability of capacity, being actual utilization levels of the relevant equipment. This implies that a broad international spread of market positions as well as a leadership position in terms of equipment, costs and the standardization of equipment are key success factors. Boskalis places a great deal of emphasis on these, both as a critical point of attention in operational management and in terms of capital

ANNUAL REPORT 2014 ­ BOSKALIS

50

expenditure strategy. A strict evaluation and approval process is in place for individual investment proposals. A key principle of our policy with regard to tenders and entering into commitments is to aim for a good balance in terms of size and type of projects and activities tendered for, type of equipment deployed and geographical spread of activities.
In realizing its strategy, Boskalis also acquires other companies. In order to achieve the anticipated results, Boskalis attaches great importance to integrating such acquisitions with care. Creating value for our stakeholders and retaining key personnel are important elements in this process.
OPERATIONAL RISKS
The operational risks faced by Boskalis are diverse in nature, particularly because the group conducts various types of activities around the world within the three divisions. This means that the activities are exposed to economic, legal and political risks in the countries where the company operates.
The main operational risks for Boskalis concern the contracting and execution of projects for clients, as outlined above. For most of our project activities the most common type of contract is fixed price/ lump sum, under which the contractor's price must take into account virtually all the operational risks as well as the cost risks associated with the procurement of materials and subcontractor services. In most cases it is impossible to charge clients for any unexpected costs arising during the course of a project. Furthermore, many contracts include milestones and associated penalty clauses if the milestones are not achieved on time. For these reasons considerable emphasis is placed on identifying, analyzing and quantifying operating, cost and delay risks during the tendering procedure and contracting phase of projects and in calculating cost prices.

Operational risks mainly relate to variable weather or working conditions, technical suitability and availability of the equipment, unexpected soil and settlement conditions, wear and tear on dredging equipment due to the excavation and processing of dredged materials, damage to third-party equipment and property, the performance of subcontractors and suppliers and the timely availability of cargo or services provided by the client in case of heavy marine transport and/or installation activities.
Boskalis focuses on pro-actively controlling such risks, first of all by adopting a structured approach in the tender phase to identify risks and their possible consequences. Contracts are classified by risk category, based on size and risk profile. The exact tender procedure and requirements for authorization of the tender price and conditions are dependent on this classification. Above a certain level of risk, tender commitments require authorization at Board of Management/Group Director level.
In the preparation phase of a project tender, depending on the risk classification and nature of the projects, we use resources such as subsea and soil investigations, readily accessible databases containing historical data, and extensive risk analysis techniques. The results of the risk analysis are then used as a factor in determining the cost price and/or selling price, and in defining the tender and/or contract terms and conditions. When a contract is awarded, an updated risk analysis is part of the project preparation process on the basis of which concrete actions are taken, if necessary, in order to mitigate the risks identified.
In addition, detailed attention is devoted to the education and training of staff, appropriate project planning and project management, the implementation of a certified quality and safety program, and the optimal maintenance of equipment. If applicable and possible, certain risks are insured.

report of the board of management

ANNUAL REPORT 2014 ­ BOSKALIS

The Dockwise Vanguard transporting two drilling rigs

51

The ability to manage operational risks effectively and responsibly is key to the company's professionalism and expertise.
Risks related to price developments on the procurement side, such as costs of materials and services, sub-contracting costs and fuel prices, as well as increases in the cost of labor, are all taken into account in calculating cost prices. Wherever possible, and especially on projects with a long execution time, cost indexation clauses are included in the contract, particularly with regard to labor and fuel costs.
Within the Towage & Salvage division, the Harbour Towage business unit is characterized by a broad geographical spread of the activities, which are largely conducted by autonomous joint ventures with third parties. Towage contracts are often being carried out under long-term contracts in which fees are reviewed annually. This allows for local wage cost developments, fuel price developments and the available capacity of the equipment (for example tugs) to be taken into account. Terminal services, which have been incorporated in the Smit Lamnalco joint venture (50% stake) since the end of 2011, are usually performed under long-term contracts with a fixed price for the contract period corresponding to the client's requirements and specifications. The majority of these contracts include some form of price indexation.
For the Salvage activities, contracts with clients concerning vessels in distress are often concluded based on a standard Lloyd's Open Form contract (LOF). This means that compensation is based on a valuation mechanism related to various factors, including the salvage value of the vessel and its cargo, the technical complexity of the salvage operation, environmental risks and the use of own equipment and subcontractors. This valuation results in a lump sum, which is finalized through negotiations with the client or through an arbitration process. Should it transpire in the course of a salvage operation that the final salvage fee will not be sufficient to cover the costs involved, then the choice can be made to convert the LOF into

a contract based on a daily hire fee, thus limiting the financial risks. Within the Offshore Energy division, a part of the equipment tends to be chartered out for relatively short periods (spot markets), mainly subject to standard conditions. In general the operational risks involved in such activities are relatively limited.
Local management on projects and in operations is expected to have a proper understanding of the complexity of working under the specific local circumstances. The scale of local operations is often too small to warrant a fully-fledged organization, complete with extensive support services and staff departments. This is compensated for by regular visits by responsible managers and employees from the relevant business units and support from highly qualified central staff departments at head office.
FINANCIAL RISKS
In conducting its business, Boskalis is exposed to various non-operational financial risks. This section describes the main categories of financial risk.
POLITICAL AND CREDIT RISKS
These risks include risks related to unrest or disruption due to political developments and violence, and the risk of non-payment by clients. Boskalis operates a strict acceptance and hedging policy with respect to political and payment risks. Other than in the case of very strong, credit-worthy clients with an undisputed credit history, generally all substantial credit risks are covered by credit insurance, bank guarantees and/or advance payments. Revenues and earnings are only accounted for if it is sufficiently certain that they will be realized. Increased attention is paid to identifying and managing credit risks in situations where the client is a special purpose vehicle.

ANNUAL REPORT 2014 ­ BOSKALIS

52

LIQUIDITY AND FUNDING RISKS

the interest rates on the largest part of our long-term financial

As is customary for a contractor, Boskalis also has large amounts liabilities, primarily by using interest rate swap arrangements.

outstanding in the form of bank guarantees and surety bonds

(guarantees from insurance companies), mainly in favor of clients. FUEL PRICE RISKS

Given that the availability of sufficient credit and bank guarantee In a substantial part of its activities, Boskalis is exposed to risks due

facilities is essential to the continuity of the business, Boskalis'

to changes in fuel prices. As a policy material fuel cost exposures

funding policy is aimed at maintaining a solid financial position. are hedged. Such hedging occurs in a number of different ways.

Solid balance sheet ratios and the use of diversified sources of

Where possible, fuel cost variation clauses are included in the

funding provide for sufficient capacity to absorb liquidity risks and contract or the fuel is to be supplied by the client. If such contractual

secure constant availability of adequate borrowing capacity and arrangements are not possible the fuel cost exposure is hedged

guarantee facilities. The company has ample credit and bank

with financial instruments such as forward contracts or futures.

guarantee facilities at its disposal and operates well within the

agreed covenants under its financing agreements. If developments

on financial and/or currency markets so dictate, additional

DERIVATIVES

specific risk management measures will be applied.

Financial derivatives (such as forward contracts, options, interest

rate swaps and futures) are only used to hedge underlying currency

CURRENCY RISKS

risks, fuel cost risks and/or other risks where there is a physical underlying transaction. There is, however, a risk of losses arising

report of the board of management

The functional currency of Boskalis is the euro. A number of group from the unwinding or settlement of such financial derivatives as a

companies, the most important one of which being Dockwise, as result of the cancellation or substantial downsizing of contracts.

well as several substantial associated companies (Smit Lamnalco,

Keppel Smit Towage, Asian Lift, SAAM SMIT Towage) have a functional currency other than the euro. The most important of these

OTHER RISKS

is the US dollar, which is also the functional currency of Dockwise, followed by the Singapore dollar. However, most of the revenues COMPLIANCE WITH LEGISLATION AND REGULATIONS

and expenses of these entities are also largely or entirely based on As an international maritime services provider Boskalis is active in

these same non-euro currencies. The holdings in these entities are numerous countries, meaning it has to deal with a wide range of

viewed from a long-term perspective. Exchange rate risks related diverse legislation and regulations. A part of the activities is headed

to these entities are not hedged as it is assumed that currency

by own local management, but in many countries intermediaries

fluctuations and developments in interest rates and inflation will and/or local representatives are used in acquiring and executing

offset each other in the long term. The income statements of these projects. This combination of factors means there is an increased

entities are translated at average exchange rates and the balance risk that relevant (local) legislation and regulations may not be

sheet items are translated at the relevant exchange rates at the

fully complied with. These risks are mitigated by the company's

balance sheet date. Translation differences are charged or

internal risk management and control systems, which are set out

credited directly to shareholders' equity.

below. In addition the company has a General Code of Business

Conduct and a Supplier Code of Conduct, which are reviewed

A large proportion of the activities of the group companies that and evaluated regularly. These codes of conduct were evaluated

have the euro as their functional currency are not contracted in

during 2014. Intermediaries and/or local representatives are also

euros. This particularly applies to the group companies that are contractually bound to comply with our codes of conduct. The

involved in dredging and related projects. The costs of these entities, conclusion of contracts with local intermediaries and/or

however, are largely based on the euro. Generally, the net cash representatives is subject to strict procedures.

flows in non-euro currencies within these entities are fully hedged as Furthermore Boskalis has a whistleblower policy in place and has

soon as they occur, usually by means of forward exchange contracts. an independent confidential counselor to enable employees to

The US dollar exchange rate in relation to the euro is particularly report any suspected irregularities.

relevant in this context. A large proportion of the projects are

contracted in US dollars or in currencies that are to a greater or lesser extent linked to the US dollar. Most of our major international PROPERTY DAMAGE AND THIRD-PARTY LIABILITIES

competitors in the dredging industry also have cost structures largely Boskalis maintains an appropriate package of insurance facilities

ANNUAL REPORT 2014 ­ BOSKALIS

based on the euro. This implies that exchange rate fluctuations have to cover the risks with respect to damage to its properties as well

no major impact on our relative competitive position. In a number as third-party properties and potential other third-party liabilities.

of market segments, in particular in Offshore Energy, there is

competition from parties whose cost structures are not based on the euro, and the competitive impact of currency fluctuations in

INTERNAL RISK MANAGEMENT AND CONTROL SYSTEMS

these market segments is greater. On balance, exchange rate

The internal risk management and control systems of Boskalis are

fluctuations only have a limited impact on the company's

based on the principles of effective management control at various

competitive position in these activities.

levels in the organization and tailored to the day-to-day working

environment in which the company operates worldwide. One of

INTEREST RATE RISKS

the main foundations for risk control is the internal culture of the company, which is characterized by a high degree of transparency

We have limited our exposure to interest rate fluctuations by fixing with regard to the timely identification, evaluation and reporting of

53

risks and the avoidance of potentially perverse incentives. Given the hands-on nature of the company's management style and the short lines of communication, there are three important factors in assessing and evaluating the internal risk management and control processes at Boskalis: 1.In the daily operations the operational risk management and
control is largely supported by an extensive framework of quality assurance rules, procedures and systems, in particular with regard to acquiring and executing contracts. These include clear guidelines for responsibilities, decision-making and risk control. The adequacy of this framework is reviewed regularly, also in light of the increasing diversity of the contracting and project activities the company performs in line with its strategy. In addition to audits by external certification agencies, Boskalis also performs regular internal audits under the auspices of the SHE-Q department. SHE-Q is a topic of regular discussion at the quarterly meetings between the Board of Management and the management of the business units, with the management of the SHE-Q department also being present. 2.The daily management of the organization is based on clear responsibilities and short, clear lines of command which are unambiguously defined. Speed, know-how and decisiveness are of the essence, both competitively and in project implementation. Daily management is hands-on. 3.The progress and development of the operating results and the financial position of individual business units and the company as a whole, as well as the operational and financial risks, are monitored by means of structured periodical reporting, analysis of the financial results and performance reviews at Board of Management and senior management levels.

RISKS WITH REGARD TO FINANCIAL REPORTING
FINANCIAL REPORTING STRUCTURE Financial reporting at Boskalis is structured along a tight framework of budgeting, reporting and forecasting. A distinction is made between reports for internal and external use. External reporting at group level consists of an annual report, including financial statements audited by the external auditors, as well as a mid-year report, containing summarized financial information, both consolidated and segmented, along with intermediate trading updates. The external reports are set up in accordance with EU-IFRS on the basis of the internal financial reporting.
Internal financial reporting consists of extensive consolidated quarterly reports in which current developments are compared to the quarterly (cumulative) budgets and previous forecasts. In addition, each quarter forecasts are prepared for the annual results, cash flows and balance sheet positions at the end of the financial year. The quarterly budgets are part of the annual group budget, which is prepared every year by the Board of Management and approved by the Supervisory Board. Internal financial reporting has a layered structure - in accordance with the internal allocation of management responsibilities - with consolidation taking place at successive levels, starting with the projects, through the business units and divisions, and resulting in consolidated group reports. The financial and operating results are analyzed and clarified at each of these levels. Project and contract managers are responsible for budgets, income statements and balance sheets for their projects or contracts, and these are drawn up in accordance with the applicable guidelines and instructions. In turn, business unit managers are responsible for their business unit's financial reports.

ANNUAL REPORT 2014 ­ BOSKALIS

Rock installation work by the fallpipe vessel Rockpiper

54

Boskalis holds substantial investments in joint ventures and associated companies and these holdings are intensively monitored. Shareholder and/or board meetings are held regularly, with Boskalis being represented in accordance with the size of its stake. Clear agreements have been reached with the co-shareholders in such joint ventures with regard to topics such as board and management representation, filling of management positions, strategy and policy, budget, financial reporting, the appointment of auditors, investments and financing. The policy is that such joint ventures are in principle financed without guarantees from the shareholders.

Having considered the structure and operation of the financial reporting and control systems at Boskalis, the Board of Management is of the opinion that:  the internal risk management and control systems provide a
reasonable degree of assurance that the financial reporting does not contain any errors of material importance; and  the risk management and control systems worked properly during the year under review.

The Board of Management discusses the quarterly reports with the relevant business unit managers in formal quarterly meetings. These meetings are minuted. The consolidated group reports are discussed with the Supervisory Board on a quarterly basis.

report of the board of management

The structure and quality of the financial accounting and control systems of Boskalis and its group companies are safeguarded by unambiguous periodical internal and external audits. Relevant aspects of the financial accounting and control systems are set out in manuals, guidelines and procedures, all of which are available electronically. Staff are trained in how to apply accounting standards, guidelines and procedures. Internal audits to monitor and improve quality and discipline are conducted on the basis of an annual audit plan and ad hoc investigations (financial audits) that also encompass internal procedures and training. Moreover, the quality of the financial control systems is evaluated regularly in the context of the activities of the external auditor. Any findings with regard to the quality of the financial control systems identified during the audit of the financial statements are reported by the external auditor in the management letter.

STATEMENT REGARDING RISKS RELATING TO FINANCIAL REPORTING
Despite the risk management and control systems that Boskalis has put in place, there can be no absolute certainty that mistakes, losses, fraud or unlawful activities will be prevented.
Major organizational changes have been implemented to accommodate the rapid growth of Boskalis in the past few years. During the year under review we introduced a divisional structure and started harmonizing various business processes and supporting (ICT) systems, especially in the area of financial recording and reporting. In addition we made a start on reviewing and, where necessary, adapting and/or supplementing our systems and processes in the area of quality management and risk management and control, and to achieve this we attracted the necessary expertise.
The effectiveness and functioning of the internal risk management and control systems are discussed annually with the Supervisory Board.
No material changes were introduced in the risk management and internal control systems during the course of the year under review. However, as explained above we did commence the process of reviewing and enhancing the effectiveness of these systems.

ANNUAL REPORT 2014 ­ BOSKALIS

55
FPSO Petrojarl Knarr being towed by Fairmount anchor handling tugs

ANNUAL REPORT 2014 ­ BOSKALIS

56
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE

report of the board of management

The Board of Management and the Supervisory Board are jointly responsible for looking after the interests of our stakeholders.

APPLICATION AT BOSKALIS
Boskalis operates a two-tier board model, which means that management and supervision are segregated.
The Board of Management is responsible for the day-to-day management of the business, and for setting out and realizing the company's long-term strategy along with the associated risks, the results and entrepreneurial matters relevant to the company. The Board of Management is responsible for establishing the company's objectives, implementing its business policies and for the resulting performance. The Board of Management is accountable to the Supervisory Board and the General Meeting of Shareholders. In performing its tasks, the Board of Management is guided by the interests of the company and its activities, and takes into account any relevant interests of parties involved with the company.
The Supervisory Board is responsible for supervising management performance and advising the Board of Management. The Supervisory Board is supported in its work by three so-called core committees: the Audit Committee, the Remuneration Committee and the Selection and Appointment Committee. For a summary of the activities of the Supervisory Board and its committees in 2014, please refer to pages 22 to 26 of this report.

The Dockwise Triumph loaded with a jack-up platform being assisted by a Keppel Smit Towage tug

ANNUAL REPORT 2014 ­ BOSKALIS

57

At Boskalis there is close collaboration between the Supervisory Board and its committees, the Board of Management and the stakeholders. The Board of Management and the Supervisory Board are jointly responsible for looking after the interests of our stakeholders, which includes creating shareholder value in the long term.
Our stakeholders are those groups and individuals that directly or indirectly influence the company's activities, or are influenced by them. They include the employees, shareholders and other financiers, suppliers, clients, government bodies, educational and knowledge institutes, industry and society associations (including NGOs) and the communities in which Boskalis operates.
At least one General Meeting of Shareholders takes place every year. Its tasks include the adoption of financial statements and it holds authority with regard to the appointment and dismissal of Supervisory Board members.
The interests of employees are promoted by the Works Council, which provides ongoing employee representation as required under the Dutch Works Councils Act. It is the task of the Works Council to ensure that management objectives correspond to those of the employees.

This report is available on the website and copies can also be requested from the company.
Boskalis subscribes to and applies all the principles and best practice provisions contained in the Corporate Governance Code, with the exception of the following provisions:  In deviation of best practice II.1.1., the chairman of the Board
of Management has been appointed for an indefinite period. This appointment predates the introduction of the Corporate Governance Code. His contract with the company was also entered into prior to the introduction of the Corporate Governance Code and applies for an indefinite period. Boskalis does apply the best practice provision to the other members as well as future members of the Board of Management.
 The contracts between the company and two members of the Board of Management deviate from best practice provision II.2.8. The contract of the chairman of the Board of Management provides for a severance payment equal to 18 months and the contract of the Chief Financial Officer provides for a 24-month severance payment. Boskalis does apply the best practice provision to the contracts of all other members as well as future members of the Board of Management.

The general standards and values relating to our business activities are set out in the General Code of Business Conduct and the Supplier Code of Conduct. In these codes the main principles are laid down on how employees and suppliers of Boskalis should conduct themselves with regard to, for example, legislation and regulations, human rights, anti-corruption, competition, the environment, staff and quality. Both codes can be found on the company's website. The General Code of Business Conduct and the Supplier Code of Conduct were revised in early 2014 in line with the periodical evaluation as set out in these documents. In addition, the core values and rules for safety at work are set out in our safety program, NINA (No Injuries No Accidents). The Board of Management regularly stresses the importance of complying with the General Code of Business Conduct and the NINA principles. The Board of Management also provides employees with the opportunity to report any alleged irregularities of a general, operational or financial nature to an independent confidential counselor, without jeopardizing their legal position.
COMPLIANCE
The Dutch Corporate Governance Code (the "Code") applies to all Dutch companies listed on the stock exchange and comprises a code of conduct for governance best practice. This Code includes both specific principles and best practice provisions, as well as guidelines for their proper supervision.

The composition and size of the Board of Management are based on the profile and strategy of the company. The expertise, experience and various competencies of the members of the Board of Management should contribute to this profile and strategy. In the year under review the combination of these elements resulted in the four members of the current Board of Management being male, meaning that the Board of Management, partly due to the nature of the company, is a reflection of the majority of company's employee population. When drafting the profile for new members of the Board of Management emphasis will be placed on diversity in view of the objective of achieving a balanced gender representation on the Board of Management.
The composition and size of the Supervisory Board are also based on the company's profile and strategy. As stated in the Profile drawn up by the Board of Management, the expertise, experience and various competencies of members of the Supervisory Board should contribute to proper supervision of the company's management and general performance. In the year under review, the combination of these elements resulted in the six members of the current Supervisory Board being male. In view of the objective to achieve gender balance, the Supervisory Board has added to the Profile that every effort will be made to achieve a balanced composition, where possible in terms of both age and gender. The Supervisory Board has the specific objective of appointing a female member to its ranks per 2015.

ANNUAL REPORT 2014 ­ BOSKALIS

Boskalis subscribes to the notion that a sound and transparent system of checks and balances is key to maintaining confidence in companies operating on the capital market. Boskalis believes clarity and openness in accountability and supervision are the cornerstones of good management and entrepreneurship.

For appointments during the reporting year, the Supervisory Board took into account the restrictions on supervisory roles at large public and private limited companies and foundations, as well as the new law for agreements between the company and members of the Board of Management.

As required since the introduction of the Code in 2004, Boskalis published an `Apply or Explain' report that sets out how the principles and best practice provisions are applied at Boskalis.

The Corporate Governance Declaration can be found on the website www.boskalis.com/corporategovernance.

58
OUTLOOK
For this year and based on current insights, no major changes are expected in the Dredging & Inland Infra and Towage markets relative to 2014. Based on the current order book, the Dredging fleet utilization levels are expected to be good. The outlook for Offshore Energy is mixed, with long-term contracts and work already contracted expected to provide an important degree of stability, whilst the spot market-related Transport activities and Subsea Services are experiencing pressure on utilization levels and margins. The project-based nature of a significant part of our activities makes it difficult to give a specific quantitative forecast for the full-year result early on in the year. In light of this we are currently unable to provide quantitative guidance with regard to the 2015 full-year result. However, it is already clear that the contribution from possible exceptional items will be substantially lower in 2015 than the EUR 200 million contributed to EBIT in 2014. Capital expenditure in 2015 is expected to be EUR 250-275 million and will be financed from the company's own cash flow. Boskalis has a very sound financial position and the solvency ratio now exceeds 53%. The high result and lower net debt position has reduced the net debt to EBITDA ratio to 0.7.
A cutter suction dredger deepening and widening a navigation channel in Qatar

report of the board of management

ANNUAL REPORT 2014 ­ BOSKALIS

59
STATEMENT OF DIRECTORS' RESPONSIBILITIES
The Board of Management of Royal Boskalis Westminster N.V. hereby declares, in accordance with article 5:25c of the Dutch Financial Supervision Act, that to the best of its knowledge:
(1)the financial statements, which have been prepared in accordance with the applicable standards for preparing financial statements and as included on pages 61 to 126 of the Annual Report, provide a true and fair view of the assets, liabilities and financial position as at 31 December 2013 as well as the profit or loss of Royal Boskalis Westminster N.V. and all the business undertakings included in the consolidation;
(2)the Annual Report provides a true and fair view of the condition, the business performance during the financial year of Royal Boskalis Westminster N.V. and the companies associated with it whose details are included in the financial statements, as at the balance sheet date of 31 December 2014;
(3)the Annual Report provides a description of the material risks faced by the company.
Papendrecht / Sliedrecht, 11 March 2015
Board of Management dr. P.A.M. Berdowski, chairman T.L. Baartmans J.H. Kamps, CFO F.A. Verhoeven

ANNUAL REPORT 2014 ­ BOSKALIS

ANNUAL REPORT 2014 ­ BOSKALIS

boskalis financial statements 2014

60

61
BOSKALIS FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2014

ANNUAL REPORT 2014 ­ BOSKALIS

62
TABLE OF CONTENTS

Consolidated income statement

64

Consolidated statement of recognized and unrecognized income and expenses

65

Consolidated balance sheet

66

Consolidated statement of cash flows

67

Consolidated statement of changes in equity

68

Explanatory notes to the consolidated financial statements

70

1.

General

70

2.

Compliance with international financial reporting standards

70

2.1

Compliance statement

70

2.2

New and revised standards

70

2.3

New standards and interpretations not yet adopted

71

3.

Principles of financial reporting

71

3.1

Format and valuation

71

3.2

Consolidation

71

3.3

Foreign currencies

72

3.4

Derivatives and hedging

73

3.5

Impairment

73

3.6

Intangible assets

74

3.7

Property, plant and equipment

74

3.8

Strategic investments

75

3.9

Non-current receivables

75

3.10

Financial instruments available for sale

75

3.11

Inventories

75

3.12

Due from and due to customers

75

3.13

Trade and other receivables

75

3.14

Cash and cash equivalents

75

3.15

Share capital

75

3.16

Interest bearing borrowings

76

3.17

Employee benefits

76

3.18

Provisions

76

3.19

Trade and other payables

77

3.20

Assets held for sale

77

3.21

Revenue

77

3.22

Other income and other expenses

77

3.23

Raw materials, consumables, services and contracted work

77

3.24

Personnel expenses

77

3.25

Lease payments

77

3.26

Finance income and costs

78

3.27

Share in result of joint ventures and associated companies

78

3.28

Taxation / deferred income tax assets and liabilities

78

3.29

Profit per share

78

3.30

Dividends

78

3.31

Determination of fair value

78

3.32

Consolidated statements of cash flows

79

3.33

First application of IFRS 10 and IFRS 11

80

4.

Segment reporting

83

4.1

Operational segments

84

5.

Business combinations and assets held for sale

84

5.1

Acquisition Fairmount

84

5.2

Cooperation with SAAM

85

5.3

Disposal group

86

6.

Revenue

86

7.

Other income and other expenses

87

8.

Raw materials, consumables, services and contracted work

87

9.

Personnel expenses

87

10.

Finance income and expenses

88

11.

Taxation

88

12.

Income tax receivable and payable

89

13.

Deferred income tax assets and liabilities

89

14.

Intangible assets

91

14.1

Goodwill

92

14.2

Other intangible assets

93

15.

Property, plant and equipment

93

16.

Joint ventures and Associated companies

94

17.

Non-current financial assets

96

17.1

Other non-current receivables

96

ANNUAL REPORT 2014 ­ BOSKALIS

17.2

Financial instruments available for sale

18.

Inventories

19.

Due from and due to customers

20.

Trade and other receivables

21.

Cash and cash equivalents

22.

Group equity

22.1

Issued capital and share premium

22.2

Retained earnings

22.3

Dividends

22.4

Earnings per share

22.5

Other reserves

23.

Interest-bearing borrowings

24.

Employee benefits

24.1

Defined benefit pension schemes

24.2

Defined Contribution pension schemes

25.

Provisions

26.

Trade and other payables

27.

Financial instruments

27.1

Financial risk management

27.2

On-Balance financial instruments and fair value

27.3

Capital management

27.4

Other financial instruments

28.

Commitments and contingent liabilities

29.

Related parties

29.1

Identity of related parties

29.2

Related party transactions

29.3

Joint operations

Company income statement

Company balance sheet before profit appropriation

Statement of changes in shareholders' equity

1.

General

2.

Principles of financial reporting

2.1

Accounting policies

2.2

Format

2.3

Investments in Group Companies

2.4

Amounts due from Group Companies

2.5

Amounts due to Group Companies

2.6

Result of Group Company

3.

Investments in Group Companies

4.

Issued capital and share premium

5.

Other reserves

6.

Profit for the year

7.

Financial instruments

8.

Remuneration of the members of the board of management and members of the supervisory board

9.

Auditor remuneration

10.

Commitments and contingent liabilities

Other information

Independent auditor's report

63
96 97 97 97 97 98 98 98 99 99 99 101 102 102 106 106 106 106 107 112 114 114 114 115 115 118 119 120 120 121 122 122 122 122 122 122 122 122 122 123 123 123 124 124 124 124 126 128

ANNUAL REPORT 2014 ­ BOSKALIS

6644
CONSOLIDATED INCOME STATEMENT

(in thousands of EUR) OPERATING INCOME Revenue Other income
OPERATING EXPENSES
Raw materials, consumables, services and subcontracted work Personnel expenses Other expenses Depreciation, amortization and impairment losses
Revaluation of stake in associated company prior to business combination Share in result of joint ventures and associated companies (after taxation)
OPERATING RESULT
FINANCE INCOME AND COSTS
Finance income Finance costs
Profit before taxation
Income tax expense
NET GROUP PROFIT
Net group profit attributable to: Shareholders Non-controlling interests
Average number of shares
Earnings per share Diluted earnings per share

Note
[6] [7]

2014 2013 REVISED*

3,166,888 11,296
3,178,184

3,144,048 96,781
3,240,829

[8] [9] [14/15]
[16] [16]

- 1,774,745 - 513,991 - 293,514
- 2,582,250
56,411
652,345

- 2,034,791 - 507,797 - 4,701 - 293,787
- 2,841,076
22,716 40,956
463,425

[10]

10,100

4,541

[10]

- 46,054

- 49,929

- 35,954

- 45,388

616,391

418,037

[11]

- 124,163

- 52,756

492,228

365,281

[22.4]
[22.4] [22.4]

490,290 1,938
492,228

365,691 - 410
365,281

121,606,364
EUR 4.03 EUR 4.03

118,445,238
EUR 3.09 EUR 3.09

* For the revisions in previous year reference is made to note 2.2 in the accounting policies.

AANNNNUUAALL RREEPPOORRTT 22001144 ­- BBOOSSKKAALLIISS

This notes on pages 70 to 119 are an integral part of these consolidated financial statements.

6655
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF RECOGNIZED AND UNRECOGNIZED INCOME AND EXPENSES

(in thousands of EUR) NET GROUP PROFIT FOR THE REPORTING PERIOD

Note

ITEMS THAT WILL NEVER BE RECLASSIFIED TO PROFIT OR LOSS

Actuarial gains and losses and asset limitation on defined benefit pension schemes

[24.1]

Income tax on unrecognized income and expenses that will never be reclassified to profit or

loss

[13]

Total unrecognized income and expenses for the period that will never be reclassified to profit

or loss, net of income tax

ITEMS THAT ARE OR MAY BE RECLASSIFIED SUBSEQUENTLY TO PROFIT OR LOSS
Currency translation differences on foreign operations Currency difference related to disposal of share in joint venture Movement in fair value of cash flow hedges Movement in fair value of available for sale instruments Income tax on unrecognized income and expenses that are or may be reclassified subsequently to profit or loss Total unrecognized income and expenses for the period which are or may be reclassified to profit or loss

[27.2] [13]

UNRECOGNIZED INCOME AND EXPENSES FOR THE REPORTING PERIOD, AFTER TAXATION TOTAL RECOGNIZED AND UNRECOGNIZED INCOME AND EXPENSES FOR THE REPORTING PERIOD

ATTRIBUTABLE TO:
Shareholders Non-controlling interests
TOTAL RECOGNIZED AND UNRECOGNIZED INCOME AND EXPENSES FOR THE REPORTING PERIOD

2014 2013 REVISED*

492,228

365,281

- 63,542 10,272
- 53,270

64,776 - 8,853 55,923

191,166 9,583 5,505
48,571
- 313
254,512
201,242
693,470

- 50,241 - 257
- 15,177 -
- 5,166
- 70,841
- 14,918
350,363

691,532 1,938
693,470

352,040 - 1,677
350,363

* For the revisions in previous year reference is made to note 2.2 in the accounting policies.

AANNNNUUAALL RREEPPOORRTT 22001144 ­- BOSKALIS

This notes on pages 70 to 119 are an integral part of these consolidated financial statements.

666
CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEET

(in thousands of EUR)
NON-CURRENT ASSETS
Intangible assets Property, plant and equipment Investments in associated companies Non-current financial assets Derivatives Deferred income tax assets
CURRENT ASSETS
Inventories Due from customers Trade and other receivables Derivatives Income tax receivable Cash and cash equivalents Assets disposal group
TOTAL ASSETS
GROUP EQUITY
Issued capital Share premium Other reserves Retained earnings
SHAREHOLDERS' EQUITY NON-CONTROLLING INTERESTS TOTAL GROUP EQUITY
NON-CURRENT LIABILITIES
Interest-bearing borrowings Employee benefits Deferred income tax liabilities Provisions Derivatives
CURRENT LIABILITIES
Due to customers Interest-bearing borrowings Bank overdrafts Income tax payable Trade and other payables Provisions Derivatives Liabilities disposal group
TOTAL LIABILITIES
TOTAL GROUP EQUITY AND LIABILITIES

31 DECEMBER

1 JANUARY

Note

2014 2013 REVISED* 2013 REVISED*

[14]

517,668

565,602

422,661

[15]

2,743,888

2,626,830

1,809,100

[16]

775,467

445,361

730,598

[17]

299,026

12,674

16,491

[27]

3,013

547

819

[13]

19,187

5,979

23,560

4,358,249

3,656,993

3,003,229

[18]

103,076

97,816

76,381

[19]

167,494

251,362

213,789

[20]

631,997

683,317

761,297

[27]

6,316

12,184

15,571

[12]

11,558

8,797

14,244

[21]

395,952

330,351

319,171

[5.3]

237,985

280,387

-

1,554,378

1,664,214

1,400,453

5,912,627

5,321,207

4,403,682

[22]

98,350

96,212

85,827

[22]

537,245

538,407

229,452

[22]

422,744

232,915

202,599

[22]

2,093,598

1,657,703

1,380,127

3,151,937

2,525,237

1,898,005

7,877

6,922

9,245

[22]

3,159,814

2,532,159

1,907,250

[23]

822,817

965,035

403,558

[24]

76,060

13,757

105,638

[13]

26,074

43,101

58,466

[25]

28,591

26,202

22,316

[27]

7,684

44,468

17,245

961,226

1,092,563

607,223

[19]

283,733

253,622

318,394

[23]

78,123

4,029

352,201

[21]

2,371

5,709

4,724

[12]

195,162

142,481

124,550

[26]

1,160,581

1,142,709

1,066,833

[25]

3,776

4,659

2,642

[27]

13,595

24,919

19,865

[5.3]

54,246

118,357

-

1,791,587

1,696,485

1,889,209

2,752,813

2,789,048

2,496,432

5,912,627

5,321,207

4,403,682

* For the revisions in previous year reference is made to note 2.2 in the accounting policies.
This notes on pages 70 to 119 are an integral part of these consolidated financial statements.

AANNNNUUAALL RREEPPOORRTT 22001144 ­- BBOOSSKKAALLIISS

6677
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF CASH FLOWS

(in thousands of EUR)
CASH FLOWS FROM OPERATING ACTIVITIES
Net group profit Depreciation, amortization and impairment losses Cash flow
Adjustments for:
Finance income and costs Income tax expense Results from disposals Movement provisions and employee benefits Movement in inventories Movement trade and other receivables Movement trade and other payables Movement due from and due to customers Share in result of associated companies, including revaluation result Cash generated from operating activities
Dividends received Interest received Interest paid Income taxes paid Net cash from operating activities
CASH FLOWS FROM INVESTING ACTIVITIES
Purchases of property, plant and equipment, excluding capitalized borrowing costs Proceeds from disposals of property, plant and equipment Investment in group company, net of cash acquired Investment in share in Fugro N.V. Disposal of joint venture Disposal of (a part of) group companies, net of cash disposed Acquisition of (a part of) joint venture Repayment of outstanding loan by joint venture Net investments in associated companies prior to business combination Net cash used in investing activities
CASH FLOWS FROM FINANCING ACTIVITIES
Proceeds from loans Repayment of loans Transaction costs paid related to raising financing Proceeds from issue of share capital Purchase of own shares Acquisition of non-controlling interests Dividends paid to the Company's shareholders Dividends paid to non-controlling interests Net cash used in / from financing activities
NET INCREASE IN CASH AND CASH EQUIVALENTS
Net cash and cash equivalents as at 1 January
Net increase in cash and cash equivalents Currency translation differences
MOVEMENT IN NET CASH AND CASH EQUIVALENTS NET CASH AND CASH EQUIVALENTS AS AT 31 DECEMBER

Note
[15] [5.1] [17.2] [5.3] [5.2] [16]
[22] [22]
[21] [21]

2014 2013 REVISED*

492,228 293,514 785,742

365,281 293,787 659,068

35,954 124,163 - 11,296
-3 - 454 35,744 - 69,963 109,599 - 56,411 953,075
26,964 7,034
- 42,954 - 92,042 852,077

45,388 52,756 - 82,881 - 42,468
9,892 128,311
33,711 - 96,007 - 63,672 644,098
18,752 4,541
- 39,158 - 34,130 594,103

- 266,028 25,531
- 43,841 - 242,364
- 26,292
4,583
- 548,411

- 244,784 67,994
- 398,677 -
145,661 40,538 - 20,009 7,870 - 65,248
- 466,655

318,125 - 515,749
- 3,610 -
- 27,724 -
- 37,108 - 1,607
- 267,673 35,993
354,304
35,993 5,139
41,132 395,436

1,336,736 - 1,671,035
- 14,395 320,000
- 4,482 - 43,237 - 2,427 - 78,840 48,608
313,312
48,608 - 7,616 40,992 354,304

* For the revisions in previous year reference is made to note 2.2 in the accounting policies.

AANNNNUUAALL RREEPPOORRTT 22001144 ­- BOSKALIS

This notes on pages 70 to 119 are an integral part of these consolidated financial statements.

6688
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF CHANGES IN EQUITY

(in thousands of EUR)
Note
Balance as at 1 January 2014
TOTAL RECOGNIZED AND UNRECOGNIZED INCOME AND EXPENSES FOR THE PERIOD
Net group profit for the period Unrecognized income and expenses for the period Defined benefit plan actuarial gains (losses) and asset limitation, after taxation Foreign currency translation differences for foreign operations, after taxation Effective cash flow hedges, after taxation Realization through sale of underlying asset Revaluation of share in Fugro N.V. Reclass result of new joint venture to revaluation reserve Movement other legal reserve Total unrecognized income and expenses for the period
Total recognized and unrecognized income and expenses for the period
TRANSACTIONS WITH SHAREHOLDERS, RECOGNIZED DIRECTLY IN EQUITY
Purchase own shares
DISTRIBUTIONS TO SHAREHOLDERS
Cash dividends Stock dividends
Total transactions with shareholders
Balance as at 31 December 2014

ISSUED CAPITAL
[22.1]

SHARE PREMIUM
[22.1]

OTHER RESERVES
[22.5]

RETAINED EARNINGS
[22.2]

NON-

CONTROLLING

TOTAL

INTEREST

TOTAL GROUP EQUITY

96,212

538,407

232,915 1,657,703 2,525,237

6,922 2,532,159

490,290

490,290

1,938

492,228

- 53,270
202,382 3,559
- 1,936 -
4,405 34,689 189,829

-
1,936 48,571
- 4,405 - 34,689
11,413

- 53,270
202,382 3,559 -
48,571
201,242

-
623 -
623

- 53,270
203,005 3,559 -
48,571
201,865

189,829

501,703

691,532

2,561

694,093

-

-

-

- 27,724

- 27,724

-

- 27,724

2,138
2,138
98,350

- 1,162
- 1,162
537,245

-

- 37,108

- 37,108

-

- 976

-

-

- 65,808

- 64,832

422,744 2,093,598 3,151,937

- 1,606 -

- 38,714 -

- 1,606

- 66,438

7,877 3,159,814

* For the revisions in previous year reference is made to note 2.2 in the accounting policies.

AANNNNUUAALL RREEPPOORRTT 22001144 ­- BBOOSSKKAALLIISS

This notes on pages 70 to 119 are an integral part of these consolidated financial statements.

6699

(in thousands of EUR)
Note
Balance as at 1 January 2013
Adjustments due to the first application of IFRS 11
Balance as at 1 January 2013 REVISED*
TOTAL RECOGNIZED AND UNRECOGNIZED INCOME AND EXPENSES FOR THE PERIOD
Net group profit for the period
Unrecognized income and expenses for the period Defined benefit plan actuarial gains (losses) and asset limitation, after taxation Foreign currency translation differences for foreign operations, after taxation Effective cash flow hedges, after taxation Revaluation existing participation prior to business combination with Dockwise Movement other legal reserve Total unrecognized income and expenses for the period
Total recognized and unrecognized income and expenses for the period
TRANSACTIONS WITH SHAREHOLDERS, RECOGNIZED DIRECTLY IN EQUITY
Issue of ordinary shares
Distributions to shareholders Cash dividends Stock dividends
Movements in interests in subsidiaries Non-controlling interest in Dockwise Ltd. Non-controlling interest in Dockwise Ltd.
Total transactions with shareholders
Balance as at 31 December 2013 REVISED*

ISSUED CAPITAL
[22.1] 85,827
85,827

SHARE PREMIUM
[22.1] 229,452
229,452

OTHER RESERVES
[22.5] 202,599
202,599

RETAINED EARNINGS
[22.2] 1,380,127
1,380,127

NON-

CONTROLLING

TOTAL

INTEREST

1,898,005 -
1,898,005

18,147 - 8,902 9,245

TOTAL GROUP EQUITY
1,916,152 - 8,902
1,907,250

365,691

365,691

- 410

365,281

96,983
- 57,872 - 11,158
22,716 - 20,353 30,316

- 41,060
-
- 22,716 20,353 - 43,423

55,923
- 57,872 - 11,158
- 13,107

30,316

322,268

352,584

514

56,437

-

- 57,872

-

- 11,158

-

-

-

-

514

- 12,593

104

352,688

7,758

310,127

-

-

317,885

-

317,885

2,627

- 1,172

-

- 43,237

- 43,237

-

- 1,455

-

- 2,427 -

- 45,664 -

-
10,385
96,212

-
308,955
538,407

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

- 44,692

274,648

232,915 1,657,703 2,525,237

4,482 - 4,482

4,482 - 4,482

- 2,427

272,221

6,922 2,532,159

* For the revisions in previous year reference is made to note 2.2 in the accounting policies.

AANNNNUUAALL RREEPPOORRTT 22001144 ­- BOSKALIS

This notes on pages 70 to 119 are an integral part of these consolidated financial statements.

7700
EXPLANATORY NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

1. GENERAL
Royal Boskalis Westminster N.V. is a leading global services provider operating in the dredging, dry and maritime infrastructure and maritime services sectors. Royal Boskalis Westminster N.V. (the `company') has its registered office in Sliedrecht, the Netherlands, and its head office is located in Papendrecht, the Netherlands. The company is a public limited company listed on the Euronext Amsterdam stock exchange.
The consolidated financial statements of Royal Boskalis Westminster N.V. for 2014 include the company and group companies (hereinafter referred to jointly as the `Group' and individually as the `Group entities') and the interests of the Group in associated companies and entities over which it has joint control. The consolidated financial statements were prepared by the Board of Management and have been signed on 11 March 2015. The financial statements 2014 will be submitted for approval to the Annual General Meeting of Shareholders of 12 May 2015.
2. COMPLIANCE WITH INTERNATIONAL FINANCIAL REPORTING STANDARDS

Joint Arrangements
IFRS 11 Joint Arrangements outlines the accounting of joint ventures (disclosed as ` joint arrangements' in the new standard). Most important change is that for joint arrangements the option of applying the "equity" method or proportional consolidation is removed; only the equity method can be applied for joint ventures and joint operations should be consolidated proportionally.
For joint operations, mainly project driven construction consortiums, the Group has to account for its share in the assets, liabilities, income and expenses of these joint ventures (comparable to proportional consolidation).
The adoption of this standard does neither affect the net group profit attributable to shareholders nor the equity attributable to shareholders.
The share of the Group in the result of the strategic partnership primarily concerns the share in the operating result. As a result, the presentation of the income statement has been adjusted. The share in the result of associated companies and joint ventures, after finance income and costs and income tax, is presented as part of the operating result.

2.1 COMPLIANCE STATEMENT
The consolidated financial statements and the accompanying explanatory notes have been prepared in accordance with the International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS), as adopted by the European Union, and with Part 9 of Book 2 of the Dutch Civil Code.
2.2 NEW AND REVISED STANDARDS
Except as described below, the accounting principles applied to the valuation of assets and liabilities and the determination of results are the same as the valuation principles applied to the 2013 consolidated financial statements. The new and revised standards require a revision of prior year financial statements. As a result, the Group has presented the consolidated income statement, the consolidated statement of recognized and unrecognized income and expenses, the consolidated balance sheet and the consolidated cash flow statement accordingly.
Consolidation
IFRS 10 Consolidated Financial Statements replaces the requirements regarding consolidating as described in IAS 27 Consolidated and Separate Financial Statements. IFRS 10 provides a single consolidation model in which ownership determines the requirement of consolidation of several types of investees. The adoption of this standard does not affect the Group.

The impact of the adoption of this standard and adjustments of the income statement are quantified in the consolidated income statement and consolidated balance sheet as shown in paragraph 3.33.
The revised consolidated current and prior year balance sheet are included, as well as the prior year opening balance sheet.
Disclosure of Interests in Other Entities
IFRS12 Disclosure of interests in other entities includes the disclosure requirements for subsidiaries, associates and joint arrangements, as well as unconsolidated structured entities. Accordingly, the first application of IFRS10 and IFRS11 and the adjustments in IAS28R, the requirements of IFRS12 are disclosed in the financial statements 2014
Information on the recoverable amount regarding impairment losses
This adjustment in IAS 36 `Impairment of Assets' requires that the recoverable amount of the assets or cash generating units in which an impairment loss or reversal of an impairment loss was accounted for is disclosed. The adjustment is applied as of 1 January 2014.

AANNNNUUAALL RREEPPOORRTT 22001144 ­- BBOOSSKKAALLIISS

7711

2.3 NEW STANDARDS AND INTERPRETATIONS NOT YET ADOPTED
The following standards, amendments to standards and interpretations, are not effective in 2014 and / or not yet endorsed by the European Committee. They have therefore not been applied in these consolidated financial statements. Based on the current insights, the Group does not plan to adopt these standards and interpretations early and the extent of the possible impact has not been determined. The most important possible changes for the Group can be summarized as follows:
 IFRIC21 `Levies' provides guidance on when to recognize a liability for a levy imposed by a government. Levies are liabilities in accordance with laws and legislations, other than corporate income taxes and fines. No liability is recognized for levies which are accountable to future periods. This interpretation is applicable as from 1 January 2015. The adoption will have no impact on the shareholders' equity and result of the Group.
 IFRS9 Financial Instruments; classification and measurement, has an effective date for annual periods starting on or after 1 January 2018. The EU has not yet adopted this Standard.
 IFRS15 `Revenue from Contracts in Customers' provides a framework for recognition of income and will replace the current standards IAS 18 Revenue and IAS 11 Construction Contracts. The Standard has an effective date for annual periods starting on or after 1 January 2017. The EU has not yet adopted this Standard.
3. PRINCIPLES OF FINANCIAL REPORTING
The principles for financial reporting subsequently disclosed are applied consistently for all periods included in these consolidated financial statements and have been applied consistently by the Group entities.
The presentation of last year's figures has been modified to be consistent with current financial year's presentation.
3.1 FORMAT AND VALUATION
The consolidated financial statements are presented in euros, the Group's functional currency. The consolidated financial statements are based upon historical cost to the extent that IFRS does not prescribe another accounting method for specific items. Preparing financial statements means that estimates and assumptions made by the management partially determine the recognized amounts under assets, liabilities, revenues and costs. The estimates and assumptions are mainly related to the measurement of intangible assets (including goodwill), property, plant and equipment, results on completion of work in progress, pension liabilities, taxation, provisions and financial instruments. Judgements made by management within the application of IFRS with a material effect on the financial statements are the qualifications of investments as Group companies, joint operations, joint

ventures or associated companies. Details are incorporated in the explanatory notes to these items. Next to the elements already explained in the explanatory notes to the financial statements, there are no other critical valuation judgements in the application of the principles that need further explanation. The estimates made and the related assumptions are based on management's experience and understanding and the development of external factors that can be considered reasonable under the given circumstances. Estimates and assumptions are subject to alterations as a result of changes to facts and understanding and may have different outcomes per reporting period. Any differences are recognized in the balance sheet or income statement, depending on the nature of the item. The actual results may deviate from results reported previously on the basis of estimates and assumptions. Unless stated otherwise, all amounts in the notes in these financial statements are stated in thousands of euros.
3.2 CONSOLIDATION
The Group consolidates companies over which control is exercised, when the Group is exposed, or has the rights, to variable returns from its involvement with the investee and has the ability to affect those returns. Subsidiaries are included in the consolidation for 100%, taking into account any minority share. For joint arrangements the Group accounts for its specific rights and obligations. Strategic investments (joint ventures and associated companies) are accounted for using the equity method.
3.2.1 GROUP COMPANIES
Group companies are included in the consolidation for 100% on the basis of existing control, taking into account any minority interests. The figures of Group companies are included in the consolidated financial statements from the date that control commences until the date that control ceases.
When the Group loses control over a Group Company, it derecognises the assets and liabilities of the subsidiary, any non-controlling interests and the other components of equity related to the subsidiary. Any resulting gain or loss is recognised in the income statement. If the Group retains any interest in the former subsidiary, then such interest is measured at fair value at the date that control is lost. Subsequently it is accounted for as a joint venture or as an associated company depending on the level and nature of influence retained.
3.2.2 JOINT OPERATIONS
When the group has common control over and the Group is entitled to the rights to the assets and is liable for the liabilities of the entity, this entity is classified as a joint operation. Common control has been laid down in a contract and strategic decisions on financial and operational policy are taken by unanimous agreement. Joint operations mainly relate to project driven construction consortiums.

AANNNNUUAALL RREEPPOORRTT 22001144 ­- BOSKALIS

7722

3.2.3 JOINT VENTURES AND ASSOCIATED COMPANIES
The Group divides strategic investments in joint ventures and associated companies based on the type and degree of influence.
Joint ventures are those entities over which the Group has joint control, whereby this control has been laid down in a contract and strategic decisions on financial and operational policy are taken by unanimous agreement. The group is only entitled to the net assets of the joint ventures.
Shareholdings that are not eligible for consolidation based on control, but where there is significant influence on the financial and operating policy, are recognized under associated companies. Significant influence is presumed to exist when the Group holds 20 percent or more of the voting power of another entity.
The consolidated financial statements include the Group's share in the result of associated companies, after adjustments to align the accounting policies with those of the Group, from the date that significant influence commences until the date that significant influence ceases (see note 3.8).
3.2.4 ELIMINATION OF TRANSACTION UPON CONSOLIDATION
Intragroup receivables and payables, as well as intragroup transactions, finance income and expenses and unrealized results within the Group and with associated companies, joint operations and joint ventures, are eliminated in preparing the consolidated financial statements to the extent of the Group's share in the entity.
3.2.5 BUSINESS COMBINATION AND ACQUISITIONS OF NON-CONTROLLING INTERESTS
Business combinations are accounted for using the acquisition method as at the acquisition date, which is the date on which control is transferred to the Group.
Control exists when the Group has:
 the ability to direct relevant activities by its voting power;  the rights to variable returns from its involvement with the
investee, and  the ability to affect those returns.
When the Group acquires the majority of the voting rights or similar rights in an entity, all relevant facts and circumstances will be involved in the assessment whether the Group has power over the investee. In assessing whether control exists, the Group takes into consideration potential voting rights that are currently exercisable.

The Group measures goodwill at the acquisition date as:
 the fair value of the consideration transferred; plus  the recognized amount of any non-controlling interests in
the acquiree; plus  if the business combination is achieved in stages, the fair
value of the existing equity interest in the acquiree; less  the net recognized amount (generally fair value) of the
identifiable assets acquired and liabilities assumed.
When the excess is negative, a bargain purchase gain is recognized immediately in the income statement.
The consideration transferred does not include amounts related to the settlement of preexisting relationships. Such amounts are recognized in the income statement. Costs related to the acquisition, other than those associated with the issue of debt or equity securities, that the Group incurs in connection with a business combination are expensed as incurred.
Accounting for acquisitions of non-controlling interests
Acquisitions of non-controlling interests are accounted for as transactions with owners in their capacity as owners and therefore no goodwill is recognized as a result of such transactions. A newly acquired non-controlling interest is valued at either the fair value of the acquired assets and liabilities or the fair value of the consideration paid or received, determined per business combination.
3.3 FOREIGN CURRENCIES
The assets and liabilities of foreign Group companies and joint ventures that are denominated in functional currencies other than the euro have been translated at the exchange rates as at the end of the reporting period. The income statement items of the foreign Group companies and joint ventures concerned have been translated at average exchange rates, which approximate the applicable exchange rates at transaction settlement date. Resulting currency translation differences are added or charged directly to the currency translation reserve in group equity. Exchange rate differences as a result of operational transactions are included in the consolidated income statement of the reporting period. At the end of each reporting period, monetary items denominated in foreign currencies are translated at the rates prevailing at that date. The foreign currency gain or loss on monetary items is the difference between amortized cost in the functional currency at the beginning of the year, adjusted for effective interest and payments during the year, and the amortized cost in foreign currency translated at the exchange rate at the end of the year. Non-monetary items that are measured in terms of historical cost in a foreign currency are translated using the exchange rate at the date of the transaction. Foreign currency differences on non-current receivables, loans and other

AANNNNUUAALL RREEPPOORRTT 22001144 ­- BBOOSSKKAALLIISS

7733

borrowings are recognized as finance income and expenses, and the ineffective portion of effective cash flow hedges) are

except for the foreign currency differences on loans which are included in the income statement for the reporting period.

part of a net investment hedge; other foreign currency

Results from settled effective cash flow hedges and the

differences as a result of transactions are recognized in the movements in the market value of ineffective cash flow hedges

related items within the operating result.

insofar these relate to non-current receivables, loans and other

borrowings are recognized as finance income and finance

Joint ventures and associates with a functional currency other than the functional currency of the Group are translated according to the above mentioned method, taking into account that assets and liabilities of these interests are not consolidated.

expenses and otherwise in the related items within operating result. The purchase or sale of financial instruments is generally recorded at transaction rate. Derivatives are stated at fair value; attributable transaction costs are recognized in the income statement as incurred. Subsequent to initial recognition, derivatives are measured at fair value, and

3.4 DERIVATIVES AND HEDGING

changes therein are accounted for as described.

It is the policy of the Group to use cash flow hedges to cover

all operational currency risks that mainly relate to future cash flows from contracts that are highly probable to be realized and that are denominated in currencies other than the relevant functional currency. Fuel price risks and interest rate risks in future cash flows can be hedged from time to time using specific derivatives.

3.5 IMPAIRMENT
The book value of the assets of the Group, excluding inventories, assets arising from employee benefits and deferred income tax assets is reviewed at each balance sheet date to determine whether there is any indication of impairment. If any such indication exists, an estimate of the realizable amount of the asset is made. For goodwill, assets

Hedge accounting is applied to the majority of cash flow hedges as follows. On initial designation of the hedge, the Group formally documents the relationship between the hedging instrument(s) and hedged item(s), including the risk

with an indefinite useful life, the realizable amount is estimated annually. An impairment loss is recognized when the book value of an asset or its cash-generating unit to which it belongs exceeds its realizable amount.

management objectives and strategy in undertaking the hedge transaction, together with the methods that will be used to assess the effectiveness of the hedging relationship. The Group makes an assessment, both at the inception of the hedge relationship as well as on an ongoing basis, whether the hedging instruments are expected to be "effective" in offsetting

Impairment losses are recognized in the income statement. Impairment losses recognized in respect of cash generating units are allocated first to reduce the book value of any goodwill allocated to cash generating units (or groups of units) and then proportionally deducted from the book value of the

the changes in the fair value or cash flows of the respective assets of the unit (or group of units).

hedged items during the period for which the hedge is

designated, and whether the actual results of each hedge are The realizable amount of receivables accounted for at

within a range of 80 - 125 percent. For a cash flow hedge of amortized cost is calculated as the present value of expected

a forecast transaction, the transaction should be highly

future cash flows, discounted at the effective interest rate. For

probable to occur and should present an exposure to

the other assets or cash generating segments, the realizable

variations in cash flows that could ultimately affect reported amount equals the fair value less costs to sell or value in use,

net income.

whichever is higher. In determining the value in use, the

present value of estimated future cash flows is calculated using

The application of hedge accounting means that movements in a discount rate that reflects current market assessments of the

the market value of cash flow hedges not yet settled ­

time value of money and the risks specific to the asset.

including results realized on the "rolling forward" of existing

hedges as a result of differences between the duration of the Indications of impairment of floating and other construction

hedges concerned and the underlying cash flows ­ will be

material are based on long-term expectations for the utilization

directly added or charged to the hedging reserve in group

of equipment or interchangeable equipment. If there is any

equity, taking taxation into account. If a cash flow hedge

indication of impairment, the realizable value of the asset

added or charged to the group equity either expires, is closed concerned is determined on the basis of the net realizable

or is settled, or the hedge relation with the underlying cash

value or present value of the estimated future cash flows.

flows can no longer be considered effective, the accumulated

result will continue to be recognized in group equity as long

AANNNNUUAALL RREEPPOORRTT 22001144 ­- BOSKALIS

as the underlying cash flow is still expected to take place.

When the underlying cash flow actually takes place, the

accumulated result is included directly in the income statement.

Movements in the market value of cash flow hedges to which

no hedge accounting is applied (ineffective cash flow hedges

7744

In respect of goodwill no impairment losses are reversed. An 3.7 PROPERTY, PLANT AND EQUIPMENT

impairment loss in respect of a receivable accounted for at

Property, plant and equipment are stated at cost price less

amortized cost is reversed if the reversal can be related

accumulated depreciation calculated from the date of

objectively to an event occurring after the impairment loss was commissioning and accumulated impairment losses. The cost

recorded. For other assets, impairment losses are reversed if the estimates used to determine the realizable amount give cause to do so, but only to the extent that the book value of the asset does not exceed the book value net of depreciation or amortization that would have applied if no impairment loss had been recognized.

price is based on the purchase price and / or the internally generated cost based on directly attributable expenses. The depreciation, taking into account an assumed residual value, is calculated over the estimated remaining useful lives assigned to the various categories of assets. Modifications and capacity enhancing investments are also capitalized at cost

and amortized over the remaining life of the asset. Property,

3.6 INTANGIBLE ASSETS

plant and equipment under construction are included in the

Goodwill arises upon acquiring Group companies and joint balance sheet on the basis of installments paid, including

operations and is calculated as the difference between the

interest during construction. When property, plant and

acquisition price and the fair value of the assets and liabilities equipment consists of components with different useful lives,

acquired, according to the accounting principles of Royal

they are accounted for as separate items.

Boskalis Westminster N.V. The goodwill has been allocated to

the cash generating unit representing the lowest level within Buildings are depreciated over periods ranging from ten to

the Group at which the goodwill is monitored for internal

thirty years. The depreciation periods of components of the

management purposes, which does not exceed the level of the majority of the floating and other construction materials ranges

Group's operating units. Goodwill and other intangible assets from five to thirty years. Furnitures and other fixed assets are

depreciated over a period between three and ten years. Land

are capitalized net of accumulated amortization and accumulated impairment losses. Amortization of trademarks valued at acquisition takes place over four years, the amortization of customer portfolios and contracts valued at acquisition takes place over seven to twenty-two years. Goodwill and intangible assets with an infinite useful life are not consistently amortized, but are tested for impairment every

is not depreciated. The wear of dredging equipment is highly dependent on unpredictable project-specific combinations of soil conditions, material to be processed, maritime circumstances, and the intensity of the deployment of the equipment. As a result of this erratic and time-independent patterns, the maintenance and repair expenses for conserving the assets are charged to the income statement.

year or in case of an indication for impairment (see note 3.5).

Negative goodwill that may arise upon acquisition is added Methods for depreciation, useful life and residual value are

directly to the income statement. In respect of associated

reassessed at the end of each financial year and amended if

companies, the book value of goodwill is included in the book necessary.

value of the investment.

Leases in terms of which the Group assumes substantially all

Other intangible assets are capitalized only when it is

the risks and rewards of ownership are classified as finance

probable that future economic benefits embodied in an asset, leases. Upon initial recognition the leased asset classified as a

will flow to the Group and the cost of the asset can be reliably tangible fixed asset and is measured at an amount equal to

measured. Other intangible assets with a finite useful life are the lower of its fair value and the present value of the minimum

stated at cost less accumulated amortization and accumulated lease payments. Subsequent to initial recognition, the asset is

impairment losses.

accounted for in accordance with the accounting policy

applicable to that asset.

Expenditure on research activities, undertaken with the

prospect of gaining new scientific or technical knowledge and Other leases are operating leases and are not recognized in

understanding, is expensed as incurred.

the Group's consolidated balance sheet.

AANNNNUUAALL RREEPPOORRTT 22001144 ­- BBOOSSKKAALLIISS

7755

3.8 STRATEGIC INVESTMENTS

and incentives are carried in construction work in progress if

Strategic investments are initially recognized at cost including the goodwill determined at acquisition date. Subsequently strategic investments are accounted for using the equity

negotiations with the customer are in a sufficiently advanced stage. The cost price includes project costs, consisting of payroll costs, materials, costs of subcontracted work, rental

method, adjusted for differences with the accounting principles of the Group, less any accumulated impairment. When the Group's share of losses exceeds the book value of the strategic investments, the book value is reduced to zero and recognition of further losses is discontinued except to the extent that the Group has incurred legal or constructive obligations or made payments on behalf of the strategic investments.

charges and maintenance costs for the equipment used and other project costs. The rates used are based on the expected average occupation in the long run. The progress of a project is determined on the basis of the cost of the work done in relation to the expected cost price of the project as a whole. Profits are not recognized unless a reliable estimate can be made of the result on completion of the project. The balance of the value of work in progress, progress billings and advance payments is determined per project. For projects where the

3.9 NON-CURRENT RECEIVABLES
The non-current receivables are held on a long-term basis and/or until maturity and are carried at amortized cost. Accumulated impairment losses are deducted from the book value.

progress billings and advance payments exceed the value of work in progress, the balance is recognized under current liabilities instead of under current assets. The respective balance sheet items are "due from customers for work in progress" and "due to customers".

3.10 FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS AVAILABLE FOR SALE
Financial instruments available for sale include equity investments (certificates on shares) and are recognized initially at fair value increased with transaction costs. After first recognition, financial instruments available for sale are subsequently measured at fair value with unrealized gains or losses recognized in other comprehensive income. At derecognition, the cumulative gain or loss is recognised in the income statement. If there is objective evidence for an impairment, the cumulative loss is reclassified from the other comprehensive income to the income statement.
3.11 INVENTORIES
Inventories, which mainly consist of fuel, auxiliary materials and spare parts, are stated at the lower of cost and net realizable value. Net realizable value is the estimated selling price in the ordinary course of business, less the estimated costs of selling.
3.12 DUE FROM AND DUE TO CUSTOMERS
Due from and due to customers concerns the gross amount yet to be charged which is expected to be received from customers for contractual work performed up to the reporting date (hereinafter: "work in progress") and services rendered (mainly salvage work). Work in progress is valued at the cost price of the work performed, plus a part of the expected results upon completion of the project in proportion to the progress made and less progress billings, advances and potential provisions for losses. Provisions are recognized for expected losses on work in progress as soon as they are foreseen, and deducted from the cost price; if necessary, any profits already recognized are reversed. Revenues from additional work are included in the overall contract revenues if the client has accepted the sum involved in any way. Claims

Salvage work that is completed at the balance sheet date, but for which the proceeds are not yet finally determined between parties, is recognized at expected proceeds taking into account the estimation uncertainty less progress billings and advances. If the revenue of a completed salvage contract cannot be estimated reliably, revenue is recognized to the maximum of the extent of the recognized expenses. For expected losses on salvage work, provisions are recognized as soon as they are probable.
3.13 TRADE AND OTHER RECEIVABLES
Trade and other receivables are stated initially at fair value and subsequently at amortized cost less accumulated impairment losses, such as doubtful debts. Amortized cost is determined using the effective interest rate.
3.14 CASH AND CASH EQUIVALENTS
Cash and cash equivalents consist of cash and bank balances and deposits with terms of no more than three months. The explanatory notes disclose the extent to which cash and cash equivalents are not freely available as a result of transfer restrictions, joint control or other legal restrictions. Bank overdrafts are included as a component of cash and cash equivalents for the purpose of the consolidated statement of cash flows.
3.15 SHARE CAPITAL
Ordinary shares are classified as equity. Incremental costs directly attributable to the issue of ordinary shares are recognized as a deduction from equity, net of any tax effects. Transactions costs directly attributable to share buy backs are recognized as a deduction from equity, net of any tax effects.

AANNNNUUAALL RREEPPOORRTT 22001144 ­- BOSKALIS

7766

3.16 INTEREST BEARING BORROWINGS
Interest-bearing borrowings are liabilities to financial institutions. At initial recognition, interest-bearing borrowings are stated at fair value less transaction costs. Subsequently, interest-bearing borrowings are stated at amortized cost with any difference between cost and redemption value being recognized in the income statement over the period of the

within the Consolidated statement of recognized and unrecognized income and expenses. If plan benefits are changed or when a scheme is constrained, past service cost or a resulting curtailment profit or loss is recognized directly in the income statement. The Group recognizes profit or losses on the settlement of defined benefit schemes at the time of the settlement.

borrowings on an effective interest basis.

Short-term employee benefits

3.17 EMPLOYEE BENEFITS
Defined contribution pension schemes A defined contribution pension scheme is a post-employment

Short-term employee benefit obligations are measured on an undiscounted basis and are expensed when the related service is provided.

benefit scheme under which an entity pays fixed contributions into a separate entity. The entity will have no legal or constructive obligation to pay further amounts if the pension fund has insufficient funds to pay employee benefits in connection with services rendered by the employee in the current of prior periods. Obligations for contributions to

A liability is recognized for the amount expected to be paid under short-term cash bonus or profit-sharing plans if the Group has a present legal or constructive obligation to pay this amount as a result of past services provided by the employee, and the obligation can be estimated reliably.

defined contribution pension schemes are recognized as an

employee benefit expense as part of the personnel expenses in the income statement when they are due. Prepaid contributions are recognized as an asset to the extent that a cash refund or a reduction in future payment is available. Contributions to a defined contribution pension scheme payable more than twelve months after the period during which the employee rendered the services, are discounted.

Other long-term employee benefits The other long-term employee benefits mainly consist of jubilee benefits. The calculation of these liabilities is executed according to the `projected unit credit' method using the actuarial assumptions for the predominant defined benefit scheme.

Defined benefit pension schemes A defined benefit pension scheme is every post-employment benefit scheme other than a defined contribution scheme. For each separate defined benefit pension scheme, the net asset or liability is determined as the balance of the discounted value of the future payments to employees and former employees, less the fair value of plan assets. The calculations are done by qualified actuaries using the projected unit credit method. The discount rate equals the yield on high quality corporate bonds as at the balance sheet date, with the period

Share-based remuneration plans Member of the Board of Management and some senior employees are granted a bonus scheme that is based on the development of the share price, whereby the bonus is distributed in cash. The fair value of the amount payable over the year, is recognized as personnel expenses in the income statement, with a corresponding increase in liabilities. The liability is remeasured each reporting date and at settlement date. Any changes in the fair value of the liability are recognized as personnel expenses in the income statement.

to maturity of the bonds approximating the duration of the liability. If the calculation results in a positive balance for the group, the asset is included up to an amount equal to any unrecognized past service pension costs and the discounted value of economic benefits in the form of possible future refunds or lower future pension premiums from the fund. In calculating the discounted value of economic benefits, the lowest possible financing obligations are taken into account as applicable to the individual schemes in force within the Group. An economic benefit is receivable by the Group if it can be realized within the period to maturity of the scheme or upon settlement of the scheme's obligations. Actuarial gains and losses, including any movements in limitations on the net pension assets, are recognized in the unrecognized results

3.18 PROVISIONS
Provisions are determined on the basis of estimates of future outflows of economic benefits relating to operational activities for legal or constructive obligations of an uncertain size or with an uncertain settlement date that arises from past events and for which a reliable estimate can be made. Provisions are discounted insofar as the difference between the discounted value and nominal value is material. Provisions, if applicable, relate to reorganization, warranties, provisions for unfavorable contracts and onerous contracts, legal proceedings, submitted claims and soil decontamination. Provisions for reorganization costs are recognized when a detailed and formal plan is announced at balance sheet date to all those concerned or when the execution of the plan has

AANNNNUUAALL RREEPPOORRTT 22001144 ­- BBOOSSKKAALLIISS

7777

commenced. Provisions for warranties are recognized for

and this revenue is recognized in the income statement in

warranty claims relating to completed projects with agreed

proportion to the stage of completion of the work performed at

warranty periods applying to some of the

the reporting date. The stage of completion is determined

consolidated/proportionally consolidated entities. The book based on assessments of the work performed. Revenue from

value of these provisions is based on common practice in the salvage work that is completed at the balance sheet date (part

industry and the company's history of warranty claims over the of the operational segment Towage & Salvage), but for which

past ten years for relevant projects.

the proceeds are not finally determined between parties, is

recognized at expected proceeds taking into account the

A provision for onerous contracts is recognized when the

expected benefits to be derived by the Group from a contract estimation uncertainty. When it is uncertain whether the

are lower than the unavoidable cost of meeting its obligations economic benefits of work done or services rendered will flow

under the contract.

to the Group, the relevant revenue is not recognized. Revenue

does not include any direct taxes.

In accordance with the Group's policy and applicable legal

requirements, a provision for site restoration in respect of

3.22 OTHER INCOME AND OTHER EXPENSES

contaminated land, and the related expenses, is recognized when the land is contaminated.

Other income and other expenses mainly consists of book results from disposals and insurance results.

3.19 TRADE AND OTHER PAYABLES
Trade and other payables are recognized initially at fair value and subsequently at (amortized) cost. Insofar as the difference between the discounted and nominal value is not material, trade and other payables are stated at cost.
3.20 ASSETS HELD FOR SALE
Assets are classified as held for sale (disposal group) when it is highly probable that they will be recovered primarily through sale rather than through continuing use. Such assets are generally measured at the lower of their carrying amount and fair value less costs to sell. Liabilities related to the assets held for sale are separately recognized as liabilities held for sale. Once classified as held for sale, intangible assets and property, plant and equipment are no longer amortized or depreciated.
3.21 REVENUE
Revenue of the operational segments Dredging & Inland Infra and Offshore Energy (excluding ocean going transport services) mainly consists of the cost price of the work done during the reporting period, plus a part of the expected results upon completion of the project in proportion to the progress made during the reporting period, and including and/or deducting the provisions recognized and/ or used and released during the reporting period for expected losses. Revenues from additional work are included in the overall contract revenues if the client has accepted the sum involved in any way. Claims and incentives are carried in construction work in progress if negotiations with the customer are in a sufficiently advanced stage. The applied "percentage-ofcompletion" method is, by its nature, based on an estimation process. Revenue also includes services rendered to third parties during the reporting period. The revenue from services relates in particular to activities of Harbour Towage and to hire or to make available equipment and/or personnel (including ocean going transport services of Offshore Energy)

3.23 RAW MATERIALS, CONSUMABLES, SERVICES AND CONTRACTED WORK
Raw materials, consumables, services and contracted work consist of the cost price of the work done during the reporting period, excluding personnel expenses, amortization, depreciation and impairments. This item also includes, among others, equipment utilization costs, cost of operational leases, general overhead costs, external costs for research and development where not capitalized, currency translation differences, fair value changes of derivatives related to hedging foreign currency effects of projects and other results/late results.
3.24 PERSONNEL EXPENSES
Personnel expenses consist of wages and salaries for own personnel and the related social security charges and pension costs, including paid and accrued contributions for defined pension contribution plans and the movement in the assets and liabilities from defined benefit plans, excluding actuarial gains and losses and the limitation on net pension plan assets added or charged directly to group equity.
3.25 LEASE PAYMENTS
Payments made under operating leases are recognized in profit or loss on a straight-line basis over the term of the lease. Lease incentives received are recognized as an integral part of the total lease expense, over the term of the lease. Minimum lease payments made under finance leases are apportioned between the finance expense and the reduction of the outstanding liability. The finance expense is allocated to each period during the lease term so as to produce a constant periodic rate of interest on the remaining balance of the liability.

AANNNNUUAALL RREEPPOORRTT 22001144 ­- BOSKALIS

7788

3.26 FINANCE INCOME AND COSTS
Finance income comprises interest received and receivable from third parties, currency gains and gains on financial instruments to hedge risks of which the results are recognized through the finance income and expenses. Interest income is recognized in the income statement as it accrues, using the effective interest rate method.
Finance costs include interest paid and payable to third parties, which are allocated to reporting using the effective interest method, currency losses, arrangement fees, and losses on financial instruments used to hedge risks of which the results are recognized through the finance income and expenses. The interest component of financial lease payments is recognized in the income statement using the effective interest rate method.

3.29 PROFIT PER SHARE
The Group discloses profit per ordinary share as well as diluted profit per ordinary share. The net profit per ordinary share is calculated based on the result attributable to the Group's shareholders divided by the calculated average of the number of issued ordinary shares during the reporting period, taking into account the shares which have been issued or repurchased during the reporting period. In calculating the diluted profit per share the result attributable to the Group's shareholders and the calculated average number of issued ordinary shares are adjusted for all potentially diluting effects for ordinary shares.
3.30 DIVIDENDS
Dividends are recognized as a liability in the period in which they are declared.

Borrowing costs not directly attributable to the acquisition, construction or production of a qualifying asset are recognized in the income statement.
3.27 SHARE IN RESULT OF JOINT VENTURES AND ASSOCIATED COMPANIES
Share in result of joint ventures and associated companies comprises the share in the results after taxation of the participating interests not included in the consolidation and, if applicable, (the reversal of) impairment losses recognized in the reporting period.
3.28 TAXATION / DEFERRED INCOME TAX ASSETS AND LIABILITIES
Taxation is calculated on the basis of the result before taxation for the reporting period, taking into account the applicable tax provisions and tax rates, and also includes adjustments on taxation from previous reporting periods and movements in deferred taxes recognized in the reporting period. Taxation is included in the income statement unless it relates to items directly recognized in equity, in which case taxation is included in equity. Income tax expense also include the corporate income taxes which are levied on a based on revenue determined deemed profit (withholding tax). Temporary differences are accounted for in deferred tax assets and/or deferred tax liabilities. Deferred tax assets are only recognized to the extent that it is probable that taxable profit will be available for realization in the foreseeable future. Deferred tax assets are reviewed at each reporting date and are reduced to the extent that it is no longer probable that the related tax benefit will be realized. Deferred tax assets and liabilities are offset if there is a legally enforceable right to offset tax liabilities and assets, and they relate to income taxes levied by the same tax authority on the same taxable entity, or on different tax entities, but they intend to settle tax liabilities and assets on a net basis or their tax assets and liabilities will be realized simultaneously. Deferred income tax assets and liabilities are recognized at nominal value. Additional income taxes that arise from the distribution of dividends are recognized at the same time that the liability to pay the related dividend is recognized.

3.31 DETERMINATION OF FAIR VALUE
A number of the Group's accounting policies and disclosures require the determination of fair value, for both financial and non-financial assets and liabilities. Fair values have been determined for measurement and/or disclosure purposes based on the following methods:
Intangible assets The fair value of other intangible assets recorded as a result of a business combination, is based on the discounted cash flows expected to be derived from the use and eventual sale of the assets.
Financial assets available for sale The fair value of the financial assets available for sale is determined on quoted prices.
Strategic joint ventures Where relevant, the fair value of strategic joint ventures is determined or disclosed based on business valuations.
Property, plant and equipment The fair value of property, plant and equipment recognized as a result of a business combination is based on market values. The market value of property is the estimated amount for which a property could be exchanged on the date of valuation between a willing buyer and a willing seller in an at arm's length transaction after proper marketing wherein the parties had each acted knowledgeably, prudently and without compulsion.
Trade and other receivables The fair value of trade and other receivables, except due from customers, is estimated as the present value of future cash flows, discounted at the market rate of interest at the reporting date.
Share-based payment transactions The fair value is determined based on quoted prices.

AANNNNUUAALL RREEPPOORRTT 22001144 ­- BBOOSSKKAALLIISS

7799

Derivatives

interest cash flows, discounted at the market rate of interest at

The fair value of derivatives is based on the estimated amount the reporting date.

to be paid or received for a settlement of the contract as at

reporting date taking into account the actual interest rate and 3.32 CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS

the credit rating of the counterparty. These fair values are based on broker quotes. Those quotes are tested for reasonableness by discounting estimated future cash flows based on the terms and maturity of each contract and using market interest rates for a similar instrument at the measurement date.

The consolidated statement of cash flows is drawn up using the indirect method. Cash is defined as cash and cash equivalents including bank overdrafts as presented in the explanatory notes to the cash and cash equivalents and the interest-bearing borrowings. Cash flows are presented separately in the statement of cash flows as cash flows from

operating activities, investing activities and financing activities.

Non-derivative financial liabilities

In the cash flows are also included the cash flows, if any,

Fair value, which is determined for disclosure purposes, is

related to the disposal group.

calculated based on the present value of future principal and

AANNNNUUAALL RREEPPOORRTT 22001144 ­- BOSKALIS

8800
3.33 FIRST APPLICATION OF IFRS 10 AND IFRS 11
As from 1 January 2014 the Group applies IFRS 10 and IFRS 11. As a result, revisions arising from the adoption of these standards are included in the financial statements of 2014 for the first time. These adjustments are accounted for retrospectively and as such presented in the consolidated financial statements. Comparative figures regarding 2013 are modified accordingly. IFRS 10 does not lead to changes in the comparative figures. The adjustments resulting from the application of IFRS 11 in the consolidated income statement and consolidated balance sheet for 2013 are as follows:

Impact on the consolidated income statement, including impact on disclosure

Consolidated Financial Statements Operating income (Revenue and Other income)

ACCOUNTING POLICIES
PREVIOUS YEAR

2013
EFFECT FIRST APPLICATION IFRS 11

3,635,103

- 394,274

AFTER APPLICATION IFRS 11
3,240,829

Operating expenses Raw materials, consumables, services and subcontracted work Personnel expenses Other expenses Depreciation, amortization and impairment losses

- 2,253,844 - 576,483 - 4,678 - 334,174
- 3,169,179

219,053 68,686 - 23 40,387
328,103

- 2,034,791 - 507,797 - 4,701 - 293,787
- 2,841,076

Revaluation of stake in associated company prior to business combination Share in result of joint ventures and associated companies (after taxation) Operating result
Finance income and costs Taxation Revaluation of stake in associated company prior to business combination Share in result of associated companies (after taxation) Net group profit
Non-controlling interests Net group profit attributable to shareholders
EBITDA

465,924
- 55,220 - 64,444 22,716
- 2,502 366,474
783 365,691
800,098

The changes in accounting policies do not affect the earnings per share.

22,716 40,956 - 2,499
9,832 11,688 - 22,716
2,502 - 1,193
- 1,193 -
- 42,886

22,716 40,956 463,425
- 45,388 - 52,756
365,281
- 410 365,691
757,212

AANNNNUUAALL RREEPPOORRTT 22001144 ­- BBOOSSKKAALLIISS

8811

Impact on the consolidated statement of recognized and unrecognized income and expenses

Consolidated Financial Statements

ACCOUNTING POLICIES
PREVIOUS YEAR

2013
EFFECT FIRST APPLICATION IFRS 11

AFTER APPLICATION OF IFRS 11

Net group profit for the reporting period

366,474

- 1,193

365,281

Actuarial gains and losses and asset limitation on defined benefit pension schemes Currency translation differences on foreign operations Movement in fair value of cash flow hedges Income tax on unrecognized income and expenses

64,776 - 50,498 - 15,457 - 13,739 - 14,918

280 - 280 -

64,776 - 50,498 - 15,177 - 14,019 - 14,918

Total recognized and unrecognized income and expenses for the reporting period
Shareholders Non-controlling interests

351,556
352,584 - 1,028
351,556

- 1,193
- 544 - 649 - 1,193

350,363
352,040 - 1,677
350,363

Impact on the consolidated balance sheet
Consolidated Balance Sheet Non-current assets Intangible assets Property, plant and equipment Investments in joint ventures and associated companies Other
Current assets Inventories Receivables (including due from customers) Cash and cash equivalents
Total assets
Group equity Equity Non-controlling interests
Non-current liabilities Interest-bearing borrowings Other
Current liabilities Due to customers Interest-bearing borrowings Bank overdrafts Other
Total liabilities
Total group equity and liabilities
Solvability

ACCOUNTING POLICIES
PREVIOUS YEAR

1 January 2013
EFFECT FIRST APPLICATION IFRS 11

AFTER APPLICATION IFRS 11

596,013 2,260,968
228,605 77,723
3,163,309

- 173,352 - 451,868 501,993
- 36,853 - 160,080

422,661 1,809,100
730,598 40,870
3,003,229

105,150 1,222,210
398,102 1,725,462
4,888,771

- 28,769 - 217,309
- 78,931 - 325,009
- 485,089

76,381 1,004,901
319,171 1,400,453
4,403,682

1,898,005 18,147
1,916,152
605,473 236,295 841,768
352,893 382,317
8,120 1,387,521 2,130,851
2,972,619
4,888,771
39.2%

- 8,902 - 8,902
- 201,915 - 32,630
- 234,545
- 34,499 - 30,116
- 3,396 - 173,631 - 241,642
- 476,187
- 485,089

1,898,005 9,245
1,907,250
403,558 203,665 607,223
318,394 352,201
4,724 1,213,890 1,889,209
2,496,432
4,403,682
43.3%

AANNNNUUAALL RREEPPOORRTT 22001144 ­- BOSKALIS

AANNNNUUAALL RREEPPOORRTT 22001144 ­- BBOOSSKKAALLIISS

8822
Consolidated Balance Sheet Non-current assets Intangible assets Property, plant and equipment Investments in associated companies Other
Current assets Inventories Receivables (including due from customers) Cash and cash equivalents Assets disposal group
Total assets
Group equity Equity Non-controlling interests
Non-current liabilities Interest-bearing borrowings Other
Current liabilities Due to customers Interest-bearing borrowings Bank overdrafts Other Liabilities disposal group
Total liabilities Total group equity and liabilities
Solvability
Impact on the consolidated Cash Flow Statement
Net cash from operating activities Net cash used in investing activities Net cash used in / from financing activities Net increase in cash and cash equivalents
Net cash and cash equivalents as at 31 December

As at 31 December 2013

ACCOUNTING POLICIES
PREVIOUS YEAR

EFFECT FIRST APPLICATION IFRS 11

AFTER APPLICATION OF IFRS 11

748,062 3,034,862
11,897 56,842 3,851,663

- 182,460 - 408,032 433,464
- 37,642 - 194,670

565,602 2,626,830
445,361 19,200
3,656,993

103,328 1,110,258
386,887 280,387 1,880,860
5,732,523

- 5,512 - 154,598
- 56,536 -
- 216,646
- 411,316

97,816 955,660 330,351 280,387 1,664,214
5,321,207

2,525,237 14,692
2,539,929
1,168,082 146,023
1,314,105
313,190 26,366 5,794
1,414,782 118,357
1,878,489
3,192,594
5,732,523
44.3%

- 7,770 - 7,770
- 203,047 - 18,495
- 221,542
- 59,568 - 22,337
- 85 - 100,014
- 182,004
- 403,546
- 411,316

2,525,237 6,922
2,532,159
965,035 127,528 1,092,563
253,622 4,029 5,709
1,314,768 118,357
1,696,485
2,789,048
5,321,207
47.6%

ACCOUNTING POLICIES
PREVIOUS YEAR

2013
EFFECT FIRST APPLICATION IFRS 11

586,112 - 536,620
- 19,994 29,498

7,991 69,965 - 58,846 19,110

AFTER APPLICATION OF IFRS 11
594,103 - 466,655
- 78,840 48,608

410,755

- 56,451

354,304

8833
4. SEGMENT REPORTING
The Group recognizes three operational segments which, as described below, constitute the strategic business units (lines of business) of the Group. These strategic business units offer different products and services and are managed separately because they require different strategies. Each of the strategic business units is reviewed by the Board of Management based on internal management reporting at least once every quarter. The, at the beginning of March 2014, acquired company Fairmount is presented in the operational segment Offshore Energy.
The following is a brief summary of the activities of the operational segments:
 Dredging & Inland Infra Traditionally, dredging is the core activity of Boskalis. It involves all activities required to remove silt, sand and other layers from the water bed and in some cases using it elsewhere, for example for coastal protection or land reclamation. The services also include the construction and maintenance of ports and waterways, and coastal defense and riverbank protection, as well as associated specialist services such as underwater rock fragmentation. In addition, Boskalis is active in the extraction of raw materials using dredging techniques. In the Netherlands, Boskalis also operates as a contractor of dry infrastructure projects. This involves the design, preparation (by means of dry earthmoving) and execution of large-scale civil infra works, such as the construction of roads and railroads, bridges, dams, viaducts and tunnels. In doing so, Boskalis also performs specialist works such as soil improvement and land remediation.
 Offshore Energy With the offshore services of Boskalis and its subsidiaries Dockwise and Fairmount the company supports the activities of the international energy sector, including oil and gas companies and providers of renewable energy such as wind power. Boskalis is involved in the development, construction, maintenance and decommissioning of oil and LNGimport/export facilities, offshore platforms, pipelines and cables and offshore wind farms. In performing these activities Boskalis applies its expertise in the areas of heavy transport, lift and installation work, as well as diving and ROV services complemented with dredging, offshore pipeline, cable and rock installation. With VBMS (50% owned by Boskalis) we are a leading player in the European market for offshore cable installation.
 Towage & Salvage In ports around the world assistance is provided to incoming and outgoing oceangoing vessels through Boskalis' joint ventures and associated companies Keppel Smit Towage, SAAM SMIT Towage and the forthcoming joint venture with Kotug. In addition, a full range of services for the operation and management of onshore and offshore terminals is offered through Smit Lamnalco, which is 50% owned by Boskalis. These include assistance with the berthing and unberthing of tankers at oil and LNG terminals and additional support services. With our versatile fleet of over 450 vessels we assist vessels in over 90 ports in 35 countries, including oil and chemical tankers, container ships, reefers, RoRo ships and mixed cargo ships. Through SMIT Salvage we provide services relating to the salvage of ships and wreck removal. SMIT Salvage provides assistance to vessels in distress and is able to spring into action at any time and anywhere in the world. It is able to do so by operating out of four locations which are strategically situated in relation to the main international shipping routes: Houston, Cape Town, Rotterdam and Singapore. Clearance of wrecks of sunken ships and offshore platforms almost always takes place at locations where the wreck forms an obstruction to traffic or presents an environmental hazard.
The operational segments are monitored based on the segment result (operating result) and the EBITDA. The segment result and EBITDA are used for performance measurement of operational segments, both between segments and compared to other companies in the same industries. Inter-operational segment services, if any, take place at arm's length basis. EBITDA is defined as being the segment result before depreciation, amortization and impairments. In the reporting period there were no material inter-operational segment services. After the sale of the interest in Archirodon in 2013, which decreased the amount of Inland Infra activities substantially, the Dredging & Inland Infra activities, which are managed jointly, are reported on a jointly basis. Due to this change in reporting the external segment information, as shown below, is adjusted accordingly. The information with regard to 2013 has been adjusted for comparison purposes.

AANNNNUUAALL RREEPPOORRTT 22001144 ­- BOSKALIS

8844 4.1 OPERATIONAL SEGMENTS
2014 Revenue
EBITDA Share in result of strategic companies
Operating result Non-allocated finance income and expenses Non-allocated taxation Net group profit
Carrying amount strategic companies
Investments in property, plant and equipment
Depreciation on property, plant and equipment Amortization on intangible assets Impairment losses on property, plant and equipment Impairment losses on intangible assets

DREDGING & INLAND INFRA
1,664,768 487,483 3,055 380,129
3,352 139,197
96,723 192
10,439 -

OFFSHORE ENERGY
1,238,576

TOWAGE & SALVAGE
270,628

HOLDING & ELIMINATIES
- 7,084

387,840 15,057

118,596 38,299

- 48,060 -

236,118

84,011

- 47,913

120,781
134,203
127,661 16,428 6,910 723

651,009
10,733
21,818 846 -
11,921

325
28,902
- 1,733 - 60 146
1,500

GROUP 3,166,888
945,859 56,411
652,345 - 35,954 - 124,163 492,228
775,467
313,035
244,469 17,406 17,495 14,144

2013 Revenue
EBITDA Share in result of strategic companies Revaluation share in associated company prior to business combination
Operating result Non-allocated finance income and expenses Non-allocated taxation Net group profit
Carrying amount strategic companies
Investments in property, plant and equipment
Depreciation on property, plant and equipment Amortization on intangible assets Impairment losses on property, plant and equipment Impairment losses on intangible assets

DREDGING & INLAND INFRA
1,725,539 362,427 6,905
255,185

OFFSHORE ENERGY
1,067,431

TOWAGE & SALVAGE
363,021

HOLDING & ELIMINATIES
- 11,943

274,699 17,749

103,913 21,879

16,173 - 5,577

22,716

146,958

67,192

- 5,910

991
96,493
96,027 376
12,924 -

114,708
126,937
93,562 28,817
3,090 292

328,420
11,849
33,468 2,523 730 -

1,242
9,505
106 - 493
602 21,763

GROUP 3,144,048
757,212 40,956
22,716
463,425 - 45,388 - 52,756 365,281
445,361
244,784
223,163 31,223 17,346 22,055

5. BUSINESS COMBINATIONS AND ASSETS HELD FOR SALE
5.1 ACQUISITION FAIRMOUNT
On 3 March 2014 the Group gained control of Fairmount after acquiring 100% of all outstanding Fairmount shares and voting rights. At that date a business combination was realized and reported accordingly within the consolidated Group.
The addition of five 205 ton bollard pull Anchor Handling Tugs (AHT's) from Fairmount leads to a further strengthening of the market position and provision of services for Boskalis both for Offshore energy as well as Salvage. Furthermore the acquisition of control on Fairmount provides the Group with new opportunities to create synergy advantages through cost reductions.
After gaining control Fairmount contributed EUR 37.8 million to Group revenue and EUR 7.0 million positive to the net group profit in 2014. This does not include costs related to the acquisition. Management believes that if the

AANNNNUUAALL RREEPPOORRTT 22001144 ­- BBOOSSKKAALLIISS

8855
acquisition had taken place at the start of 2014, revenue for the reporting period would have been EUR 3,180.6 million and the consolidated net group profit would have totaled EUR 493.2 million. In determining these amounts Management assumed the same fair value adjustments as at the date of acquisition.

Considerations paid
The consideration paid for acquiring 100% of the outstanding Fairmount shares and voting rights at 3 March 2014 amounts to, in cash, USD 88.9 million (EUR 64.6 million).

Identifiable assets and liabilities acquired
Resulting from the acquisition, the following identifiable assets and liabilities are acquired:

As at 3 March 2014
Property, plant and equipment Inventory Current receivables and other current assets Cash, cash equivalents and bank overdrafts Interest bearing loans Current liabilities
Net amount of identified assets

79,024 5,158 8,572
20,729 - 43,149
- 8,863
61,471

Trade accounts and other receivables consist of a gross amount of contractual obligations of EUR 8.0 million, which were fully deemed recoverable at the date of acquisition.
The following valuation techniques were used in assessing the fair value of identified assets and liabilities:
 Property, plant & equipment. The fair value of the individual vessels is determined based on a market approach performed by external vessel valuator.
 Inventories. Market comparison approach: the fair value of the inventories, mainly bunkers, is based on the estimated sales price minus (selling)costs and the related profit margin.
 Other assets and liabilities: the fair value is determined on the market value based on the income approach for the expected income and expenses arising from the assets and liabilities.

Goodwill
Goodwill arising from the acquisition:

Goodwill due to the acquisition of Fairmount
Consideration paid at 3 March 2014 Less: Net amount of identified assets Goodwill (as at 3 March 2014)

64,570 - 61,471
3,099

Transactions related to the acquisition
The Group incurred acquisition-related expenses of EUR 0.2 million in connection with the costs of external advisors, due diligence and fees paid to the institutions involved. These costs are recognized in the consolidated income statement in the line `raw materials, consumables, services and subcontracted work'. This item is included in `Holding & eliminations' in the table `Operational segments' in note 4.1.
5.2 COOPERATION WITH SAAM
As at 1 July 2014 Boskalis and SAAM S.A. have established a joint venture, SAAM Smit Towage (SST), for the execution of their harbour towage activities in Brazil, Mexico, Canada and Panama. The geographic scope of the joint venture covers the Brazilian towage market and the Group has a 50% share in this joint venture. The second joint venture in which SAAM holds a 51% stake and the Group holds a 49% stake, relates to the towage activities in Panama and Canada (Boskalis) and Mexico (SAAM). Besides operational synergies, added value will be generated through exchanging best practices and market synergies. The assets, liabilities and activities which have been contributed by both Boskalis and SAAM in SST are expected to have a comparable company value.

AANNNNUUAALL RREEPPOORRTT 22001144 ­- BOSKALIS

8866
The transaction has been accounted for in the consolidation as at 1 July 2014. As from this date the towage activities are included in the financial statements through the strategic partnership SAAM-Smit. Under IFRS SAAM-Smit is accounted for as a sale of a group company by the Group and subsequently as an investment in a strategic investment. The net realizable value of the group companies sold, thus the acquisition price of the two strategic investments, is estimated based on company valuations. Preliminary determined market values are estimated for the assets and liabilities for determination of the goodwill included in the company value. The book result arising from the transaction amounts to EUR 4.4 million, including EUR 9.6 million negative as a result of the recycling of cumulative foreign currency differences.

As at 31 December 2013 the Group had classified the activities from the operational segment Towage & Salvage, which were incorporated at 1 July 2014, as assets held for sale. These were valued at book value.

5.3 DISPOSAL GROUP

Combining towage services Smit with Kotug International B.V.
At year end, The Group and Kotug International B.V. (Kotug) signed an agreement to continue their towage services in North West Europe on a joined basis, after complying with several (customary) conditions, such as the agreement from involved financial institutions and supervisors in the respective countries in which the joint venture will operate. This combination will lead to a leading towage service provider in North West Europe. The combination will improve the market position of the combined entities as well as provide operational synergy advantages. At balance sheet date the assets and liabilities which will be contributed in the joint venture are classified as held for sale. As from 2015 no depreciation or amortization will be accounted for.

Intention of sale of Aannemingsbedrijf De Jong en Zoon Beesd B.V.
The Group has determined to dispose the activities from Aannemingsbedrijf De Jong en Zoon Beesd B.V. at the end of the financial year. The disposal has been realized in February 2015.

Assets and liabilities from activities held for sale
As at 31 December 2014 the assets and liabilities to be contributed relating to the towage activities from Smit in North West Europe (in the operational segment Towage & Salvage) and Aannemingsbedrijf De Jong en Zoon Beesd B.V. (in the segment Dredging & Inland Infra) are valued at book value and classified as held for sale. These are as follows:

Intangible assets Property, plant and equipment Other non-current assets Receivables and other non-current assets Cash and cash equivalents Assets disposal group

2014
52,024 130,563
1,365 52,178
1,855 237,985

Financing and interest bearing loans Deferred tax liabilities Employ benefit liabilities and provisions Creditors and other current liabilities Liabilities disposal group

13,249 11,178
303 29,516 54,246

AANNNNUUAALL RREEPPOORRTT 22001144 ­- BBOOSSKKAALLIISS

6. REVENUE
The revenue of the segments Dredging & Inland Infra and Offshore Energy mainly comprises revenues from work in progress. Movements in the value of work in progress, consisting of cumulative incurred costs plus profit in proportion to progress less provisions for losses, together with the work done and completed during the reporting period, determine the revenue for these segments. The revenue from services rendered to third parties is primarily realized in the operational segments Offshore Energy (including sea transport services) and Towage & Salvage. The revenue from construction contracts (IAS 11) and services on a project base by analogy with this standard amounts to approximately EUR 2.0 billion (2013: EUR 2.1 billion). The revenue from other services amounts to approximately EUR 1.2 billion (2013: EUR 1.0 billion).

8877
If certain projects are executed together in a joint operation, the segments only report their own share in the revenue and results recognized, resulting in no material related party transactions between segments that need to be eliminated.

Revenue by region can be specified as follows:
Netherlands Rest of Europe Australia / Asia Middle East Africa North and South America

REVENUE 2014
714,058 766,877 832,666 173,757 274,394 405,136 3,166,888

2013
661,693 645,565 741,356 168,067 328,825 598,542 3,144,048

The region is determined as the location in which projects are realized and services are provided; for sea transport the region refers to the port of arrival of the transport. A large part of the Group's revenue is executed project based for a various group of clients in various countries and geographical areas. Because of the often incidental character and spread of the contracts none of these clients qualifies structurally as a material client in relation to the total revenue of the Group.

7. OTHER INCOME AND OTHER EXPENSES
Other income mainly comprises of book results on the SAAM transaction amounting to EUR 4.4 million and from disposal of equipment of EUR 6.9 million (2013: EUR 31.6 million). Furthermore, the other income in 2013 comprised the result of the receipt of insurance claims for EUR 13.9 million and book results from the disposal of share in the joint venture Archirodon (EUR 50.9 million).

8. RAW MATERIALS, CONSUMABLES, SERVICES AND CONTRACTED WORK
In 2013, expenses for reorganizations within the segment Dredging & Inland Infra amounted to EUR 14.3 million and related to unused rented buildings and the decrease in value of a limited number of assets to net selling price.

9. PERSONNEL EXPENSES
Wages and salaries Social security costs Pension costs for defined benefit pension schemes Pension costs for defined contribution pension schemes

2014
- 410,050 - 52,762 - 31,275 - 19,904
- 513,991

2013
- 405,166 - 51,829 - 32,778 - 18,024
- 507,797

For the remuneration of the Board of Management and the Supervisory Board reference is made to note 29.2. For the pension costs for defined benefit pension schemes reference is made to note 24.1.

AANNNNUUAALL RREEPPOORRTT 22001144 ­- BOSKALIS

888
10.

FINANCE INCOME AND EXPENSES

Interest income on short-term bank deposits Change in fair value of (hedging instruments regarding) borrowings Finance income
Interest expenses Change in fair value of (hedging instruments regarding) borrowings Other finance expenses Finance expenses
NET FINANCE EXPENSE RECOGNIZED IN CONSOLIDATED INCOME STATEMENT

2014
7,034 3,066 10,100
- 38,680 -
- 7,374 - 46,054
- 35,954

2013
4,541 -
4,541
- 33,979 - 7,071 - 8,879
- 49,929
- 45,388

The other finance expenses contain the effective interest expenses on financing, including amortized financing costs of EUR 1.4 million (2013: EUR 3.7 million). Other finance expenses also include a write off of capitalized transaction costs as a result of an adjustment in financing (EUR 4.5 million) and paid commitment fees of EUR 1.2 million (2013: EUR 2.2 million). Furthermore the finance expenses in 2013 included an amount of EUR 2.9 million for the settlement of a forward start interest rate swap.
In the fair value adjustments (regarding hedging instruments) for loans EUR 44.6 million (2013: EUR 13.5 million) of foreign currency translation effects on loans and other financing obligations are included and an equal but opposite effect on foreign currency translation on the related derivatives is included.

11.

TAXATION

CURRENT TAX EXPENSE
Current year Over / under(-) provided in prior years Reclassification of deferred taxes regarding prior financial years

DEFERRED TAX EXPENSE
Origination and reversal of temporary differences Reclassification of deferred taxes regarding prior financial years Movement of recognized tax losses carried forward

TAXATION IN THE CONSOLIDATED INCOME STATEMENT

2014
- 141,288 7,696
- 1,044 - 134,636
9,277 1,044
152 10,473
- 124,163

2013
- 74,243 13,579
736 - 59,928
9,112 - 736 - 1,204 7,172
- 52,756

The operational activities of the Group are subject to various tax regimes with tax rates varying from 0.0% to 40.5% (2013: 0.0% to 40.0%). These different tax rates, together with fiscal facilities in various countries and the treatment of tax losses, results not subject to taxation and non-deductible costs, lead to an effective tax rate in the reporting period of 20.1% (2013: 12.6%). The effective tax rate is calculated as the tax charge divided by the profit before tax, as shown in the consolidated income statement.

AANNNNUUAALL RREEPPOORRTT 22001144 ­- BBOOSSKKAALLIISS

8899

The reconciliation between the Dutch nominal tax rate and the effective tax rate is as follows:

2014

2013

Nominal tax rate in the Netherlands

25.0%

25.0%

Application of local nominal tax rates Non-deductible expenses Effect of unrecognized tax losses and temporary differences Effect of previously unrecognized tax losses Special taxation regimes Adjustment in respect of prior years Application of participation exemption of result in Other income Effect of share in result of joint ventures and associated companies Effective tax rate

- 4.3% 2.0% 2.2%
- 0.9% - 1.4% - 1.2%
0.6% - 1.9% 20.1%

- 6.1% 2.8% 3.0% - 0.8% - 2.4% - 2.9% - 3.2% - 2.8% 12.6%

12.

INCOME TAX RECEIVABLE AND PAYABLE

The current income tax receivables and income tax payables relate to the fiscal positions of the respective Group companies and consist of fiscal years still to be settled less withholding taxes or tax refunds.

13.

DEFERRED INCOME TAX ASSETS AND LIABILITIES

BALANCE AS AT 1 JANUARY 2014

Asset

Liability

MOVEMENT IN TEMPORARY DIFFERENCES DURING THE YEAR

Charged (-)/ added
to net profit

Charged to equity

Reclass to disposal group

In / out consolida-
tion

Currency translation differences

Intangible assets Property, plant and equipment Due from and due to customers Trade and other receivables Hedging reserve Actuarial gains and losses and asset limitation on defined benefit pension schemes Employee benefits Provisions Interest-bearing borrowings Trade and other payables Other assets and liabilities Fiscal reserves Foreign branch results Tax losses carried forward
Offsetting deferred tax assets and liabilities

2,299
38 7,618
8,083 2,274 1,499
384 893 308
679 24,075
- 18,096

- 8,272 - 28,578
- 213
-
- 7,887 - 2,002
- 90 - 305 - 10,730 - 1,178 - 1,942
- 61,197
18,096

4,043 5,385 - 402
147 - 82
- 417
49 - 636
253 1,420
194 367 152 10,473

- 1,946
10,272 -
1,633 -
9,959

- 1,016 10,027
-7
-
-4 577 714
983 - 96 11,178

15 - 194
-
15 - 552 - 716

- 18 - 181
-2
-
- 111
38 -1 34 - 419
1 - 659

BALANCE AS AT 31 DECEMBER 2014

Asset
2,053
17 5,590

Liability
- 5,248 - 13,295
- 402 - 54 -

18,355 1,860 1,461 392 1,120 262 183
31,293

- 8,005 - 1,300
- 21 - 245 - 8,035
- 1,575
- 38,180

- 12,106

12,106

Net in the consolidated balance sheet

5,979 - 43,101

19,187 - 26,074

AANNNNUUAALL RREEPPOORRTT 22001144 ­- BOSKALIS

9900
Intangible assets Property, plant and equipment Due from and due to customers Trade and other receivables Hedging reserve Actuarial gains and losses and asset limitation on defined benefit pension schemes Employee benefits Provisions Interest-bearing borrowings Trade and other payables Other assets and liabilities Fiscal reserves Foreign branch results Tax losses carried forward
Offsetting deferred tax assets and liabilities

BALANCE AS AT 1 JANUARY 2013

Asset

Liability

MOVEMENT IN TEMPORARY DIFFERENCES DURING THE YEAR

Charged (-)/ added
to net profit

Charged to equity

Reclass to disposal group

In / out consolida-
tion

Currency translation differences

4,612
118 3,599

- 14,281 - 41,184
- 1,811 - 38 -

8,055 - 620 1,811
- 28 -

4,019

- 1,456 7,324
- 204
-

-

- 590

926

2,663

-

-

-

- 23

-

-

27,197 762 864 849
1,069 270 -
1,954 41,294

- 11,686
- 1,127 -
- 460 - 1,108 - 1,368 - 3,137
- 76,200

- 17,734

17,734

- 5,030 1,050 2,196
75 - 517
189 1,195 - 1,204 7,172

- 19,114 10,261
- 9,185 - 14,019

73 - 1,132 - 2,415
2,190

-

-

-

7

-

- 158

-

- 336

-

- 96

-

118

-

1

-

-

-

- 71

926

1,515

BALANCE AS AT 31 DECEMBER 2013

Asset
2,299
38 7,618

Liability
- 8,272 - 28,578
- 213
-

8,083 2,274 1,499
384 893 308
679 24,075
- 18,096

- 7,887 - 2,002
- 90 - 305 - 10,730 - 1,178 - 1,942
- 61,197
18,096

Net in the consolidated balance sheet

23,560

- 58,466

5,979

- 43,101

Deferred tax assets are not recognized as long as it is not probable that economic benefits can be expected in future periods. Deferred tax assets and liabilities within fiscal entities are offset in the balance sheet.
The following movements in deferred tax assets and liabilities, including applicable tax rate changes, together with the items they relate to, are recognized directly in group equity:

Foreign currency translation differences for foreign operations Fair value of cash flow hedges Defined benefit plan actuarial gains (losses) and asset limitation

BEFORE TAX
200,749 5,505
- 63,542 142,712

2014 TAX
(EXPENSE) BENEFIT
1,633 - 1,946 10,272
9,959

NET OF TAX
202,382 3,559
- 53,270 152,671

Foreign currency translation differences for foreign operations Adjustment currency translation reserve prior to disposal of joint venture Fair value of cash flow hedges Defined benefit plan actuarial gains (losses) and asset limitation

BEFORE TAX
- 48,430 - 257
- 15,177 64,776
912

2013 TAX
(EXPENSE) BENEFIT
- 9,185 -
4,019 - 8,853 - 14,019

NET OF TAX
- 57,615 - 257
- 11,158 55,923 - 13,107

AANNNNUUAALL RREEPPOORRTT 22001144 ­- BBOOSSKKAALLIISS

9911
UNRECOGNIZED DEFERRED INCOME TAX ASSETS
Unrecognized deferred tax assets regarding tax losses carried forward of Group companies amount to EUR 154.0 million (2013: EUR 128.5 million). These deferred tax assets are not recognized in the balance sheet as long as recovery through taxable profit or deductible temporary differences before expiration is not probable.

No later than 1 year Later than 1 year and no later than 5 years Later than 5 years

2014

TAX LOSSES CARRIED
FORWARD

DEDUCTIBLE TEMPORARY DIFFERENCES

3,070 118,225 121,295

21,300 11,378 32,678

DISPOSAL GROUP
-

No later than 1 year Later than 1 year and no later than 5 years Later than 5 years

14.

INTANGIBLE ASSETS

Balance as at 1 January 2014 Cost Accumulated amortizations and impairments Book value
Movements Acquired through business combinations Reclassified to Assets held for Sale Amortization Impairment Currency translation differences and other movements
Balance as at 31 December 2014 Cost Accumulated amortizations and impairments Book value

TAX LOSSES CARRIED
FORWARD

2013
DEDUCTIBLE TEMPORARY DIFFERENCES

7,904 98,918 106,822

8,993 8,993

DISPOSAL GROUP
548 1,812 10,303 12,663

GOODWILL
474,085 -
474,085
3,099 - 46,481
27,904 - 15,478
458,607 -
458,607

OTHER
161,323 - 69,806
91,517
- 5,543 - 17,406 - 14,144
4,637 - 32,456
142,521 - 83,460
59,061

TOTAL
635,408 - 69,806 565,602
3,099 - 52,024 - 17,406 - 14,144
32,541 - 47,934
601,128 - 83,460 517,668

AANNNNUUAALL RREEPPOORRTT 22001144 ­- BOSKALIS

9922
Balance as at 1 January 2013 Cost Accumulated amortizations and impairments Book value
Movements Acquired through business combinations Reclassified to Assets held for Sale In / (out) consolidation Amortization Impairment Currency translation differences and other movements
Balance as at 31 December 2013 Cost Accumulated amortizations and impairments Book value

GOODWILL
342,421 -
342,421
248,465 - 100,525
2,879 -
- 19,155 131,664
474,085 -
474,085

OTHER
99,103 - 18,863 80,240
80,462 -
- 3,053 - 31,223 - 22,055 - 12,854 11,277
161,323 - 69,806 91,517

TOTAL
441,524 - 18,863 422,661
328,927 - 100,525
- 174 - 31,223 - 22,055 - 32,009 142,941
635,408 - 69,806 565,602

14.1 GOODWILL
In 2014 the activities from Dockwise and Fairmount were incorporated in the segment Offshore Energy together with the existing activities within this segment. Therefore as from 2014 neither a separate, independent, company nor a cash generating unit was applicable. The goodwill arising from the acquisitions of Dockwise and Fairmount has been allocated to the cash generating unit Offshore Energy.

The reclassifications of assets held for sale in 2014 and 2013 refer to goodwill arising from the cash generating unit Harbour Towage. As a result, the goodwill from Harbour Towage, as presented below, has decreased.

The goodwill from (primarily) Dockwise and Fairmount is presented in US dollar, the functional currency of the respective units. The currency differences mainly refer to the goodwill from Dockwise and Fairmount.

The goodwill is allocated to the following cash generating units:

CASH GENERATING UNIT
Harbour Towage Salvage Offshore Energy Dry Infrastructure (Netherlands) Dredging
Total

OPERATIONAL SEGMENT
Towage & Salvage Towage & Salvage Offshore Energy Dredging & Inland Infra Dredging & Inland Infra

2014
36,875 361,530 46,607 13,595 458,607

2013
46,481 36,875 330,527 46,607 13,595 474,085

When conducting the impairment testing of goodwill, the value in use of the cash generating unit is determined by discounting future cash flows from continuing operations of the unit. The calculation comprises of cash flow projections for a period of five years starting with the budget 2015, after which the cash flows are extrapolated at the assumed growth rate. The valuation models have been consistently applied for the different cash generating units.
Management has projected cash flows based on past trends and estimates and of future market developments. Also it is assumed that cost efficiencies can and will be realized. The key assumptions relate to the discount rate used and the growth rate applied in the calculation of the terminal value. The discount rates used are for Harbour Towage 8.2% (2013: 8.4%), for Salvage 8.2% (2013: 11.0%), for Offshore Energy 9.8% (2013: 9.2%), for Dry Infrastructure (Netherlands) 10.4% (2013: 11.1%) and for Dredging 10.1% (2013: 9.2%).

AANNNNUUAALL RREEPPOORRTT 22001144 ­- BBOOSSKKAALLIISS

9933
The growth rate applied in the terminal value is set at 1.0% (2013:1.6%). The growth rates applied do not exceed the long-term average growth rate which may be expected for the activities. The assessment has indicated that for none of the cash generating units an impairment is required since the recoverable amount is higher than the sum of the recognized goodwill and the carrying amount of the assets and liabilities attributable to the respective cash generating unit. Changes that could be reasonably expected in the underlying parameters for calculating the recoverable amount at year-end such as an increase in the discount rate by 1% or a decrease in growth rate in the terminal value by 1% also do not give rise to an impairment. Moreover, considering the sufficient amount of headroom for each cash generating unit, no further, detailed sensitivity analysis has been presented.
14.2 OTHER INTANGIBLE ASSETS
Other intangible assets, which are identified and recognized at fair value during business combinations, consist of tradenames, client portfolio, order portfolio, technology (including software) and favourable contracts. The intangible assets include a tradename with an infinite useful life for an amount of EUR 9.5 million (2013: 20.0 million), which is assessed on a yearly basis for indications of impairment. In 2014 an impairment of EUR 5.2 million (2013: EUR 16.4 million) was recorded for intangible assets with an infinite useful life. This impairment refers to an intangible asset in the Towage & Salvage segment in 2014 and in the Offshore Energy segment in 2013. Both impairments referred to the tradename Smit.

15.

PROPERTY, PLANT AND EQUIPMENT

Balance as at 1 January 2014 Cost Accumulated depreciation and impairment losses Book value
Movements Investments, including capitalized borrowing cost Acquired through business combinations In / (out) consolidation Put into operation Impairment losses Depreciation Disposals Other movements Reclassified to disposal group Currency translation differences
Balance as at 31 December 2014 Cost Accumulated depreciation and impairment losses Book value

LAND AND BUILDINGS

FLOATING AND OTHER
CONSTRUCTION EQUIPMENT

91,901 - 28,074
63,827

3,587,874 - 1,306,714
2,281,160

2,254 -
25,030 - 146
- 3,330 - 32
- 484 - 79 246
23,459

39,432 79,002 - 7,746 275,903 - 17,057 - 234,829 - 12,637 - 25,561 - 129,685 152,572 119,394

117,725 - 30,439
87,286

3,870,710 - 1,470,156
2,400,554

OTHER FIXED ASSETS

PROPERTY, PLANT &
EQUIPMENT UNDER
CONSTRUCTION

41,423 - 25,291
16,132

267,073 - 1,362
265,711

3,049 22
- 23 5,237 - 292 - 6,310
- 79 - 4,174
- 794 634
- 2,730
37,479 - 24,077
13,402

268,300 -
- 306,170 -
- 21 832
-5 13,999 - 23,065
244,008 - 1,362
242,646

TOTAL
3,988,271 - 1,361,441
2,626,830
313,035 79,024 - 7,769 -
- 17,495 - 244,469
- 12,769 - 29,387 - 130,563 167,451 117,058
4,269,922 - 1,526,034
2,743,888

AANNNNUUAALL RREEPPOORRTT 22001144 ­- BOSKALIS

9944
Balance as at 1 January 2013 Cost Accumulated depreciation and impairment losses Book value
Movements Investments, including capitalized borrowing cost Acquired through business combinations In / (out) consolidation Put into operation Impairment losses Depreciation Disposals Other movements Reclassified to disposal group Currency translation differences
Balance as at 31 December 2013 Cost Accumulated depreciation and impairment losses Book value

LAND AND BUILDINGS

FLOATING AND OTHER
CONSTRUCTION EQUIPMENT

OTHER FIXED ASSETS

PROPERTY, PLANT &
EQUIPMENT UNDER
CONSTRUCTION

94,057 - 29,519 64,538

2,744,908 - 1,192,959 1,551,949

48,517 - 29,849 18,668

179,064 - 5,119
173,945

TOTAL
3,066,546 - 1,257,446 1,809,100

3,681 -
914 -
- 3,268 - 1,909
443 -
- 572 - 711
91,901 - 28,074 63,827

78,887 1,063,011
- 39,521 87,394 - 15,159 - 214,045 - 32,561
6,935 - 110,738
- 94,992 729,211
3,587,874 - 1,306,714 2,281,160

4,976 4,737 - 128 2,721 - 2,187 - 5,850 - 379 - 3,891 - 356 - 2,179 - 2,536
41,423 - 25,291 16,132

157,240 53,382 - 91,029 - 1,545 - 8,784 - 11,590 - 5,908 91,766
267,073 - 1,362
265,711

244,784 1,121,130
- 39,649 -
- 17,346 - 223,163
- 36,394 - 5,297
- 122,684 - 103,651 817,730
3,988,271 - 1,361,441 2,626,830

Annually the Group reviews the main units of the fleet on (expected) utilization and operational results. In 2014 this resulted in the testing of a limited number of specific units on possible impairments and the recognition of an impairment charge amounting to EUR 17.5 million (2013: EUR 17.3 million). For equipment that will be put out of operation in the short term the realizable value (EUR 1.2 million) is determined as the net selling price net of sale and demolition expenses. As a consequence an impairment loss of EUR 7.4 million was recognized. Furthermore impairments to value in use were recognized amounting to EUR 10.1 million. The realizable value of these assets amounts to EUR 28.8 million. The realizable value of the assets concerned is determined on the basis of the present value of the estimated future cash flows, remaining useful life and relevant discount rates (7% - 9%).
In 2014 the expected useful life of (components of) units were evaluated. For part of the units the useful lives were adjusted prospectively. On balance, the impact of these adjustments on net group profit in the reporting period amounts to an expense of merely EUR 15.1 million, the expected impact on the future four reporting periods amounts to a mere EUR 4.0 million decrease in expenses.
The capitalized financing costs on investments recognized amounts to EUR 1.1 million (2013:EUR 0.9 million).
In accordance with the characteristics of the Group's activities property, plant & equipment can be deployed on a worldwide scale during the reporting period. As a consequence, segmentation of the property, plant & equipment to geographical areas would not provide additional relevant information.

16.

JOINT VENTURES AND ASSOCIATED COMPANIES

The Group participates in a number of strategic and other investments whose activities correspond with, or related service to its activities. The activities and risks of these joint ventures or associates are similar to the activities of the Group. Within the operating segment Offshore Energy this refers to Asian Lift Pte. Ltd. (Operating and rental of floating cranes), Ocean Marine Egypt SAE (Terminal services) and VBMS B.V. (Installation of cables on the seabed). Within the division Towage and Salvage cooperation takes place in Smit Lamnalco Ltd (worldwide terminal services) and Keppel Smit Towage Pte Ltd and Maju Maritime Pte Ltd in Singapore, both active in the harbor towage services. We work closely together on the American continent in the field of harbor towage services in SAAM-SMIT Towage (SAAM SMIT Towage Brasil S.A. and SAAM Remolques SA de CV). A number of projects, or related activities within the operating segment Dredging & Inland Infra is placed in private companies of which SAAOne Holding B.V. (A Public Private Partnership in the Netherlands) is the most important. These investments are financed in principle on a non-

AANNNNUUAALL RREEPPOORRTT 22001144 ­- BBOOSSKKAALLIISS

9955
recourse basis. The Group agreed on a capital funding obligation for SAAOne Holding B.V. and for Rebras Rebras SA a guarantee of a portion of bank financing was provided by the Group. For some projects from VBMS B.V. the Group has issued guarantees. This commitment respectively guarantees are included in note 28 Commitments and contingent liabilities.
Net profit for the year and other comprehensive income are as follows:

Net result of the period Other Comprehensive Income Total Comprehensive Income

JOINT VENTURES
51,772 49,124 100,896

2014 ASSOCIATED COMPANIES
4,639 19,576 24,215

TOTAL
56,411 68,700 125,111

Net result of the period Other Comprehensive Income Total Comprehensive Income

JOINT VENTURES
40,985 - 10,934 30,051

2013 ASSOCIATED COMPANIES
- 29 - 304,636 - 304,665

TOTAL
40,956 - 315,570 - 274,614

Balance as at 1 January Net investments Share in result in other associated companies Dividends received Currency translation differences and other movements
Balance as at 31 December
Balance as at 1 January Investment Dockwise Ltd Revaluation of existing stake in Dockwise prior to business combination Decrease due to extending share in Dockwise resulting in control Net investments Share in result in other associated companies Dividends received Currency translation differences and other movements
Balance as at 31 December

JOINT VENTURES
436,848
84,937 51,772 - 25,434 49,124 160,399
597,247

2014
ASSOCIATES 8,513
147,000 4,639
- 1,530 19,598 169,707
178,220

JOINT VENTURES
506,050
- 82,371 40,985 - 17,232 - 10,584 - 69,202
436,848

2013
ASSOCIATES
224,548
65,248 22,716 - 309,921
- 29 - 1,340 7,291 - 216,035
8,513

TOTAL 445,361 231,937
56,411 - 26,964
68,722 330,106
775,467
TOTAL 730,598
65,248 22,716 - 309,921 - 82,371 40,956 - 18,572 - 3,293 - 285,237
445,361

AANNNNUUAALL RREEPPOORRTT 22001144 ­- BOSKALIS

9966
The Group is partner in the following joint ventures:

ENTITY
VBMS B.V. (formerly named VSMC B.V.) Smit Lamnalco Ltd Ocean Marine Egypt S.A.E Asian Lift Pte. Ltd. Keppel Smit Towage Pte Ltd Maju Maritime Pte Ltd SAAM SMIT Towage Brasil S.A.* SAAone Holding B.V.

COUNTRY OF INCORPORATION
Netherlands Cyprus Egypt Singapore Singapore Singapore Brasil Netherlands

Ownership interest 2014
50% 50% 50% 50% 49% 49% 50% 17%

2013
50% 50% 50% 50% 49% 49% 100% 17%

* Until mid-2014 SAAM SMIT Towage Brasil S.A. (previously Rebras Rebocadores do Brasil S.A.) was consolidated in the financial statements of the Group.

The key associated companies of the Group are:

COMPANY

COUNTRY OF INCORPORATION

Damietta for Maritime Services Company S.A.E. Egypt

SAAM Remolques S.A. de C.V.

Mexico

The voting rights in associated companies are equal to the ownership interests.

Ownership interest 2014
31% 49%

2013
31% -

For a disclosure on the commitments provided with regard to strategic partnerships reference is made to paragraph 28.

17.

NON-CURRENT FINANCIAL ASSETS

17.1 OTHER NON-CURRENT RECEIVABLES

Balance as at 1 January Granted loan (to joint venture) Repayment of loan (by joint venture) Currency translation differences and other movements Balance as at 31 December

2014
12,674 7,153
- 9,278 - 2,458
8,091

2013
16,491 2,603 - 2,016 - 4,404
12,674

The other non-current receivables comprise loans to joint ventures, associated companies, long-term advance payments to suppliers and long-term receivables and retentions from customers, which are due in agreed time schedules. This item also includes accrued receivables which are allocated to the result over periods longer than one year.

17.2 FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS AVAILABLE FOR SALE
In the fourth quarter of 2014 the group acquired 19.9% of the certificates on outstanding shares of Fugro N.V. The interest is classified as a financial instrument available for sale. This is as follows:

Balance as at 1 January
Acquisition of share in Fugro N.V. Change in value in the period Balance as at 31 December

2014
-
242,364 48,571
290,935

AANNNNUUAALL RREEPPOORRTT 22001144 ­- BBOOSSKKAALLIISS

18.

INVENTORIES

Fuel and materials Spare parts Other inventories

9977

2014
42,337 58,260
2,479 103,076

2013
38,558 56,045
3,213 97,816

During 2014 and 2013 no write-down of inventories to net realizable value was required.

19.

DUE FROM AND DUE TO CUSTOMERS

Cumulative incurred costs plus profit in proportion to progress less provisions for losses Progress billings Advances received Progress billings and advances received
Balance

2014 3,760,654 3,778,032
98,861 3,876,893
- 116,239

Due from customers Due to customers Balance

167,494 - 283,733 - 116,239

2013 4,174,875 4,065,327
111,808 4,177,135
- 2,260
251,362 - 253,622
- 2,260

As at year-end 2014 the payments due from customers do not include amounts which will be paid subject to specified conditions (retentions) from third parties (2013: EUR 10.2 million). The determination of the profit in proportion to the stage of completion and the provision for losses is based on estimated costs and revenues of the relating projects. These estimates contain uncertainties.

20.

TRADE AND OTHER RECEIVABLES

Trade receivables Amounts due from joint ventures and associated companies Other receivables and prepayments

2014
363,621 24,650
243,726 631,997

2013
418,449 12,231
252,637 683,317

21.

CASH AND CASH EQUIVALENTS

Bank balances and cash Short-term bank deposits Cash and cash equivalents
Bank overdrafts Bank balances and cash of disposal group Short-term bank deposits to disposal group Net cash and cash equivalents in the consolidated statement of cash flows

2014
357,748 38,204
395,952
- 2,371 1,855 -
395,436

2013
281,731 48,620
330,351
- 5,709 24,526
5,136 354,304

Cash and cash equivalents include EUR 65,2 million (2013: EUR 65,0 million) held by project-driven construction consortiums (joint operations). The remaining funds were freely disposable.

AANNNNUUAALL RREEPPOORRTT 22001144 ­- BOSKALIS

9988

22.

GROUP EQUITY

22.1 ISSUED CAPITAL AND SHARE PREMIUM
The authorized share capital of EUR 240 million is divided into 150,000,000 ordinary shares with a par value of EUR 0.80 each and 50,000,000 cumulative protective preference shares with a par value of EUR 2.40 each.

Movements can be specified as follows:

(in number of shares)
On issue and fully paid at 1 January Stock dividend Stock issuance On issue and fully paid at 31 December Repurchased shares
Shares entitled to dividend at 31 December

2014
120,265,063 2,672,757 -
122,937,820 - 629,123
122,308,697

2013
107,283,679 3,284,415 9,696,969
120,265,063 -6
120,265,057

Stockdividend
In 2014 a dividend was distributed relating to financial year 2013 for an amount of EUR 1,24 per share, for a total amount of EUR 149.1 million. 75% of the shareholders opted for a dividend in shares. As a result 2,672,757 new shares Royal Boskalis Westminster N.V. were issued.
Share issue
On 10 January 2013 Boskalis issued shares for a price of EUR 33.00 per share to finance the acquisition of shares of Dockwise. Boskalis issued 9,696,969 shares. The expenses related to the issuance of these shares amounted to EUR 2.1 million after taxation.
Repurchase of shares
On 13 May 2014 the General Meeting of Shareholders agreed upon the conditions for the repurchase of own shares as part of the share repurchase program, for a period of 18 months. On 14 August 2014 the Group started repurchasing the shares. In 2014 629,123 shares were repurchased for an amount of EUR 27.7 million (including EUR 1.7 million dividend tax).
Share premium
The share premium consists of additional paid-in capital exceeding the par value of outstanding shares. The share premium is distributable free of tax.
Shares per balance sheet date
The issued capital as at 31 December 2014 consists of 122,937,820 ordinary shares with a par value of EUR 0.80 each and consequently amounts to EUR 98.4 million (2013: EUR 96.2 million). 629,123 shares were owned by the Group as at 31 December 2014 as part of the issued capital. The six ordinary shares which were owned by the Group as at 31 December 2013 were sold on 13 March 2014.
Preference shares
The Stichting Continuïteit KBW has received an option right to acquire cumulative protective preference shares in Royal Boskalis Westminster N.V. This option has not been exercised yet.
22.2 RETAINED EARNINGS
Retained earnings consist of additions and distributions based on profit appropriations, effects of changes in accounting principles and losses and movements in the legal reserve. The balance is at the disposal of the shareholders. Retained earnings also comprises of the unappropriated current year profit. A proposal for profit appropriation is included in the Other Information.

AANNNNUUAALL RREEPPOORRTT 22001144 ­- BBOOSSKKAALLIISS

9999
22.3 DIVIDENDS
Royal Boskalis Westminster N.V. announced and distributed the following dividends to holders of ordinary shares:

Dividends previous year EUR 1.24 respectively EUR 1.24 per ordinary share Total announced and distributed dividend
Stock dividend Cash dividend
TOTAL DISTRIBUTED DIVIDEND

2014
149,129 149,129
112,021 37,108
149,129

2013
145,056 145,056
101,819 43,237
145,056

In 2014 25% of the shareholders have opted for a distribution of dividend in cash. An amount of EUR 37.1 million was distributed and the accompanying dividend tax was paid in July 2014.
22.4 EARNINGS PER SHARE
Earnings per share over 2014 amount to EUR 4.03 (2013: EUR 3.09). As a result of a lack of dilution effects, the diluted earnings per share also amount to EUR 4.03 (2013: EUR 3.09). The calculation of earnings per share is based on the profit attributable to shareholders of EUR 490.3 million (2013: EUR 365.7 million) and the weighted average number of ordinary shares for the year 2014 is 121,606,364 (2013: 118,445,238). This number is calculated as follows:

(in number of shares)
Issued ordinary shares (entitled to dividend) as at 1 January Weighted effect of ordinary shares issued due to optional dividend Weighted effect of ordinary shares issued Weighted effect on purchased own ordinary shares issued Weighted average number of ordinary shares during the fiscal year

2014
120,265,057 1,493,815 - 152,508
121,606,364

2013
107,283,679 1,889,663 9,271,896 -
118,445,238

The first adoption of IFRS 10 and IFRS 11 does not affect the earnings per share.

22.5 OTHER RESERVES
Movement in other reserves:

Note
Balance as at 1 January 2014
Defined benefit plan actuarial gains (losses) and asset limitation, after taxation Foreign currency translation differences for foreign operations, after taxation Cash flow hedges, after taxation Realization through sale of underlying asset Reclass result of new joint venture to revaluation reserve Movement legal reserve Total movement

OTHER LEGAL RESERVE [22.5.1] 305,500
-
-
34,689 34,689

Balance as at 31 December 2014

340,189

Legal reserves

HEDGING RESERVE

REVALUATION RESERVE

[22.5.2]

[22.5.3]

- 22,598

43,150

CURRENCY TRANSLATION
RESERVE
[22.5.4]
- 61,106

ACTUARIAL RESERVE
[22.5.5]
- 32,031

TOTAL OTHER RESERVES
232,915

-
3,559
-
3,559
- 19,039

-
- 1,936
4,405 -
2,469
45,619

-
202,382 -
202,382
141,276

- 53,270
-
- 53,270
- 85,301

- 53,270
202,382 3,559
- 1,936
4,405 34,689 189,829
422,744

AANNNNUUAALL RREEPPOORRTT 22001144 ­- BOSKALIS

11000

Note
Balance as at 1 January 2013
Defined benefit plan actuarial gains (losses) and asset limitation, after taxation Foreign currency translation differences for foreign operations, after taxation Cash flow hedges, after taxation Gross up actuarial reserve regarding company pension fund Smit prior to reclassification Reclass relating to settlement of Smit company pension scheme Revaluation existing participation prior to business combination Dockwise Movement legal reserve Total movement

OTHER LEGAL RESERVE [22.5.1] 325,853
-
-
-
-
- 20,353 - 20,353

Balance as at 31 December 2013

305,500

Legal reserves

HEDGING RESERVE

REVALUATION RESERVE

[22.5.2]

[22.5.3]

- 11,440

20,434

CURRENCY TRANSLATION
RESERVE
[22.5.4]
- 3,234

ACTUARIAL RESERVE
[22.5.5]
- 129,014

TOTAL OTHER RESERVES REVISED*
202,599

-
- 11,158
-
-
- 11,158
- 22,598

-
-
-
-
22,716 -
22,716
43,150

-
- 57,872 -
-
-
- 57,872
- 61,106

63,919
-
- 7,996
41,060
96,983
- 32,031

63,919
- 57,872 - 11,158
- 7,996
41,060
22,716 - 20,353 30,316
232,915

* For the revisions in previous year reference is made to note 2.2 in the accounting policies.
The changes in accounting principles do not affect the other reserves. The legal reserves are based on Dutch law and are not available for dividend distribution to shareholders.
22.5.1 OTHER LEGAL RESERVE (LEGAL RESERVE)
With regard to the difference between the cost price and equity value of joint ventures and associated companies, a legally required reserve is recognized resulting from a lack of control over the distribution of profits only to the extent that these differences are not included in the accumulated currency translation differences on foreign operations.
22.5.2 HEDGING RESERVE (LEGAL RESERVE)
The hedging reserve comprises the fair value of effective cash flow hedges, not yet realized at balance sheet date, net of taxation, including results realized on the "rolling forward" of existing hedges as a result of differences between the duration of the hedges concerned and the underlying cash flows. Details about the movements in the hedging reserve are disclosed in note 27.2.
22.5.3 REVALUATION RESERVE (LEGAL RESERVE)
This reserve relates mainly to the revaluations of the existing interests in 2008 following the business combination Dragamex SA de CV and Codramex SA de CV and the profit with respect to the revaluation of the existing non-controlling interest prior to the business combination with Smit Internationale N.V. (2010: EUR 17.3 million) and Dockwise Ltd. (2013: EUR 22.7 million). In 2014 part of the assets which were revaluated in 2008 were disposed and the accompanying revaluation reserve was released in favour of the retained earnings. Furthermore, in 2014 an amount of EUR 4.4 million is transferred from the retained earnings with respect to the book result on the newly formed strategic partnership SAAM-Smit.
22.5.4 CURRENCY TRANSLATION RESERVE (LEGAL RESERVE)
The currency translation reserve comprises all accumulated currency translation differences arising from the translation of investments in foreign operations, which are denominated in reporting currencies other than those used by the Group, including the related intragroup financing. These currency translation differences are accumulated as from the IFRS transition date (1 January 2004) and are taken into the income statement at disposal or termination of these foreign operations.

AANNNNUUAALL RREEPPOORRTT 22001144 ­- BBOOSSKKAALLIISS

22.5.5 ACTUARIAL RESERVE
The actuarial reserve relates to the limitation on net plan assets of defined benefit pension schemes and the actuarial gains and losses, which originated from the difference between the realized and the expected movement in defined benefit obligations and the return on plan assets. The movement in 2013 from actuarial reserve to reserve retained earnings is initiated by the settlement of a company pension scheme (reference is made to note 24.1).

23.

INTEREST-BEARING BORROWINGS

NON-CURRENT LIABILITIES
Mortgage loans Other interest-bearing loans
CURRENT LIABILITIES
Mortgage loans (current portion) Other interest-bearing loans (current portion)

31 DECEMBER 2014

2013

6,141 816,676 822,817

16,829 948,206 965,035

3,277 74,846 78,123

4,029 -
4,029

110011

In 2014, the Group agreed with the bank syndicate to adapt the credit facility, consisting of a term loan of USD 525 million and a revolving credit facility of EUR 500 million as agreed upon in 2013, to a revolving multi-currency credit facility. This adjusted credit facility, amounting to EUR 600 million, has a duration of 5 year, with an option to extend to 7 years. On 31 December 2014 the Group drew USD 215 million and EUR 75 million respectively as part of this credit facility.
The Other interest-bearing loans concern, translated at year-end foreign currency rates, for EUR 622.4 million (2013: EUR 589.7 million) two US Private Placements. One, amounting to USD 325 million, was placed with institutional investors in July 2013. The principal of this placement will be repayed after the duration of ten years. The annual interest rate amounts to 3.66%. The other loan concerns a US private placement of an inaugural US dollar 433 million and GBP 11 million, in July 2010, with institutional investors in the United States and the United Kingdom. The placement consists of three tranches with an original duration of 7, 10 and 12 year respectively. The US dollar and GBP proceeds have been swapped into euros, for a total amount of EUR 354 million, through a cross currency rate swap. The fixed interest rate amounts to 4.76%.
The Group has agreed to comply with a number of covenants with the bank syndicate and US private placement holders. These are mainly a net debt / EBITDA ratio, with a limit of 3, and the EBITDA / net interest ratio, with a minimum of 4. These covenants are met as at 31 December 2014.
Interest rates, remaining terms and currencies of the interest-bearing borrowings are disclosed in the explanatory notes to the financial instruments in the interest rate risk paragraph. As at 31 December 2014 the average interest rate for the non-current portion of the mortgage loans and other interest-bearing loans was 3.53% (2013: 3.42%). The non-current portions of other interest-bearing loans due after more than five years amount to EUR 433.9 million (2013: EUR 384.5 million). The loans of the disposal group as at 31 December 2014 are disclosed in note 5.3.

AANNNNUUAALL RREEPPOORRTT 22001144 ­- BOSKALIS

110022

24.

EMPLOYEE BENEFITS

The liabilities associated with employee benefits consist of defined benefit pension schemes and other liabilities relating to a number of defined contribution schemes in the Netherlands and foreign countries and jubilee benefits. They amount to a total of:

Defined benefit pension schemes Other liabilities on account of employee benefits Employee benefits

Note [24.1]

2014
31 DECEMBER

2014

2013

68,280 7,780
76,060

6,061 7,696 13,757

24.1 DEFINED BENEFIT PENSION SCHEMES

Balance as at 1 January 2014
Current service cost Past service cost Interest cost on obligation Contributions received from the Group Return on plan assets Net actuarial gains / losses Benefits paid Foreign currency exchange rate changes and other changes Total movement
Balance as at 31 December 2014

DEFINED BENEFIT OBLIGATION

FAIR VALUE PLAN ASSETS

554,486

585,038

31,278 - 809
21,765 -
153,910 - 18,709

31,875 21,128 66,314 - 18,709

5,887 193,322
747,808

6,286 106,894
691,932

Limitation on net plan assets as at 1 January Movement in limit on net plan assets Limitation on net plan assets as at 31 December
Balance as at 31 December 2014 after limitation on net plan assets

Total result defined benefit pension schemes

SURPLUS/ DEFICIT (-)
30,552
- 31,278 809
- 21,765 31,875 21,128
- 87,596 -
399 - 86,428
- 55,876

UNFUNDED PENSION
LIABILITIES

TOTAL

CHARGED TO CONSOLIDATED INCOME
STATEMENT

RECOGNIZED
DIRECTLY IN EQUITY

- 4,673

25,879

- 20 -
- 149 -
- 798 324

- 31,298 809
- 21,914 31,875 21,128
- 88,394 324

31,298 - 809
21,914
- 21,128

88,394

- 643

399 - 87,071

- 5,316 - 61,192

- 31,940 24,852 - 7,088
- 68,280

94,817

31,275

88,394

- 24,852

31,275

63,542

AANNNNUUAALL RREEPPOORRTT 22001144 ­- BBOOSSKKAALLIISS

Balance as at 1 January 2013
Current service cost Past service cost Interest cost on obligation Contributions received from the Group Return on plan assets Net actuarial gains / losses Benefits paid Acquired through business combination Transfers, foreign currency exchange rate changes and other changes Total movement
Balance as at 31 December 2013

DEFINED BENEFIT OBLIGATION

FAIR VALUE PLAN ASSETS

789,692

700,381

32,414 - 3,556 23,238
- 120,162 - 24,507 26,350

60,291 19,505 - 12,250 - 24,507 27,248

- 168,983 - 235,206
554,486

- 185,630 - 115,343
585,038

Limitation on net plan assets as at 1 January Movement in limit on net plan assets Limitation on net plan assets as at 31 December

Balance as at 31 December 2013 after limitation on net plan assets

Total result defined benefit pension schemes

SURPLUS/ DEFICIT (-)
- 89,311
- 32,414 3,556
- 23,238 60,291 19,505 107,912
898
- 16,647 119,863
30,552

UNFUNDED PENSION
LIABILITIES
- 4,616
- 18 -
- 169 -
- 178 308
-

TOTAL

CHARGED TO CONSOLIDATED INCOME
STATEMENT

RECOGNIZED
DIRECTLY IN EQUITY

- 93,927

- 32,432 3,556
- 23,407 60,291 19,505 107,734
308 898

32,432 - 3,556 23,407

- 19,505

- 107,734

- 57
- 4,673

- 16,647 119,806
25,879

- 5,570 - 26,370 - 31,940
- 6,061

32,778

16,588 - 91,146

26,370

- 31,998

32,778

- 64,776

110033

As of 1 July 2014 the Group has adjusted its pension plan for the majority of its Dutch (staff) employees. The adjustments mainly relate to the increase in the annual pension accrual rate and the increase of the pensionable age to 67 years. These adjustments have resulted in a non-recurring non-cash past service cost expense of EUR 14.6 million. The expense has been accounted for in the first half of 2014. The board of the pension fund, Boskalis pension fund, decided to liquidate the fund as at 11 April 2014. In the second half of 2014 all assets and liabilities from the fund were transferred to Pensioenfonds Grafische Bedrijven (PGB). The transfer did not affect the consolidated income statement. In the fourth quarter the Group announced to further adjust the pension schemes for Dutch staff employees as of 2015. These adjustments consist of the decrease in the offset, decrease in the annual pension accrual rate and the introduction of a cap on pensionable salary. This announcement resulted in a non-recurring non-cash past service cost gain of EUR 15.4 million. On balance, a non-cash gain amounting to EUR 0.8 million is recognized in the income statement 2014 as a result of the (announced) adjustments in pension schemes.
Part of the Dutch staff participates in five multi-employer pension funds. These pension funds have indicated they are not able to provide sufficient information for a calculation in accordance with IFRS because there is no reliable and consistent basis to attribute the pension obligations, plan assets, income and expenses to the individual member companies of these pension funds. In all cases in which participation takes place in multi-employer pension funds, the Group has no obligation whatsoever to pay additional contributions in the case of a shortage in the respective fund, other than contributing future premiums. Neither can the Group impose its rights on potential surpluses in these funds. As a result, these defined benefit pension schemes are accounted for as defined contribution pension schemes in these financial statements, in accordance with IFRS.
The defined benefit pension schemes that are funded, respectively placed at pension funds, are the company pension funds in The Netherlands, Belgium, United Kingdom, United States and South Africa. The pension rights include retirements and dependants pensions These pension schemes are characterized by defined pension rights over service years, mainly based on average wages. The pension rights are indexed where for the main part of these schemes a limit is set to the available contributions and the return on investments respectively. The pension schemes, liabilities and plan assets are managed by pension funds or insurance companies. The risks for the Group related to the pensions is therefore limited. Regarding the funded defined benefit schemes there are no legal or constructive obligations for the Group for immediate replenishment in case of insufficient funds to fulfill future actuarially determined obligations. The future cashflows are limited to the yearly actuarially determined contributions due. The contribution is subject to the customary, actuarial assumptions, expected returns and agreed contribution ceiling.

AANNNNUUAALL RREEPPOORRTT 22001144 ­- BOSKALIS

110044

The pension scheme managed by PGB does neither have an obligation for replenishment nor any specific separated plan assets of the Group. As such, the plan assets of the Boskalis pension scheme are determined actuarially based on the present value of the liabilities transferred to PGB.

The unfunded defined benefit pension schemes are minor pension schemes for two German Group companies. The other pension schemes within the Group do not classify as defined benefit pension schemes.

Plan assets consist of the following:

Investments quoted in active markets
Equities Bonds Real estate
Unquoted investments
Cash (non-interest-bearing) Other receivables and payables
Actuarial valuation of the inseperable share in plan assets of funds, mainly PGB
Total plan assets

31 DECEMBER 2014

2013

32,688 157,602
1,139 191,429

170,927 357,089
14,171 542,187

924 3,062 3,986 496,517
691,932

54,195 - 11,344 42,851
-
585,038

As per 31 December 2014 and 31 December 2013 the plan assets do not include shares issued by Royal Boskalis Westminster N.V.

Periodically the boards of the pension funds prepare an asset liability management study to assess the matching of the pension liability and the expected duration of the investments. Based on the outcome of these studies the management of the pension funds adjusts, if necessary, the nature and mix of the asset portfolio on the expected duration of the pension liabilities. The average duration of the obligations of the pension schemes is about 19 years.

The recognition of pension costs from defined benefit pension schemes in the consolidated financial statements is presented in the statement below:

Total result defined benefit schemes Pension costs for defined benefit pension schemes charged to the consolidated income statement Actuarial gains and losses and asset limitation recognized directly in equity Taxation Actuarial gains and losses and asset limitation recognized directly in equity net of tax

2014
94,817 - 31,275
63,542 - 10,272
53,270

2013
- 31,998 - 32,778 - 64,776
8,853 - 55,923

Effective return on plan assets

87,442

7,255

AANNNNUUAALL RREEPPOORRTT 22001144 ­- BBOOSSKKAALLIISS

The accumulated actuarial gains and losses and the balance of the limitation on net plan assets amount to:

Accumulated actuarial gains and losses as at 31 December Asset limitation on net plan assets as at 31 December

2014
- 114,480 - 7,088
- 121,568

2013
- 26,086 - 31,940 - 58,026

In 2015 the Group expects to contribute premiums at an amount of EUR 24.4 million to funded defined benefit schemes and premiums at an amount of EUR 0.4 million to unfunded defined benefit schemes.

The principal actuarial assumptions used for the calculations are:

Discount rate Expected future salary increases Expected future inflation Expected future pension increases active participants Expected future pension increases inactive participants

2014
2.43% 1.80% 1.80% 1.38% 0.68%

2013
3.90% 2.00% 2.30% 1.90% 1.00%

110055

Assumptions per 31 December 2014
Effect on defined benefit obligation Change in discount rate Change in expected future salary increases Change in pension increase participants Change in pension increase participants
Effect on attributed pension expenses to the service year Change in discount rate Change in expected future salary increases Change in pension increase participants Change in pension increase participants

Increase of 0.25%

Decrease of 0.25%

- 35,574 5,344 6,342
27,585

38,645 - 5,144 - 5,736 - 25,361

- 2,928 591 782
2,163

3,220 - 579 - 672 - 1,765

Assumptions per 31 December 2013
Effect on defined benefit obligation Change in discount rate Change in expected future salary increases Change in pension increase participants Change in pension increase participants
Effect on attributed pension expenses to the service year Change in discount rate Change in expected future salary increases Change in pension increase participants Change in pension increase participants

Increase of 0.25%

Decrease of 0.25%

- 22,514 3,914 4,016
16,696

24,244 - 3,730 - 3,623 - 15,751

- 1,790 402 489
1,244

1,946 - 390 - 424 - 1,164

Historical information:
Defined benefit obligation Fair value of plan assets Surplus / deficit (-) Unfunded pension liabilities Total surplus / deficit (-)

2014
- 747,808 691,932 - 55,876
- 5,316 - 61,192

2013
- 554,486 585,038
30,552
- 4,673 25,879

2012
- 789,692 700,381 - 89,311
- 4,616 - 93,927

2011
- 687,660 629,183 - 58,477
- 4,359 - 62,836

The movements in defined benefit obligations and the fair value of plan assets are primarily caused by changes in the discount rate.

2010
- 586,570 580,157
- 6,413
- 4,420 - 10,833

AANNNNUUAALL RREEPPOORRTT 22001144 ­- BOSKALIS

110066
24.2 DEFINED CONTRIBUTION PENSION SCHEMES
In 2015 the Group expects to contribute an amount of EUR 20.0 million for premiums to defined contributions schemes. This concerns contributions to pension schemes placed with multi-employer pension funds, which are accounted for as defined contribution pension schemes in these financial statements, in accordance with IFRS.

25.

PROVISIONS

Balance as at 1 January 2014 Acquired through business combinations Provisions made during the year Provisions used during the year Provisions reversed during the year Reclass to disposal group Other movements Exchange rate differences Balance as at 31 December 2014

UNFAVOURABLE AND ONEROUS CONTRACTS
20,527 -
6,620 - 9,126
1,247 - 709 18,559

Non-current Current Balance as at 31 December 2014

17,048 1,511
18,559

CLAIMS
4,828 -
3,305 - 2,173
- 530 - 303
110 -
5,237

GUARANTEE OBLIGATIONS
3,031 -
3,220 - 138 - 150
564
6,527

3,608 1,629 5,237

6,341 186
6,527

SOIL DECONTAMINATION
1,575 -
- 454 -
1,121
1,121 -
1,121

OTHER
900 -
23 -
923
473 450 923

TOTAL
30,861 -
13,168 - 11,437
- 1,134 - 303 1,921 - 709
32,367
28,591 3,776
32,367

2013
24,958 22,328
7,819 - 19,947
- 2,827 - 2,551 1,522
- 441 30,861
26,202 4,659
30,861

The provision for unfavourable and onerous contracts consists mainly of provisions, resulting from business combinations (primarily in 2013), for projects or customer contracts with a negative fair value. Moreover in 2013 a provision is made for onerous contracts for unused offices. The provision for unused offices amounts to EUR 4.5 million as at 31 December 2014 (year-end 2013: EUR 6.8 million) includes expected (sub)rental income of EUR 0.3 million (2013: EUR 2.1 million).
The other provisions relate mainly to warranty liabilities, expected costs for cleaning up soil contamination and claims for completed projects received during the reporting period and in previous years. The Group disputes these claims and has made an assessment of the projected costs resulting from these claims. The results of the claims are uncertain and may differ from the above listed provisions.

26.

TRADE AND OTHER PAYABLES

Trade payables Taxes and social security payables Amounts due to joint ventures and associated companies Other creditors and accruals

31 DECEMBER 2014
185,248 41,975 21,878
911,480 1,160,581

2013
218,702 48,067 21,164
854,776 1,142,709

AANNNNUUAALL RREEPPOORRTT 22001144 ­- BBOOSSKKAALLIISS

The trade and other payables are generally not interest-bearing.

27.

FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS

GENERAL
Pursuant to a financial policy maintained by the Board of Management, the Group and its Group companies use several financial instruments in the ordinary course of business. The policy with respect to financial instruments is disclosed in more detail in the Annual Report in the "Corporate Governance" chapter. The Group's financial instruments are cash and cash equivalents, trade and other receivables, certificates of (listed) shares, interest-bearing loans and bank overdrafts, trade and other payables and derivatives. The Group enters into derivative transactions, mainly foreign currency forward contracts, foreign currency options and to a limited extent interest rate swaps, to hedge against the related risks as the Group's policy is not to trade in derivatives.

110077
27.1 FINANCIAL RISK MANAGEMENT
The Group has exposure to the following risks from its use of financial instruments:  Credit risk  Liquidity risk  Market risk, existing of: currency risk, interest rate risk and price risk

27.1.1 CREDIT RISK
The Group has a strict acceptance and hedging policy for credit risks, resulting from payment and political risks. In principle, credit risks are covered by means of bank guarantees, insurance, advance payments, etcetera, except in the case of creditworthy, first class debtors. These procedures and the (geographical) diversification of the operations of the Group companies reduce the risk with regard to credit concentration.

Exposure to credit risk Credit risk is the risk of financial loss to the Group if a customer or counterparty to a financial instrument fails to meet its contractual obligations, and arises principally from the Group's trade and other receivables. The Group's exposure to credit risk is mainly determined by the individual characteristics of each of the customers and the location of these customers.
A large part of the Group's projects in progress within the operational segments Dredging & Inland Infra and Offshore Energy is directly or indirectly performed on behalf of state controlled authorities and (contractors of) oil and gas producers in various countries and geographical areas. Activities relating to Harbour Towage activities (part of Towage & Salvage) are often performed for major ship owning companies and harbour agents. Receivables relating to terminal services (part of Towage & Salvage) are generally outstanding with oil and gas producers, therefore a significant portion of the receivables relates to clients from these industries. Salvage receivables (part of Towage & Salvage) are mainly outstanding with shipping companies and their Protection & Indemnity Associations, or "P&I Clubs". In general there is healthy diversification of receivables with different customers in several countries in which the Group is performing its activities. Ongoing credit evaluation is performed on the financial condition of accounts receivable. The credit history of the Group over the recent years indicates that bad debts incurred are insignificant compared to the level of activities. Therefore, management is of the opinion that credit risk is adequately controlled through the currently applicable procedures.
The maximum credit risk as per balance sheet date, without taking into account the aforementioned financial risk coverage instruments and policy, consists of the book values of the financial assets as stated below:

Non-current receivables Trade receivables Amounts due from joint ventures and associated companies Other receivables and prepayments Derivatives (receivable) Income tax receivable Cash and cash equivalents

31 DECEMBER 2014
8,091 363,621
24,650 243,724
9,329 11,558 395,952 1,056,925

2013
12,674 418,449
12,231 252,637
12,731 8,797
330,351 1,047,870

The maximum credit risk on trade debtors at reporting date by operational segment was as follows:

Dredging & Inland Infra Offshore energy Towage & Salvage Holding

31 DECEMBER 2014
227,396 126,754
7,411 2,060 363,621

2013
234,037 129,921
50,151 4,340
418,449

AANNNNUUAALL RREEPPOORRTT 22001144 ­- BOSKALIS

110088
The aging of trade debtors as at 31 December was as follows:

Not past due Past due 0 - 90 days Past due 90 - 180 days Past due 180 - 360 days More than 360 days
Impairment Trade receivables at book value

2014 Gross
223.423 84.016 6.417 37.085 31.248
382.189
- 18.568 363.621

Impairment
- 2.028 - 1.128 - 2.285 - 13.127 - 18.568

2013 Gross
219.481 129.385
48.862 9.359
28.188 435.275
- 16.826 418.449

Impairment
- 1.589 - 4.124 - 1.515 - 9.598 - 16.826

With respect to the receivables that are neither impaired nor past due, there are no indications as of the reporting date that these will not be settled.

The movement in the allowance for impairment in respect of trade debtors during the year was as follows:

Balance as at 1 January Provisions made during the year Provisions used during the year Provisions released during the year Exchange rate differences
Balance as at 31 December

2014
16,826
9,864 - 263 - 7,590 - 269 1,742
18,568

2013
14,120
13,049 - 10,482
- 78 217 2,706
16,826

Concentration of credit risk As at reporting date there is no concentration of credit risk with certain customers.
27.1.2 LIQUIDITY RISK
Liquidity risk is the risk that the Group will not be able to meet its financial obligations as they fall due.
The Group's approach to managing liquidity is to ensure that it will have sufficient liquidity to meet its liabilities when due, under both normal and stressed conditions. Liquidity projections including available credit facilities are incorporated in the regular management information reviewed by the Board of Management. The focus of the liquidity review is on the net financing capacity, being free cash plus available credit facilities in relation to the financial liabilities. Furthermore, based on the Group's financial ratios it can be concluded that the Group has significant debt capacity available under an (implied) "investment grade"-credit profile.

AANNNNUUAALL RREEPPOORRTT 22001144 ­- BBOOSSKKAALLIISS

The following are the contractual maturities of financial liabilities, including estimated interest payments and excluding the impact of netting agreements and excluding financial liabilities accounted for as part of the disposal group:

As at 31 December 2014
Mortgage loans Other interest-bearing loans Bank overdrafts Trade and other payables Current tax payable Derivatives

Contractual cash

Book value

flows One year or less

- 9,418 - 891,522
- 2,371 - 1,160,581
- 195,162 - 21,279
- 2,280,333

- 10,836 - 1,084,865
- 2,371 - 1,160,581
- 195,162 - 3,061
- 2,456,876

- 3,789 - 107,207
- 2,371 - 1,160,581
- 195,162 - 14,463
- 1,483,573

1 - 5 years
- 6,606 - 489,986
2,484 - 494,108

More than 5 years
- 441 - 487,672
8,918 - 479,195

110099

As at 31 December 2013
Mortgage loans Other interest-bearing loans Bank overdrafts Trade and other payables Current tax payable Derivatives

Contractual cash

Book value

flows One year or less

- 20,858 - 948,206
- 5,709 - 1,142,709
- 142,481 - 69,387
- 2,329,350

- 23,433 - 1,161,492
- 5,709 - 1,142,709
- 142,481 - 73,812
- 2,549,636

- 7,280 - 32,312
- 5,709 - 1,142,709
- 142,481 - 2,427
- 1,332,918

1 - 5 years
- 15,251 - 680,882
- 25,440 - 721,573

More than 5 years
- 902 - 448,298
- 45,945 - 495,145

27.1.3 MARKET RISK
Market risk concerns the risk that group income or the value of investments in financial instruments is adversely affected by changes in market prices, such as exchange rates, interest rates and fuel prices. The objective of managing market risks is to keep the market risk position within acceptable boundaries while achieving the best possible return.
Currency risk The functional currency of the Group is the euro. A number of group companies, of which the most important companies are Dockwise and other substantial strategic investments (Smit-Lamnalco, Keppel Smit Towage, Asian Lift and SAAM-Smit), have different functional currencies than the euro. The main other currency is the US Dollar, which is the functional currency of Dockwise, Smit-Lamnalco and SAAM-Smit, followed by the Singapore Dollar. The revenues and expenses of these companies are largely or entirely based on other currencies than the euro. These group companies attribute approximately 35 ­ 40% to the group revenue, 40 ­ 45% to the operational result and 35 ­ 40% to the EBITDA in 2014. The Board of Management has defined a policy to control foreign currency risks based on hedging of material transactions in foreign currencies of group companies other than the functional currency. The basic assumption is that these group companies hedge their currency risks, if material, which result from operational transactions in currencies different than their functional currency. The Group contracts a larger part of the projects in US Dollars and currencies which are related to some extent to the US Dollar or another currency. Consequently, a large part of the activities of the group companies have the euro as functional currency. This is mainly relevant for group companies involved in dredging or offshore projects. The expenses of these companies are mainly presented in euros and to lesser extent in local currencies of the country of operation of the activities.
Consequently, the reported financial results and cash flows of the respective operations are exposed to foreign currency risk. The exchange rate of the US Dollar and the euro are relevant in this perspective. The Board of Management has defined a policy to mitigate foreign risks by hedging foreign currency exposure of operational activities immediately, in most cases by forward currency contracts.
The Group uses derivative financial instruments only to the extent to hedge related transactions, mainly from future cash flows from agreed project. The Group applies hedge accounting for its cash flow hedges.

AANNNNUUAALL RREEPPOORRTT 22001144 ­- BOSKALIS

11100

Exposure to currency risk The Group's currency risk management policy was carried out during 2014 and resulted in a non-material sensitivity of the Group to currency transaction risk.

The following significant exchange rates applied during the year under review:

Euro
US Dollar Singapore Dollar South African Rand Brazilian Real

Average rate 2014
1.326 1.682 14.356 3.121

2013
1.330 1.667 12.850 2.883

Spot rate as per 31 December

2014

2013

1.210 1.604 13.999 3.217

1.378 1.740 14.440 3.240

Currency translation risk The currency translation risk arises mainly from the net asset position of subsidiaries, associated companies and joint ventures, whose functional currency is different form the presentiation currency of the Group. These investments are viewed from a long-term perspective. Currency risks associated with investments in these affiliated companies are not hedged, under the assumption that currency fluctuations and interest and inflation developments balance out in the long run. Items in the income statements of these subsidiaries are translated at average exchange rates. Currency translation differences are charged or credited directly to equity.
At reporting date the net asset positions of the main subsidiaries, associated companies and joint ventures in main functional currencies other than the euro were as follows:

Euro
US dollar Singapore dollar South African rand Brazilian real

31 DECEMBER 2014
1,553,145 408,460 27,130 5,843
1,994,578

2013
1,100,342 295,793 20,904 46,093
1,463,132

For the year 2014, profit before tax, excluding the effect of non-effective cash flow hedges, would have been EUR 14.2 million higher (2013: EUR 16.9 million higher) if the corresponding functional currency had strengthened by 5% in comparison to the euro with all other variables, in particular interest rates, held constant. This would have been mainly as a result of foreign exchange gains on translation of the US Dollar denominated result of the affiliates mentioned above. The total effect on the currency translation reserve amounts to about EUR 89 million (2013: approximately EUR 75 million).
A 5% weakening of the corresponding functional currency against the euro at year-end would have had the equal but opposite effect assuming that all other variables would remain constant.
Currency translation risk, excluding interest-bearing financing The currency translation risk can be summarized as follows:

AANNNNUUAALL RREEPPOORRTT 22001144 ­- BBOOSSKKAALLIISS

Expected cash flows in US dollars Expected cash flows in Australian dollars Expected cash flows in Britsch Pounds Expected cash flows in Indian Rupees Expected cash flows in Singapore dollars Expected cash flows in Swedish Krona Expected cash flows in other currencies Expected cash flows in foreign currencies
Cash flow hedges
Net position

2014
205,168 - 84,872
20,747 36,849 - 10,413 23,951
2,088 193,518
- 171,167
22,351

2013
238,482 - 84,710 26,591 73,998 - 29,960
7,654 - 5,059 226,996
- 229,837
- 2,841

Sensitivity analysis Due to the fact that the expected future cash flows in foreign currencies are hedged, the sensitivity for foreign currency risk for financial instruments, excluding interest-bearing financing, is limited for the Group. The Group is mainly funded with loans denominated in euros and in US Dollars, as well as US Private Placements denominated in US Dollars and in Great British Pounds Sterling (reference is made to note 23). To a large extent the US Dollar Private Placements and the full amount expressed in Great British Pound Sterling is swapped into euros, by means of cross currency swaps. The other part of the US Private Placements expressed in US Dollar and the other US Dollar financing is used to hedge, in part, the netinvestment in Dockwise and Fairmount, including the intercompany financing provided to Dockwise. As a result there is no sensitivity in the profit and loss account with respect to financing in other currencies that the euro.
Interest rate risk The Group has both fixed and variable interest rate liabilities. In respect of controlling interest risks, the policy is that, in principle, interest rates for loans payable are primarily fixed for the entire maturity period. This is achieved by contracting loans that carry a fixed interest rate or by using derivatives such as interest rate swaps.
The interest rates and the maturity term profiles of interest-bearing loans, deposits and cash and cash equivalents are stated below:

As at 31 December 2014
Cash and cash equivalents Short-term deposits Mortgage loans (EUR) Mortgage loans (other) Other interest-bearing loans (EUR) Other interest-bearing loans (US Dollar) Other interest-bearing loans (other) Bank overdrafts (EUR) Bank overdrafts (other)

Interest rate One year or less

0.03% 4.92% 4.40% 8.56% 0.75% 3.43% 5.19% 1.15% 17.50%

357,748 38,204 - 1,756 - 1,521
- 74,846 -
- 1,374 - 997
315,458

1 - 5 years
- 5,687 - 2,006 - 381,197 - 388,890

Over 5 years
- 454 - 420,616 - 12,857 - 433,927

Total
357,748 38,204 - 1,756 - 7,662
- 76,852 - 801,813
- 12,857 - 1,374 - 997
- 507,359

As at 31 December 2013
Cash and cash equivalents Short-term deposits Mortgage loans (EUR) Mortgage loans (other) Other interest-bearing loans (EUR) Other interest-bearing loans (US Dollar) Other interest-bearing loans (other) Bank overdrafts (EUR) Bank overdrafts (other)

Interest rate One year or less

0.03% 2.26% 3.41% 8.75% 5.97% 3.32% 5.20% 1.25% 17.00%

281,731 48,620 - 2,718 - 1,311 - 5,248 - 461
320,613

1 - 5 years
- 9,600 - 6,370 - 8,703 - 555,869 - 580,542

Over 5 years
- 859 - 2,501 - 368,290 - 12,843 - 384,493

Total
281,731 48,620 - 12,318 - 8,540 - 11,204
- 924,159 - 12,843 - 5,248 - 461
- 644,422

AANNNNUUAALL RREEPPOORRTT 22001144 ­- BOSKALIS

111111

11122
Cash, deposits and bank overdrafts and the other interest-bearing loans do not have fixed interest rates.

Sensitivity analysis In managing interest rate risks the Group aims to reduce the impact of short-term fluctuations on the Group's earnings. In the long term, however, permanent changes in interest rates will have an impact on profit.
At the reporting date the interest rate profile of the Group's interest-bearing financial instruments taking into account the corresponding effective hedge instruments, was:

FIXED RATE INSTRUMENTS
Financial assets Financial liabilities
VARIABLE RATE INSTRUMENTS
Financial assets Financial liabilities

31 DECEMBER 2014

2013

254,305 - 649,935 - 395,630

220,538 - 587,089 - 366,551

141,647 - 251,005 - 109,358

109,813 - 381,975 - 272,162

A decrease of 100 basis points, if possible, in interest rates at 31 December 2014 would have increased the Group's profit before income tax by approximately EUR 2.1 million (2013: EUR 3.3 million increase), with all other variables, in particular currency exchange rates, held constant.
Price risks Risks related to price developments on the purchasing side, such as amongst others increased wages, costs of materials, sub-contracting costs and fuel, which are usually for the Group's account, are also taken into account when preparing cost price calculations and tenders. Wherever possible, especially on projects that extend over a long period of time, price index clauses are included in contracts.
The Board of Management has established a fuel price risk management policy stipulating approved fuel price risk management instruments. These include: delivery of fuel by the client, price escalation clauses, fixed price supply contracts and financial derivatives (forward, future and swap contracts).
At year-end 2014 the Group has an interest of 19.9% of the certificates on shares of Fugro N.V. (reference made to paragraph 17.2). An in- or decrease of 10% of the share price leads to an in- or decrease of the non-realized results of EUR 29.1 million, which is directly recognized in shareholders' equity.
27.2 ON-BALANCE FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS AND FAIR VALUE
Financial instruments accounted for under assets and liabilities are financial fixed assets, cash and cash equivalents, receivables, and current and non-current liabilities. Derivatives are mainly future cash flows hedged by forward contracts to which hedge accounting is applied. Furthermore, the Group holds a number of interest rate swaps. These are recognized under other derivatives.
The fair value of the majority of the financial instruments does not differ materially from the book value, with the exception of a number of loans and other payables with a fixed rate. The fair value of these instruments is disclosed below.
Fair value hierarchy For the fair value measurement of the recognized financial instruments a fair value hierarchy is defined in accordance with IFRS 13:  Level 1: quoted prices (unadjusted) in active markets for identical assets or liabilities.  Level 2: inputs other than quoted prices included within Level 1 that are observable for the asset or
liability, either directly (i.e. as prices) or indirectly (i.e. derived from prices).  Level 3: inputs for the asset or liability that are not based on observable market data (unobservable
inputs).
The fair value of the forward exchange contracts is based on their listed market price (unadjusted market prices in active markets for identical assets and liabilities) or discounted cash flows based on relevant conditions and durations of the contracts and including public interest rates for comparable instruments per

AANNNNUUAALL RREEPPOORRTT 22001144 ­- BBOOSSKKAALLIISS

balance sheet date, taking in account the credit risk of the counterparty. The fair value other financial instruments is based on the actual interest rate as at balance sheet date, taking into account terms and maturity. The fair value of non-interest bearing financial instruments with a maturity of twelve months or less is supposed to be equal to their book value.
The fair value and the related hierarchy of the aforementioned financial instruments are:

Assets Derivatives Available for Sale assets
Liabilities Derivatives Interest bearing loans with fixed interest rates

As at 31 December 2014

CARRYING AMOUNT

FAIR VALUE

HIERACHY

9,329

9,329

2

290,935

290,935

1

- 21,279

- 21,279

2

- 649,935

- 716,761

3

As at 31 December 2013

CARRYING AMOUNT

FAIR VALUE

HIERACHY

12,731

12,731

2

-

-

-

- 69,387

- 69,387

2

- 587,089

- 660,184

3

Derivatives The composition of outstanding derivatives at year-end is presented below.

2014
USD forward selling (in US Dollar) Forward selling of other currencies (average contract rates in EUR) Forward buying of other currencies (average contract rates in EUR) Fuel hedges (in US Dollar) Interest Rate Swaps (in EUR)

WITHIN ONE YEAR
- 203,947 72,258
- 100,886 - 1,274 3,133

AFTER ONE YEAR
- 15,732 16,716 - 1,274 29,122

TOTAL
- 219,679 88,974
- 100,886 - 2,548 32,255

2013
USD forward selling (in US Dollar) USD forward buying (in US Dollar) Forward selling of other currencies (average contract rates in EUR) Forward buying of other currencies (average contract rates in EUR) Fuel hedges (in US Dollar) Interest Rate Swaps (in US Dollar) Interest Rate Swaps (in EUR)

WITHIN ONE YEAR
- 296,546 2,077
114,835 - 123,864
- 80 - 437 - 1,384

AFTER ONE YEAR
- 13,512 19 -
- 1,680 - 75
- 1,763 - 57,904

TOTAL
- 310,058 2,096
114,835 - 125,544
- 155 - 2,200 - 59,288

The remaining time to maturity of these derivatives has a direct relation to the remaining time to maturity of the relating underlying contracts in the order book.

Cash flows from forward currency buyings and sellings can be rolled forward at settlement date when they differ from the underlying cash flows.

The results on effective cash flow hedges are recognized in group equity as stated below:

Balance hedging reserve as at 1 January
Movement in fair value of effective cash flow hedges recognized in group equity Transferred to the income statement Total directly recognized in group equity Taxation Directly charged to the Hedging reserve (net of taxes)
Balance hedging reserve as at 31 December

2014
- 22,598
3,380 2,125 5,505 - 1,946 3,559
- 19,039

2013
- 11,440
- 16,780 1,603
- 15,177 4,019
- 11,158
- 22,598

The results on non-effective cash flow hedges are presented within the operational costs and amount to EUR 1.1 million negative in 2014 (2013: EUR 1.1 million negative).

AANNNNUUAALL RREEPPOORRTT 22001144 ­- BOSKALIS

111133

11144

Netting of financial instruments The Company nets financial instruments as far as this is appropriate. Below the netting of the balance sheet items is disclosed:

Gross amount cash and cash equivalents Nett bank overdrafts Netted amount in balance sheet

AS AT 31 DECEMBER 2014

2013

416,655 - 20,703 395,952

368,903 - 38,552 330,351

27.3 CAPITAL MANAGEMENT
The Board of Management's policy is to maintain a strong capital base so as to maintain customer, investor, creditor and market confidence and to support future development of the business. The Board of Management monitors the return on equity, which the Group defines as net operating income divided by total shareholders' equity, excluding minority interests. The Board of Management also monitors the level of dividend to be paid to holders of ordinary shares. For the dividendpolicy reference is made to the Shareholders Information in the Annual Report.
The Board of Management seeks to maintain a balance between the higher returns that might be possible with higher levels of borrowings and the benefits of a sound capital position. The Group's target is to achieve a long-term return on equity of at least 12%; in 2014 the return was 17.5% (2013: 16.5%).
There were no changes in the Group's approach to capital management during the year. Neither the Group nor any of its Group companies are subject to externally imposed capital requirements.
The Group's net debt (EUR 2,753 million; 2013: EUR 2,789 million) to Group equity (EUR 3,160 million; 2013: EUR 2,532 million) at the reporting date amounts to 0.88 (2013: 1.10).
27.4 OTHER FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS
Pursuant to the decision of the General Meeting of Shareholders held on 9 May 2001, the Stichting Continuïteit KBW has acquired the right to take cumulative protective preference shares in Royal Boskalis Westminster N.V. for a nominal amount which shall be equal to the nominal amount of ordinary shares outstanding minus one share at the time of the issue. This right qualifies as a derivative financial liability, with the following important conditions. The cumulative protective preference shares are to be issued at par against a 25% cash contribution, the remainder after call-up by the Stichting in consultation with Royal Boskalis Westminster N.V. After the issue, Royal Boskalis Westminster N.V. has the obligation to buy or cancel the shares upon the Stichting's request. The preferential dividend right amounts to Euribor increased by 4% at most. The interest and credit risk is limited. The fair value of the option right is nil.

28.

COMMITMENTS AND CONTINGENT LIABILITIES

Operational lease obligations The operational lease obligations relate primarily to the operational lease of some vessels, earthmoving equipment, cars and offices. Additional clauses are not taken into account presuming that these are not unconditional. Nonredeemable operating lease contracts are recognized at nominal amounts and are due as follows:

Within one year Between one and five years After more than five years

2014
43,566 73,502 10,465 127,533

2013
42,513 42,405
9,333 94,251

AANNNNUUAALL RREEPPOORRTT 22001144 ­- BBOOSSKKAALLIISS

Guarantees The guarantee commitments as at 31 December 2014 amount to EUR 604 million (2013: EUR 701 million) and can be specified as follows:

Guarantees provided by third parties with respect to: Joint ventures and associate companies Contracts and joint ventures Lease obligations and other financial obligations

2014
81,000 522,000
1,000 604,000

2013
10,000 678,000
13,000 701,000

111155

The above mentioned guarantees outstanding as at 31 December 2014 refer to counter-guarantees provided to financial institutions for approximately EUR 603 million (2013: approximately EUR 700 million) In 2014, 28 key Group companies are jointly and severally liable in respect of credit facilities and guarantees provided to several Group companies. In respect of these credit facilities, it has been agreed to limit the provision of further securities on existing property, plant and equipment. Group companies are jointly and severally liable for the non-consolidated part of the liabilities of their joint ventures: in total EUR 166.4 million (2012: EUR 158.7 million). Group companies are also jointly and severally liable for performance obligations for contracts with third parties in project-driven construction consortiums. In addition, certain recourse obligations exist in respect of project financiers and guarantees of deployment relating to equipment. Where deemed necessary, provisions have been made.
Capital commitments As at 31 December 2014, capital commitments agreed upon amount to EUR 125 million (year-end 2013: EUR 198 million).
Capital contribution obligations At year-end 31 December 2014 capital contribution obligations relating to PPS-companies amount to EUR 12.5 million (2013: EUR 12.5 million).
Other Several legal proceedings and investigations have been instituted against (entities of) Royal Boskalis Westminster N.V. Where deemed necessary and if a reliable estimate of the future cash flows can be made, provisions have been made. Dutch companies form part of a fiscal unity. The companies are therefore liable for the tax obligations of the fiscal unity as a whole.

29.

RELATED PARTIES

29.1 IDENTITY OF RELATED PARTIES
The identified related parties to the Group are its Group companies, its joint ventures, its associated companies (see note 16), its shareholders with significant influence, its pension funds that are classified as funded defined benefit pension schemes in accordance with IAS 19 and the members of the Supervisory Board and Board of Management.

AANNNNUUAALL RREEPPOORRTT 22001144 ­- BOSKALIS

AANNNNUUAALL RREEPPOORRTT 22001144 ­- BBOOSSKKAALLIISS

11166
GROUP COMPANIES
The following are the most relevant active Group companies.

COMPANY
Baggermaatschappij Boskalis B.V. Boskalis Finance B.V. Boskalis Holding B.V. Boskalis Holding I (dollar) B.V. Boskalis Holding II (dollar) B.V. Boskalis International B.V. Boskalis Nederland B.V. Boskalis Offshore Subsea Contracting B.V. Boskalis Offshore Subsea Services B.V. Boskalis Offshore Marine Services B.V. Boskalis Offshore Marine Contracting B.V. Boskalis Westminster Dredging B.V. Boskalis Westminster International B.V. Boskalis Westminster Shipping B.V. BW Marine B.V. BW Soco B.V. Hydronamic B.V. Boskalis Dolman B.V. Boskalis Transport B.V. Cofra B.V. Aannemingsbedrijf De Jong & Zoon Beesd B.V. Zuurmond Groen B.V. Aannemingsmaatschappij Markus B.V. MNO Vervat B.V. Boskalis Nederland Infra B.V. MNO Grond- Weg- en Waterbouw B.V. J. van Vliet B.V. Dockwise B.V. Dockwise Transport N.V. Dockwise Shipping B.V. Dockwise Transporter B.V. Dockwise Vanguard B.V. Fairstar Heavy Transport N.V. Fairstar Finesse B.V. Target B.V. Talisman B.V. Treasure B.V. Triumph B.V. Trustee B.V. SMIT Harbour Towage Rotterdam B.V. Smit Internationale Beheer B.V. Smit Internationale N.V. Smit Internationale Overseas B.V. SMIT Salvage B.V. Smit Vessel Management Services B.V. Smit Towage Brasil B.V. Smit Towage Mexico Holding B.V. Smit Towage Holding B.V. Boskalis Offshore Fleet Management B.V. Fairmount Marine B.V. Fairmount Ocean Towage Company B.V. Fairmount Glacier B.V. Fairmount Expedition B.V. Fairmount Alpine B.V. Fairmount Sherpa B.V. Fairmount Summit B.V. Boskalis Offshore Transport Services N.V. Unie van Redding- en Sleepdienst België N.V. Unie van Redding- en Sleepdienst N.V. Boskalis Offshore Marine Services N.V. Dredging & Contracting Belgium N.V. Heinrich Hirdes GmbH Heinrich Hirdes EOD Services GmbH Heinrich Hirdes Kampfmittelräumung GmbH

CITY OF INCORPORATION
Papendrecht Papendrecht Papendrecht Papendrecht Papendrecht Papendrecht Rotterdam Papendrecht Rotterdam Rotterdam Rotterdam Papendrecht Papendrecht Papendrecht Papendrecht Sliedrecht Sliedrecht Dordrecht Rotterdam Amsterdam Beesd Acquoy Halfweg Nieuw Vennep Rotterdam Rotterdam Wormerveer Breda Curaçao Breda Breda Breda Rotterdam Rotterdam Breda Breda Breda Breda Breda Rotterdam Rotterdam Rotterdam Rotterdam Rotterdam Rotterdam Papendrecht Papendrecht Papendrecht Papendrecht Rotterdam Rotterdam Rotterdam Rotterdam Rotterdam Rotterdam Rotterdam Antwerp Antwerp Antwerp Antwerp Overijse Hamburg Hamburg Duisburg

COUNTRY OF INCORPORATION
The Netherlands The Netherlands The Netherlands The Netherlands The Netherlands The Netherlands The Netherlands The Netherlands The Netherlands The Netherlands The Netherlands The Netherlands The Netherlands The Netherlands The Netherlands The Netherlands The Netherlands The Netherlands The Netherlands The Netherlands The Netherlands The Netherlands The Netherlands The Netherlands The Netherlands The Netherlands The Netherlands The Netherlands Netherlands Antilles The Netherlands The Netherlands The Netherlands The Netherlands The Netherlands The Netherlands The Netherlands The Netherlands The Netherlands The Netherlands The Netherlands The Netherlands The Netherlands The Netherlands The Netherlands The Netherlands The Netherlands The Netherlands The Netherlands The Netherlands The Netherlands The Netherlands The Netherlands The Netherlands The Netherlands The Netherlands The Netherlands Belgium Belgium Belgium Belgium Belgium Germany Germany Germany

2014
100% 100% 100% 100% 100% 100% 100% 100% 100% 100% 100% 100% 100% 100% 100% 100% 100% 100% 100% 100% 100% 100% 100% 100% 100% 100% 100% 100% 100% 100% 100% 100% 100% 100% 100% 100% 100% 100% 100% 100% 100% 100% 100% 100% 100% 100% 100% 100% 100% 100% 100% 100% 100% 100% 100% 100% 100% 100% 100% 100% 100% 100% 100% 100%

2013
100% 100% 100% 100% 100% 100% 100% 100% 100% 100% 100% 100% 100% 100% 100% 100% 100% 100% 100% 100% 100% 100% 100% 100%
100% 100% 100% 100% 100% 100% 100% 100% 100% 100% 100% 100% 100% 100% 100% 100% 100% 100% 100% 100%
100% 100% 100% 100% 100% 100% 100% 100%

COMPANY
Rock Fall Company Ltd Boskalis Westminster Ltd Cofra Ltd Westminster Dredging (Overseas) Ltd Westminster Gravels Ltd Smit Harbour Towage (U.K.) Ltd. Irish Dredging Company Ltd. Atlantique Dragage SARL Sociedad Española de Dragados SA Dragapor Dragagens de Portugal SA Boskalis Italia S.r.l. Terramare Oy Boskalis Offshore A/S Boskalis Sweden AB Boskalis Polska Sp. z O.O. Terramare Eesti Oü UAB Boskalis Baltic Limited Liability Company "Boskalis" Boskalis Offshore Subsea Contracting Azerbaijan LLC BKW Dredging & Contracting Limited Boskalis Westminster Dredging Ltd Boskalis Westminster Middle East Ltd BW Marine (Cyprus) Ltd Boskalis do Brasil Dragagem e Serviços Maritímos Ltda Stuyvesant Projects Realization Inc. Boskalis Westminster Inc. Stuyvesant Envirionmental Contracting LLC Boskalis Canada Dredging & Marine Service Ltd Smit Marine Canada Inc SAAM SMIT Towage Brasil S.A. Dragamex S.A. de CV Boskalis Panama S.A. Smit Harbour Towage (Panama), Inc. Boskalis Guyana Inc. Riovia S.A. Boskalis International Uruguay S.A. Dravensa C.A. Nigerian Westminster Dredging and Marine Ltd BKI Gabon S.A. Smit Amandla Marine (Pty) Ltd. Boskalis International Maledives Private Ltd Boskalis Mozambique Lda Smit Marine South Africa (Pty) Ltd. Boskalis Westminster (Oman) LLC Boskalis Westminster Al Rushaid Co Ltd Boskalis Offshore Subsea Services (Middle East) L.L.C. Boskalis Australia Pty Ltd Boskalis Offshore Subsea Services (Australia) Pty Ltd Boskalis Perth Pty Ltd Boskalis International (S.) Pte Ltd Zinkcon Marine Singapore Pte Ltd Koon Zinkcon Pte Ltd Smit Shipping Singapore Pte. Ltd. Smit Singapore Pte Ltd Smit Holding Singapore Pte. Ltd. Smit Tak Heavy Lift (S) Pte Ltd P.T. Boskalis International Indonesia Boskalis Smit India LLP Beijing Boskalis Dredging Technology co Ltd. Boskalis Taiwan Ltd

CITY OF INCORPORATION
Fareham Fareham Fareham Fareham Fareham Fareham Cork Nanterre Madrid Alcochete Rome Helsinki Randaberg Gothenburg Szczecin Tallinn Klaipeda St. Petersburg Baku Nicosia Nicosia Nicosia Nicosia Rio de Janeiro Wilmington Wilmington Wilmington Vancouver Whitehorse Rio de Janeiro Coatzacoalcos Ancon Panama City Georgetown Montevideo Montevideo Caracas Lagos Libreville Capetown Male Maputo Capetown Seeb Dhahran Dubai Chatswood Chatswood Perth Singapore Singapore Singapore Singapore Singapore Singapore Singapore Jakarta Mumbai Beijing Taipei

COUNTRY OF INCORPORATION
United Kingdom United Kingdom United Kingdom United Kingdom United Kingdom United Kingdom Ireland France Spain Portugal Italy Finland Norway Sweden Poland Estonia Lithuania Russian Federation Azerbaijan Cyprus Cyprus Cyprus Cyprus Brazil United States of America United States of America United States of America Canada Canada Brazil Mexico Panama Panama Guyana Uruguay Uruguay Venezuela Nigeria Gabon South Africa Maledives Mozambique South Africa Oman Saoudi Arabia United Arab Emirates Australia Australia Australia Singapore Singapore Singapore Singapore Singapore Singapore Singapore Indonesia India China Taiwan

2014
100% 100% 100% 100% 100% 100% 100% 100% 100% 100% 100% 100% 100% 100% 100% 100% 100% 100% 100% 100% 100% 100% 100% 100% 100% 100% 100%
100% 100% 100% 100% 100% 100% 100% 60% 100% 70% 100% 100% 100% 49% 49% 49% 100% 100% 100% 100% 100% 50% 100% 100% 100% 100% 100% 100% 100% 100%

OTHER RELATED PARTIES
Strategic partnerships The main important active joint ventures and associated companies are mentioned in note 16.

2013
100% 100% 100% 100% 100% 100% 100% 100% 100% 100% 100% 100% 100% 100% 100% 100% 100% 100%
100% 100% 100% 100% 100% 100% 100% 100% 100% 100% 100% 100% 100% 100% 100% 100% 100% 100%
60% 100%
70% -
100% 49% 49% 49%
100% 100%
100% 100%
50% 100% 100% 100% 100% 100% 100% 100% 100%

111177

AANNNNUUAALL RREEPPOORRTT 22001144 ­- BOSKALIS

11188

Pension funds that are classified as funded defined pension schemes in accordance with IAS 19 For information on pension funds that are classified as funded defined benefit pension plans in accordance with IAS 19, reference is made to note 24.1. There were no further material transactions with these pension funds.

Members of the Board of Management and members of the Supervisory Board The only key management officers qualifying as related parties are the members of the Board of Management and the members of the Supervisory Board.

29.2 RELATED PARTY TRANSACTIONS

Strategic partnerships Transactions with joint ventures and associated companies (as part of regular business) take place on a large scale due to the nature of the business activities. In 2014 this refers to sales and purchases amounting to EUR 33.7 million, and EUR 8.5 million respectively (2013: EUR 18.1 million and EUR 24.2 million respectively). Amounts receivable from and payable to joint ventures and associated companies amounting to EUR 18.5 million and EUR 75.2 million respectively (2013: EUR 17.9 million and EUR 79.3 million respectively).

Members of the Board of Management and members of the Supervisory Board The remuneration for (former) members of the Board of Management and Supervisory Board of the company in 2014 and 2013 were as follows:

ANNUAL SALARIES AND REMUNERATION

EMPLOYER'S PENSION
CONTRIBUTIONS

SHORT- AND LONGTERM VARIABLE
REMUNERATION PAID

OTHER REIMBURSEMENTS

Members of the Board of Management dr. P.A.M. Berdowski T.L. Baartmans A. Goedée (from 8 May 2013 to 13 May 2014) J.H. Kamps F.A. Verhoeven
Members of the Supervisory Board J.M. Hessels H.J. Hazewinkel M.P. Kramer M. Niggebrugge J. N. van Wiechen C. van Woudenberg

743 538
184 538 538 2,541
70 45 50 55 52 56 328

188 135
59 135 137 654

1,018 634
308 662 331 2,953

28 27
2 28 21 106
2 2 2 2 2 2 12

TOTAL
1,977 1,334
553 1,363 1,027 6,254
72 47 52 57 54 58 340

Total 2014

2,869

654

2,953

118

6,594

Total 2013

2,887

664

2,479

118

2013
1,857 1,268
420 1,280
987 5,812
68 47 52 57 54 58 336
6,148

AANNNNUUAALL RREEPPOORRTT 22001144 ­- BBOOSSKKAALLIISS

The variable remuneration paid in 2014 is related to the achievement of certain targets during the 2013 financial year (short-term variable remuneration: EUR 1,807 thousand) and the achievement of certain targets during the 2011 - 2013 period (long-term variable remuneration: EUR 1,146 thousand). The expenses on executive remuneration in 2014 differ from the abovementioned remuneration with regard to, in particular, pensions and variable remunerations. With respect to pensions the paid pension premiums are accounted for, in the financial statements the actuarially determined service costs. The longterm variable remuneration includes the actual amounts paid in 2014 regarding 2011-2013. The expenses recognized in the financial statements take into account the expenses arising from the 2014 long-term incentive plan as disclosed below. The pension expenses and short and long term variable remuneration regarding the members of the Board of Management amounts to EUR 575 thousand and EUR 3,880 thousand. The total of the expense for the Members of the Board of Management thus amounts to EUR 7,102 thousand.

Long-term incentive plan The members of the Board of Management participate in long-term (three years) incentive plans which consist of a part that is based on the development of the share price of the ordinary shares of Boskalis and for a part that depends on the realization of certain objectives, as defined by the Supervisory Board, which are derived from the strategic agenda and in accordance with the objectives of Boskalis for the underlying periods.
Multi-year summary of variable remunerations With regard to the years 2012, 2013 and 2014 the following variable remunerations were granted to the members of the Board of Management:

dr. P.A.M. Berdowski T.L. Baartmans A. Goedée (from 8 May 2013 to 13 May 2014) J.H. Kamps F.A. Verhoeven Total

2015
1,316 856 856 856
3,884

Year of payment 2014
1,018 634 308 662 331
2,953

2013
944 601
615 319 2,479

Balance sheet position As at 31 December 2014 the Group has recognized a liability in the balance sheet item Trade and other payables amounted EUR 4.6 million (2013: EUR 2.5 million) related to the long term incentive plans for the periods 2011-2013, 2012-2014 and 2013-2015.

29.3 JOINT OPERATIONS
Joint operations are not defined as related parties, which means that the Group does not disclose any transactions, assets or liabilities with these parties. The major joint operations (project driven construction consortiums) in which the Group is involved are shown below:

ENTITY

COUNTRY OF INCORPORATION

SAAone EPCM bouwcombinatie V.O.F. SAAone GWW V.O.F. Projectorganisatie Uitbreiding Maasvlakte (PUMA) Combinatie BadhoeverBogen V.O.F. A4ALL V.O.F. Combinatie A2 HoMa Combinatie Dinteloord Combinatie Plas van Heenvliet Combinatie Ooms-Ballast-MNO Infra Team N50 Ramspol ZSNH Combinatie Van Oord/Boskalis V.O.F. SJV Rena VOF Boskalis Offshore AS - Tideway v.o.f. Offshore Windforce V.O.F. Combinatie Regenboog V.O.F. C.V. Projectbureau Grensmaas Boskalis International-Haukes V.O.F. Joint Venture Boskalis - Jac. Rijk Joint Venture Boskalis International - Jac. Rijk V.O.F. Swinoujscie Breakwater NMDC-Boskalis-Van Oord-Jan de Nul Consortium for Suez Canal Project Ras Laffan Port Extension Penta-Ocean Koon DI Boskalis Ham JV (Jurong 4) Boskalis Jan de Nul - Dragagens E Afins LDA Boscampo Bahia Blanca Quequen

The Netherlands The Netherlands The Netherlands The Netherlands The Netherlands The Netherlands The Netherlands The Netherlands The Netherlands The Netherlands The Netherlands The Netherlands The Netherlands The Netherlands The Netherlands The Netherlands The Netherlands The Netherlands The Netherlands Poland
Egypt Qatar Singapore Angola Cameroon Argentina Argentina

2014
30% 50% 50% 20% 10% 38% 50% 33% 33% 18% 50% 50% 50% 50% 38% 17% 50% 50% 50% 60%
25% 50% 17% 50% 50% 50% 50%

2013
30% 50% 50% 20% 10% 38% 50% 33% 33% 18%
50% 50% 50% 38% 17%
50% 50% 60%
50% 17% 50% 50% 50% 50%

AANNNNUUAALL RREEPPOORRTT 22001144 ­- BOSKALIS

111199

112200
COMPANY INCOME STATEMENT

(in thousands of EUR)
Result of group companies Other results, after taxation
NET PROFIT

Note [3]

2014
490,290 -
490,290

2013
362,871 2,820
365,691

COMPANY BALANCE SHEET BEFORE PROFIT APPROPRIATION

(in thousands of EUR)
ASSETS Non-current assets
Investments in group companies
Current assets
Amounts due from group companies Other receivables
Total assets
EQUITY AND LIABILITIES Shareholders' equity
Issued capital Share premium Other legal reserve Hedging reserve Revaluation reserve Currency translation reserve Actuarial reserve Retained earnings Profit for the year
Current liabilities
Amounts due to group companies Trade and other payables
Total equity and liabilities

Note

31 DECEMBER 2014

2013

[3]

3,148,676

2,527,144

3,148,676

2,527,144

3,261

-

-

716

3,261

716

3,151,937

2,527,860

[4]

98,350

96,212

[4]

537,245

538,407

[5]

340,189

305,500

[5]

- 19,039

- 22,598

[5]

45,619

43,150

[5]

141,276

- 61,106

[5]

- 85,301

- 32,031

[5]

1,603,308

1,292,012

[6]

490,290

365,691

3,151,937

2,525,237

-
3,151,937

2,333 290
2,623
2,527,860

AANNNNUUAALL RREEPPOORRTT 22001144 ­- BBOOSSKKAALLIISS

STATEMENT OF CHANGES IN SHAREHOLDERS' EQUITY

(in thousands of EUR)
Issued capital Share premium

Note
[4] [4]

Other legal reserve

[5]

Hedging reserve

[5]

Revaluation reserve

[5]

Currency translation reserve [5]

Actuarial reserve

[5]

Total other reserves

[5]

Profit appropriation 2013

Net profit 2014

Profit for the year

[6]

Shareholders' equity

Balance as at
1 January 2014

Repurchase own
ordinary shares

96,212 538,407 634,619

305,500 - 22,598
43,150 - 61,106 - 32,031 1,292,012 1,524,927

- 27,724 - 27,724

365,691

365,691 2,525,237

- 27,724

Cash dividends
- 37,108 - 37,108 - 37,108

Stock dividends

Addition to retained earnings

Other movements

Total recognized income and
expenses

Balance as at 31 December
2014

2,138 - 1,162
976

98,350 537,245 635,595

327,607 327,607

34,689 -
2,469 -
- 37,158 -

3,559
202,382 - 53,270
48,571 201,242

340,189 - 19,039
45,619 141,276 - 85,301 1,603,308 2,026,052

- 976 - 327,607 - 976 - 327,607

490,290 490,290

490,290 490,290

-

-

-

691,532 3,151,937

112211

(in thousands of EUR)
Issued capital Share premium

Note
[4] [4]

Other legal reserve

[5]

Hedging reserve

[5]

Revaluation reserve

[5]

Currency translation reserve [5]

Actuarial reserve

[5]

Total other reserves

[5]

Profit appropriation 2012

Net profit 2013

Profit for the year

[6]

Shareholders' equity

Balance as at1
January 2013
85,827 229,452 315,279
325,853 - 11,440 20,434
- 3,234 - 129,014 1,131,034 1,333,633
249,093
249,093
1,898,005

Issue of ordinairy
shares 7,758
310,127 317,885
317,885

Cash dividends
- 43,237 - 43,237 - 43,237

Stock dividends

Addition to retained earnings

Other movements

Total recognized income and
expenses

Balance as at 31 December
2013 REVISED*

2,627 - 1,172 1,455

96,212 538,407 634,619

204,401 204,401

- 20,353 -
22,716 -
41,060 - 43,423
-

- 11,158
- 57,872 55,923
- 13,107

305,500 - 22,598 43,150 - 61,106 - 32,031 1,292,012 1,524,927

- 1,455 - 1,455

- 204,401 - 204,401

365,691 365,691

365,691 365,691

-

-

-

352,584

2,525,237

* For the revisions in previous year reference is made to note 2.2 in the consolidated accounting policies.

AANNNNUUAALL RREEPPOORRTT 22001144 ­- BOSKALIS

11222
EXPLANATORY NOTES TO THE COMPANY FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

1. GENERAL
The Company Financial statements are part of the Financial statements 2014 of Royal Boskalis Westminster N.V. (the `Company').

2. PRINCIPLES OF FINANCIAL REPORTING
2.1 ACCOUNTING POLICIES
The company financial statements have been drawn up using the reporting standards applied for drawing up the consolidated financial statements, in accordance with Section 362(8), Part 9 of Book 2 of the Dutch Civil Code except for the investment in Group company, which is recognized in accordance with the equity method. Based on Section 362(1), Part 9 of Book 2 of the Dutch Civil Code, the consolidated financial statements have been prepared in accordance with the International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS) as adopted by the European Union. These accounting principles are disclosed in note 3 of the consolidated financial statements. Changes in the accounting policies in the consolidated financial statements (reference made to disclosure 2.2 in the consolidated financial statements) do not affect the company financial statements.
2.2 FORMAT
Unless stated otherwise, all amounts in these explanatory notes are stated in thousands of euros. The company balance sheet is drawn up before profit appropriation. The company income statement is limited in accordance with Section 402, Part 9 of Book 2 of the Netherlands Civil Code.
2.3 INVESTMENTS IN GROUP COMPANIES
Investments in Group companies are accounted for using the equity method, as described in the principles of Financial Reporting relating to associated companies in the consolidated Financial statements.
2.4 AMOUNTS DUE FROM GROUP COMPANIES
Amounts due from Group companies are stated initially at fair value and subsequently at amortized cost using the effective interest rate less impairments.
2.5 AMOUNTS DUE TO GROUP COMPANIES
Amounts due to Group companies are recognized initially at fair value and subsequently at amortized cost using the effective interest rate.
2.6 RESULT OF GROUP COMPANY
The result of Group company consists of the share of the Company in the result after taxation of this Group company. Results on transactions, where the transfer of assets between the Company and its Group companies and mutually between Group companies themselves are not incorporated as far as they can be deemed to be unrealized.

3. INVESTMENTS IN GROUP COMPANIES
Investments in Group companies consists solely of the 100% investment in Boskalis Westminster Dredging B.V., Papendrecht. The movements in this investment are shown below.

Balance as at 1 January
Dividends received Profit for the year Movements directly recognized in equity of group company Paid-in capital Balance as at 31 December

2014 2,527,144
- 70,000 490,290 201,242
3,148,676

2013 1,897,380
- 40,000 362,871 - 13,107 320,000 2,527,144

AANNNNUUAALL RREEPPOORRTT 22001144 ­- BBOOSSKKAALLIISS

Reference is made to the notes 16 and 29.1 of the consolidated financial statements 2014 for an overview of the most important direct and indirect Group companies.

112233
4. ISSUED CAPITAL AND SHARE PREMIUM The authorized share capital of EUR 240 million is divided into 150,000,000 ordinary shares with a par value of EUR 0.80 each and 50,000,000 cumulative protective preference shares with a par value of EUR 2.40 each.

In 2014 a dividend was distributed relating to financial year 2013 for an amount of EUR 1.24 per share, for a total amount of EUR 149.1 million. 75% of the shareholders opted for a dividend in shares. As a result 2,672,757 new ordinary shares Royal Boskalis Westminster N.V. were issued.

On 13 May 2014 the General Meeting of Shareholders agreed upon the conditions for the repurchase of own shares as part of the share repurchase program, for a period of 18 months. On 14 August 2014 the Group started with repurchasing the shares. In 2014 629,123 shares were repurchased for an amount of EUR 27.7 million (including dividend tax). The six ordinary shares which were owned by the Group as at 31 December 2013 were sold on 13 March 2014.

In the course of 2013 the issued capital of the Company increased by 9,696,969 ordinary shares due to the issuance of new shares to finance the acquisition of Dockwise and 3,284,415 ordinary shares as a result of the distribution of stock dividend.

(in number of shares)
On issue and fully paid at 1 January Stock dividend Stock issuance On issue and fully paid at 31 December Repurchased shares
Shares entitled to dividend at 31 December

2014
120,265,063 2,672,757 -
122,937,820 - 629,123
122,308,697

2013
107,283,679 3,284,415 9,696,969
120,265,063 -6
120,265,057

The issued capital as at 31 December 2014 consists of 122,937,820 ordinary shares with a par value of EUR 0.80 each and consequently amounts to EUR 98.4 million (2013: EUR 96.2 million). Of the issued capital as at 31 December 2014, 629,123 ordinary shares were owned by Royal Boskalis Westminster N.V. (six ordinary shares as at 31 December 2013). The Stichting Continuïteit KBW has received an option right to acquire cumulative protective preference shares in Royal Boskalis Westminster N.V. This option has not been exercised yet. Share premium comprises additional paid-in capital exceeding the par value of outstanding shares. Share premium is distributable free of tax.
5. OTHER RESERVES With regard to the difference between the cost price and equity value of joint ventures and associated companies recognized in accordance with the equity method, a legally required reserve is recognized due to a lack of control over the distribution of profits only to the extent that these differences are not included in the accumulated currency translation differences on foreign operations. The legal reserve for non-distributed profits of group and/or associated companies amounted to EUR 340.2 million at the end of 2014 (2013: EUR 305.5 million). The legal reserve for associated companies is determined on an individual basis.
The other reserves recognized in the company balance sheet are disclosed in the notes to the consolidated financial statements (note 22.5).
6. PROFIT FOR THE YEAR An amount of EUR 294.6 million will be added to the retained earnings. The proposal to the Annual General Meeting will be to appropriate the remainder, EUR 195.7 million, for a dividend payment of EUR 1.60 per ordinary share.
The dividend will be made payable in ordinary shares to be charged to the tax-exempt share premium or to be charged to the retained earnings, unless a shareholder requests payment in cash.

AANNNNUUAALL RREEPPOORRTT 22001144 ­- BOSKALIS

112244
7. FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS
General Pursuant to its use of financial instruments, the Group is exposed to credit risk, liquidity risk and market risk. The notes to the consolidated financial statements provide information on the Group's exposure to each of the aforementioned risks, its objectives, principles and procedures for managing and measuring these risks, as well as group capital management. These risks, objectives, principles and procedures for managing and measuring these risks as well as capital management apply mutatis mutandis to the company financial statements of Royal Boskalis Westminster N.V.
Fair value The fair value of the majority of the financial instruments presented in the balance sheet, including receivables, securities, cash and cash equivalents and current liabilities are close to the book value.

8. REMUNERATION OF THE MEMBERS OF THE BOARD OF MANAGEMENT AND MEMBERS OF THE SUPERVISORY BOARD
The remuneration of members of the Board of Management and members of the Supervisory Board is disclosed in the consolidated financial statements under related party transactions (note 29.2).

9. AUDITOR REMUNERATION
With reference to Section 382A, Part 9 of Book 2 of the Netherlands Civil Code, Ernst & Young Accountants LLP (2013: KPMG Accountants N.V.) has charged the following fees to the Company, its subsidiaries and other consolidated entities:

Audit of the financial statements Other audits

2014
1,172 44
1,216

2013
1,010 232
1,242

Total audit fees, including fees for auditors other than Ernst & Young Accountants LLP, related to the audit of the financial statements amount to EUR 1.8 million (2013: KPMG Accountants N.V. and other auditors related to the audit of the financial statements: EUR 1.9 million).

10.

COMMITMENTS AND CONTINGENT LIABILITIES

Royal Boskalis Westminster N.V. heads a fiscal unity. The company is therefore liable for the tax obligations of the fiscal unity as a whole.

The Company has arrangements with third parties, amongst which banks and pension funds. These arrangements are on behalf of her Group companies. Because the risks and rewards are with these Group companies, the costs are charged to these companies and the liabilities are recognized by these companies. The Company is jointly and severally liable for the fulfillment of the liabilities under aforementioned arrangements.

The company has issued guarantees on behalf of project-driven construction consortiums, and Group companies' own contracts, amounting to EUR 12.5 million as at year-end 2014 (2013: EUR 12.5 million). In addition, certain recourse obligations exist in respect of project financing. Where deemed necessary, provisions have been made.

Some legal proceedings and investigations are ongoing with respect to entities of Royal Boskalis Westminster N.V. Where deemed necessary, provisions have been made.

AANNNNUUAALL RREEPPOORRTT 22001144 ­- BBOOSSKKAALLIISS

112255
Papendrecht / Sliedrecht, 11 March 2015
Supervisory Board J.M. Hessels, chairman H.J. Hazewinkel M.P. Kramer M. Niggebrugge J.N. van Wiechen C. van Woudenberg
Board of Management dr. P.A.M. Berdowski, chairman T.L. Baartmans J.H. Kamps F.A. Verhoeven

AANNNNUUAALL RREEPPOORRTT 22001144 ­- BOSKALIS

126
OTHER INFORMATION

PROVISIONS IN THE ARTICLES OF ASSOCIATION RELATING TO PROFIT APPROPRIATION

ARTICLE 28. 1.From the profits realized in any financial year, first of all,
distributions will be made on cumulative protective preference shares if possible, in the amount of the percentage specified below of the amount that has to be paid up on these shares as from the beginning of the financial year to which the distribution is related. The percentage referred to above equals the average Euribor interest rate determined for loans with a term of one year ­ weighted in respect of the number of days to which this interest rate applied ­ during the financial year to which the distribution is related, increased by four percentage points at most; this increase will be determined every five years by the Board of Management subject to the approval of the Supervisory Board. If in the financial year in respect of which the above-mentioned distribution takes place, the amount that has to be paid up on cumulative protective preference shares has been reduced or, pursuant to a resolution for further payment, has been increased, the distribution shall be reduced or, if possible, be increased by an amount equal to the above-mentioned percentage of the amount of the reduction or the increase, as the case may be, calculated from the moment of the reduction or from the moment further payment became compulsory. If in the course of any financial year cumulative protective preference shares have been issued, the dividend on those cumulative protective preference shares shall be reduced for that year in proportion to the day of issue, taking into account a part of a month as a full month. 2.If and in so far as the profit is not enough to realize the distribution referred to in paragraph 1, the deficit shall be distributed from the reserves, subject to statutory provisions. 3.If in any financial year the profit referred to in paragraph 1 is not enough to realize the distributions referred to above in this article, and furthermore no distribution or only a partial distribution from the reserves as referred to in paragraph 2 is realized, so that the deficit is not or not completely distributed, the provisions of this article and the provisions of the following paragraphs shall only apply in the following financial years after the deficit has been made up for. After application of paragraphs 1, 2 and 3, no further distribution shall take place on the cumulative protective preference shares. 4.Out of the remaining profit, an amount shall be reserved annually to the extent as shall be determined by the Board of Management under approval of the Supervisory Board. The remaining part of the profits after reservation, as referred to in the immediately preceding sentence, is at the free disposal of the General Meeting of Shareholders and in case of distribution, the holders of ordinary shares will be entitled thereto in proportion to their holding of ordinary shares.

ARTICLE 29. 1.Dividends shall be made available for payment within thirty
days of their declaration, or any sooner as the Board of Management may determine. 2.Unclaimed dividends will revert to the company after five years. 3.If the Board of Management so decides, subject to the approval of the Supervisory Board, an interim dividend shall be distributed, subject to the preference of the cumulative protective preference shares and the provisions of Article 2:105 of the Dutch Civil Code. 4.The General Meeting of Shareholders may decide, on the proposal of the Board of Management, that dividends will be distributed fully or partially in the form of shares in the company or depositary certificates thereof. 5.The company may only realize distributions to the shareholder to the extent that its equity capital exceeds the amount of the subscribed capital, increased by the reserves that have to be maintained by law or by the articles of association. 6.A deficit may only be offset against reserves that have to be maintained by law to the extent that this is permitted by the law.
PROPOSED PROFIT APPROPRIATION An amount of EUR 294.6 million will be added to the retained earnings. The proposal to the Annual General Meeting will be to appropriate the remainder, EUR 195.7 million, for a dividend payment of EUR 1.60 per share.
The dividend will be made payable in ordinary shares to be charged to the tax-exempt share premium or to be charged to the retained earnings, unless a shareholder expressly requests payment in cash.

ANNUAL REPORT 2014 ­ BOSKALIS

127

ANNUAL REPORT 2014 ­ BOSKALIS

128
INDEPENDENT AUDITOR'S REPORT

To: the shareholders of Royal Boskalis Westminster N.V.
REPORT ON THE AUDIT OF THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS2014

"ViO") and other relevant independence regulations in the Netherlands. Furthermore, we have complied with the Professional Code of Ethics for Auditors Regulation (Verordening gedrags- en beroepsregels accountants, "VGBA").

OUR OPINION
We have audited the financial statements 2014 of Royal Boskalis Westminster N.V. (also referred to as "the company"), Sliedrecht, the Netherlands. The financial statements include the consolidated financial statements and the company financial statements.
In our opinion:  the consolidated financial statements give a true and fair view
of the financial position of Royal Boskalis Westminster N.V. as at 31 December 2014, its result and its cash flows for the year then ended in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards as adopted by the European Union (EU-IFRS) and with Part 9 of Book 2 of the Dutch Civil Code;  the company financial statements give a true and fair view of the financial position of Royal Boskalis Westminster N.V. as at 31 December 2014 and its result for the year then ended in accordance with Part 9 of Book 2 of the Dutch Civil Code.
The consolidated financial statements comprise:  the consolidated balance sheet as at 31 December 2014;  the following statements for 2014: the consolidated income
statement, the consolidated statement of recognized and unrecognized income and expenses, the consolidated statement of changes in equity and the consolidated statement of cash flows; and  the notes comprising a summary of significant accounting policies and other explanatory information.
The company financial statements comprise:  the company balance sheet as at 31 December 2014;  the company income statement for 2014; and  the notes comprising a summary of significant accounting
policies and other explanatory information.
BASIS FOR OUR OPINION
We conducted our audit in accordance with Dutch law, including the Dutch Standards on Auditing. Our responsibilities under those standards are further described in "Our responsibilities for the audit of the financial statements" section of our report. We are independent of Royal Boskalis Westminster N.V. in accordance with the Auditor Independence Regulation for Assurance Engagements (Verordening inzake de onafhankelijkheid van accountants bij assurance-opdrachten,

We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our opinion. 
MATERIALITY
Misstatements may arise from fraud or error and are considered material if they, individually or in the aggregate, may reasonably be expected to influence the economic decisions of users taken on the basis of these financial statements. Materiality affects the nature, timing and extent of our audit procedures and the evaluation of the effect of identified misstatements on our opinion.
Based on our professional judgment, we determined the materiality for the financial statements as a whole at EUR 17.3 million. Materiality is based on approximately 5% of the profit before taxation, taking into account exceptional settlement results. We have also taken into account misstatements and/or possible misstatements that, in our opinion, are material for qualitative reasons to users of the financial statements.
We agreed with the Supervisory Board that unadjusted misstatements in excess of EUR 0.9 million, identified during the audit, would be reported to them, as well as smaller misstatements that in our view must be reported on qualitative grounds.
SCOPE OF GROUP AUDIT
Royal Boskalis Westminster N.V. is the parent company of a group of entities. The financial information of this group is included in the consolidated financial statements of Royal Boskalis Westminster N.V.
Given the fact that we are ultimately responsible for the opinion, we are also responsible for directing, supervising and performing the group audit. In this respect, we have determined the nature and extent of the audit procedures to be carried out for group entities. Decisive were the size and/or the risk profile of the group entities or operations. On this basis, we selected group entities for which an audit or review had to be carried out on the complete set of financial information or specific items.
Our group audit in particular focused on the Dredging & Inland Infra and Offshore Energy operating segments. We performed most of the audit procedures at those segments ourselves. We used the work of other auditors when auditing a number of

ANNUAL REPORT 2014 ­ BOSKALIS

129

(foreign) entities. By performing the procedures mentioned above at group entities, together with additional procedures carried out at group level, we have been able to obtain sufficient and appropriate audit evidence about the group's financial information to provide an opinion about the consolidated financial statements.
OUR KEY AUDIT MATTERS
Key audit matters are those matters that, in our professional judgment, were of most significance in our audit of the financial statements. We have communicated the key audit matters to the Supervisory Board. The key audit matters are not a comprehensive reflection of all matters discussed.
These matters were addressed in the context of our audit of the financial statements as a whole and in forming our opinion thereon, and we do not provide a separate opinion on these matters.
Valuation of work in progress The valuation of work in progress is affected by subjective elements including estimated costs and projected revenue, whether or not from additional services, progress and disputes or potential disputes. This is partly prompted by the nature of the operations, which may be impacted by natural circumstances, technological complexity and the effect of the geographical spread of projects across the globe. We therefore identified correct and complete project revenue recognition, the valuation of receivables and additional services, as well as the completeness of project-related liabilities and project provisions as significant risks.
The project revenue recognition process, including determining the appropriate cut-off of revenues, involves significant management estimates. We tested the internal controls with respect to project management and the project results estimation process, as well as performing other audit procedures. These included, among other things, (substantive) procedures relating to contractual terms and conditions, revenue, costs incurred, including local representatives' fees, and disputes or potential disputes. We also performed procedures with respect to project calculations and result forecasts and management's assessment thereof. In connection with this, we discussed a range of financial and other risks and ongoing disputes and related estimation uncertainties with various project officials (both in the Netherlands and abroad) and management, assessing whether these have been adequately addressed in the financial statements. We also performed procedures with respect to the valuation of receivables and the completeness of project liabilities, as well as required disclosures of work in progress and related estimates.

Disclosures of work in progress and estimates are included in note 3.12 and note 19 of the financial statements.
Valuation of floating and other construction equipment Property, plant and equipment includes `floating and other construction equipment' for a total amount of EUR 2.4 billion. Each year, the company assesses whether there are indications of impairment, or whether a significant change to the useful life is applicable. If there are such indications, an estimate is made of the recoverable amount of the asset concerned. In making this assessment, management uses assumptions, estimating, among other things, future market and economic conditions. We reviewed the overall assessment of the indications of impairment and discussed it with management. With respect to a number of recognized minor impairments, we reviewed the recoverable amount calculations and reconciled them with expected cash flows as included in the forecast, or with the net realizable value from appraisals. We reviewed the forecasts for the assets concerned and discussed them with management, as well as reviewing the substantiation of the forecasts based on historical information, market information available, order portfolio and recently concluded contracts.
Disclosures of this item are included in note 3.7 and note 15 of the financial statements.
Valuation of goodwill and other intangible assets Management is required to test goodwill for impairment annually on the basis of the accounting policies used. In addition, each year, the company assesses whether a change to the useful life is applicable and/or whether there are indications of impairment of other intangible assets. This test and assessment are largely based on management expectations and estimates of future results of the cash generating units of which the entities acquired in the past form part. We used a valuation expert in evaluating the valuation models and parameters used by management. We devoted specific attention to forecasts used with respect to future revenue and result. In addition, we performed procedures relating to the disclosures on impairment testing included in the financial statements, looking specifically at the disclosure of assumptions that have the most significant effect on the determination of the recoverable amount of goodwill. In connection with this, we verified whether these disclosures are adequate and provide sufficient insight into the disclosed assumptions and sensitivities of the assumptions underlying the valuation.
Disclosures of goodwill are included in note 3.6 and note 14 of the financial statements.

ANNUAL REPORT 2014 ­ BOSKALIS

130

Tax position and tax exposure It is inherent in the international arena in which Boskalis operates that it carries out activities in a range of legal areas subject to different tax regimes. In some cases, Boskalis' cross-border operations may result in estimation differences or disputes with various national tax authorities. If management considers it likely that such disputes will lead to an outflow of resources, accruals have been formed accordingly. We performed procedures with respect to the process of estimates, testing the acceptability and adequacy of the accruals formed for that purpose. In doing so, we engaged the services of tax specialists, reviewing the assumptions underlying the estimates and discussing them with management in the light of local tax rules and regulations. In connection with this, we also devoted attention to the substantiation of the estimated probability of the positions taken and details provided thereon by management.
Disclosures of the tax position and tax exposure are included in note 3.28 and note 11 of the financial statements.
RESPONSIBILITIES OF THE BOARD OF MANAGEMENT AND SUPERVISORY BOARD FOR THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
The Board of Management of Royal Boskalis Westminster N.V. is responsible for the preparation and fair presentation of the financial statements in accordance with EU-IFRS and Part 9 of Book 2 of the Dutch Civil Code, and for the preparation of the Report of the Board of Management in accordance with Part 9 of Book 2 of the Dutch Civil Code. Furthermore, the Board of Management is responsible for such internal control as the Board of Management deems necessary to enable the preparation of the financial statements that are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error.
As part of the preparation of the financial statements, the Board of Management is responsible for assessing the company's ability to continue as a going concern. Based on the financial reporting frameworks referred to, the Board of Management is required to prepare the financial statements using the going concern basis of accounting, unless it either intends to liquidate the company or to cease operations, or has no realistic alternative but to do so. The Board of Management should disclose events and circumstances that may cast significant doubt on the company's ability to continue as a going concern in the financial statements.
The Supervisory Board is responsible for oversight of the company's financial reporting process.
OUR RESPONSIBILITIES FOR THE AUDIT OF THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Our responsibility is to plan and perform the audit engagement in a manner that allows us to obtain sufficient and appropriate audit evidence for our opinion.
We performed our audit with a high, but not absolute, level of assurance, which means that we may not have detected all errors and fraud.

We maintained professional skepticism and exercised professional judgment where relevant throughout the audit, in accordance with Dutch Standards on Auditing, ethical requirements and independence requirements. Our audit included, among other things:  identifying and assessing the risks of material misstatement of
the financial statements, whether due to fraud or error, designing and performing audit procedures responsive to those risks, and obtaining audit evidence that is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our opinion. The risk of not detecting a material misstatement resulting from fraud is higher than that resulting from error, as fraud may involve collusion, forgery, intentional omissions, misrepresentations, or overriding of internal control;  obtaining an understanding of internal control relevant to the audit in order to design audit procedures that are appropriate in the circumstances, but not for the purpose of expressing an opinion on the effectiveness of the company's internal control;  evaluating the appropriateness of accounting policies used and the reasonableness of accounting estimates and related disclosures made by the Board of Management;  establishing that the Board of Management's use of the going concern basis of accounting is acceptable, and, based on the audit evidence obtained, establishing whether events and circumstances exist that may cast significant doubt on the company's ability to continue as a going concern. If we conclude that a material uncertainty exists, we are required to draw attention to the related disclosures in the financial statements in our auditor's report, or, if such disclosures are inadequate, to modify our auditor's report. Our conclusions are based on the audit evidence obtained up to the date of our auditor's report. However, future events or circumstances may result in the company no longer being able to continue as a going concern;  evaluating the overall presentation, structure and content of thefinancial statements, including the disclosures; and  evaluating whether the financial statements fairly represent the underlying transactions and events.
We communicate with the Supervisory Board regarding, among other matters, the planned scope and timing of the audit and significant audit findings, including any significant deficiencies in internal control.
We provide the Supervisory Board with a statement confirming that we have complied with the relevant ethical requirements pertaining to independence. We also communicate with the Supervisory Board regarding all relationships and any other matters that may reasonably be deemed to influence our independence and any related measures to safeguard our independence.
We determine the key audit matters on the basis of all matters discussed with the Supervisory Board. We describe these key audit matters in our auditor's report, unless this is prohibited by law or rules and regulations, or in extraordinarily rare circumstances where non-disclosure is in the public interest.

ANNUAL REPORT 2014 ­ BOSKALIS

131
REPORT ON OTHER LEGAL AND STATUTORY REQUIREMENTS
Report on the report of the board of management and other information Pursuant to the legal requirement under Part 9 of Book 2 of the Dutch Civil Code (regarding our responsibility to report on the Report of the Board of Management and the other information):  we have no deficiencies to report as a result of our examination
as to whether the Report of the Board of Management, to the extent we can assess, has been prepared in accordance with Part 9 of Book 2 of the Dutch Civil Code, and whether the information as required by Part 9 of Book 2 of the Dutch Civil Code has been annexed; and  we report that the Report of the Board of Management, to the extent we can assess, is consistent with the financial statements.
Engagement We were engaged by the Annual General Meeting of 13 May 2014 as auditor of Royal Boskalis Westminster N.V. with effect from the audit for the 2014 financial year, having served as Royal Boskalis Westminster N.V.'s external auditor since that date.
Rotterdam, 11 March 2015
Ernst & Young Accountants LLP
Signed by W.T. Prins

ANNUAL REPORT 2014 ­ BOSKALIS

other information

132
OTHER INFORMATION
Floating sheerlegs Taklift 4 placing a jacket for an offshore wind turbine

ANNUAL REPORT 2014 ­ BOSKALIS

133

134 TEN-YEAR OVERVIEW

137

STICHTING CONTINUÏTEIT KBW

138

SUPERVISION, BOARD & MANAGEMENT

142

DISCLOSURES REQUIRED BY THE DECREE ARTICLE 10 OF THE EU DIRECTIVE ON TAKEOVER BIDS

144 GLOSSARY

147 EQUIPMENT

ANNUAL REPORT 2014 ­ BOSKALIS

134
TEN-YEAR OVERVIEW (1) (10)

other information

(in EUR million, unless stated otherwise)

2014 (12) 2013 (12) 2012 (11) 2011

2010

2009

2008

2007

2006

2005

Revenue Order book

3,167 3,286

3,144 3,323

3,081 4,106

2,801 3,489

2,674 3,248

2,175 2,875

2,094 3,354

1,869 3,562

1,354 2,543

1,156 2,427

Operating result (EBIT) EBITDA Net profit

(2)

652.3 463.4 335.8 354.1 401.9 249.3 339.1 245.5 150.3

82.3

(3)

945.9 757.2 567.1 590.5 621.5 444.9 454.6 348.1 236.8 162.5

490.3 365.7 249.0 254.3 310.5 227.9 249.1 204.4 116.6

62.7

Net group profit Depreciation, amortization and impairment losses
Cash flow

492.2 293.5 785.7

365.3 293.8 659.1

252.0 231.3 483.3

261.0 236.4 497.4

312.9 219.6 532.5

229.2 195.7 424.8

250.1 115.4 365.6

207.1 102.5 309.6

117.0 86.6
203.6

63.3 80.2 143.5

Shareholders' equity

3,151.9 2,525.2 1,898.0 1,732.8 1,565.0 1,295.8 860.1 768.1 618.6 542.9

Average number of outstanding shares

(x 1,000)

(4) 121,606 118,445 105,644 102,391 99,962

Number of outstanding shares (x 1,000)

(5) 122,309 120,265 107,284 103,472 100,974

88,372 98,651

85,799 85,799

85,799 85,799

85,799 85,799

85,254 85,799

Personnel (headcount)

8,446 8,459 15,653 13,935 13,832 10,514 10,201 8,577 8,151 7,029

Ratios (percentages)

Operating result as % of the turnover

Return on capital employed

(6)

Return on equity

(7)

Solvency

(8)

20.6 13.8 17.3 53.4

14.7 13.0 16.5 47.6

10.9 11.1 13.8 39.2

12.6 12.1 15.4 37.4

15.0 18.1 21.7 37.1

11.5 20.2 21.1 46.5

16.2 29.1 30.6 34.0

13.1 27.7 29.5 35.3

11.1 19.1 20.1 39.4

7.1 12.0 12.4 41.3

Figures per share (in EUR)
Profit Cash flow Dividend

(5) (9)

4.03

3.09

2.36

2.48

3.11

2.58

2.90

2.38

1.36

0.74

(5)

6.46

5.56

4.59

4.86

5.33

4.81

4.26

3.61

2.37

1.68

1.60

1.24

1.24

1.24

1.24

1.19

1.19

1.19

0.68

0.37

Share price range (in EUR)
(Depositary receipts of) ordinary shares

33.71 47.18

26.92 38.58

23.26 34.50

20.67 38.46

23.16 36.58

13.25 28.45

15.30 42.45

21.06 46.25

14.67 25.48

8.58 18.75

(1) Figures taken from the respective financial statements. (2) Operating result as reported in the consolidated income statement. (3) Operating result before depreciation, amortization and impairment losses. (4) Weighted average number of outstanding shares less the number of shares owned by the company. (5) Number of outstanding ordinary shares less the number of shares owned by the company as at December 31. (6) Net result + interest paid on long-term loans as % of the average capital employed (shareholders' equity + long-term loans). (7) Net result as % of the average shareholders' equity. (8) Group equity as % of the balance sheet total (fixed assets + current assets). (9) The dilution effect was practically nil up to and including the financial year 2014. (10) On May 21, 2007 Royal Boskalis Westminster N.V. effected a share split on a three-for-one basis (three new shares for one old share) in order to increase
the liquidity of the Boskalis share. For comparative purposes the data regarding the number of shares and figures per share of all the periods has been recalculated to the situation after the split of the ordinary Boskalis shares in 2007. (11) Adjusted for changes in the IFRS regulations (IAS19R). (12) As of 1 January 2014 Boskalis applies IFRS11 which impacts the way joint ventures and associated companies are recognized. The full year 2013 comparative figures have been adjusted accordingly.

ANNUAL REPORT 2014 ­ BOSKALIS

135

ANNUAL REPORT 2014 ­ BOSKALIS

ANNUAL REPORT 2014 ­ BOSKALIS

other information

136

137
STICHTING CONTINUÏTEIT KBW
REPORT By decision of the General Meeting of Shareholders held on 9 May 2001 the foundation Stichting Continuïteit KBW was granted the right to acquire cumulative protective preference shares in Royal Boskalis Westminster N.V. for a nominal amount equal to the nominal amount of ordinary shares outstanding at the time of issue of the shares concerned, minus the nominal value of one ordinary share. The option of issuing such cumulative protective preference shares was not exercised during the period under review. The Board of Stichting Continuïteit KBW consists of three members: J.A. Dekker, chairman J.S.T. Tiemstra P.N. Wakkie
DECLARATION OF INDEPENDENCE The Board of Stichting Continuïteit KBW and the Board of Management of Royal Boskalis Westminster N.V. hereby declare that in their opinion Stichting Continuïteit KBW is an independent legal entity, separate from Royal Boskalis Westminster N.V., as defined in Section 5:71, first paragraph under c oftheDutch Financial Supervision Act. Papendrecht / Sliedrecht, 11 March 2015 Royal Boskalis Westminster N.V. Board of Management 's-Gravenland, 11 March 2015 Stichting Continuïteit KBW The Board
Work on the Room for the River project Nederrijn in the Netherlands

ANNUAL REPORT 2014 ­ BOSKALIS

138
SUPERVISION, BOARD AND MANAGEMENT

other information

MEMBERS OF THE SUPERVISORY BOARD

MR. J.M. HESSELS (1942), CHAIRMAN

MR. M. NIGGEBRUGGE (1950)

 date of first appointment 17 August 2011, current term ends AGM 2015
 former chairman of the Management Board of Royal Vendex KBB N.V.
 member of the Supervisory Board Euronext N.V. and Euronext Amsterdam N.V.
 member of the Supervisory Board General Atlantic Coöperatief U.A./non-executive chairman of the Board of MeteoGroup Ltd.
MR. H.J. HAZEWINKEL (1949), DEPUTY CHAIRMAN
 date of first appointment 27 March 2010, current term ends AGM 2018
 former chairman of the Management Board of Royal Volker Wessels Stevin N.V.
 chairman of the Supervisory Board of TKH Group N.V. and SOWECO N.V.
 deputy chairman Supervisory Board of N.V. Luchthaven Schiphol
 member of the Supervisory Board of Heisterkamp Beheer II B.V.  member of the Supervisory Board of Stichting HET Symfonieorkest  non-executive partner Baese Strategy & Finance B.V.  chairman of the Board of Stichting ING Aandelen  member of the Board of Stichting Administratiekantoor Slagheek
MR. M.P. KRAMER (1950)
 date of first appointment 19 August 2009, current term ends AGM 2016
 former Chief Executive Officer of N.V. Nederlandse Gasunie and CEO of South Stream Transport A.G. and South Stream Transport B.V.
 director / owner SST Advisory  senior Counsel of the management of OAO Gazprom

 date of first appointment 30 August 2006, current term ends AGM 2017
 former member of the Executive Board of N.V. Nederlandse Spoorwegen
 member of the Supervisory Board of SPF Beheer B.V.
MR. J.N. VAN WIECHEN (1972)  date of first appointment 12 May 2011, current term ends
AGM 2015  member of the Board of HAL Holding N.V./director HAL
Investments B.V.  chairman of the Supervisory Board of N.V. Nationale
Borg-Maatschappij  member of the Supervisory Board of Atlas Services Group
Holding B.V., InVesting B.V. and Orthopedie Investments Europe B.V.
MR. C. VAN WOUDENBERG (1948)  date of first appointment 9 May 2007, current term ends
AGM 2015  former member of the Executive Committee of Air France-KLM  chairman of the Supervisory Board of Blauwe Oceaan B.V.  member of the Supervisory Board of MN Services N.V.  member of the Supervisory Board of Stichting Het Gelders
Orkest (The Arnhem Philharmonic Orchestra)
All members of the Supervisory Board have the Dutch nationality. They do not hold shares or associated option rights in Royal Boskalis Westminster N.V.
Secretary: Ms. F.E. Buijs (1969)

ANNUAL REPORT 2014 ­ BOSKALIS

139
MEMBERS OF THE BOARD OF MANAGEMENT

DR. P.A.M. BERDOWSKI (1957), CHAIRMAN
 chairman of the Board of Management since 2006  member of the Board of Management since 1997  chairman of the Supervisory Board of Amega Holding B.V.  member of the Supervisory Board of Van Gansewinkel Groep B.V.

MR. J.H. KAMPS (1959), CHIEF FINANCIAL OFFICER
 member of the Board of Management since 2006  member of the Board of Stichting Fondsenbeheer Waterbouw
and Stichting Bedrijfstakpensioenfonds Waterbouw

MR. T.L. BAARTMANS (1960)
 member of the Board of Management since 2007  chairman of the Executive Board of the Netherlands Association
of International Contractors (NABU)  member of the board of the International Association of
Dredging Companies (IADC)
All members of the Board of Management have the Dutch nationality. They do not hold shares or associated option rights in Royal Boskalis Westminster N.V.

MR. F.A. VERHOEVEN (1951)
 member of the Board of Management since 2012  member of the Supervisory Board Houdstermaatschappij
Dekker B.V.  member of the Supervisory Committee Stichting Maritiem
Research Instituut Nederland (Marin)  member of the Board Stichting Vrienden van het Nationaal
Baggermuseum
Secretary: Ms. F.E. Buijs (1969)

From left to right: T.L. Baartmans, dr. P.A.M. Berdowski, J.H. Kamps, F.A. Verhoeven

ANNUAL REPORT 2014 ­ BOSKALIS

140
GROUP MANAGEMENT

dr. P.A.M. Berdowski T.L. Baartmans J.H. Kamps F.A. Verhoeven P. van der Linde

chairman Board of Management member Board of Management member Board of Management, Chief Financial Officer member Board of Management group director

CORPORATE SUPPORT
Company secretary Treasury & Insurance IR & Corporate Communications Fiscal Affairs Legal Affairs Corporate Development

F.E. Buijs F.A.J. Rousseau M.L.D. Schuttevâer R.J. Selij M.A. van de Molen C.A. Visser

CENTRAL BUSINESS SUPPORT
Personnel & Organization Group Controlling ICT SHE-Q Research & Development Central Fleet Support Procurement & Logistics

J. den Hartog J.O.B. Goslings RC M.J. Krijger W. Haaijer dr. A.C. Steenbrink P.E. van Eerten J.E. Rijnsdorp

other information

DREDGING & INLAND INFRA

OFFSHORE ENERGY

TOWAGE & SALVAGE

Area Northwest Europe J.M.L.D. Dieteren Area Eastern Europe and Indian sub continent M. Siebinga Area Middle S.G.M. van Bemmelen Area Middle East J.F.A. de Blaeij Area East L. Slinger Area West P. Klip The Netherlands P. van der Knaap Boskalis Environmental J.A. Dolman Cofra J.K. van Eijk
Design, Tendering & Engineering B.J.H. Pröpper Fleet Management E.C. Holman Personnel & Organization L. Wijngaard

Subsea Contracting P.G.R. Devinck Subsea Services S. Korte Marine Contracting and Transport & Installation W.B. Vogelaar, J.G.M. Meij Marine Services and Heavy Marine Transport A.C. Bikkers, H. van Raaphorst Logistical Management K.E. Lewton-Jones
Design, Tendering & Engineering W.Q. Nelemans Fleet Management E.B. van Dodeweerd Personnel & Organization M. van Faassen

Towage & Salvage R.J.A. van Acker, T.R. Bennema

WORKS COUNCIL
T.A. Scheurwater (chairman), D.A. van Uitert (deputy chairman), M.F. van Wijk (secretary), E.J. van den Biggelaar, R. van den Broek, D. van Eck, J.C. Elenbaas, R. Gooijer, J. van der Heiden, M.A. Koerts, S. van der Land, M. Martens, P.J. Meijer, R. Meijer, F. Pronk, J.G. Roos, M. Treffers.

ANNUAL REPORT 2014 ­ BOSKALIS

Dredging work by the cutter suction dredger Phoenix in Qatar

ANNUAL REPORT 2014 ­ BOSKALIS

141

142
DISCLOSURES REQUIRED BY THE DECREE ARTICLE 10 OF THE EU DIRECTIVE ON TAKEOVER BIDS

other information

Under the Decree article 10 of the EU Directive on takeover bids companies whose securities are admitted to trading on a regulated market must disclose information in their annual reports on matters including their capital structure and the existence of any shareholders with special rights. In accordance with these requirements, Boskalis hereby makes the following disclosures:
a.For information on the capital structure of the company, the capital and the existence of various types of shares, please refer to page 98 of the notes to the consolidated financial statements in this Annual Report. For information on the rights attached to these shares, please refer to the company's Articles of Association which can be found on the company website. To summarize, the rights attached to ordinary shares comprise pre-emptive subscription rights upon the issue of ordinary shares, the entitlement to attend the General Meeting of Shareholders, and to speak and vote at that meeting, and the right to distribution of such amount of the company's profit as remains after allocation to reserves. As at December 31, 2014 the issued capital consisted exclusively of ordinary shares (partly registered and partly bearer shares). These are only issued against payment in full.
b.The company has imposed no limitations on the transfer of ordinary shares. The Articles of Association have stipulated a blocking procedure for protective preference shares. The company is not aware of any shares having been exchanged for depositary receipts.
c.For information on equity stakes in the company to which a notification requirement applies (pursuant to Sections 5:34, 5:35 and 5:43 of the Financial Supervision Act), please refer to the section `Investor Relations' on page 17 of this Annual Report. Under the heading `Shareholders' you can find a list of shareholders who are known to the company to have holdings of 3% or more at the stated date.
d.There are no special control rights or other rights associated with shares in the company.
e.The company does not operate a scheme granting employees rights to acquire or obtain shares in the capital of the company or any of its subsidiaries.
f.No restrictions apply to voting rights associated with the company's shares, nor are there any deadlines for exercising voting rights.

g.No agreements with shareholders exist which may result in restrictions on the transfer of shares or limitation of voting rights.
h.The rules governing the appointment and dismissal of members of the Board of Management and the Supervisory Board and amendment of the Articles of Association are stated in the company's Articles of Association. To summarize, the statutory structure regime is applicable to the company. Members of the Board of Management are appointed and dismissed by the Supervisory Board, with the proviso that the General Meeting of Shareholders must be consulted prior to the dismissal of any member of the Board of Management. Supervisory Board members are nominated by the Supervisory Board and appointed by the General Meeting of Shareholders. The Works Council has an enhanced right of recommendation for one-third of the number of Supervisory Board members. The General Meeting of Shareholders can declare a vote of no confidence in the Supervisory Board by an absolute majority of votes cast, representing at least one-third of issued capital. Such a vote of no confidence shall result in the immediate dismissal of the Supervisory Board members. An amendment of the company's Articles of Association requires a decision by the General Meeting of Shareholders in response to a proposal made by the Board of Management with the approval of the Supervisory Board.
i.The general powers of the Board of Management are set out in the Articles of Association of the company. The powers of the Board of Management in respect of the issuance of shares in the company are set out in article 4 of the company's Articles of Association. To summarize, the General Meeting of Shareholders ­ or the Board of Management authorized by the General Meeting of Shareholders ­ takes the decision, subject to prior approval by the Supervisory Board, to issue shares, whereby the issue price and other conditions relating to the issue are determined by the general meeting ­ or the Board of Management authorized by the General Meeting of Shareholders. In the event the Board of Management is authorized to take decisions with respect to the issue of shares, the number of shares that may be issued as well as the term of the authorization must also be determined. Procedures governing the acquisition and disposal by the company of shares in its own capital are set out in article 7 of the Articles of Association. To summarize (briefly), the Board of Management may decide, subject to authorization by the General Meeting of Shareholders and to prior approval by the Supervisory Board, for the company to buy back fully paid-up shares up to a statutory maximum of 50% of issued capital. Decisions regarding the disposal of shares

ANNUAL REPORT 2014 ­ BOSKALIS

143
acquired by the company are taken by the Board of Management, subject to prior approval by the Supervisory Board.
j.With the exception of the option agreement with Stichting Continuïteit KBW concerning the placement of cumulative protective preference shares as set out in section 27.4 of the financial statements, the company is not a party to any significant agreements which take effect or are altered or terminated upon a change of control of the company as a result of a public offer within the meaning of Section 5:70 of the Financial Supervision Act. The General Meeting of Shareholders of May 9, 2001 decided to grant Stichting Continuïteit KBW the right to acquire cumulative protective preference shares.
k.The company has not entered into any agreements with either members of the Board of Management or employees, which provide for a pay-out on termination of their employment as a result of a public offer within the meaning of Section 5:70 of the Financial Supervision Act.
The new floating sheerlegs Asian Hercules III with a lift capacity of 5,000 tons

ANNUAL REPORT 2014 ­ BOSKALIS

144
GLOSSARY

other information

Acquired orders Contract value of acquired assignments.

Hopper/hopper dredger See trailing suction hopper dredger.

AGM Annual General Meeting of Shareholders.
Backhoe dredger A large hydraulic excavating machine positioned on the end of a pontoon. The pontoon is held firmly in place using spuds. Backhoes can dredge in a range of soil types with extreme precision.
Bunker fuel Type of fuel used by oceangoing and other vessels. Bunkering refers to the act or process of supplying a ship with this type of fuel.

HTV A (semi-submersible) heavy transport vessel. At 275 meters long and 75 meters wide the Dockwise Vanguard is the biggest semi-submersible heavy transport vessel in the world and is capable of conveying objects weighing up to 110,000 tonnes.
International projects market Market that focuses primarily on larger capital expenditure projects for new buildings and/or extensions. In addition, there are projects that regularly involve cooperation with third parties. This makes it possible to provide clients with optimal services and to share risks.

Cash flow Group net profit adjusted for depreciation, amortization and impairments.
Cost leadership Achieving lowest cost price.
Cutter See cutter suction dredger.
Cutter suction dredger (CSD) A vessel that dredges while being held into place using spuds and anchors. This technique combines powerful cutting with suction dredging. Cutter suction dredgers are mainly used where the bed is hard and compact. The dredged material is sometimes loaded into hoppers but is generally pumped to land through a pressure pipeline.
Decommission To dismantle and/or remove an object.
EBITDA Group earnings before the result of associated companies, interest, tax, depreciation, amortization and impairments.
CO2 Emissions Carbon dioxide released into the environment.
EU-IFRS IFRS stands for International Financial Reporting Standards. EU-IFRS are financial reporting rules drawn up and issued by the IASB (International Accounting Standards Board) and adopted within the European Union. Since 2005 all publicly listed companies within the European Union have been obliged to comply with these standards in their external financial accounting/reporting.
Fallpipe vessel Vessel that moves over the area to be covered, while dumping the stones on board through a fallpipe. The vessel is kept in place by a dynamic positioning system in which the propellers and rudders are controlled by an automatic system. The end of the pipe is located just a few meters above the level of the surface to be covered. The fallpipe is controlled using a precise positioning system. The fallpipe vessel Seahorse can also be equipped with an A-frame on the aftship and a grab controlled by an ROV (Remotely Operated Vehicle). This makes it possible to dredge down to depths of 1,000 meters.
Float-over installation Installation of a topside (for an offshore oil or gas platform production unit) on a subsea structure such as a jacket. A semi-submersible heavy transport vessel is used to convey the topside to the site and position it precisely in relation to the subsea structure piles. The ship is then partially submerged, allowing the support points of the topside to be lowered precisely onto the jacket connectors.
Floating Sheerlegs Floating cranes for heavy lifting.
FPSO Floating Production Storage and Offloading unit. Floating production, storage and transshipment systems that often operate a long way offshore. The systems separate the incoming liquids into oil, gas and water and temporarily store the crude oil. Tankers are used to transport the oil.

Jack-up platform An offshore platform that can either float or have its legs lowered to stand on the seabed. Jack-up rigs are generally used by oil and gas companies for exploration and production purposes. Platforms of this type can be transported either by semi-submersible heavy transport vessel (Dockwise) or by oceangoing tug (Fairmount).
LNG Liquefied Natural Gas.
LTI Lost Time Injury. Expresses the number of workplace accidents serious enough to result in absence from work.
LTIF Lost Time Injury Frequency. Expresses the number of workplace accidents serious enough to result in absence from work, per 200,000 hours worked.
Net Group profit Net result + net profit attributable to non-controlling interests.
NINA No Injuries No Accidents. In a bid to achieve an incident and accident-free working environment Boskalis applies the NINA safety program. NINA sets out Boskalis' vision on safety and describes the safety conduct the company expects from its staff and subcontractors. The program makes people aware of their own responsibility and encourages them to take action in situations which are unsafe.
Order book The revenue accounted for by parts of orders as yet uncompleted.
Return on capital employed Net result + interest paid on long-term loans as % of the average capital employed (shareholders' equity + long-term loans).
Return on equity Net result as % of the average shareholders' equity.
Revenue work done Work executed for a client related to a project and/or a service contract.
RoRo (Roll-on/Roll-off) ship Vessels designed to carry wheeled cargo such as automobiles, trucks, semi-trailer trucks, trailers or railroad cars that are driven on and off the ship on their own wheels.
Rock fragmentation under water Drilling and blasting hard materials such as rock and granite, often to deepen ports and clear navigational channels.
ROV Remotely Operated Vehicle. An unmanned robotic subsea vehicle that is remotely controlled (often from a ship or platform).
SHE-Q Safety, Health, Environment & Quality.
Solvency Group equity as % of the balance sheet total (non-current assets + current assets).
Topside The upper section of an offshore oil production platform.

Futures A future (derivative) is a so-called forward contract; an agreement between traders to purchase or sell certain financial products on a specified future date at a previously agreed fixed price.
Global Reporting Initiative International organization that develops global standards for sustainability reporting.
Hazardous substances Liquid or solid substances which present a health hazard and/or are damaging to the environment.

Trailing suction hopper dredger (TSHD) A self-propelled unit that loads its well or hopper using centrifugal pumps and pipes that trail over the bed as the ship sails. Trailing suction hopper dredgers can operate independently of other equipment and can transport material over long distances. The dredged material is dumped through flaps or bottom doors, by rainbowing, or pumped onto land using a pipeline.
Work done Work executed for a client in relation to a project and/or service contract.

Heavy-lift vessel See HTV.

Home market Boskalis distinguishes itself from its competitors in the Dredging segment by the use of a home market strategy. The home market organizations have local marketing profiles, as well as their own fleets and infrastructures. They can rely on the support of the financial and technical resources of the global Boskalis organization. Home markets provide a stable flow of assignments and opportunities to generate additional margins through associated activities.

ANNUAL REPORT 2014 ­ BOSKALIS

145

ANNUAL REPORT 2014 ­ BOSKALIS

other information

146
Dredging work by the trailing suction hopper dredger Willem van Oranje

ANNUAL REPORT 2014 ­ BOSKALIS

147
EQUIPMENT

DREDGERS

Trailing suction hopper dredgers Capacity > 6,000 m3 Capacity  6,000 m3

ANCHOR HANDLING TUGS

26

Anchor Handling Tugs

9

120 - 205 tons bollard pull

17

Cutter suction dredgers

19

Capacity > 12,000 kW

4

Capacity  12,000 kW

15

Anchor Handling Tugs 28 - 120 tons bollard pull

Backhoes Bucket capacity from 1.4 to 24 m3

17 BARGES

Floating grab cranes

16

Grab capacity from 1.2 to 9.2 m3

Other dredging equipment

23

bucket dredger, environmental disc cutter, barge

unloading dredgers, suction dredgers,

stone placing vessels

OFFSHORE VESSELS

Heavy lift vessels (semi-submersible)

23

Capacity up to 110,000 tons

Hopper barges Capacity from 50 to 3,800 m3
Oceangoing flat top barges (semi-submersible) Capacity 21,000 tons
Oceangoing flat top barges/Floating Super Pallets Capacity from 1,000 to 14,000 tons
Inland barges Capacity from 100 to 2,000 tons

Fallpipe vessels Capacity from 17,000 to 18,500 tons

2 VESSELS TOWAGE JOINT VENTURES

Diving support vessels Air and saturation diving support, ROV services

4 LAUNCHES, WORK/SUPPLY VESSELS

Multipurpose/cable laying vessels

3 VARIOUS/OTHERS

10 17
78 4
22 55 470 87 101

Floating sheerlegs

8

Capacity from 400 to 5,000 tons

ANNUAL REPORT 2014 ­ BOSKALIS

The numbers listed above include the vessels under construction and vessels and floating equipment of the (non-controlled) associated companies, including the announced joint venture with Kotug. In addition to the equipment shown here, the group also owns a range of auxiliary equipment such as floating pipelines, winches, pumps, draglines, hydraulic excavators, wheel loaders, dumpers, bulldozers, mobile cranes, crawler drill rigs, sand pillers, filling installations for shore protection, mattresses, fixed land pipelines and a wide variety of salvage equipment, such as fire-fighting, diving and anti-pollution equipment.

ANNUAL REPORT 2014 ­ BOSKALIS

other information

148

COLOPHON
Compiled and coordinated by Royal Boskalis Westminster N.V. Corporate Communications Department Group Controlling Department www.boskalis.com
carbon neutral
natureOffice.com | NL-215-269279
print production

Royal Boskalis Westminster N.V. Rosmolenweg 20 PO Box 43 3350 AA Papendrecht The Netherlands
royal@boskalis.com T +31 78 6969000 F +31 78 6969555
www.boskalis.com

