ANNUAL REPORT 2017

ANNUAL REPORT 2017

KEY FIGURES

KEY FIGURES

(in EUR million, unless stated otherwise)
Revenue Order book
EBITDA Net result from joint ventures and associates Depreciation and amortization Operating result Impairments EBIT Net profit adjusted for impairments Net profit (loss) Net group profit (loss) Cash flow
Shareholders' equity
RATIOS (IN PERCENTAGES) EBIT as % of revenue Return on capital employed Return on equity Solvency
FIGURES PER SHARE (IN EUR) Profit Dividend Cash flow
NON-FINANCIAL INDICATORS Employees including associated companies Employees in Boskalis majority owned entities Ratio women/men within Boskalis' majority owned entities Number of nationalities within Boskalis' majority owned entities
Lost Time Injuries (LTI) Lost Time Injury Frequency (LTIF) Total Recordable Injury Rate (TRIR)
Percentage of strategic suppliers having signed the Supplier Code of Conduct
CO2 emissions scope 1+2 (MT (`000))

2017
2,337 3,495
436.6 31.0
251.6 185.0
0.0 185.0 150.5 150.5 150.4 402.0
3,023

2016
2,596 2,924
660.5 11.3
277.2 384.6 842.6 -458.1 276.4 -563.7 -561.8 464.0
3,121

7.9 4.8 4.9 62.9
1.15 1.00 3.07

14.8 9.1 8.1
56.1
2.16 1.00 3.62

10,732 5,772 10/90 64
9 0.06 0.55

11,733 6,153 11/89 63
15 0.08 0.66

81 1,223

76 1,249

Please refer to the glossary for definitions of the terms used
Our share in the net result of the joint ventures and associated companies is included in EBIT(DA). 2016 EBITDA, operating result and net result from associates are presented excluding impairment charges.

ANNUAL REPORT 2017 ­ BOSKALIS

REVENUE (in EUR million) 2,596 2,337
2016 2017

NET PROFIT (in EUR million)
276.4 150.5
2016 2017

CAPITAL EXPENDITURE (in EUR million) 20
5 335
177 2016 2017 Net capital expenditure Disposals

REVENUE BY SEGMENT (in EUR million) 100
967 1,298

Dredging & Inland Infra Offshore Energy Towage & Salvage Eliminations (-28)

REVENUE BY GEOGRAPHICAL AREA (in EUR million)

283 85 256
359

498 856

The Netherlands Rest of Europe Australia / Asia
Middle East Africa North and South America

ORDER BOOK (in EUR million) 3,495
2,924
2016 2017

ACQUIRED ORDERS (in EUR million) 2,909
2,543
2016 2017

FLEET UTILIZATION (in weeks per year)

37 35

36

27

14 9

2016

2017

Hoppers Cutters HTVs

1
ANNUAL REPORT 2017
This annual report contains forward-looking statements. These statements are based on current expectations, estimates and projections of Boskalis' management and information currently available to the company. These forecasts are not certain and contain elements of risk that are difficult to predict and therefore Boskalis does not guarantee that its expectations will be realized. Boskalis is under no obligation to update the statements contained in this annual report. Some of the projects referred to in this report were carried out in cooperation with other companies.

2
TABLE OF CONTENTS
The trailing suction hopper dredger Freeway carrying out beach replenishment work along the Dutch coast.

3

4

CHAIRMAN'S STATEMENT

6

BOSKALIS AT A GLANCE

20

REPORT OF THE

SUPERVISORY BOARD

30

REPORT OF THE BOARD

OF MANAGEMENT

65

FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

2017

140 OTHER INFORMATION

CHAIRMAN'S STATEMENT

4
CHAIRMAN'S STATEMENT
At the beginning of 2017 we presented our new Corporate Business Plan for 2017-2019 in which we indicated that we did not expect to see a substantial recovery of our markets in this period. 2017 progressed in line with these expectations. In order to further align the company to these market conditions, we adjusted the organization at head office. We closed the year with revenue of EUR 2.3 billion and a net profit of EUR 150 million. A positive development was a rise in the order book to EUR 3.5 billion. Despite a decline in the result, we are still generating a healthy EBITDA of EUR 437 million. Together with our robust balance sheet, this has put us in a position to selectively invest counter-cyclically in strengthening our business portfolio for the medium term. Based on our strong balance sheet and healthy cash flow, we are proposing a dividend of EUR 1.00 per share, underlining our confidence in the future.
Our Corporate Business Plan for 2017-2019 is based on three pillars: Focus, Optimize and Expand. An important part of this plan is aimed at capturing opportunities that present themselves in the current challenging operating environment. After all, depressed maritime markets create opportunities for our selective reinforcement, also as a foundation for the medium term when markets are expected to recover. In August, we acquired the renowned British survey specialist Gardline. With its fleet of 15 survey vessels, Gardline provides a solid basis on which we will expand our subsea survey activities. Furthermore, we added two high-end twin-bell SAT diving support vessels to our fleet in late 2017. These additions make Boskalis one of the leaders in the North Sea subsea services market. In this way, we are filling in the blanks in our range of activities at attractive prices and preparing the company for the future.
DEVELOPMENTS IN CORE ACTIVITIES
DREDGING & INLAND INFRA
In 2017, we managed to increase the Dredging order book with a number of meaningful contract wins. In January we received a EUR 480 million LOI for the development of the port of Duqm in Oman. This regards an EPC contract to build a bulk liquid berth terminal, entailing a substantial volume of dredging and civil engineering work. As largest project in the portfolio, Duqm will keep our recently commissioned new mega cutter Helios busy in the coming year. In the course of 2017 we also secured a EUR 250 million contract with a partner for the expansion of Jawaharlal Nehru Port in Mumbai, India's largest container port, as well as a 10-year, EUR 260 million dredging maintenance contract in the Middle East.

ANNUAL REPORT 2017 ­ BOSKALIS

5

In Brazil we successfully concluded the sizable expansion of the

SAFETY AND QUALITY

Porto do Açu Oil Transshipment Terminal along with many smaller Safety is paramount at Boskalis. For an increasing number of

international projects. In the Netherlands we were involved in high- projects, Boskalis works with partners including subcontractors and

profile projects such as the realization of the Marker Wadden nature suppliers who each have their own approach to safety. To

area, the IJsseldelta Room for the River project, the Houtrib dike

guarantee safety on such projects, special NINA (No Injuries,

reinforcement and the completion of the impressive SAAone project. No Accidents) training and induction sessions were introduced for

All-in-all, after a very lean 2016 we achieved some good successes these partners and toolbox sessions were held during operations.

in 2017, resulting in a higher utilization of the dredging fleet.

The NINA program was also successfully rolled out at VBMS and

our Offshore Wind business unit. A Boskalis-wide NINA portal was

OFFSHORE ENERGY

launched to enhance internal knowledge and information sharing.

Despite the difficult market conditions in the offshore sector, Boskalis acquired a healthy number of contracts in Offshore Energy. A major project over the coming two years is Nord Stream 2. The works are part of the construction of the planned twin 1,200 kilometer pipelines that will transport gas from Russia to Europe via the Baltic Sea.
Our offshore cable-laying business had a very successful year, both in terms of order wins and project execution. Acquired contracts included East Anglia ONE, Hohe See and Borssele Beta. As for project execution activities, VBMS was busy carrying out cabling work for the Galloper, Dudgeon, Rampion and Horns Rev 3 wind parks.
Highlight of the year for Dockwise came in December with the installation of the Aasta Hansteen topside. Earlier in the year the Vanguard transported the Aasta Hansteen SPAR platform from South Korea to Norway, whilst the White Marlin transported the topside. The subsequent unique catamaran topside float-over operation was carried out in a Norwegian fjord to the full satisfaction of Statoil. For the East Anglia ONE wind farm we are involved in three activities: transporting the jacket foundations, installing them and laying of cables.
At Offshore Energy we also executed several multi-disciplinary projects involving various Boskalis business units and vessels. A good example was the installation of the DolWin Gamma platform for TenneT in the German section of the North Sea. This involved a unique combination of seabed preparation using a trailing suction hopper dredger and a fallpipe vessel, subsea work using a diving support vessel, and transport and installation work using anchor handlers and a barge. It is precisely such combinations of activities and vessels that present us with opportunities in the market that set our company apart.
TOWAGE & SALVAGE
At Towage, Kotug Smit Towage made good progress with the organizational integration as well as the optimization and reallocation of its fleet in 2017. Saam Smit Towage started operating in two new ports in Brazil and commissioned new tugs in Canada and Brazil, partly as replacement but also as an expansion of the fleet. Smit Lamnalco successfully extended a number of sizable multi-year terminal services contracts. Salvage can look back on a reasonable year. In the absence of major wreck removal projects, activities were limited to many smaller emergency response jobs in the second half of the year. Examples include the high-profile emergency response activities for a 14,000 TEU container vessel which ran aground near the port of Antwerp and the refloating of the Glory Amsterdam bulk carrier near the German Wadden island of Langeoog.

In 2017, we also took an important step in the optimization of our organization with the introduction of our new quality management system: the Boskalis Way of Working (WoW). The system allows for an integrated business process and uniform customer approach, complementing existing processes, tools and certifications. WoW is a transparent and easy-to-apply approach accessible to every Boskalis employee. At the same time, it helps us present a single, recognizable face to our clients.
ONE BOSKALIS
2017 was a challenging year. We went through a difficult period with the head office reorganization, but we are convinced that we have a bright future ahead of us. With the acquisition of Gardline and the two diving support vessels, we added a number of important building blocks and more additions are set to follow. With WoW we have taken a major step towards bringing together the various business units, each with their unique background. Nevertheless, we believe further steps need to be taken to create a unified Boskalis in which we make optimum use of our combined capabilities and innovative power. Such unity is also needed to present ourselves to the market as a single company, offering a unique combination of people, vessels and activities. In the course of 2018, we will therefore transition to a single brand name for our activities: Boskalis.
OPPORTUNITIES
The current market conditions are expected to continue in the period covered by our 2017-2019 business plan. We do not expect a swift recovery of the market, but are also convinced that the medium-term will once again offer us plenty of opportunities. We are well-disciplined in targeting the opportunities that arise in the market by being selective, customer-oriented, creative and persistent. With this focus we are convinced that our unique offering, together with our financial discipline, will help us come out of the current downturn as a winner.
On behalf of the Board of Management I want to thank all colleagues for their contribution during the past year, as well as thank our clients, partners and shareholders for the trust and confidence they place in us.
Peter Berdowski

ANNUAL REPORT 2017 ­ BOSKALIS

6
BOSKALIS AT A GLANCE
The Vanguard transporting the world's largest spar platform Aasta Hansteen from South Korea to Norway.

7

8

COMPANY PROFILE

9

ACTIVITIES

10

STRATEGY

16

SHAREHOLDER

INFORMATION

8
COMPANY PROFILE
Boskalis is a leading dredging & marine expert creating new horizons for all its stakeholders.

ANNUAL REPORT 2017 ­ BOSKALIS

In addition to our traditional dredging activities we offer a broad range of maritime services for the offshore energy sector. Furthermore, we provide towage services as well as emergency response and salvage-related services.
As a partner we are able to realize complex infrastructural works for our clients within the chain of design, project management and execution on time, safely and within budget, even at vulnerable or remote locations around the world. We strive for sustainable design and realization of our solutions.
Demand for our services is driven by growth in global trade, growing energy consumption, growth in world population and climate change. Boskalis operates worldwide but concentrates on those regions that have the highest growth expectations. This spread gives us both a solid foundation and the flexibility to be able to secure a wide range of projects, as well as providing

good prospects for balanced and sustained growth. Our main clients are governments, port and terminal operators, oil, gas and wind energy companies, mining companies and related EPC contractors and subcontractors, shipping companies, insurance companies and international project developers.
Royal Boskalis Westminster N.V. (Boskalis) has 10,700 employees, including associated companies. The safety of our employees and those of our subcontractors is paramount. Boskalis operates its progressive global safety program No Injuries No Accidents (NINA), which is held in high regard in the industry and by our clients. We operate on behalf of our clients in 90 countries across six continents. Our versatile fleet consists of more than 900 vessels and floating equipment, including associated companies. Our head office is based in the Dutch city of Papendrecht. Royal Boskalis Westminster N.V. shares have been listed on Euronext Amsterdam since 1971 and are included in the AEX-Index.

9
ACTIVITIES

Boskalis is renowned for its innovative approach and specialist knowledge of environmentally friendly techniques. With our great expertise, multidisciplinary approach, versatile state-of-the-art fleet and extensive experience in engineering and project management we

support services such as pilotage, subsea inspection and maintenance, firefighting, and the coupling and uncoupling of terminal connections. With a versatile fleet of over 400 vessels we assist vessels in around 100 ports and terminal locations in 35 countries, including oil and chemical tankers, container ships, reefers, ro-ro vessels and mixed cargo ships.

have proven time and again that we are able to realize

complex projects on time, safely and within budget,

SALVAGE

anywhere in the world.
DREDGING & INLAND INFRA
Traditionally, the core activity of Boskalis is dredging. This involves all activities required to remove silt, sand, clay and other layers from the sea- or riverbed and reusing it elsewhere where possible, for example for coastal protection or land reclamation. The services we provide also include the construction and maintenance of ports and waterways, and coastal defense and riverbank protection. In addition, Boskalis is active in the extraction of raw materials using dredging techniques and dry earthmoving. In the Netherlands, Boskalis also operates as a contractor of dry infrastructure projects. This involves the design, preparation and execution of large-scale civil infra works, such as the construction of roads and railroads, bridges, aqueducts, viaducts and tunnels in addition to dike and riverbank related projects. In doing so, we also perform specialist works such as soil improvement and remediation.

Boskalis provides services relating to marine salvage and wreck removal. We assist vessels in distress and are able to spring into action at any time and anywhere in the world. We are able to do so by operating out of four locations which are strategically situated along the main international shipping routes: Houston, Cape Town, Rotterdam and Singapore. The removal of shipwrecks or damaged offshore platforms almost always takes place at locations where the wreck forms an obstruction to traffic or presents an environmental hazard. We have the advanced technology and expertise needed to remove hazardous substances such as heavy fuel oil from wrecks and boast a successful track record in salvaging vessels and platforms under challenging circumstances.

OFFSHORE ENERGY
With its offshore contracting capabilities and services Boskalis supports the activities of the international energy sector, including oil and gas companies and providers of renewable energy such as wind power. We are involved in the engineering, construction, maintenance and decommissioning of oil and LNG import/export facilities, offshore platforms, pipelines and cables and offshore wind farms. In performing these activities Boskalis applies its expertise in the areas of heavy transport, lift and installation work, as well as diving and ROV services complemented with dredging, offshore pipeline, cable and rock installation. Our subsidiary VBMS is a leading player in the European market for offshore cable installation.

TOWAGE
We provide assistance to incoming and outgoing oceangoing vessels in ports around the world through joint ventures with regional partners: Keppel Smit Towage in Asia, Saam Smit Towage in the Americas and Kotug Smit Towage in Northwest Europe. In addition we offer a full range of services for the operation and management of onshore and offshore terminals through Smit Lamnalco. These services include assistance with the berthing and unberthing of tankers at oil and LNG terminals as well as additional

ANNUAL REPORT 2017 ­ BOSKALIS

10
STRATEGY

FOCUS
Market & Activity Focus Value-Adding Assets

boskalis at a glance

Boskalis operates around the world and is a leading player in the fields of dredging, offshore energy and maritime services. The company is a leader in its market segments thanks to its ability to deliver innovative all-round solutions combined with a broad portfolio of specialist activities. Its versatile maritime assets with value-adding potential are the cornerstone of the Boskalis business model. Systematic execution of the strategy, which is reviewed regularly in light of relevant market developments, is a key factor in Boskalis' success.

BOSKALIS 2017 - 2019

OPTIMIZE
Effectiveness Efficiency
EXPAND
Dredging & Inland Infra Towage & Salvage Offshore Energy

Figure 7: Strategic framework for 2017-2019
In the development of our strategy, which is driven by long-term trends, we focus on the creation of long-term value for our stakeholders.
Our strategy is elaborated in our three-year business plan. Following a review in early 2017 a new Corporate Business Plan based on three strategic pillars ­ Focus, Optimize and Expand ­ was formulated for the period 2017-2019. In the past year we have made good progress in realizing this plan.
MARKET DEVELOPMENTS
BUSINESS DRIVERS The Corporate Business Plan 2017-2019 was formulated with a clear eye on the long-term megatrends that underpin the Boskalis business model. These business drivers are structural growth and rising prosperity of the global population, which in turn drives growth in global trade and demand for raw materials and energy.

Global warming also continues to create business opportunities for Boskalis, with a growing need for flood protection measures and land reclamation.

These macro trends are the key drivers of long-term growth for our activities, irrespective of unpredictable and potentially less favorable developments in the shorter term in some of the regions and markets where Boskalis is active.

Growing world trade Growing energy consumption Population growth
Climate change

Dredging & Offshore Inland Infra Energy

Towage & Salvage

Figure 1: Boskalis business drivers and related activities
Figure 2: Boskalis business drivers and related activities

ANNUAL REPORT 2017 ­ BOSKALIS

A closer look at our business drivers The world economy is forecast to grow at around 3-4% annually and current projections suggest that seaborne trade will continue to roughly keep pace. Boskalis is also benefiting from the trend towards larger vessels with deeper drafts. In ports these vessels require deeper access channels and larger and deeper berths and turning basins, creating primarily opportunities in the area of dredging.

11

Energy demand continues to increase and although part of this

STRATEGIC FRAMEWORK

demand can be served from existing sources, new investments are The Boskalis strategy is a logical progression from our mission

required to meet future demand. While renewables are expected and vision.

to see further growth as a result of the energy transition, the

dependence on fossil fuels will remain significant with absolute

We are a leading dredging and marine contracting and services

volumes in this segment projected to grow. Against this backdrop, expert that creates new horizons for all our stakeholders. We do

the share of offshore oil and gas in the energy mix is expected to so by offering a unique combination of people, vessels and

remain stable and an associated increase in investments in

activities. We provide innovative and competitive solutions for our

exploration and production is being forecast. A large part of these clients in the offshore industry, ports and coastal areas, always

investments will take place in regions with shallow water where maintaining the highest standards of safety and sustainability.

development and production costs per barrel are more favorable.

The execution of our strategy is guided by our deeply rooted

Underpinning the aforementioned drivers is the growth in the

company culture, which is characterized by the core values:

global population, projected to rise to 8.5 billion by 2030. With professionalism, entrepreneurship and teamwork.

half of the global population living within 60 kilometers of the

coast and 75% of major cities worldwide located on the coast,

Our current strategic framework is based on three pillars: Focus,

the pressure on available land is huge. Furthermore, many of

Optimize and Expand.

these coastal regions are at risk from our fourth business driver,

climate change.

FOCUS

Climate change issues have risen up the agenda, partly as a result of the United Nations Paris Agreement (COP21) that came into force in November 2016 and the two subsequent COP Climate Change Conferences held in Marrakesh, Morocco and Bonn, Germany. The consequences of climate change can be observed frequently nowadays. The Caribbean and United States were hit by a string of tropical storms with hurricane Harvey causing extensive multi-billion dollar damage and severe flooding whilst Europe was also confronted with more extreme weather events. India, Pakistan, Nepal and Bangladesh suffered from more severe flooding and subsequent landslides during the annual rain season than witnessed in previous years. Climate change is compelling governments on several continents to take steps to protect their populations against flooding and rising sea levels. The World Bank and the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change (IPCC) have warned that huge investments are needed to mitigate against climate change. Opportunities for Boskalis in this area include potentially greater demand for coastal defense and riverbank protection projects.

4%

41%

55%

Dredging & Inland Infra Offshore Energy Towage & Salvage

The Focus pillar of our strategy is aimed at:  Value-Adding Assets  Specific market segments
Value-Adding Assets Boskalis' strength lies in deploying its own assets combined with additional capabilities to add value for our clients. Boskalis will sustain its success as long as we use our broad range of equipment, staff and competencies to provide a balanced service to the various client groups both at the top and the lower end of the market. However, their requirements vary widely, both within and between the market segments.
We seek to achieve the optimum balance between margin maximization and fleet utilization by operating our assets at various points on the S curve (see figure 4). We have clients who need us to deliver integrated, innovative services or turnkey solutions. In order to meet these client requirements we need competencies that complement and reinforce one another, such as risk management and engineering. In addition, we need to be able to act as lead contractor, and project management experience is essential. In the contracting segment with its higher margin potential we expressly position ourselves towards the top of the S curve.
Contracting

Added Value
ANNUAL REPORT 2017 ­ BOSKALIS

23%

Contracting Services

77%

Figure 3: Revenue breakdown by activity and type of revenue

ASSETS
Services
Complexity
Figure 5: S curve - creating value with assests
Figure 4: S curve ­ creating value with assets

12

The more straightforward services assets are positioned at the lower end of the S curve. Certain of these services support contracting projects but the bulk of the business is third-party services revenue. Here the emphasis lies on sustaining fleet utilization levels whilst maintaining a responsible risk profile, with cost leadership being an important prerequisite.
The S curve concept is dynamic in time and we therefore need to be critical with regard to the scope for adding sufficient value to assets at the bottom of the S curve. A structural shift in supply and demand can for example cause a former value-adding asset to be structurally repositioned lower on the curve. If this results in an asset becoming a commodity that cannot be moved up the S curve, we will consider divesting it. Conversely, modifying an existing asset or deploying it in a new market segment ­ for example in conjunction with our high-value contracting activities ­ can result in it being repositioned higher on the curve. Boskalis manages its portfolio of assets actively to be able to respond to such market dynamics. The essence of our value-adding asset concept is that we aim to move up the S curve.
Activity and Market focus Our core activities are focused on geographic regions and market segments that offer us the greatest opportunities whereby we provide our services on both a combined and a standalone basis. Our mix of activities gives us a broad geographical scope. Some of our activities, such as Dredging, Transport, Towage and Salvage, have a truly global reach, while others have a regional focus. For example, our Inland Infra activities are concentrated on the Dutch market and Offshore Wind is focused on Northwest Europe, while our Installation &

Intervention activities and Subsea Services cover a wider geographical scope spanning Northwest Europe, Africa and the Middle East.
OPTIMIZE The Optimize pillar of our strategy is aimed at enhancing effectiveness and efficiency across the organization.
Effectiveness
Selective tendering and operational excellence Setting priorities is crucial to effectively meet the requirements of our global client base. Specifically, we need to be critical and selective in the (pre)tender phase, devoting attention and resources to those tenders that are of greatest interest to Boskalis. Once a tender has been won, we must ensure we make the right choices. Forward planning is essential but we must also see to it that our project managers deliver precision work, following the brief. This means delivering what we promised the client. Within Towage we have successfully established regional joint ventures. Within and between these joint ventures, there is an opportunity to be gained through benchmarking the individual operations. By establishing benchmarks and sharing best practices we can improve the operational performance of our Towage business.
Organizational alignment Over the previous business plan period good progress was made in streamlining the organization in order to reinforce the focus on the business. In light of the company's growth and ambitions in the

boskalis at a glance

The cable-laying vessel Ndurance installing power cables for the Blyth offshore wind farm.

ANNUAL REPORT 2017 ­ BOSKALIS

13

Offshore Energy division, further alignment of the structure is

EXPAND

required. Specifically, in the course of 2018 Boskalis will form

The Expand pillar of our strategy applies to all three Boskalis

three clusters within the Offshore Energy division: a cluster for the divisions with an emphasis on Offshore Energy. While the short-term

Installation & Intervention activities, a Subsea cluster including

outlook for certain areas of the market remains challenging, we are

Inspection, Repair and Maintenance (IRM) activities and cable

confident that the tough market conditions will also create

laying services and a third cluster for the Transport & Marine

opportunities. Existing players may run into difficulties, creating

Services activities.

opportunities that we can benefit from. There are various ways in

which we can grow the business, and we will consider our options

Boskalis Way of Working

as and when opportunities arise. Ways of expanding include:

In 2017 Boskalis rolled out its new integrated quality management  building new assets, although this will only be considered for

system: the Boskalis Way of Working (WoW). The overriding

unique assets that cannot be purchased second-hand, or buying

objective of our WoW system is to give our staff the best possible existing assets in the market;

support in achieving operational excellence when concluding and  bolt-on acquisitions of players that hold an interesting market

executing commercial contracts. Operational excellence in this

position and preferably bring a combination of assets and

context means achieving compliance with the internal and external know-how;

control requirements imposed on our primary project process with  consolidation, an area where we are keen to play an active

the minimum waste of time and effort. WoW reduces the

role. Consolidation would be focused on markets where we

complexity of our systems and operational processes, and helps us already hold a strong position. This category tends to be

to understand client requirements better. The management system

difficult to influence, and is the most opportunity-driven of

is compliant with the international OHSAS 18001, ISO 14001

the three.

and the new ISO 9001 standards and is assessed and certified by

an independent external auditor. The implementation of WoW

Dredging & Inland Infra

commenced mid-2017 and is being applied on all new projects Dredging & Inland Infra, the traditional core activity of the

around the world.

company, is focused on market segments with structural growth.

The rate at which the market is expected to grow is modest, but

Efficiency

the industry characteristics are compelling. Boskalis holds an

important share of this heavily consolidated market and has a very

Rightsizing the company

strong global presence, putting it in a good position to take

In light of the deteriorated market conditions, Boskalis announced advantage of forthcoming prospects.

early 2016 the need to look at the size and composition of the

fleet, staffing levels in the crewing and operational pool and the To position itself for these opportunities, Boskalis will make

cost of the head office.

investments to maintain and where appropriate expand its market

position.

A fleet rationalization study was conducted in the first half of

2016 resulting in the decision to take 24 vessels out of service

Results:

over a two year period. As per the end of 2017 this program

In July 2017 the new mega cutter suction dredger Helios was

was completed.

commissioned and following a maiden project in the Port of

Rotterdam, the vessel will be working on a large port development

In order to maintain a cost-efficient business proposition we

project in Duqm, Oman in 2018. The sister vessel to the Helios

announced that we would be looking at ways of making our

was ordered in the second half of 2017 with delivery planned

crewing model more flexible and variable without compromising for 2020.

safety and quality. In 2017 a more flexible crew-planning model

was developed resulting in a consolidation of the number of

Towage & Salvage

crewing agencies Boskalis uses. This model increases the flexibility Towage is dependent on the rate of growth of seaborne trade and

to deploy crews across a pool of vessels and the plan will be

the number of vessel movements through ports. Over the last few

implemented in 2018.

years, the emphasis of Boskalis has been on the establishment of

regional joint ventures, with the focus on an efficient cost and

A head office cost reduction program was carried out in the first capital structure. With all the towage activities now having been

ANNUAL REPORT 2017 ­ BOSKALIS

half of 2017. The objective of this program was to reduce costs transferred to these joint ventures, the next step will be the further

where possible but to also take the organization's growth

expansion of our geographic footprint. Opportunities may be

ambitions into consideration. Boskalis is targeting total cost

pursued by and through one of the regional joint ventures or by

savings of approximately EUR 30 million, resulting in the loss of Boskalis directly. Such opportunities did not result in new

around 230 jobs and this will be fully implemented by the end of developments in 2017.

2019. The reduction is being absorbed through attrition and

redeployment where possible, but also included compulsory

The volume of work for Salvage is by its nature unpredictable.

redundancies. As per the end of 2017, more than 160 jobs had Nevertheless, Boskalis leverages its global footprint and

been discontinued and approximately EUR 15 million of the cost permanent presence in ports around the world to grow its

reduction was realized.

Emergency Response business. Furthermore we use our own assets

and apply our expertise in both engineering and contract and risk

management to secure wreck removal contracts.

14

boskalis at a glance

Offshore Energy The Expand pillar of our strategy remains strongly geared to Offshore Energy. Despite the sharp decline in the oil price and the cutback in capital expenditure by the offshore oil and gas industry over the last couple of years, specific segments in this market remain attractive for Boskalis.
Boskalis offers a broad range of capabilities, which can be subdivided into contracting-focused Installation & Intervention (I&I) activities, Subsea activities, including IRM, survey and cable laying and the more short-term-focused Transport & Marine Services (TMS) business. Given the nature of the contracting and subsea business, where we are expected to take on a broader responsibility with a higher reward potential, the I&I and Subsea activities are positioned higher on the S curve and are therefore an area where we want to pursue further development.
Installation & Intervention The I&I market comprises installation and decommissioning of floating and fixed structures, landfalls and offshore wind-related activities. The competitive landscape for the installation and decommissioning of floating and fixed structures is highly fragmented, with the combined market share of traditional global Engineering, Procurement, Construction and Installation (EPCI) players estimated to be less than 40%. Many of the other players are active with just one or two key assets and due to the market downturn an increasing number of them are suffering from weak financial performance and overleveraged balance sheets. This presents us with an opportunity to step into this market and to position ourselves as an attractive independent player just below the EPCI contractors with a geographic focus on Northwest Europe, Africa and the Middle East.
The offshore wind market has taken off in earnest in recent years but despite an impressive drop in cost per kWh the economics of offshore wind remains dependent on government subsidies. The wind-related I&I market in Northwest Europe is not expected to grow substantially beyond the current annual EUR 1.5-1.7 billion in the coming years. Boskalis' share in this ranges from around 10% (foundations) to around 35% (cables) and the company is committed to maintaining a strong presence in the European market.
Results: In 2017, the conversion of a former heavy transport vessel into the Bokalift 1, a 3,000 ton DP2 transport and installation crane vessel, was completed. Following a festive inauguration in Rotterdam in February 2018 the vessel will start in its first offshore wind farm jacket installation project. The multifunctional vessel is fit to be deployed for a variety of projects including the installation of wind turbine foundations, topsides and jackets and will also be suited for decommissioning activities as well as wreck removal projects. A firm decision on the conversion of another vessel into a crane vessel and determining the exact specifications is expected to take place in the course of 2018. For the floating installation market, we intend to position ourselves higher on the S curve by adding contracting assets such as construction support vessels. This could be achieved by acquiring assets in the market or by acquiring a player in the fragmented installation market.

Subsea Solutions Boskalis has over the years developed a modest but successful position in the subsea services market, focusing on survey and UXO clearance, diving and Inspection, Repair and Maintenance (IRM) work in shallow water regions in Northwest Europe, Africa and the Middle East. This is another highly fragmented market, with the vast majority of players operating just one or two survey and diving support vessels in a region. With numerous players also being financially stretched, we see opportunities for expanding our position in Northwest Europe, Africa and the Middle East by acquiring assets or by acquiring a player with assets. The global shallow water SURF (Subsea, Umbilicals, Risers and Flowlines) market is also substantial in size. Based on the market outlook and Boskalis' existing subsea contracting capabilities, we want to look into a gradual expansion into the shallow water SURF market and will explore acquisition opportunities to achieve this.
Results: In 2017, Boskalis acquired the renowned British survey specialist Gardline. With its fleet of 15 survey vessels, Gardline provides a solid basis on which we will expand our subsea survey activities. Furthermore, we added two high-end twin-bell SAT diving support vessels to our fleet in late 2017. These additions make Boskalis one of the leaders in the North Sea subsea services market. Both these steps fill in parts of our three year business plan at attractive prices and prepare the company for the future.
Transport Boskalis has a global leading position in heavy marine transport and is also active in long-distance ocean towage. Demand in this market consisted of high-value long-term contracts requiring high-end engineering know-how, generally related to oil and gas production, complemented by straightforward short-term transport contracts for exploration rigs or ports and marine-related work. However, the sharp drop in the oil price has led to capital expenditure freezes by the oil majors resulting in a squeeze on the number of high-value long-term contracts as well as a decline in short-term contracts. The effect of this volume decline has been compounded by a further influx of new transport capacity. As a result, the low end of the heavy marine transport segment is suffering from a structural supply and demand imbalance.
In light of the above we are redefining our market position. At the high end of the market we can still offer a unique proposition with our Type 0 and I vessels. Our scale is also unparalleled in terms of number of transport assets and the combination of heavy marine transport with long-distance towage. Going forward, we will continue to market this value-adding proposition. However, following the aforementioned developments in the market the smaller heavy marine transport vessels are now considered to be commodity assets. In accordance with the S curve philosophy we are open to forms of collaboration and/or consolidation similar to initiatives seen in comparable maritime shipping markets.

ANNUAL REPORT 2017 ­ BOSKALIS

IN CONCLUSION

15
We remain committed to our shareholders and recognize the

Boskalis entered the 2017-2019 business plan period on a very importance of a healthy dividend. Our policy is to distribute 40%

solid basis, with a net debt-free balance sheet. Despite the

to 50% of the net profit from ordinary operations as dividend but

challenging outlook our operating model based on our own assets we also strive to achieve a stable development of the dividend in

means that we will continue to generate a healthy cash flow. In

the longer term, taking into account both the company's desired

addition we have a strong global client base, highly committed balance sheet structure and the interests of shareholders. These

and passionate employees and a state-of-the-art, versatile fleet.

considerations have led to the proposal to the Annual General

Meeting of Shareholders to pay a dividend of EUR 1.00 per

While we expect the operating environment to remain challenging ordinary share resulting in a pay-out ratio of 87%. The dividend

during the business plan period, we want to use this period to

will be paid out in ordinary shares, unless shareholders opt to

invest counter-cyclically ­ sowing the seeds so we can reap the

receive the dividend in cash.

benefits in the future. In the course of 2017, we took a number of

these steps and looking ahead we will continue to invest prudently

in the business. Total capital expenditure over the business plan

period is projected at around EUR 250 million per annum, in line

with depreciation. This amount excludes any asset acquisitions,

bolt-on acquisitions or consolidation opportunities that may arise.

A healthy balance sheet is essential in our line of business. We believe a net debt/EBITDA ratio in a range of 1 to 1.5 through the cycle to be appropriate for our mix of activities. We expect to remain below this range during the business plan period, both as a matter of prudence and in order to have the flexibility to expand if opportunities present themselves.

ANNUAL REPORT 2017 ­ BOSKALIS

16
SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION
We strive to inform our stakeholders as completely as possible and to provide insight into the strategic direction and performance of the company. These efforts should allow for an accurate valuation of the Boskalis share over time.
INVESTOR RELATIONS POLICY Providing clear, transparent, accurate and timely information to our stakeholders is something we value highly. We consider our financial stakeholders to include existing and potential shareholders, other investors, banks and brokers as well as the media. Relevant information is equally and simultaneously provided to all interested parties and is made available through annual, semi-annual and quarterly updates, press releases, presentations to investors and the Boskalis website. To build and maintain long-term relationships with our stakeholders we organize roadshows, attend conferences and accommodate meeting requests and conference calls where feasible, while adhering to all legal disclosure regulations and obligations.

ANNUAL REPORT 2017 ­ BOSKALIS

17

Bilateral meetings and conference calls with analysts and existing or potential shareholders are not held during `closed periods'. Our policy of holding bilateral meetings with shareholders is set out in the Investor Relations section of our corporate website.
OPEN DIALOGUE

ISSUE AND REPURCHASE OF SHARES
Seventy-seven per cent (77%) of the 2016 dividend was distributed in the form of stock. As a consequence, the issued share capital as at 10 June 2017 increased by 3,275,042 shares to 133,351,894 ordinary shares with voting rights.

Following the publication of the annual and half-year results, we host comprehensive plenary analyst meetings which are also made available through a webcast. Following important announcements, we also contact shareholders proactively and we maintain regular contact with major investors and analysts, for example by providing the opportunity, where feasible, to visit a project or a vessel. At the beginning of the reporting year we presented our new Corporate Business Plan 2017-2019 which was a focal point of discussion in many investor meetings held in 2017.

Boskalis subsequently initiated a share buyback program to reduce the capital outstanding with the intention to neutralize the dilution resulting from the distribution of the 2016 stock dividend. As at 31 December 2017, 2,674,601 shares were repurchased for a total consideration including dividend tax of EUR 81.2 million. As at 31 December 2017, the issued share capital amounted to 133,351,894 ordinary shares of which 2,674,601 were repurchased shares held by Boskalis.

In 2017 we again hosted a broad roadshow and investor conference program. We participated in conferences in the Netherlands, Belgium, France, Switzerland and the UK. Roadshows for institutional investors were organized in Canada, Denmark, Finland, France, Germany, Ireland, Luxemburg, the Netherlands, Japan, South Korea, Spain, Switzerland, Taiwan, the UK and the US. In addition, a large number of investor meetings took place at our head office in the Netherlands. In 2017 more than 300 meetings were held with investors.
Boskalis is covered by all the major Benelux brokers. We are in frequent contact with their analysts, who play a key role in distributing information to their clients about the markets in which Boskalis operates.

SHARES AND LISTINGS
Ordinary shares in Royal Boskalis Westminster N.V are listed on Euronext stock exchange in Amsterdam, the Netherlands (ticker BOKA.AS, ISIN code NL0000852580). Options on ordinary Boskalis shares are traded on the European Option Exchange in Amsterdam (Euronext.liffe). Boskalis shares are included in the AEX-Index as well as indices such as the Euronext Next 150 index, STOXX Europe 600 Index and the MSCI Europe Index.
The authorized capital amounts to EUR 4.8 million with 240 million ordinary shares and 80 million cumulative protective shares, with a respective nominal value per share of EUR 0.01 and EUR 0.03.
MAJOR SHAREHOLDERS

On 10 May 2017, we held our Annual General Meeting (AGM) of Shareholders. More information on the AGM can be found on our corporate website.
DIVIDEND
The main principle underlying the Boskalis dividend policy is to distribute 40% to 50% of the net profit from ordinary operations as dividend. At the same time Boskalis aims to achieve a stable development of the dividend in the longer term. The choice of dividend ­ in cash and/or entirely or partly in shares ­ takes into account both the company's desired balance sheet structure and the interests of shareholders.

Under the Dutch Financial Markets Supervision Act, shareholdings of 3% or more in any Dutch company must be disclosed to the Netherlands Authority for the Financial Markets (AFM). According to the register kept by the AFM the following shareholders disclosed that they have a direct or indirect (potential) interest in Boskalis as at 31 December 2017:
HAL Investments B.V.: 35.71% Sprucegrove Investment Management Limited: 5.16% Blackrock Inc.: 4.87% Marathon Asset Management: 3.57% Oppenheimer Funds, Inc.: 3.07% State Street Corporation: 3.01%

On 10 May 2017, the AGM approved a proposal to pay out 46% of the 2016 adjusted net profit equivalent to EUR 1.00 per ordinary share. The dividend was paid in ordinary shares, unless shareholders opted to receive the dividend in cash.

Besides these large shareholders, an estimated 15% of the shares are held by shareholders in the US, 7% in the UK, 4% in Canada and the remainder in mainly the Netherlands, Norway, Spain, Germany and France.

ANNUAL REPORT 2017 ­ BOSKALIS

18
SHARE INFORMATION
In 2017, approximately 129 million Boskalis shares were traded on Euronext Amsterdam (2016: 126 million). The average daily trading volume in 2017 was more than 515,000 shares. In the course of the year, the share price reduced by 5% from EUR 32.99 to EUR 31.43. The market capitalization declined 2% compared to the end of 2016 to EUR 4.19 billion.

Note

High share price (in EUR)

(1)

Low share price (in EUR)

(1)

Share price at year-end (in EUR)

(1)

Average daily trading volume

(1)

Number of issued ordinary shares at year-end (x 1,000) (2)

Average number of outstanding shares (x 1,000)

Market capitalization at year-end (in EUR billion)

(3)

Enterprise value at year-end (in EUR billion)

(4)

Profit per share (in EUR)

Cash flow per share (in EUR)

Dividend per share (in EUR)

Payout ratio %

(6)

Dividend yield %

(7)

2017
35.51 27.08 31.43 507,778 133,352 131,097
4.19 4.31 1.15 3.07 1.00 87% 3.2%

2016
37.60 27.89 32.99 492,136 130,077 128,205
4.29 4.09 2.16 (5) 3.62 1.00 46% 3.0%

2015

2014

2013

49.21 35.70 37.63 466,526 125,627 124,182
4.73 4.90 3.54 6.16 1.60 45% 4.3%

47.18 33.71 45.45 351,191 122,938 121,606
5.59 6.11 4.03 6.46 1.60 40% 3.5%

38.58 26.92 38.41 336,999 120,265 118,445
4.62 5.29 3.09 5.56 1.24 40% 3.2%

Figures taken from the respective financial statements unless otherwise stated (1) Nasdaq IR Insights (2) Number of outstanding ordinary shares including the number of shares owned by the company as at 31 December (3) Market capitalization: total number of outstanding ordinary shares x share price at year-end (4) Enterprise value: market capitalization plus net debt (5) Excluding impairments (6) Payout ratio: dividend per share divided by profit per share (7) Dividend yield: dividend per share divided by share price at year-end

boskalis at a glance

ANNUAL REPORT 2017 ­ BOSKALIS

Trailing suction hopper dredger Causeway.

19
FINANCIAL AGENDA 2018

8 March 9 May 9 May 11 May 14 May 28 May 31 May
5 June 16 August 9 November

Publication of 2017 annual results Trading update on first quarter of 2018 Annual General Meeting of Shareholders Ex-dividend date Record date for dividend entitlement (after market close) Final date for stating of dividend preference Determination and publication of conversion rate for  dividend based on the volume weighted average share price on 29, 30 and 31 May 2018 (after market close) Date of dividend payment and delivery of shares Publication of 2018 half-year results Trading update on third quarter of 2018

ANNUAL REPORT 2017 ­ BOSKALIS

20
REPORT OF THE SUPERVISORY BOARD
Beach replenishment activities near Heemskerk in the Netherlands.

21

22
REPORT OF THE SUPERVISORY BOARD

report of the supervisory board

The Supervisory Board wishes to thank all employees and the Board of Management of Boskalis for the great efforts they have shown in 2017, especially considering the current market conditions.

In accordance with Article 26 of the Articles of Association of Royal Boskalis Westminster N.V., the Supervisory Board presents the 2017 annual report to the Annual General Meeting of Shareholders. The annual report, including the report of the Board of Management, the statement of directors' responsibilities and the financial statements, was drawn up by the Board of Management. The financial statements are accompanied by the report of the company's external auditor Ernst & Young Accountants LLP, which is included on pages 134 to 138 of this report.
We recommend the following to the Annual General Meeting of Shareholders:  The adoption of the financial statements, including the proposed profit
appropriation.  The discharge of the members of the Board of Management in respect of
their management activities during 2017.  The discharge of the members of the Supervisory Board for their
supervision of management during 2017.  The distribution to shareholders of a dividend of EUR 1.00 per ordinary
share to be paid in ordinary shares, unless the shareholder opts to receive a cash dividend.
COMPOSITION OF THE BOARD OF MANAGEMENT
The Board of Management consisted of three members in the 2017 reporting year. No changes to the composition of the Board of Management occurred during the year under review.
COMPOSITION OF THE SUPERVISORY BOARD
At the start of 2017 the Supervisory Board consisted of seven members. At the General Meeting of Shareholders on 10 May 2017 Mr. Niggebrugge stepped down as Supervisory Board member, due to the fulfilment of his last term. No further changes to the composition of the Supervisory Board occurred during the year under review. As a result as from 10 May 2017 the Supervisory Board consists of six members.
ACTIVITIES OF THE SUPERVISORY BOARD
The Supervisory Board held five regular meetings with the Board of Management and Group Management of the company. The attendance rate at the meetings of the Supervisory Board is for all Supervisory Board members 100%. The Supervisory Board also met several times without the Board of Management being present and there was regular telephone and one-on-one contact between the chairman of the Supervisory Board and the chairman of the Board of Management. Neither transactions with a

ANNUAL REPORT 2017 ­ BOSKALIS

23

(potential) conflict of interest, nor transactions with a majority shareholder, have occurred in the year under review. The Supervisory Board has discussed the acceptance of supervisory board positions by members of the Board of Management and members of the Supervisory Board.
The Supervisory Board held its meetings to discuss the annual and half-year results in the presence of the external auditor, Ernst & Young Accountants LLP.

Other topics under scrutiny in 2017 included the corporate budget, liquidity, the share price development and relations with shareholders, acquisition and investment/divestment proposals, the organizational structure and the staffing policies. Specific attention was paid to the company's policy on safety, health and the environment and the societal aspects of doing business. The Supervisory Board gave consideration to the investment of the company in a second newbuild mega cutter dredger as well as the addition of two diving support vessels to the fleet.

Permanent items on the agenda of the Supervisory Board are the strategy, the development of the results, the balance sheet, the safety performance, and the industry and market developments.
At the onset of the year under review the Board of Management proposed a new Corporate Business Plan for the period 20172019. The Supervisory Board discussed this proposal in the context of the long-term value creation for the company, whereafter approval was given to the new strategy. The essential outline of the Corporate Business Plan 2017-2019 can be found on pages 10 to 15 of this report. At the beginning of 2018 the Supervisory Board received an update from the Board of Management on the implementation, execution, risks and opportunities of the Corporate Business Plan 2017-2019. Within the context of the Corporate Business Plan 2017-2019 the Board of Management presented the reorganization of the headquarters of the company to right-size the organization. The Supervisory Board considered this and the related reduction in workforce and informed itself on a regular basis regarding the execution of the reorganization by the Board of Management. Within the context of the market developments the order book and potential large projects as well as the status of important contracted projects were discussed. During the year under review subjects addressed included among others the impact of the low oil price and the continuing uncertain market conditions on the company. The Supervisory Board discussed the contracting of large projects such as the award of the Duqm liquid bulk berth project in Oman, the Hartel Tank Terminal in Rotterdam, the Nord Stream 2 rock installation in the Baltic Sea, the JNPT project in Mumbai, India, the deepening of the Martin Garcia channel in Uruguay as well as the installation of export cables for the Borssele 3 and 4 offshore wind farms in the Netherlands. The Supervisory Board also informed themselves on the execution of projects such as the Aasta Hansteen topside float-over installation in Norway, the SAAone road construction project in the Netherlands, the Pluit project in Indonesia and the Wikinger offshore wind farm project in Germany. In discussing these projects the Supervisory Board devoted attention to the various operational, geopolitical, societal, environmental and financial risks, and, where applicable, judged provisions made by the Board of Management.

The Supervisory Board received presentations by senior managers within the company to inform themselves on the developments in the areas of Dredging & Inland Infra in the region Europe, the cable-laying activities of VBMS, the new company-wide quality system: the Boskalis Way of Working and the Design, Tender and Engineering Department.
Attention was also paid to corporate social responsibility, with a comprehensive discussion by the Supervisory Board of the Boskalis Corporate Social Responsibility report. In the beginning of 2018 the General Code of Business Conduct, the Supplier Code of Conduct and the Whistleblower Policy with the therein embodied values, and their execution and compliance were discussed. The Supervisory Board also addressed the policy and relevant developments in relation to anti-corruption and integrity.
The Audit Committee regularly assessed the structure and operation of the internal risk management and control systems associated with the strategy and discussed these with the Supervisory Board. No significant changes to the internal risk management and control systems were made during the year under review. Further information about the company's risk management can be found on pages 52 to 58 of this annual report.
In 2017, the Supervisory Board gave consideration to the acquisition of the subsea survey company Gardline and the divestment of the remaining interest in Fugro N.V.
During the year under review the share buyback program, proposed by the Board of Management to acquire its shares in the company, was also discussed by the Supervisory Board.
The Supervisory Board paid a working visit to projects in the Netherlands during the year under review. During this visit the Supervisory Board familiarized itself with the activities of Boskalis Nederland. In the course of doing so extensive attention was paid to the market trends, tender procedures and possible new projects in the region. In addition, the Supervisory Board visited the Isala Delta Project in Kampen, which forms part of the Room for the River project in the Netherlands as well as the Marker Wadden, which is a project aiming to restore nature in the Markermeer lake.

ANNUAL REPORT 2017 ­ BOSKALIS

24

A number of Supervisory Board members met with the Works Council to discuss the results, the corporate strategy, the conduct and culture of the company, the market developments, the execution of the fleet rationalization program and the reorganization of the headquarters including the reduction of related workforce.
The Supervisory Board has three core committees ­ the Audit Committee, the Remuneration Committee and the Selection and Appointment Committee. The committees performed their tasks as follows:
AUDIT COMMITTEE
Members of the Audit Committee In 2017 the Audit Committee consisted of three members: Mr. Niggebrugge (chairman), Mr. Van Wiechen and Ms. Haaijer. On 10 May 2017 Mr. Niggebrugge stepped down as chairman and member of the Audit Committee and was succeeded by Mr. Hazewinkel, who fulfills the role of financial expert in the Audit Committee. More than half of the members of the Audit Committee is independent in accordance with the Code.
Duties and responsibilities of the Audit Committee The duties of the Audit Committee include:  Informing the Supervisory Board of the company of the outcome
of the statutory audit and explaining how the statutory audit contributed to the integrity of the financial reporting and what the role of the Audit Committee has been in that process.  Monitoring the financial reporting process and submitting proposals to ensure its integrity.  Monitoring the effectiveness of the internal control system, the internal audit function and the risk management system regarding the financial reporting of the company.

 Monitoring the statutory audit of the financial statements and the consolidated annual accounts, in particular the execution thereof taking into account the assessment of the AFM in accordance with article 26, sub clause 6 of the EU Directive 537/2014.
 Assessing and monitoring the independence of the external auditor, specifically taking into account the provision of ancillary services to the company.
 Determining the procedure for the selection of the external auditor and the nomination for the engagement to carry out the statutory audit in accordance with article 16 of EU directive 537/2014.
 Advising the Supervisory Board on the approval of the appointment and the dismissal of the internal auditor.
 Providing its opinion on the performance of the internal audit function.
 Advising on the annual internal audit plan.
Activities during 2017 The Audit Committee met on three occasions during 2017. The attendance rate for the meetings of the Audit Committee was 100% for Mr. Niggebrugge (for the part of his tenure), 100% for Mr. Hazewinkel (for the part of his tenure), 100% for Ms. Haaijer and 100% for Mr. Van Wiechen.
Regular topics discussed during these meetings included: the 2016 financial statements, the (interim) financial reporting for the 2017 financial year, the results relating to large projects and operating activities, developments in IFRS regulations, developments in the order book, cost control, share price developments, and the financing and liquidity of the company.
The Audit Committee discussed with the Board of Management the internal risk management and control systems and assessed the

report of the supervisory board

The cutter head of the new cutter suction dredger Helios.

ANNUAL REPORT 2017 ­ BOSKALIS

25

effectiveness of the design and the operation thereof by evaluating the systems with the Board of Management, the internal and external auditor and senior management. The Audit Committee reported hereon to the Supervisory Board.
Other topics of discussion included the impact of the situation on the financial markets, insurance matters, the company's tax policies, tax position and relevant tax developments, the administrative organization, the provision of adequate information within the company, the relevant legislation and legal proceedings.
In addition, the Audit Committee focused more specifically on the framework of the financial reporting on the recognition in the accounts of the impairments regarding goodwill and assets as related to the 2016 financial statements, the repayment of the USPP as entered into in 2013, the restructuring costs, the share buyback program and the acquisition of Gardline.
In the Audit Committee the activities performed by the internal auditor during 2017 as well as the internal Audit Plan for 2018 have been discussed with the internal auditor. Other topics of discussion included a review of the scope of the internal audit function.
In addition to the chairman of the Board of Management and the Chief Financial Officer, the Group Controller and the external auditor were also present at the meetings of the Audit Committee. The internal auditor joined the meetings of the Audit Committee for the topics relevant to the internal audit function.
The Audit Committee discussed with the external auditor the audit plan as well as the audit fees. The scope and materiality of the audit plan and the principal risks of the annual reporting, as well as the findings and outcome of control process of the financial statements and management letter, was given consideration by the Audit Committee, whereby the Audit Committee received information on the most important topics of discussion with the external auditor related to the drafts of the Management Letter and the audit report. The workings of the external and internal audit functions were assessed by means of discussions with the Board of Management, the internal and external auditor as well as senior management. The Audit Committee informed the external auditor of the main elements regarding its performance. The Audit Committee also established the independence of the external auditor. The Audit Committee reported its findings on the performance of and the relationship with the external auditor to the Supervisory Board. During the year under review meetings were also held with the external auditor without the company's Board of Management being present.
Reports and findings of the meetings of the Audit Committee were presented to the entire Supervisory Board.
REMUNERATION COMMITTEE
Members of the Remuneration Committee In 2017 the Remuneration Committee consisted of two members, with Mr. Van Woudenberg as chairman and Mr. Niggebrugge as a member. On 10 May 2017 Mr. Niggebrugge stepped down as

member of the Remuneration Committee and was succeeded by Mr. Van der Veer.
Duties and responsibilities of the Remuneration Committee It is the role of the Remuneration Committee to advise the Supervisory Board on:  The submission of a clear and understandable proposal
concerning the remuneration policy to be pursued for members of the Board of Management with focus on long-term value creation for the company and the business connected with it and shall take into account the internal pay ratios within the business. The Remuneration Committee shall consider and include all matters required by law and the Corporate Governance Code 2016 (the "Code"). The Supervisory Board shall present the policy to the General Meeting of Shareholders for adoption.  The submission of a proposal concerning the remuneration of individual members of the Board of Management. The proposal shall be drawn up in accordance with the remuneration policy that has been established and will, in any event, cover the remuneration structure, the amount of the fixed and variable remuneration components, the performance criteria used, the scenario analyses that are carried out and the pay ratios with the company and its affiliated enterprise. When formulating the proposal for remuneration of the Board of Management, the Remuneration Committee shall take note of the views of the individual members of the Board of Management with regard to the amount and structure of their remuneration.  The preparation of the report on the remuneration policy implemented in the past financial year. The Remuneration Committee shall consider and include all matters required by law and the Code. The Supervisory Board's remuneration report is available on the company's website.
Activities during 2017 The Remuneration Committee met three times during 2017. The attendance rate for the meetings of the Remuneration Committee was 100% for Mr. Van Woudenberg, 100% for Mr. Niggebrugge (for the part of his tenure) and 100% for Mr. Van der Veer (for the part of his tenure). The Committee also held regular consultations outside these meetings.
Reports and findings of the meetings of the Remuneration Committee were presented to the entire Supervisory Board. For an overview of the activities of the Remuneration Committee reference is made to the Remuneration report 2017 as published on the website of the company (www.boskalis.com).
Remuneration policy for the Board of Management The remuneration policy for the Board of Management was adopted by the Extraordinary General Meeting of Shareholders on 21 January 2011. The remuneration policy is consistent with the strategy and core values of Boskalis, which are centered on long-term orientation and continuity and take into account the interests of Boskalis' shareholders, clients, employees as well as the `wider environment'. In 2017 the remuneration policy was applied in accordance with the remuneration policy as last adopted by the Extraordinary General Meeting of Shareholders on 21 January 2011. The full text of the remuneration policy can be found on the Boskalis website.

ANNUAL REPORT 2017 ­ BOSKALIS

26
Remuneration policy for the Supervisory Board The remuneration policy for the Supervisory Board was adopted by the General Meeting of Shareholders on 10 May 2012. In 2017 the remuneration was applied in accordance with the remuneration policy as adopted.

Reports and findings of the meetings of the Selection and Appointment Committee were presented to the entire Supervisory Board.
DUTCH CORPORATE GOVERNANCE CODE

report of the supervisory board

SELECTION AND APPOINTMENT COMMITTEE
Members of the Selection and Appointment Committee In 2017 the Selection and Appointment Committee consisted of three members, with Mr. Hessels acting as chairman and Mr. Van Wiechen and Mr. Van der Veer as members. More than half of the members of the Remuneration Committee is independent in accordance with the Code.
Duties and responsibilities of the Selection and Appointment Committee It is the role of the Selection and Appointment Committee to advise the Supervisory Board on:  Drawing up selection criteria and nomination procedures with
respect to members of the Supervisory Board and members of the Board of Management of the company.  The periodic assessment of the size and composition of the Supervisory Board and the Board of Management and submission for a profile of the Supervisory Board.  The periodic assessment of the performance of individual members of the Supervisory Board and Board of Management and reporting thereon to the Supervisory Board.  Drawing up a plan for the succession with respect to members of the Supervisory Board and the members of the Board of Management.  Proposing appointments and re-appointments.  Supervising the policy of the Board of Management with respect to selection criteria and appointment procedures for the senior management of the company.
Activities during 2017 In 2017, the Selection and Appointment Committee held two meetings. The attendance rate for the meetings of the Selection and Appointment Committee was 100% for Mr. Hessels, 100% for Mr. Van Wiechen and 100% for Mr. Van der Veer. In addition, the members consulted by telephone on several occasions outside these meetings.

Since the introduction of the Dutch Corporate Governance Code (the "Code") in 2004, the principles of proper corporate governance and best practice provisions set out in the Code have regularly been discussed at Supervisory Board meetings. In the year under review the Supervisory Board has extensively discussed the revised Code and the impact thereof on the corporate governance of the company in general as well as the amendments required in the corporate governance documentation. These amendments in the corporate governance of the company shall be listed as a separate agenda item on the agenda of the General Meeting of Shareholders, to be held on 9 May 2018. The principal points of the Boskalis Corporate Governance policy can be found on pages 62 and 63 of this annual report.
In the opinion of the Supervisory Board, the provisions of the Code regarding the independence of the members of the Supervisory Board have been complied with. The Supervisory Board considers Mr. Van Wiechen not to be independent in light of the Code, due to the fact that he fulfills the position of director at HAL Investments B.V., which company holds as at 31 December 2017 a major interest of 35.71% in the share capital of Boskalis.
Outside the presence of the Board of Management the Supervisory Board discussed the performance of the Board of Management. It also discussed the performance of the Supervisory Board, the chairman of the Supervisory Board, the three committees and the individual members of the Supervisory Board. This evaluation was conducted by means of a questionnaire as well as through collective and bilateral discussions between the members of the Supervisory Board, the chairman of the Supervisory Board and the chairman of the Board of Management. In its opinion the Supervisory Board is functioning well.
The Supervisory Board wishes to thank the employees and the Board of Management of Boskalis for the great efforts they have shown in 2017, especially considering the current market conditions.

ANNUAL REPORT 2017 ­ BOSKALIS

During the year under review, the Selection and Appointment Committee discussed the plan for the balanced composition and succession of the Board of Management and the composition and size of the Supervisory Board, bearing in mind the profile, retirement rota, and the evaluation of the performance of the Board of Management collectively and its members individually. In the year under review no appointments or re-appointments were due for the Supervisory Board and Board of Management.
The company arranged an induction program for Ms. Haaijer in January 2017 to familiarize her with the general affairs of the company regarding financial, social and legal matters, the workings of the Supervisory Board, the markets Boskalis is operating in, its culture and the works council. No further training needs have been identified for the Supervisory Board or the Board of Management in the year under review.

Papendrecht / Sliedrecht, 7 March 2018
Supervisory Board
Mr. J.M. Hessels, chairman Mr. H.J. Hazewinkel, deputy chairman Ms. I. Haaijer Mr. J. van der Veer Mr. J.N. van Wiechen Mr. C. van Woudenberg

27

ANNUAL REPORT 2017 ­ BOSKALIS

28
UNIQUE INSTALLATION OF THE WORLD'S LARGEST SPAR-FPSO TOPSIDE

Boskalis was responsible for both the transportation of the Aasta Hansteen SPAR substructure and topside from South Korea to Norway and the topside installation. In this remarkable project the company transported the heaviest SPAR-FPSO ever, carried out the largest catamaran barge construction and topside float-over, and worked more than 100,000 hours without a single lost time injury.

"To provide some background first. The Aasta Hansteen SPAR-FPSO is a gas production and storage platform, which will be operated at the Aasta Hansteen field, approximately 300 kilometers off the coast of Norway, above the Arctic Circle in depths of more than 1,300 meters. The SPAR consists of the hull/substructure and a topside", says Project Director Bas Polkamp. "Hyundai Heavy Industries (HHI) contracted Dockwise to carry out the transport of the SPAR hull from the fabrication yard in Ulsan, South Korea, to a fjord near Stavanger in Norway. As such, a `relatively straightforward' part of the operation, even though it is a huge structure. Just the hull alone is an enormous cylindrical buoy with a diameter of 50 meters, length of 198 meters and weight of 46,000 tons. The hull was transported horizontally on our semi-submersible heavy transport vessel Vanguard via the Cape of Good Hope in 59 days, arriving in Norway at the end of June. Subsequently, we

Topside float-over installation with the tip of the SPAR hull above the waterline in between the S-class vessels.

29
transported the 24,300-ton topside from Ulsan. This operation was carried out with the White Marlin, the newest and second largest vessel in the Dockwise fleet. In addition to transporting the two main platform components to Norway we were also tasked with the installation of the topside on the substructure. Following its arrival in Norway the SPAR was offloaded from the Vanguard and moved into an upright position and submerged at a safe and sheltered position in the fjord by a third party. Here the substructure was waiting for the installation of the topside."
TOPSIDE INSTALLATION
Once the White Marlin arrived in Norway, the topside was transferred onto two S-class vessels. After accurately positioning these two smaller transport vessels on either side of the White Marlin, they started de-ballasting whilst the White Marlin ballasted down and maneuvered out from underneath. "The result was a `catamaran barge structure' with the topside linking the two hulls," explains Polkamp. "Then the catamaran barge configuration had to go to the `mating location' where the topside was installed onto the substructure. At this stage there were four tugs alongside and one deployed for contingency purposes. With this marine spread, we travelled to the mating location in the fjord 16 nautical miles away. The catamaran barge with the topside was safely towed out to the vertical SPAR hull. The float-over process started with the `entry operation', where the topside was positioned above the substructure. We used the tugs and then used the mooring-mating wires to further fine-tune the positioning. Once the topside was in the right position the mating operation commenced: the substructure was de-ballasted and the catamaran barge was ballasted down. In other words, another load transfer, yet this time from the catamaran barge to the substructure."
PREPARATION
"Preparing for this final operation alone represents more than two years of detailed engineering," explains Polkamp. "In the last four weeks of the project, we established an office on-site with more than 50 people based there, including representatives from the owner Statoil and our client HHI. We mobilized the core team on 22 November and successfully completed the dual float-over on 14 December ­ in just three weeks!"
BIGGEST CHALLENGE
"Executing this operation in the Norwegian wintertime was for sure the biggest challenge", said Polkamp. "The project was extremely weather sensitive, with very strict limits on the maximum current and wind speed that could be handled. And at this time of the year, there was a low pressure front coming every few days. We had to have many go/no-go meetings to decide whether it was safe to carry out the operations in the next time window. There are big storms at that time of the year, with gusts of up to 40 knots. In fact, we had to wait four days on one occasion for a suitable weather window. We employed a dedicated meteorologist who was providing a presentation to the team every four hours and outlining whether we could proceed to the next stage."
COMMUNICATION AND TEAMWORK
"Communication was absolutely crucial. The team had all worked together in the simulation exercises carried out at Maritime Research Institute Netherlands (MARIN), and this showed as it worked perfectly well. The maneuvering with the tugs, de-ballasting the SPAR substructure and ballasting the two vessels had all been simulated extremely realistically - as it happened in the field. It was vital to have the same team and great, dedicated operational people. Of course we have the right assets ­ the White Marlin, the Vanguard, the tugs, but the most important thing is the people; it is all about teamwork!"

30
REPORT OF THE BOARD OF MANAGEMENT
Beach replenishment activities near the Oosterscheldekering, the largest storm surge barrier of the Dutch Delta Works.

31

32

FINANCIAL

PERFORMANCE

44

ORGANIZATIONAL

DEVELOPMENTS

48

CORPORATE SOCIAL

RESPONSIBILITY

50

BUSINESS PRINCIPLES

52

RISK MANAGEMENT

62

CORPORATE

GOVERNANCE

64

OUTLOOK

65

STATEMENT OF

DIRECTORS'

RESPONSIBILITIES

report of the board of management

32
FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE
Royal Boskalis Westminster N.V. achieved a net profit of EUR 150 million in 2017, in line with expectations. This compares to a net loss of EUR 564 million in 2016 as a result of EUR 840 million of non-cash impairment charges. Revenue declined by 10 per cent to EUR 2.34 billion (2016: EUR 2.60 billion). Adjusted for consolidation, deconsolidation and currency effects, revenue was down 15 per cent. EBITDA amounted to EUR 437 million and the operating result (EBIT) was EUR 185 million (2016 EBITDA: EUR 660 million and EBIT: EUR 385 million, both adjusted for impairment charges). Dredging & Inland Infra had a relatively busy year after an exceptionally weak 2016. Both revenue and the fleet utilization rose, fueled by a number of large projects in progress in Brazil, Indonesia, India and Oman. The results from ongoing dredging projects were lower than in previous years while projects that were technically completed previously once again made a positive contribution to the result. Revenue and the segment result at Offshore Energy declined further compared to previous years, due in part to the poor market conditions in the oil and gas industry. The various activities nevertheless made a reasonable to good contribution to the result. The result at Towage & Salvage declined compared to last year, mainly as a result of weak market conditions and one-off charges at Towage. Following a very quiet start to the year, Salvage ended 2017 well with a few large emergency response contracts. Boskalis' financial position remains strong with a solvency ratio of 63% and a limited net debt of EUR 120 million. The order book increased to EUR 3.50 billion (end-2016: EUR 2.92 billion).
The trailing suction hopper dredger Oranje in the Guanabara Bay in Rio de Janeiro, Brazil sailing close to one of Gardline's survey vessels.

ANNUAL REPORT 2017 ­ BOSKALIS

33

OPERATIONAL AND FINANCIAL DEVELOPMENTS

RESULT

REVENUE
During the past year revenue decreased by 10% to EUR 2.337 billion (2016: EUR 2.596 billion). Adjusted for consolidation, deconsolidation and currency effects, revenue declined by 15%. This decrease is mainly a consequence of the continuing challenging market conditions, in particular in the offshore energy sector.
In line with the first half of 2017 Dredging & Inland Infra was busier than last year, with revenues up 11% on the back of higher vessel utilization rates. The biggest revenue growth was realized outside of Europe, with large projects under execution in Brazil, Oman, Indonesia, India and the United Arab Emirates.
The revenue decline within Offshore Energy is a result of the low activity levels in the oil and gas industry. Furthermore, the contribution from offshore wind foundation transportation & installation projects was limited compared to a very busy 2016, when two large projects were under execution. The survey activities of Gardline, acquired mid-2017, made a modest revenue contribution in the second half of the year.
Revenue within the Towage & Salvage division declined as a consequence of the deconsolidation of the European harbor towage activities as per the second quarter of 2016. Following an unusually quiet first half of the year Salvage had a very busy second half year, with numerous emergency response contracts.

In 2017, the operating result before interest, taxes, depreciation, amortization and impairment charges (EBITDA) totaled EUR 436.6 million (2016: EUR 660.5 million). EBITDA includes the contribution from our share in the net result of joint ventures and associated companies.
EBIT amounted to EUR 185.0 million. This result includes our share in the net result of joint ventures and associated companies, which on balance amounted to EUR 31.0 million. 2016 EBIT, corrected for pre-tax impairment charges of EUR 842.6 million, amounted to EUR 384.6 million.
For Dredging & Inland Infra the operating results amounted to EUR 110.5 million (2016: EUR 119.7 million). Margins on dredging projects executed in 2017 were generally at lower levels than in previous years. Settlements on projects technically completed in previous years contributed again positively to the result.
Offshore Energy earnings were in line with the first half of 2017, with an operating results for the full year of EUR 85.0 million (2016: 209.5 million). The decline relative to last year reflects the poor market conditions in the oil and gas industry. Furthermore, the contribution from offshore wind projects was limited compared to 2016, when two large projects were under execution. Gardline, the survey company acquired mid-August of 2017, contributed EUR 15.0 million, which was fully attributable to a net badwill gain.

REVENUE BY SEGMENT
(in EUR million) Dredging & Inland Infra Offshore Energy Towage & Salvage Eliminations
Total

2017
1,298.3 966.7 100.5 -28.3
2,337.2

2016
1,164.5 1,333.7
121.4 -23.2 2,596.3

100 967

1,298

Dredging & Inland Infra Offshore Energy Towage & Salvage Eliminations (-28)

REVENUE BY GEOGRAPHICAL AREA
(in EUR million) The Netherlands Rest of Europe Australia / Asia Middle East Africa North and South America
Total

2017
497.8 856.5 359.0 256.4
84.8 282.7 2,337.2

2016
552.2 1,078.6
283.7 134.6 232.6 314.6 2,596.3

283 85 256
359

498 856

The Netherlands Rest of Europe Australia / Asia
Middle East Africa North and South America

ANNUAL REPORT 2017 ­ BOSKALIS

34

Towage & Salvage closed the year with an operating result of

NET PROFIT

EUR 32.8 million (2016: EUR 48.8 million). This decline was a

Total consolidated EBIT amounted to EUR 185.0 million

consequence of the deconsolidation of the European harbor

(2016: 384,6 before impairment charges). After on balance

towage activities, a lower result from several joint ventures and

financing expenses of EUR 12.9 million, profit before taxation

associated companies, and a lower contribution from Salvage.

amounted to EUR 172.1 million. The after tax profit attributable to

shareholders was EUR 150.5 million, compared to a net loss of

Non-allocated group income and expenses amounted to minus

EUR 563.7 million in 2016.

EUR 43.3 million and relate primarily to the usual non-allocated

head-office costs. In addition, an amount of EUR 14.9 million is included, associated with the head-office reorganization

ORDER BOOK

conducted in 2017. In 2016, the non-allocated group income and In 2017 Boskalis acquired, on balance, EUR 2,909 million worth

expenses amounted to a positive EUR 6.5 million, which included of new contracts. At the end of the year the order book, excluding

substantial book profits on various transactions.

our share in the order books of joint ventures and associated

companies, stood at EUR 3,495 million (end-2016:

RESULT BY SEGMENT (EBIT)

2017

2016 EUR 2,924 million).

(in EUR million) Dredging & Inland Infra Offshore Energy Towage & Salvage Non-allocated group (costs) result Operating Result
Impairment charges EBIT

110.5 85.0 32.8 -43.3
185.0
185.0

119.7 209.5
48.8 6.5
384.6
-842.6 -458.1

ORDER BOOK
(in EUR million) Dredging & Inland Infra Offshore Energy Towage & Salvage Total

2017
2,477.4 1,011.1
6.7 3,495.2

2016
1,892.5 1,023.9
7.5 2,923.9

report of the board of management

The dredging process on board of the Helios is controlled by an operator using two joysticks and a large number of touch screens.

ANNUAL REPORT 2017 ­ BOSKALIS

35
DREDGING & INLAND INFRA

Construction, maintenance and deepening of ports and waterways, land reclamation, coastal defense and riverbank protection, underwater rock fragmentation and the extraction of minerals using dredging techniques. Construction of roads and railroads, bridges, aqueducts, viaducts and tunnels including earthmoving, soil improvement and remediation ­ mainly in the Netherlands.

DREDGING & INLAND INFRA
(in EUR million) Revenue EBITDA Net result from JVs and associates Operating result Order book at year-end

2017
1,298.3 219.1 3.6 110.5
2,477.4

2016
1,164.5 223.0 3.6 119.7
1,892.5

EBITDA and operating result include our share in the net result of the joint ventures and associated companies. 2016 EBITDA and Operating result are presented excluding impairment charges.

REVENUE
Revenue in the Dredging & Inland Infra segment amounted to EUR 1,298 million (2016: EUR 1,165 million).

pipeline trenching work in Abu Dhabi (UAE). Activities related to the Pluit project in Jakarta Bay (Indonesia) that were suspended in early 2016 are not expected to recommence before the end of 2018.
FLEET DEVELOPMENTS
Utilization of the hopper and cutter fleet was considerably higher than in 2016. The hopper fleet had an effective annual utilization rate of 35 weeks (2016: 27 weeks), with the cutter fleet utilization rate at 14 weeks (2016: 9 weeks).
The new mega cutter Helios was named and christened on 1 July and its maiden project was on the construction of the Offshore Center Maasvlakte 2 in the port of Rotterdam, the Netherlands. The Helios was subsequently mobilized to Oman, where the vessel will work on the Duqm port development project. The Helios is the largest and most powerful cutter suction dredger in the fleet with a total installed power of almost 24,000 kW, a total pumping capacity of 15,600 kW and a maximum cutter power of 7,000 kW. In 2017 Boskalis ordered a sister vessel of the Helios at IHC, which is expected to be taken into service in the course of 2020.

REVENUE BY MARKET
(in EUR million) The Netherlands Rest of Europe Rest of the world Total

2017
473.2 253.7 571.5 1,298.3

2016
465.9 272.7 425.9 1,164.5

The Netherlands In 2017 revenue in the Dutch market was stable at EUR 473.2 million. A lot of work was performed on the Buitenring Parkstad Limburg and SAAone (A1-A6 motorway) projects. SAAone was successfully completed in the course of the second half of the year. The Wadden Sea dike reinforcement on the island of Texel, as well as work related to the Room for the River projects contributed to the revenue, in addition to the second phase of the construction of the Marker Wadden nature reserve islands.

SEGMENT RESULT Dredging & Inland Infra achieved an EBITDA of EUR 219.1 million, with an operating result of EUR 110.5 million (2016: EUR 223.0 million and EUR 119.7 million, respectively). The project results were a reflection of the challenging market conditions. Margins on dredging projects executed in 2017 were generally at lower levels than in previous years. Settlements on projects technically completed in previous years contributed again positively to the result. Such settlements are not uncommon, although size and timing is unpredictable. The Dutch Inland Infra activities delivered a positive contribution to the result.
The segment result includes our share in the net result of joint ventures and associated companies. The contribution from these activities was EUR 3.6 million (2016: EUR 3.6 million).
ORDER BOOK

Rest of Europe Revenue in the rest of Europe amounted to EUR 253.7 million. The largest contribution came from the UK market, including the completion of the Portsmouth channel and inner harbor dredging project, the deepening of Peterhead harbor and the redevelopment of the Dover Western Docks. In the other European home markets (Germany, Sweden and Finland) numerous port-related capital and maintenance projects were executed.
Rest of the world Outside of Europe, revenue increased strongly to EUR 571.5 million. Important projects under execution included the expansion of the Porto do Açu Oil Transshipment Terminal (Brazil), reclamation activities in Makassar (Indonesia), the deepening of the access channel to the Jawaharlal Nehru Port in Mumbai (India), the development of the port of Duqm (Oman) and

At the end of the year, the order book stood at EUR 2,477 million (end-2016: EUR 1,893 million). The order book for the Rest of the World increased significantly with the most noteworthy contract wins being the development of the port of Duqm (Oman), a multi-year maintenance contract in the Middle East and the deepening of the access channel to Jawaharlal Nehru Port in Mumbai (India). Other contract wins include port related contracts in Angola, Australia, Brazil, Nigeria, Uruguay and Mexico, in addition to variation orders on existing contracts. On balance EUR 1,883 million of new work was acquired during the course of the year.
After the close of the year, Boskalis was awarded a large multi-year dredging project for the Tuas Terminal Phase II port development in Singapore. This project will be executed in a consortium with Hyundai and Penta Ocean.

ANNUAL REPORT 2017 ­ BOSKALIS

36
ORDER BOOK BY MARKET
(in EUR million) The Netherlands Rest of Europe Rest of the world Total

2017
604.4 557.6 1,315.4 2,477.4

2016
723.5 590.4 578.6 1,892.5

Abu Dhabi (UAE). The largest revenue contribution from offshore wind projects came from the Aberdeen OWF project. The sizable Veja Mate and Wikinger projects made major contributions in 2016, with a limited contribution in 2017. VBMS had a busy year with the Galloper, Walney, Dudgeon, Rampion and East Anglia projects being the most noteworthy.

report of the board of management

OFFSHORE ENERGY
Offshore dredging and rock installation projects, heavy transport, lift and installation work, survey, diving and ROV services in support of the development, construction, maintenance and dismantling of oil and LNG import/export facilities, offshore platforms, pipelines and cables and offshore wind farms.

FLEET DEVELOPMENTS
In 2017, the heavy transport vessels (HTV) achieved a utilization rate of 69% (2016: 71%). Following the 2016 fleet rationalization study, two HTVs were taken out of service in 2017, the Finesse was converted into a crane vessel and renamed Bokalift 1 and two Type II vessels were laid up. In the course of 2017, one Type II vessel was taken out of layup for a logistical management project in the Middle East.

OFFSHORE ENERGY
(in EUR million) Revenue EBITDA Net result from JVs and associates Operating result Order book at year-end

2017
966.7 221.1
0.3 85.0 1,011.1

2016
1,333.7 374.7 2.2 209.5
1,023.9

EBITDA and operating result include our share in the net result of the joint ventures and associated companies. 2016 EBITDA and operating result are presented excluding impairment charges.

REVENUE
Revenue in the Offshore Energy segment amounted to EUR 966.7 million with just over 50% being contracting related, and the balance coming from services. (2016: EUR 1,333.7 million).
Offshore Services includes transport and marine services, logistical management, subsea services and survey. In 2017, the successful completion of the Aasta Hansteen transport and topside float-over installation made an important contribution, besides projects like Mariner and the transport of Statoil CAT J rigs. Following the completion of these projects, that were acquired under much better market conditions, the dependence on the very competitive spot market, characterized by strong pressure on both utilization and prices, will further increase. Utilization levels remained stable at Subsea Services, with an important contribution from work in the Middle East and some involvement on internal offshore wind farm and unexploded ordnance clearance projects. Overall, but in particular in the North Sea, subsea markets remained under pressure. Revenues and results of Gardline have been consolidated since mid-August 2017. The period since the date of acquisition has mainly been used to restructure and to prepare the business for the 2018 season on the North Sea. The revenue contribution from Gardline was EUR 24.9 million.
Offshore Contracting includes the installation of floating and fixed structures, seabed interventions, offshore wind and cable-laying related activities. The largest Installation & Intervention projects under execution in 2017 were the installation of the DolWin3 power platform and the installation of a gas pipeline for Gasco in

The cable-laying vessels, diving support vessels and the Rockpiper (fallpipe vessel) all saw reasonable to good utilization levels in 2017.
The conversion of the former Finesse type II heavy transport vessel into the Bokalift 1 crane vessel was largely completed in 2017. The outfitting of DP2 and additional accommodation was completed in Singapore and the rotating mast crane with a lifting capacity of 3,000 tons was installed in China. Following a festive reception in Rotterdam in February 2018, the vessel started its first assignment on the North Sea. The vessel will be deployable on transport and installation activities in the offshore wind sector, oil and gas industry, as well as on decommissioning and salvage projects.
In the fourth quarter, Boskalis acquired the DSV Constructor by exercising a purchase option on this leased vessel, which had been part of the fleet for some considerable time. Boskalis also reached an agreement with the bondholders of two former Harkand vessels, under which it has acquired the DSV BOKA Atlantis and has signed a three-year bareboat charter for her sister vessel Da Vinci along with a right of first refusal in the event of a sale. The vessels, which were taken into service in 2011, are equipped with two bells for saturation diving work to a depth of 300 meters and provide accommodation for 120 crew.
SEGMENT RESULTS
The EBITDA for the Offshore Energy segment amounted to EUR 221.1 million, with an operating result of EUR 85.0 million (2016: EUR 374.7 million and EUR 209.5 million, respectively).
The survey activities of Gardline contributed EUR 18.7 million to EBITDA and EUR 15.0 million to the operating result. This result includes a EUR 15.0 million net badwill gain resulting from the purchase price allocation carried out as a result of the acquisition. This gain reflects the net positive difference in the assessed value of the acquired net assets relative to the consideration paid and the restructuring costs incurred following the acquisition.
The bad market conditions in the oil and gas sector predominantly impacted results in the services related business units, with the short-term wet towage and short-term heavy marine transport

ANNUAL REPORT 2017 ­ BOSKALIS

37

activities under most pressure. The operating result contribution

ORDER BOOK

from the services related business units was negligible in the

At the end of 2017, the order book, excluding our share in the

second half of the year. Within contracting, a further earnings

order books of joint ventures and associates, stood at

decline in offshore wind foundation installation was partly offset EUR 1,011.1 million (end-2016: EUR 1,023.9 million).

by a strong year in the cable-laying business unit, project

settlements and a number of smaller Installation & Intervention

On balance, EUR 953.9 million of new work was acquired during

projects. Excluding the net badwill gain on Gardline, more than the year. A major project for the coming two years is Nord Stream

60% of the operating result contribution came from contracting

2. The works are part of the construction of the planned twin

with the balance coming from the services business.

1,200 kilometer pipelines that will transport gas from Russia to

Europe via the Baltic Sea. Earlier in the year, a transport contract

The segment result includes our share in the net result of joint

for West White Rose (Canada) was acquired and a logistical

ventures and associated companies. The contribution from these management contract for a petrochemical plant in the Middle East.

activities was EUR 0.3 million (2016: EUR 2.2 million). The Asian A number of cable-laying contracts were acquired, including the

Lift joint venture in Singapore benefitted from a high utilization of East Anglia ONE, Borssele Beta and Hohe See contracts, as well

the new floating crane, the Asian Hercules III. This was offset by as a contract for subsea survey and identification of unexploded

an additional depreciation on an old floating sheerleg crane

ordnance in the Borssele Offshore Wind Farm Zone.

which is going to be divested.

Furthermore, VBMS was nominated as preferred cable-lay supplier

on Triton Knoll and Moray Offshore Windfarm East. Both projects

are expected to reach financial close in the first half of 2018.

ANNUAL REPORT 2017 ­ BOSKALIS

Installation of an export power cable connecting a wind farm to an onshore power grid.

38
TOWAGE & SALVAGE

third parties. The last remaining fully owned towage activities

Towage: towage services and berthing and unberthing of

were transferred into a joint venture with KOTUG, combining both

oceangoing vessels in ports and at offshore terminals,

partners' European harbor towage activities and became effective

management and maintenance both above and below the surface at the beginning of April 2016.

of onshore and offshore oil and gas terminals and associated

maritime and management services.

SMIT Salvage had a very quiet start to the year but ended 2017

Salvage: providing assistance to vessels in distress, wreck

with a number of sizable emergency response contracts and a

removal, environmental care services and consultancy.

wreck removal project, bringing the revenues to a slightly higher

level than the previous year. Noteworthy projects included the

TOWAGE & SALVAGE

2017

2016 salvage of tug boat Bertolini CXX in Brazil, a loading buoy in

(in EUR million)

Congo, the USS McCain and the wreck removal of the Cabrera.

Revenue

100.5

121.4

EBITDA Net result from JVs and associates

35.1 26.1

55.1
35.5 SEGMENT RESULT

Operating result

32.8

48.8 EBITDA generated within the Towage & Salvage segment totaled

Order book at year-end

6.7

7.5 EUR 35.1 million, with an operating result of EUR 32.8 million

(2016: EUR 55.1 million and EUR 48.8 million, respectively).

EBITDA and operating result include our share in the net result of the joint ventures and

associated companies. 2016 EBITDA, operating result and net result from JVs and associates are presented excluding impairment charges.

The Salvage result included financial settlements from projects that were executed in previous years, albeit to a lower extent than in 2016. Such settlements are a common part of the salvage

business, but the size and timing thereof are unpredictable.

REVENUE
Revenue within the Towage & Salvage segment declined to EUR 100.5 million (2016: EUR 121.4 million). This decline is the result of the further implementation of the Towage strategy to transfer all the harbor towage activities into joint ventures with

The segment result includes our share in the net result from joint ventures and associated companies, particularly Smit Lamnalco, Keppel Smit Towage, Saam Smit Towage and Kotug Smit Towage. The contribution from these activities was EUR 26.1 million (2016: EUR 35.5 million). In most of the joint ventures results were

report of the board of management

ANNUAL REPORT 2017 ­ BOSKALIS

A SMIT Salvage crew member shortly after being dropped on board of the grounded bulk carrier Glory Amsterdam.

39

under pressure, in various combinations and to varying degrees, INCOME FROM JOINT VENTURES AND ASSOCIATES

as a result of pricing pressure in the container sector, volume and Our share in the net result from joint ventures and associates was

pricing pressure in oil & gas related activities and costs of

EUR 31.0 million (2016: EUR 11.3 million). This result relates

restructuring and new market penetration.

mainly to our share in the net results of Smit Lamnalco, the

Singapore partnerships with Keppel (Keppel Smit Towage, Maju

ORDER BOOK

Maritime and Asian Lift), Saam Smit Towage and Kotug Smit Towage. The 2016 result was negatively impacted by the result on

At end-2017, the order book, excluding our share in the order

our investment in Fugro (EUR 30.1 million).

books of joint ventures and associated companies, stood at

EUR 6.7 million (end-2016: EUR 7.5 million). The order book

relates solely to the Salvage business unit.

TAX

The tax charge declined to EUR 21.7 million (2016:

HOLDING AND ELIMINATIONS

EUR 32.4 million) with an effective tax rate of 12.6%. Excluding our share in the net results of joint ventures and associates and the

Non-allocated head office activities.

net badwill gain related to Gardline, which is non-taxable, the

effective tax rate was 18.4%. The effective rate in 2016, adjusted

HOLDING AND ELIMINATIONS
(in EUR million) Revenue eliminations EBITDA

2017
-28.3 -38.7

2016
-23.2 7.7

for impairment charges, was 11.1%. The effective rate in 2016 adjusted for the net result from joint ventures and associates and the book profits on the Kotug Smit, VBMS and Smit Amandla transactions was 17.0%.

Net result from JVs and associates

1.1

-30.1

Operating result

-43.3

6.5 CAPITAL EXPENDITURE AND BALANCE SHEET

EBITDA and operating result include our share in the net result of the joint ventures and associated companies. 2016 EBITDA and operating result are presented excluding impairment charges.
SEGMENT RESULT
The operating result mainly includes the usual non-allocated head office costs, as well as various non-allocated (in many cases non-recurring) income and expenses. The 2017 result of minus EUR 43.3 million includes EUR 14.9 million of expenses associated with the head-office reorganization. The implementation of this cost-reduction program is well on track with annual cost savings of around EUR 30 million to be fully realized by the end of 2018.
In 2016, the operating result amounted to a positive EUR 6.5 million. Besides a negative result of EUR 30.1 million related to Fugro, book profits with a combined value in excess of EUR 80 million, related to various transactions, were included.
On 28 February 2017, Boskalis sold its remaining investment in Fugro. In total 7.9 million certificates of shares in Fugro were placed with institutional investors at EUR 14.50 per share.
OTHER FINANCIAL INFORMATION

In 2017, a total amount of EUR 354.7 million was invested in property, plant and equipment (2016: EUR 182.1 million). Excluding the acquisition of the second-hand DSV's Constructor and BOKA Atlantis, towards the end of the year, capital expenditure amounted to EUR 266.7 million, in line with earlier expectations. Within Dredging, the construction of the new mega cutter Helios was the largest investment in 2017, in addition to the first construction installments on the sister vessel of the Helios. Investments within the Offshore Energy segment included the conversion of the Finesse heavy transport vessel into the Bokalift 1 crane vessel.
In 2017, divestments were made totaling EUR 20.1 million.
Capital expenditure commitments at the end of the year were EUR 120 million (end-2016: EUR 62 million). These commitments relate to the aforementioned sister vessel of the Helios.
In 2017, Boskalis used EUR 29.5 million cash for payments of the dividend related to the 2016 financial year (2016: EUR 55.8 million), for those shareholders who opted to receive a cash dividend. This represented around 23% of the dividend, with the remaining 77% being distributed in the form of 3,275,042 new ordinary shares. As a consequence, the issued share capital increased to 133,351,894.

ANNUAL REPORT 2017 ­ BOSKALIS

DEPRECIATION, AMORTIZATION AND IMPAIRMENTS
Depreciation and amortization expenses amounted to EUR 251.6 million (2016: EUR 277.2 million). There were no impairment charges in 2017, whilst in 2016 there were EUR 842.6 million pre-tax (EUR 840.1 million post tax) non-cash impairment charges related mainly to the services part of Boskalis' offshore oil and gas activities. This charge was a result of the strongly deteriorated market conditions and outlook in the offshore energy sector, including those within joint ventures and associates.

In August 2017, Boskalis initiated a share buyback program to neutralize the dilution resulting from the distribution of the 2016 stock dividend. As at 31 December 2017, 2,674,601 shares were repurchased, for a total consideration, including additional dividend tax, of EUR 81.2 million. As at 31 December 2017, the issued share capital amounted to 133,351,894 ordinary shares, of which 2,674,601 were shares repurchased and held by Boskalis.
The cash flow amounted to EUR 402.0 million (2016: EUR 464.0 million).

40

On 28 February 2017, Boskalis sold its remaining investment in Fugro N.V. The shares were sold through an accelerated bookbuild, via which 7.9 million (9.4%) certificates of shares in Fugro were placed with institutional investors at EUR 14.50 per share. The total proceeds amounted to EUR 115.0 million.
On 15 August 2017, Boskalis acquired all shares of the Gardline Group. With the acquisition Boskalis strengthens its existing survey activities and becomes a specialist provider of subsea geophysical and geotechnical surveys, with an exposure to the renewables market and the early cyclical part of the oil and gas market. The consideration paid including assumed debt amounted to EUR 52.2 million.
The working capital position at year-end was EUR 386 million negative (year-end 2016: EUR 781 million negative). Movements in working capital are strongly influenced by (the payment conditions on) large projects, amongst others in the renewables market. The large outflow in 2017 is to a large extent explained by the completion of a number of large projects with favorable payment conditions, including substantial prepayments. As these projects were completed in 2017 and not replaced by similar large projects with similar payment conditions, this resulted in a large outflow of working capital.

DIVIDEND PROPOSAL
The main principle underlying the Boskalis dividend policy is to distribute 40% to 50% of the net profit from ordinary operations as dividend, while pursuing a stable long-term development of dividend. The choice of dividend form (in cash and/or fully or partly in shares) takes into account the company's desired balance sheet structure as well as the interests and wishes of the shareholders.
In view of the importance that our shareholders attach to a stable dividend and our healthy cash flow and robust balance sheet, Boskalis will propose to the Annual General Meeting of Shareholders to be held on 9 May 2018 that an unchanged dividend of EUR 1.00 per share be distributed, equal to 87% of net profit. The dividend will be distributed in the form of ordinary shares, unless the shareholder opts to receive a cash dividend. The dividend will be made payable from 5 June 2018.

report of the board of management

The cash position at the end of the year was EUR 192.0 million (year-end 2016: EUR 965.3 million). The solvency ratio remained high, at 62.9% (year-end 2016: 56.1%). The reduction in the cash position at the end of the year in comparison with the beginning of the year is mainly due to the repayment at the beginning of the year of the 2010 US Private Placement (EUR 393 million) and the working capital outflow explained above.

The interest-bearing debt totaled EUR 311.7 million at year-end. The resulting net debt position was therefore EUR 119.7. At the end of 2016 the debt position was EUR 762.6 million, with a net cash position of EUR 202.7 million.

The remaining interest-bearing debt position relates to a long-term US Private Placement of USD 325 million (EUR 269.4 million as at 31 December 2017). This 2013 US Private Placement matures in six years (2023). Furthermore, Boskalis has a EUR 600 million syndicated bank facility at its disposal, which was undrawn as at 31 December 2017.

ANNUAL REPORT 2017 ­ BOSKALIS

Boskalis must comply with a number of covenants as agreed with the syndicate of banks and the USPP investors. These covenants were comfortably met as at end-2017. The main covenants relate to the net debt : EBITDA ratio, with a limit of 3, and the EBITDA : net interest ratio, with a minimum of 4. At 31 December 2017 the net debt : EBITDA ratio stood at 0.5 and the EBITDA : net interest ratio at 32.

41
The new Bokalift 1 crane vessel off the coast of Cape Town, South Africa.

ANNUAL REPORT 2017 ­ BOSKALIS

42
PERFECT TEAMWORK REQUIRED FOR SIZABLE DUQM PROJECT

Boskalis is currently executing the sizable Duqm Liquid Bulk Berths Project in Oman. "This is a multi-faceted project involving a range of Boskalis disciplines," says project director Bart Pröpper. "Given the size and complexity, the success of the project depends on perfect teamwork."

"Boskalis has built up good relations in Oman. In recent years, we have been involved on projects including The Wave and Salam Yiti in the port city of Muscat," says Pröpper. "The current project is part of a master plan for port development in Oman, with the port of Muscat being adapted to accommodate cruise vessels and the port of Salalah focusing on container handling. Duqm's port is centrally located in an industrial free-trade area, where a modern port complex, shipyards and extensive dry dock facilities have been built in recent years. The master plan includes the construction of a new bulk liquid berth terminal and a large oil refinery in Duqm. The port will provide employment for more than 16,000 people, who will be housed in the port area. The principal is SEZAD (the Special Economic Zone Authority Duqm), for whom we are executing a EUR 480 million EPC (engineering, procurement, construction) contract consisting of a large number of dredging and civil-engineering activities. We are responsible for the land reclamation and compaction, the construction of a kilometerlong quay wall, two jetties, stone work and deepening the port basin to -18 meters. The civil-engineering work is executed under our responsibility by a subcontractor."

43
BUND
"After a long tender period, our design teams started drawing up the first plans for the civil-engineering work in close consultation with our subcontractor end-2016. We knew we had to work fast. The first part of the quay wall and the port area behind it will have to be completed by the end of Q1 2018 because that is when the construction work starts on the tank terminal located on the part of the port built by us," explains Pröpper. Soil drilling and soil surveys began in the spring of 2017 as a basis for the definitive designs. "We decided at an early stage to build a heavy ring dike ­ a bund ­ of sand that contains a large, eighteen-meter-deep construction pit where we are building the quay and the two jetties," he explains.
SAND SUPPLIES
Work began on bringing in the sand for the bund in June 2017. The mega hopper Queen of the Netherlands was deployed first, and the work was taken over in July by the Prins der Nederlanden. "We were taking the sand from a borrow area about twenty miles offshore," says Pröpper. "The trailing suction hopper dredgers sailed three times a day from the borrow area to the connection point, where it pumped more than 30,000 cubic meters of sand through a floating pipe to the location. Obviously, we took the prevailing environmental requirements relating to turbidity into account during this operation. In addition, we put procedures in place to ensure that we didn't disturb the colony of whales living in the area. The client was represented by mammal observers on the trailing suction hopper dredger."
COORDINATION
"For the dry excavation of the pit we drew on the equipment and expertise of our colleagues from Boskalis Nederland," continues Pröpper. "Some of the subsurface was rocky ground and you couldn't just spoon that out. Some of the excavated material will be used for the construction of the terminal and the jetties." The project includes a large number of activities requiring precise coordination. "Large concrete blocks are needed for the construction of the quay wall and they are being produced elsewhere in the port area," is one example that Pröpper brings forward. "The land reclamation operations are progressing in line with the construction of the quay wall. To execute all the different tasks, perfect coordination between all disciplines is required. Keeping all the balls in the air is the main challenge on this project."
COMPACTION
To comply with the stringent demands for the compaction of reclaimed land Boskalis subsidiary Cofra was called in. "Cofra set up a special testing area to study the best possible approach to compaction," says Pröpper. "Boskalis Nederland is also involved in the construction of the rock slope next to the quay wall and the two large jetties, which we will be covering with geotextile and rock. Some of the rock will come from the current breakwater, which will form one edge of the port area. We will be removing rock from the inside of the breakwater before putting in the sand." 
NEXT PHASE
The next phase of the project involves the removal of the bund and deepening the port to -18 meters. "We started on that work in December," says Pröpper. "That will involve dredging a total of 24 million cubic meters for which we are deploying our new mega cutter Helios amongst others." Project completion is expected in the second half of 2019.

44
ORGANIZATIONAL DEVELOPMENTS
TSHDs Willem van Oranje, Prins der Nederlanden and Oranje executing dredging work for the T-Oil project in Brazil.
SAFETY Safety is one of our organization's core values and a top priority in everything we undertake. Our No Injuries No Accidents (NINA) safety program reflects our objective of ensuring that our employees return from work safely each day. NINA aims to embed the desired safety culture in our organization and makes safety a fully integrated part of working behavior. The five NINA values and five rules have been specifically developed to provide guidance to all employees, including those of subcontractors, both with regard to expected behavior and operational risk management. NINA makes employees aware of their own responsibility towards their safety and stimulates a working environment in which safety, responsibilities and potentially hazardous situations are openly discussed and reported. The NINA values and rules are not only about procedures, but mostly promote ownership and a safety-driven mindset. NINA has not only become an inextricable part of our culture, it has stimulated the way in which we work with each other: in open dialogue and collaboration to achieve operational excellence. Our clients too are increasingly embracing NINA as best practice and are enthusiastic to participate in our interactive NINA training.

ANNUAL REPORT 2017 ­ BOSKALIS

45

The NINA program was successfully introduced in 2017 at VBMS and our Offshore Wind business unit. In addition, a Boskalis-wide NINA plaza was launched: a portal environment in which activities, experiences, training material and suggestions for improvement are shared.
In 2017, the number of incidents per 200,000 hours worked resulting in absence from work (Lost Time Injury Frequency) showed a further decrease to 0.06 (2016: 0.08). As from 2015, we also report on Medical Treatment Cases and Restricted Work Cases to further improve our safety performance. By aiming for a reduction in all three categories (together known as TRIR - Total Recordable Injury Rate) we expect to achieve a further decline in the number of incidents resulting in injury. The TRIR decreased from 0.66 in 2016 to 0.55 in 2017.

positions were affected by mid-2017. The initial plan assumed a loss of 230 FTEs at the Papendrecht head office. However, as a result of internal mobility, voluntary turnover and retirement, the total number of compulsory redundancies was limited to approximately 120. The second half of the year was spent moving forward and focusing on engaging with our workforce and strengthening the organization in anticipation of selective growth.
Retaining and attracting talented professionals has become challenging over the last twelve months. On the one hand, we have been adapting the organization in line with the challenging business environment in our end markets, as reflected in an overall headcount reduction. On the other hand, the labor market has noticeably tightened due to the general recovery of the economy in Northwest Europe.

Safety and accident prevention improves significantly if people are fully aware of the potential risks of the task at hand. In order to improve safety awareness, NINA encourages employees to report dangerous situations using Safety Hazard Observation Cards (SHOCs). The number of SHOCs in 2017 was 11,445 (2016: 7,354).
For detailed reporting on our safety policy and safety performance, please refer to our CSR report.
QUALITY MANAGEMENT With the company-wide implementation in 2017 of our integrated quality management system - the Boskalis Way of Working (WoW) - Boskalis introduced a uniform approach for our projects and services. CSR is embedded in WoW as it enables us to, where possible, take project leadership and align sustainable design and execution. WoW's clear business process and uniform client approach encourages us to achieve operational excellence and execute our projects in compliance with legislation and with full consideration of stakeholder concerns and requirements. This is crucial because Boskalis' range of operations is wider than ever before, the complexity of our operating processes has increased, and our clients and other stakeholders are becoming more and more demanding.
An important part of the WoW program is aimed at an improved dialogue, not only with the client, but also between colleagues. All aspects of our work processes - from approaching clients and the tender process to the execution and completion of the job, including all safety aspects - are included in WoW. The Boskalis Way of Working management system is compliant with the international OHSAS 18001, ISO 14001 and ISO 9001 standards and is assessed and certified by an independent external auditor.
HUMAN CAPITAL

TALENT MANAGEMENT
Talented, enterprising and skilled employees remain the key to our success. Talent management encompasses all activities in the areas of recruitment, performance management, training and development, and compensation and benefits. Our efforts are focused on supporting and stimulating employees' talents so that they remain the experts in their field: able to offer innovative solutions that excel those of our competitors. Next to providing mandatory trainings, we aim to create a culture in which informal and on-the-job-learning, and the sharing of innovative ideas are stimulated. The role of leadership - at all management levels in Boskalis - is key to creating a strong learning landscape that stimulates innovation.
TRAINING AND DEVELOPMENT
Blended Learning Two so-called blended learning programs on Effective Communication and Personal Effectiveness were launched as pilot programs in 2017. Blended learning combines traditional with online learning and on-the-job training. Participants are continuously triggered to reflect on their learning goals in work situations. The results of the pilots have been very positive.
Trainee Program for Young Talent As a leading international company that carries out high-profile projects, we hold a great attraction for young people. Ensuring we continue to attract young, high-potentials is essential for the future of our company. We offer a trainee program for graduates and professionals with up to two years' work experience, with a technical or finance background. Under supervision of a mentor, trainees learn all about our business activities, discovering the diversity of our projects and the versatility of the required roles. A group of 23 trainees embarked on the program this year. Trainees rotate between the three divisions over a period of 18 months, assigned to multiple projects.

DEVELOPMENTS IN 2017
In the wake of deteriorated market conditions the head office cost base was reviewed in 2017. Following a careful process and in close consultation with the Dutch Works Council, a reorganization plan was drawn up. In the interest of all employees, we managed to limit the period of uncertainty by creating clarity as to which

Young Professional Programs In order to develop the skills and knowledge of our young professionals, we offer competency development programs in the areas of planning, calculation, risk management and contract management. We also take on young professionals with up to five years' work experience from outside Boskalis.

ANNUAL REPORT 2017 ­ BOSKALIS

46

report of the board of management

In 2017, a group of young professionals, with a background in cost engineering, embarked on a one-and-half-year post-bachelor Cost Engineer Program developed by Boskalis in collaboration with the Dutch Association of Cost Engineers, and approved by the International Cost Engineering Council. A Boskalis Surveyor Graduate Program was attended by a group of young survey professionals. The program is geared towards introducing participants to the diversity of Boskalis projects and work scope and preparing them to be able to operate independently and safely on-site at projects worldwide.
Management Development Programs Leadership and personal development are ongoing points of attention within our organization. Developing personal leadership, building an internal network and encouraging innovation and entrepreneurship are important core values in our management development programs. Middle management should prioritize the learning and development of employees, creating a culture that stimulates open idea sharing. The new, one-year Boskalis Operational Development Program kicked off in March 2017. A group of twenty project managers from all three divisions worked on improving hard and soft leadership skills, safety, professional development and on stimulating company-wide knowledge sharing.
Employee Engagement and Enhanced Employability An engaged workforce is key to achieving our ambitions. In a labor market where it is becoming more difficult to attract certain specialists and where a proper work/life balance is increasingly valued as important, engagement is paramount.
In order to remain successful in an increasingly competitive market, a four-day Contractual Awareness course has been developed in collaboration with TSM Business School. This course is focused on our project-driven business for people operating at the very frontline. The participants are coached to overcome challenges faced by them in the increasingly competitive and innovation driven marketplace. The course was given twice in 2017, with participants from throughout Boskalis. In addition, both the Dredging as well as the Offshore Energy divisions launched a Commercial Awareness program to improve competencies in this area. The Commercial Awareness training will be offered to a large number of colleagues in 2018.
We refer to our CSR report for further information on social and personnel matters (including diversity) and our policies, outcome of these policies, risks, how these risks are managed and related non-performance indicators.
FLEET DEVELOPMENTS
Boskalis makes targeted investments in new build and existing vessels to retain or expand our market position. At the same time, old or non-strategic vessels are taken out of service.

a total pumping capacity of 15,600 kW and a maximum cutter power of 7,000 kW, the Helios is one of the most powerful cutter suction dredgers in the industry and the largest ever developed by Boskalis. The Helios is being deployed on the Duqm port development project in Oman.  In 2017 the decision was taken to build a sister vessel of the Helios. This cutter suction dredger is expected to be taken into service in the course of 2020.  2017 saw the environmentally responsible dismantling of the trailing suction hopper dredger Meerval and the crane barge Schorpioen. The trailing suction hopper dredgers Flevo and WD Mersey as well as the multicat BKM101 were sold.
Offshore Energy  In February 2018 the transport and installation crane vessel
Bokalift 1 was taken into service. This converted heavy transport vessel is equipped with a 3,000 tons capacity pedestal crane, dynamic positioning (DP2) and accommodation for up to 150 people.  We strengthened our subsea services proposition in the area of inspection, repair and maintenance of subsea offshore installation, pipelines and cables with the addition of two large DSVs, the Atlantis and the Da Vinci. The vessels are equipped with two bells for saturation diving work to a depth of 300 meters and provide accommodation for 120 crew.  Furthermore, through the acquisition of Gardline, Boskalis acquired 15 survey related vessels in addition to 25 smaller vessels including crew transfer vessels and survey catamarans.  As announced previously the heavy transport vessel Tern, the floating sheerleg crane Taklift 6 and the offshore support vessel Smit Orca were dismantled environmentally responsibly in the course of 2017. At the end of 2017 the anchor handling tug President Hubert was taken out of service to be dismantled.
REDUCTION OF EMISSIONS FROM FLEET
Boskalis measures and reports on the fleet's total CO2 emissions based on fuel consumption. In 2017 total emissions of the group amounted to 1.23 million tons of CO2 (2016: 1.25 million tons).
With a large global fleet, Boskalis is constantly on the lookout for ways to reduce our dependence on fossil fuels and means to reduce emissions. We continually monitor and anticipate changes in national and international legislation and create the right conditions for rapid implementation of new technologies where required.
In 2017, we followed up on the biofuel pilot program by operating one of our dredging vessels on a biofuel blend on the Marker Wadden project in the Netherlands. The biofuel pilot program was launched in 2015 in consortium with GoodFuels and Wärtsilä and was targeted at developing biofuels that meet the most stringent sustainability standards and offer substantial reductions in emissions.

ANNUAL REPORT 2017 ­ BOSKALIS

In 2017, the following major developments took place:
Dredging  The self-propelled mega cutter Helios was taken into service in
July 2017. With a total installed power of almost 24,000 kW,

Early 2018, the biofuel initiative was stepped up by signing a five-year biofuel supply contract with GoodFuels. The biofuel feedstock is highly sustainable and has a drop-in quality allowing in tank blending with conventional diesel or marine gas oil. Boskalis will initially be applying and offering the biofuel blend on

47

projects in the Netherlands with a CO2 reduction potential of 30% or more. Early 2018, a 30% biofuel blend was used by our
trailing suction hopper dredger Causeway, during operations at
the Hartel Tank Terminal project in the Port of Rotterdam.

called Medassist.online. The application provides support for medical care on board when there is no doctor nearby. Medassist. online will be made available on 50 Boskalis vessels in 2018.

RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT
Boskalis continues to innovate and look for more efficient and more sustainable equipment and working methods. Innovation is an important way for us to continue to set ourselves apart. In 2017, we worked on numerous innovations and submitted or prepared a large number of patent applications. Innovations relate to all activities of Boskalis' divisions. A noteworthy example is the 3D printing of artificial reefs, which have been installed in the Larvotto Marine Reserve in Monaco to promote the development of benthic habitat and provide shelter for marine life. Other examples relate to the installation of structures for offshore wind energy, decommissioning of obsolete offshore structures and technology development for detection and clearance of unexploded ordnance on the seabed.

ICT
In line with the Boskalis strategic objective of operational excellence, much effort was given this past year in optimizing processes throughout the organization. Optimized systems enable improved productivity, lower costs and minimizes risks. As part of the optimization strategy, it was decided to outsource specific non-strategic IT-related activities. The outsourcing will be implemented in the course of 2018.
As an integral part of the Boskalis Way of Working a new IT platform was launched in 2017. The platform has been designed to provide maximum project transparency. A special financial control framework was built that integrates fully with the Way of Working. It enables tender managers to check potential financial risks and enable them to take timely action to mitigate these.

For the third year in a row, Boskalis participated in the so-called Port Innovation Accelerator (PortXL), in partnership with the Port of Rotterdam Authority, various internationally operating companies and the Erasmus University Centre for Entrepreneurship. Supporting innovation in this way, enables us to get in touch with young, innovative and dynamic companies and to support, streamline and bring to market breakthrough technologies. Conversely, we learn from start-ups as to how to identify and support innovative ideas, within our own organization. In 2017, a breakthrough technology developed within the PortXL accelerator was successfully tested on the trailing suction hopper dredgers Strandway and Barent Zanen. This concerned a digital application

Work continued on the rolling out of the new Enterprise Resource Planning system (ERP) at the Boskalis head office in Papendrecht, in part of the Salvage organization and part of the international Dredging division. The ERP system has improved the integration of our processes in the area of finance, logistics and project management. It has also optimized our planning and procurement methods and provides an immediate overview of the administrative and financial processing of all our internal resources. In addition, planning and operational deployment of operational staff in the Netherlands have been significantly improved thanks to the ERP system.

ANNUAL REPORT 2017 ­ BOSKALIS

Diving Support Vessel Constructor executing subsea installation works with divers at a platform in the North Sea.

48
CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY
The principal strategic objective of Boskalis is the creation of long-term sustainable profitability. Systematic execution of the corporate strategy, that is reviewed regularly in light of relevant market developments, is key to our success. Our CSR strategy is derived from the corporate business strategy, and ongoing interaction and dialogue with our stakeholders. We aim to create new horizons for our clients and stakeholders based on sustainable profitability.
In our separate CSR report we account in detail for material and relevant non-financial aspects of our performance arising from our strategy and core activities. We report in accordance with the international guidelines set out in the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) standard.

report of the board of management

INPUT

BOSKALIS BUSINESS

A M

K

EAMWOR ENERGY

IMPACT ON LOCAL COMMUNITIES
 Stakeholder engagement  Community investments  Social Impact Program  Operating in 90 countries
IMPACT ON THE ENVIRONMENT
 Natural resources  Energy  Environmental expertise
CARE FOR HUMAN CAPITAL
 NINA  Talent management  10,700 employees  Engineering expertise
BUSINESS CONDUCT
 Codes of Conduct  Business principles  Boskalis Way of Working
FINANCIAL CAPITAL
 900 vessels  Strong balance sheet  Funding (shareholder equity & debt)

MISSION



Leading dredging and

marine experts

DR P

ENTREPRE

EDGIRNOGFE&SSIINOLNAANLDISINFR

CREATING NEW
HORIZONS

NEU ALVAGE

RSH

I

P

T OFFSH

TOWAGE &

S

STRATEGY Focus
Optimize Expand

ORE

MACRO DRIVERS
GROWTH IN TRADE

GROWING DEMAND FOR ENERGY

GROWING GLOBAL POPULATION

OUTCOME
IMPACT ON LOCAL COMMUNITIES
 Local development  Long-term relationships  Partnerships
IMPACT ON THE ENVIRONMENT
 Biodiversity and ecosystems  Emissions  Climate change adaptation
CARE FOR HUMAN CAPITAL
 Health & Safety  Sustainable employability  Fair labor practices
BUSINESS CONDUCT
 Responsible business conduct  Responsible sourcing
FINANCIAL CAPITAL
 Dividend  Taxes  Market capitalization
CLIMATE CHANGE

ANNUAL REPORT 2017 ­ BOSKALIS

49

For a focused strategic approach, aimed at a healthy balance between stakeholder expectations and business aspirations, we identify and assess which material topics are most relevant in relation to our activities. To this end, we use a materiality analysis to gain insight into the relevance and importance of topics for Boskalis on the one hand, and for our various stakeholder groups on the other. In 2017, we once again engaged with our stakeholders to re-assess the most important material CSR themes. By actively engaging with relevant stakeholders at all levels within and outside of our company, we align our strategy to guide both our business and CSR objectives. More than 70 stakeholders

from 5 stakeholder groups ­ employees; clients; suppliers & subcontractors; NGOs and civil society organizations; and investors ­ were consulted for our materiality analysis, the outcome of which is presented below and reflected in more detail in our CSR report.
THE BOSKALIS VALUE CREATION MODEL
The Boskalis value creation model gives a schematic overview of the value we create over time, based on our four material themes and financial capital. This input is in the execution of our strategy and the fulfillment of our mission to create new horizons for our stakeholders, now and in the future.

IMPACT

SDGs

Services that contribute to a safer, healthier and more prosperous local community
A positive contribution to economic growth and job creation

The Boskalis business comprises three market-facing divisions: Dredging & Inland Infra, Offshore Energy and Towage & Salvage. Within these divisions, the execution of our strategy is guided by our company culture and its core values: professionalism, entrepreneurship and teamwork. Boskalis' unique offering of specialist knowledge, a multidisciplinary approach and a versatile state-of-the-art fleet, enables us to minimize and mitigate risks. It also allows us to take advantage of the opportunities provided by the macro-economic drivers that underpin our business model. In this way, we transform inputs into valuable outcomes that are aimed at having the most beneficial impact possible.

Contributing to clean energy through our renewable energy projects
Limiting the consequences of climate change through our coastal defense and riverbank protection projects
A safe and inspiring work environment with skilled and engaged employees
Satisfied clients
Long-term sustainable profit

Those topics that are considered to be most relevant by Boskalis and its stakeholders ­ as also reflected in the outcome of the materiality analysis ­ correspond with the outcome of our business model. How the material themes are embedded in our operations and the results thereof is described in detail in our 2017 CSR report.
SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT GOALS
In 2015, the United Nations adopted a plan for achieving a better future for all, based on 17 Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs). We endorse all these SDGs, but due to the nature of our business our impact per goal varies. A number of SDGs is closely related to our material themes, giving us the means to monitor and communicate our progress and achievements on them. These are: Good Health & Well-being (SDG3), Affordable & Clean Energy (SDG7), Decent Work & Economic Growth (SDG8), Industry, Innovation & Infrastructure (SDG9), Climate Action SDG13) and Life Below Water (SDG14).

We refer to our CSR report for further information on environmental matters and our policies, outcome of these policies, risks and how these risks are managed and related non-performance indicators.

The Boskalis value creation model

ANNUAL REPORT 2017 ­ BOSKALIS

50
BUSINESS PRINCIPLES
GENERAL CODE OF BUSINESS CONDUCT
Integrity, reliability and responsibility are key elements for building trust between Boskalis and its stakeholders. These intrinsic values are reinforced by establishing guidelines and principles for responsible business conduct, and ensuring these are maintained.
Boskalis has a General Code of Business Conduct, which is based on international guidelines, including the Universal Declaration of Human Rights. We endorse the principles of the International Labour Organization, the UN Global Compact and the OECD Guidelines for Multinational Enterprises. Boskalis accepts responsibility for matters which lie within its sphere of influence. In the countries where Boskalis operates, we are subject to national legislation and regulations. Boskalis refrains from cultural judgments and conducts itself as a good citizen or guest. We adhere to relevant international and national sanctions. Boskalis reviews its Code at least once every two years, most recently at the beginning of 2018.
The full text of our General Code of Business Conduct is available on our corporate website.
SUPPLIER CODE OF CONDUCT Boskalis has a Supplier Code of Conduct, which mirrors our own internal General Code of Business Conduct. Besides considering quality, delivery reliability and price, we also select our suppliers based on sustainability criteria. The Supplier Code of Conduct is an integral part of all Procurement contracts. By entering into a contract, suppliers commit themselves to the Boskalis Supplier Code of Conduct. This commitment is also applicable to their own suppliers. In 2017 81% of our strategic suppliers endorsed the Supplier Code of Conduct, compared to 76% in 2016.

report of the board of management

ANNUAL REPORT 2017 ­ BOSKALIS

51

Each year, we conduct an implementation scan at a cross section at approximately 10% of our strategic suppliers. Suppliers that do not meet our standards are given the chance to improve under our supervision. In the absence of sufficient progress, we will eventually terminate our relationship with these suppliers. More details of this risk matrix assessment and the results over the past years is described in detail in our CSR report, which also includes the related non-performance indicators on amongst others human rights.
ANTI-BRIBERY AND ANTI-CORRUPTION POLICY
The Boskalis anti-bribery and anti-corruption policy is enshrined in the General Code of Business Conduct. The General Code of Business Conduct states that Boskalis shall not offer, pay, request or accept bribes or other favors for the purpose of acquiring or bestowing any improper business, financial or personal advantage. The General Code of Business Conduct forms part of the employment contracts of Boskalis staff, having been incorporated in the accompanying employee manual. Boskalis employees are provided with targeted information and are monitored with regard to regulations and legislation concerning bribery and corruption.

a contract, which also specifically includes the principle from the General Code of Business Conduct as described above. Local contacts may be maintained by an agent, who also assists in the efficient setting up and execution of projects. Control of integrity risks and compliance with the procedures for concluding agent contracts are part of the internal audits.
TAX PRINCIPLES
Boskalis has adopted the following tax principles. We believe these principles illustrate good corporate practice in the area of tax management and tax transparency, balancing the interests of our various stakeholders, including clients, investors and the governments and communities in the countries in which we operate.
COMPLIANCE We act at all times in accordance with applicable laws and are guided by relevant international standards, for example OECD Guidelines. Disclosures are made in accordance with the relevant domestic regulations, as well as applicable reporting requirements and standards such as IFRS.

Boskalis has a Whistleblower Policy in place that offers employees the possibility to report suspected misconduct within the company. This includes any subject of a general, financial or operational nature which is not in line with the General Code of Business Conduct. A confidential independent counselor has been appointed for the purposes of the Whistleblower Policy. The counselor shall take the reported suspected misconduct immediately into consideration and gain information in relation thereto. Based on this information the counselor shall decide which actions are appropriate and necessary, including a possible investigation on the reported misconduct. The employee who has in good faith reported the suspected misconduct to the counselor, in accordance with the Whistleblower Policy, shall not suffer any detriment as a consequence of this notification. The Whistleblower Policy was revised at the beginning of 2016 and can be found on the corporate website.

BUSINESS RATIONALE Tax follows the business, meaning that transactions must have a business rationale. Boskalis does not seek to avoid taxes through `artificial' structures in tax haven jurisdictions.
RELATIONSHIP WITH TAX AUTHORITIES Boskalis seeks to develop strong, mutually respectful relationships with tax authorities.

Furthermore the principle that no bribes or other favors shall be offered, paid, requested or accepted for the purpose of acquiring or bestowing any improper business, financial or personal advantage has also been incorporated in the Supplier Code of Conduct, which is part of the contractual relationship between Boskalis and its suppliers. Suppliers are obliged to select their own suppliers in accordance with the Boskalis Supplier Code of Conduct. In many countries where Boskalis operates it is impossible to conduct activities without a local partner or sponsor. The guidelines for collaborating with such a partner are set out in

ANNUAL REPORT 2017 ­ BOSKALIS

report of the board of management

52
RISK MANAGEMENT
Effective management of both risks and opportunities is essential for the successful realization of the group's strategy and plans. The proper identification, assessment and management of risks and opportunities ­ notably with respect to tendering, preparation and execution of projects ­ is therefore an integral part of our management approach.
Our tolerance or appetite for risks is documented in the Group's guidelines, policies, procedures and instructions. Examples include the General Code of Business Conduct and the Supplier Code of Conduct, safety and quality policies and procedures, vendor selection criteria, project risk classification system, contracting guidelines, authorization limits, treasury policies, management planning and control systems, financial control framework, crisis management plans, information security and access management policies.
During the year under review we have made considerable progress with implementing a new, group-wide quality management system. We refer to this quality management system as the Boskalis Way of Working (WoW). The overriding objective of our WoW-system is to give our staff the best possible support in achieving operational excellence when concluding and executing projects. Operational excellence in this context means achieving compliance with the internal and external control requirements imposed on our primary project process whilst minimizing failure costs. Expectedly, WoW will be fully implemented by the end of 2018.
Below sets out an overview of what we currently consider to be the most important strategic, operational, compliance, financial (reporting) and other risks we face in pursuing our business objectives. This overview is not exhaustive and risks have not been ranked in order of importance. There may be other risks which we currently do not consider to be significant but which at a later stage may manifest themselves as such. Where possible, we have indicated the specific measures in place to help mitigate these risks.
STRATEGIC AND MARKET RISKS
The Boskalis markets are heterogeneous and often develop disparately. Our main (end) customer groups are national, regional and local governments, or associated institutions such as port authorities, private port operators and major international oil and gas companies and wind energy companies (operators as well as contractors). Other customer types are (container) shipping companies, insurance companies, mining companies and (infrastructure and real estate) project developers.
Notwithstanding the positive long-term growth prospects for our markets they can be ­ certainly in the short and medium term ­ negatively impacted by factors outside our control. Such factors include for example general or regional geopolitical developments, such as energy policies, political unrest, piracy, government-imposed trade barriers and volatility in the energy and commodities markets.
Boskalis aims to respond as effectively as possible to both positive and negative developments in individual markets, through a global spread of its activities, an extensive and versatile fleet operating out of various international locations, and strong positions in its core markets. Moreover, our activities are largely focused on the development, construction, installation and maintenance of infrastructure, which means that longer-term developments will generally outweigh short-term economic fluctuations.
Contracts are not included in our order book until agreement has been reached with the client. Although experience shows that once agreement has been reached, cancellations, postponements or substantial reductions in the scope or size of contracts are quite rare, they do occur, certainly in

ANNUAL REPORT 2017 ­ BOSKALIS

53

markets that are under severe pressure. Consequently, if such a cancellation or substantial reduction occurs, losses may arise from the unwinding or settlement of financial derivatives which were taken out to hedge related currency risks and/or fuel price risks, but for which the underlying transaction or cash flows will no longer be realized.
Boskalis deals with a variety of competitors in the various markets and submarkets in which it operates. Such competitors vary from large, internationally operating companies to more regional and local companies.

on these, both as a critical point of attention in operational management and in its capital allocation decisions. Consequently, individual investment proposals are subjected to a thorough evaluation and approval process.
In the course of executing its strategy, Boskalis also regularly acquires companies. To achieve the anticipated results, Boskalis attaches great importance to integrating such acquisitions with care. Creating value for our stakeholders and retaining key personnel are important elements in this process.

A large part of our revenue is derived from contracts awarded through public or private tender procedures, with competition often being predominately price-based. However, other factors ­ such as the assurance of adequate safety, social and environmental practices as well as the financial resilience of the contractor ­ are also regularly taken into consideration when awarding contracts. Proper decision-making processes have been put in place for the submission of tenders to ensure that the risks associated with the execution of a specific project are systematically identified and assessed.
Almost all Boskalis' activities are capital-intensive which means that prices in these markets are largely influenced by the utilization rate of the relevant equipment at a given time. This implies that a broad international presence along with a leadership position in terms of type and quality of equipment and cost competitiveness are key success factors. Boskalis places a great deal of emphasis

OPERATIONAL RISKS
CONTRACTING AND EXECUTION RISKS
The main operational risks for Boskalis are related to the contracting and execution of projects. For most of our contracting activities the most common type of contract is fixed price/lump sum. Under this type of contract, the contractor's price must reflect virtually all the operational risks as well as the (cost) risks associated with the procurement of materials and subcontractor services. In most cases, it is not possible to charge clients for any unforeseen costs. Furthermore, many contracts include milestones and associated penalty clauses for if the milestones are not achieved on time. That is why great emphasis is placed on identifying, analyzing and quantifying such delay risks and the associated operating costs during the tendering process and the preparation and execution phase of a project.

ANNUAL REPORT 2017 ­ BOSKALIS

The Mighty Servant 1 loading the drilling rig Olinda Star in Brazil.

54
Operational risks mainly relate to variable weather or working conditions, technical suitability and availability of the equipment, unexpected soil and settlement conditions, wear and tear of equipment (especially dredging equipment), damage to third-party equipment and property, the performance of subcontractors and suppliers, and the timely availability of cargo or services provided by the client in case of heavy marine transport and/or installation activities.

 When a contract is awarded, an updated risk analysis is part of the project preparation phase, based upon which measures are taken to mitigate the risks identified.
 In addition, much attention is devoted to the education and training of staff, appropriate project planning and project management, the execution and implementation of certified quality, safety and environmental systems, and the optimal maintenance of equipment.

report of the board of management

The following measures are taken systematically to manage the aforementioned risks in the tender, preparation and/or execution phase of a contract:  During the tendering procedure and the contracting phase of
projects much emphasis is placed on identifying, analyzing and quantifying execution, cost and delay risks. Contracts are classified based on their size and risk profile. This classification determines the subsequent course of the tender process and the requirements for authorization of the tender price and conditions. Above a certain level of risk, tender commitments require authorization at Board of Management/Group Management level.  In the preparation phase of a project tender and depending on the nature and risk classification of the project, we gain insight by conducting surveys and soil investigations, by consulting readily accessible databases containing historical data and by applying extensive risk analysis techniques. The results of the risk analysis are then used in the process of costing the project and in setting the commercial and contractual terms and conditions for the offer to be issued to the client.  Risks related to price developments on the procurement elements of a project, such as costs of materials and services, subcontracting costs and fuel prices, as well as the cost of labor, are all considered when calculating cost prices. Wherever possible, and especially on projects with a long execution time, cost indexation clauses are included in the contract terms and conditions, particularly regarding labor and fuel costs.

Within the Towage & Salvage division, the towage activities are characterized by a broad geographical spread of the activities, which are conducted by autonomous strategic joint ventures with third party partners. Towage contracts are often carried out under long-term contracts, with fees that are reviewed annually. This means that the risks in terms of local wage cost developments, fuel price developments and the available capacity of the equipment must be considered. Terminal services, which have been incorporated in the Smit Lamnalco strategic joint venture, are to a substantial extent performed under long-term contracts corresponding to the client's requirements and specifications. Most of these contracts include some form of price indexation.
Salvage activities relating to vessels in distress ­ Emergency Response ­ are often carried out under great time pressure and without an extensive tendering procedure and associated preparation activities. Such contracts are regularly concluded based on the standard Lloyd's Open Form (LOF). This means that compensation is based on a valuation mechanism related to various factors, including the salvage value of the vessel and its cargo, the technical complexity of the salvage operation, environmental risks and the use of own equipment and subcontractors. This valuation results in a lump sum, which is finalized through negotiations with the client or through an arbitration process. Experience shows that the company is usually able to make a reasonably accurate estimate of this income. Should it transpire during a salvage operation that the final salvage fee may not be sufficient to cover the costs

ANNUAL REPORT 2017 ­ BOSKALIS

The Fairmount Summit towing the drilling rig Atwood Condor from Corpus Christi, US to Singapore.

55

incurred, then the choice can be made to convert the LOF into a contract based on a daily hire fee, thus limiting the financial risks. Contracts for salvaging sunken vessels (wrecks) are usually carried out on a lump sum basis. The contracting and execution of such projects, which in many cases do involve a tendering procedure, are subject to the customary procedures for contracting and execution activities applicable within the company.
Some of the equipment within the Offshore Energy division, as well as in some of the strategic joint ventures, is chartered out for relatively short periods (spot markets), mainly subject to standard conditions. The challenging conditions in the oil and gas sectors have reduced the volume of work under long-term contracts and resulted in an increased share of the spot market activities. Although the operational risks involved in such activities are generally relatively limited, they do result in increased utilization and pricing risk, which we aim to mitigate through adequate capacity and strict cost control management.

ICT infrastructure and new initiatives were taken to enhance awareness of information security risks among our staff and prompt an appropriate response to any unusual activity.
LOCAL WORKING CONDITIONS RISKS Local management on projects and operations must have a proper understanding of the local (working) conditions. The scale of local operations is often too small to warrant a full-fledged organization, including extensive support services and staff departments. This is addressed through regular visits by responsible managers and employees from the relevant business units and support from central staff departments at head office as well as by involving (local) external advisors.
FINANCIAL RISKS
POLITICAL AND CREDIT RISKS

ENVIRONMENTAL AND SOCIAL RISKS
To gain insight into the relevance and importance of environmental and social topics, Boskalis engages with its stakeholders and regularly conducts a materiality analysis. The outcome of this engagement is reflected in our CSR report in a materiality matrix. The nature of most of our activities implies that we have an impact on society and the environment. In most cases this impact will be positive, for example when we are involved in creating infrastructure, making land safer or facilitating the transition to renewable energy sources such as offshore wind. However, a potential negative impact during the execution of projects cannot be ruled out. Environmental risks include the impact on biodiversity in vulnerable ecosystems and the emissions produced by our vessels. Boskalis has developed the innovative Building with Nature program and has an in-house engineering department to address ecological aspects from the early tender stage through to monitoring during execution. CO2 emissions are measured and reported and Boskalis is seeking means by which it can reduce its emissions footprint.
Social risks include the impact of projects on local communities. The extent to which our activities have a social impact is highly dependent on the type and/or location of a project. Where relevant, we implement a social impact program and work with our clients to mitigate the impact and where possible make a positive contribution to communities affected by our activities.

These include risks related to unrest or disruption due to political developments and violence, and the risk of non-payment by clients. Boskalis operates strict acceptance, credit and hedging policies with respect to political and payment risks. Other than in the case of very strong, creditworthy clients with an undisputed credit history, all substantial credit risks are normally covered by means of credit insurance, bank guarantees and/or advance payments. Revenues and earnings are only recognized in the accounts where there is sufficient certainty that they will be realized.
LIQUIDITY AND FUNDING RISKS
As is customary for a contractor, Boskalis also has significant obligations outstanding in the form of guarantees from banks and insurance companies, mainly in favor of clients. Given that the availability of sufficient credit and bank guarantee facilities is essential to the continuity of the business, Boskalis' funding policy is aimed at maintaining a strong financial position. Solid balance sheet ratios and the use of diversified sources of funding provide for ample capacity to absorb liquidity risks and the constant creation of adequate borrowing capacity and guarantee facilities. The company has ample credit and bank guarantee facilities at its disposal and operates well within the agreed covenants under its financing agreements.
CURRENCY RISKS

ICT RISKS
Like most companies, Boskalis is faced with an increase in ICT security risks and more sophisticated levels of computer crime. Successful cyberattacks can result in significant costs as well as other negative consequences, such as loss of revenue, reputational damage, remediation costs and other liabilities to stakeholders. Furthermore, enhanced protection measures place additional financial and operational burdens on the business. To help mitigate these risks Boskalis has developed information security policies and practices based on the international Code of Practice for Information Security Management. During the year under review we continued the monitoring of suspicious activity on our

The functional currency of Boskalis is the euro. Several business units, especially in Heavy Marine Transport, as well as several substantial strategic joint ventures (Smit Lamnalco, Keppel Smit Towage, Asian Lift, Saam Smit Towage) use other functional currencies. The most important of these is the US dollar, followed by the Singapore dollar. The revenues and expenses of these entities are largely or entirely based on these non-euro currencies. Our holdings in these entities are viewed from a long-term perspective. Exchange rate risks related to these entities are not hedged as it is assumed that currency fluctuations and developments in interest rates and inflation will offset each other in the long term.

ANNUAL REPORT 2017 ­ BOSKALIS

56

A large proportion of the activities of the group companies that have the euro as their functional currency are not contracted in euros. This particularly applies to the group companies that are involved in dredging and related projects. The costs of these entities, however, are largely incurred in euros. Generally, the net cash flows in non-euro currencies within these entities are fully hedged, usually by means of forward exchange contracts. The US dollar exchange rate in relation to the euro is particularly relevant in this context. A large proportion of the projects is contracted in US dollars or in currencies that are to a greater or lesser extent linked to the US dollar.

Knowledge in this domain, along with related compliance and application, are embedded in procedures within the Tax Management function. In cases where insufficient knowledge is available in-house, external advisors are used. 
INTEREST RATE RISKS
Our long-term financial liabilities are predominantly based on fixed long-term interest rates, meaning that our exposure to interest rate fluctuations on these is limited.

Most of our major international competitors in the dredging industry also have cost structures largely based on the euro. This implies that exchange rate fluctuations do not have a material impact on our relative competitive position. In several market segments, particularly in Offshore Energy, there is competition from parties whose cost structures are not based on the euro, meaning that the competitive impact of currency fluctuations in these market segments is greater. However, on balance, exchange rate fluctuations only have limited impact on the company's competitive position in these activities.

FUEL PRICE RISKS
In a substantial part of its activities, Boskalis is exposed to risks arising from changes in fuel prices. Fuel costs are hedged in a number of different ways. Where possible, contracts include fuel price variation clauses. Also, contracts are sometimes based on fuel being supplied by the client. In other cases, where the fuel price presents a substantial risk, exposure can be hedged by means of financial instruments, such as forward contracts or fixed fuel supply contracts.

report of the board of management

TAX RISKS
Because of the (constantly changing) mix of project and operational results in a large number of countries and entities, various kinds of taxes, such as income tax, wage tax, VAT and import duties, are assessed and then paid in various countries. Profits are attributed to countries where value is created in accordance with national and international rules and standards, which can be extremely complex.

DERIVATIVES
Financial derivatives are only used to hedge underlying currency risks, fuel cost risks or other risks where there is a physical underlying transaction. There is, however, a risk of losses arising from the unwinding or settlement of such financial derivatives due to cancellation of a contract or substantial reduction in the scope of a contract.

ANNUAL REPORT 2017 ­ BOSKALIS

Beach replenishment work near Heemskerk in the Netherlands.

57

OTHER RISKS

 The progress and development of the operating results and

COMPLIANCE WITH LEGISLATION AND REGULATIONS

the financial position of individual projects and business units and the Company as a whole, as well as the operational and

As an international dredging and marine contracting and services financial risks, are monitored by means of structured periodical

expert Boskalis is active in numerous countries, and therefore must reporting, analysis of the financial results and performance

deal with a wide range of diverse legislation and regulations.

reviews at Board of Management and senior management levels.

Some of the activities are managed by Boskalis local

management, but in many countries intermediaries and/or local representatives are used in securing and executing projects. This

RISKS REGARDING FINANCIAL REPORTING

combination of factors results in a heightened risk that relevant (local) legislation and regulations may not be fully complied with.

FINANCIAL REPORTING STRUCTURE

Events of non-compliance can result in regulatory investigations, Financial reporting at Boskalis is structured within a tight

litigations and/or sanctions. These risks are as much as possible framework of budgeting, reporting and forecasting. A distinction

mitigated by the company's internal risk management and control is made between reports for internal and external use. External

systems that include a General Code of Business Conduct as well reporting at group level consists of an annual report, including

as a Supplier Code of Conduct, which are reviewed and

financial statements audited by the external auditor, as well as a

evaluated regularly. Intermediaries and/or local representatives half-year report, containing summarized financial information,

are also contractually bound to comply with our codes of conduct. both consolidated and segmented. The external reports are based

Entering into contracts with local intermediaries and/or

on the internal financial reporting, in accordance with EU-IFRS.

representatives is subject to clearly defined procedures.

Furthermore, Boskalis has a whistleblower policy in place and a Internal financial reporting consists of extensive consolidated

counselor to whom employees can report any suspected

quarterly reports in which current developments are compared to

misconduct.

the quarterly (cumulative) budgets and previous forecasts. In

addition, each quarter we reiterate or update our forecast for the

PROPERTY DAMAGE AND THIRD-PARTY LIABILITIES

annual results, including the cash flow and balance sheet positions at the end of the financial year. The quarterly budgets are part of

Boskalis has taken out a broad package of insurances to cover

the annual group budget, which is prepared every year by the

against risks with respect to damage to its properties as well as Board of Management and approved by the Supervisory Board.

third-party properties and potential other third-party liabilities.

Internal financial reporting has a layered structure ­ in accordance

with the internal allocation of management responsibilities ­ with

INTERNAL RISK MANAGEMENT AND CONTROL SYSTEMS

consolidation taking place at successive levels, starting with the projects, through the business units and divisions, and resulting in

The internal risk management and control systems of Boskalis are consolidated group reports. The financial and operating results

based on the principles of effective management control at various are analyzed and clarified at each of these levels. Project and

levels in the organization and are tailored to the day-to-day

contract managers are responsible for budgets, income statements

working environment in which the company operates worldwide. and balance sheets for their projects or contracts, and these are

One of the main foundations for risk management is the internal drawn up in accordance with the applicable guidelines and

culture of the company, which is characterized by a high degree instructions. In turn, business unit managers are responsible for the

of transparency regarding the timely identification, evaluation and financial reporting of their respective business units.

reporting of risks and a remuneration system that is geared to

avoiding potentially perverse incentives. In addition to the specific Boskalis holds substantial investments in joint ventures and

risk mitigation measures mentioned above, our internal risk

associated companies and these holdings are intensively

management and control systems include the following main

monitored. Shareholder and/or board meetings are held

components:

regularly, with Boskalis being represented in line with the size of

 In the daily operations, the operational risk management and its interest. Clear shareholder agreements have been concluded

control is largely supported by a comprehensive system of

with the co-shareholders in such joint ventures regarding topics

quality assurance rules, procedures and systems, particularly

such as board and management representation, filling of

regarding the acquisition and execution of projects.

management positions, strategy and policy, budget, financial

ANNUAL REPORT 2017 ­ BOSKALIS

 In addition to audits by external certification bodies, Boskalis

reporting, the appointment of auditors, investments and financing.

also performs regular internal audits under the auspices of the The policy is that such joint ventures are in principle financed

SHE-Q department to review the design and operational

without guarantees from the shareholders.

effectiveness of this system. SHE-Q is discussed at the quarterly

meetings between the Board of Management and the

The Board of Management discusses the quarterly reports with the

management of the business units, with the management of the relevant business unit managers in formal quarterly meetings.

SHE-Q department also being present.

These meetings are minuted. The consolidated group reports are

 The daily management of the organization is based on short

discussed with the Supervisory Board on a quarterly basis.

lines of communication and command. Speed, know-how and

decisiveness are of the essence, both in the tendering phase and The most important aspects of our financial reporting systems are

in project execution. Daily management is hands-on.

set out in manuals, guidelines and procedures, all of which are

available electronically. Staff are trained in how to apply

58

accounting standards, guidelines and procedures. Internal audits to monitor and improve quality and discipline are conducted

EVALUATION OF INTERNAL RISK MANAGEMENT AND CONTROL SYSTEMS

based on an annual audit plan and ad hoc examinations.

During the year under review, the Board of Management has

Moreover, the quality of the financial control systems is evaluated initiated a so-called Corporate Risk Assessment to systematically

regularly in the context of the activities of the external auditor.

evaluate the risks inherent to the Group's strategic business

Findings concerning the quality of the financial control systems

objectives as well as the related risk management and control

identified during the audit of the financial statements are reported activities. For this purpose, a comprehensive risk classification

by the external auditor in the Management Letter.

system was created that contains pertinent information for each of

the risk categories identified. This includes examples of - and

During 2017 we completed a review of our controls over financial contributing factors to - possible risk manifestations as well as

(reporting) risks. Consequently, the control requirements regarding current risk management and control activities to help mitigate

these financial (reporting) risks have been defined and collated in these risks.

our Financial Control Framework (FCF). Furthermore, many of the

applicable policies, procedures, instructions and internal control The risk categories identified were evaluated based on the

descriptions have been (re-)defined and documented. In doing so, likelihood of their occurrence; their potential impact on strategic

the updated COSO internal control framework has been used as a objectives as well as the potential for improving their related risk

standard of reference. A gap-analysis was performed to compare management and control activities. Compared to recent years, this

actual controls with these minimum control requirements. The new evaluation did not identify significant shifts in the Company's

electronic platform containing the FCF-documentation has been

overall risk profile and its main results have been included in the

made to match that of our WoW-system, thus further enhancing its preceding overview of the main risks we face in pursuing our

user-friendliness for our staff. We aim to have our new FCF fully business objectives.

implemented by the end of 2018.

The structure and functioning of our risk management and internal

INTERNAL AUDIT FUNCTION

control systems are discussed annually with the Supervisory Board.

report of the board of management

In addition to the internal audits performed under auspicious of the SHE-Q department, Boskalis has an internal audit function that mainly focusses on the company's management and financial reporting processes. It is guided by the International Standards for the Professional Practice of Internal Auditing and the Code of Ethics as published by The Institute of Internal Auditors.

No matter how much care is taken in setting up risk management and internal control systems, they are unable to provide absolute certainty with regard to realizing the company's objectives, nor can they preclude material mistakes, losses, fraud, or infringements of legislation and regulations.

The internal audit manager is accountable to the Board of Management, represented by the Chief Executive Officer for day to day operations and to the Audit Committee as part of its oversight role. Appointment and dismissal of the internal audit manager will be submitted to the Supervisory Board for approval, along with a recommendation by the Audit Committee.
On an annual basis the internal audit manager submits to the Board of Management and the Audit Committee a report on the activities performed in the year past, including the main findings, as well as a risk based internal audit plan for the next year for their review and approval.
Based on the internal audit plan, the internal audit manager agrees with the Board of Management the specific audit subjects, the detailed scope of work and the allocation of resources. The internal audit function's performance relative to its plan are regularly communicated and discussed between the Internal Audit Manager and the Board of Management, represented by the Chief Financial Officer.

STATEMENTS REGARDING INTERNAL RISK MANAGEMENT AND CONTROL SYSTEMS
With due consideration of the aforementioned inherent limitations and scope for improvement, the Board of Management is of the opinion that:  the report provides sufficient insights into any failings in the
effectiveness of the internal risk management and control systems;  the aforementioned systems provide reasonable assurance that the financial reporting does not contain any material inaccuracies;  based on the current state of affairs, it is justified that the financial reporting is prepared on a going concern basis; and  the report states those material risks and uncertainties that are relevant to the expectation of the company's continuity for the period of twelve months after the preparation of the report.

ANNUAL REPORT 2017 ­ BOSKALIS

The internal audit function also periodically interacts with the company's external financial auditor to share information on audit planning and progress as well as key findings and observations. The internal audit function's final reports are made available to the external auditor and management letters of the external auditor will be shared with the internal audit manager.

59

ANNUAL REPORT 2017 ­ BOSKALIS

60
SMIT SALVAGE: EMERGENCY RESPONSE OPERATION LEADS TO WRECK REMOVAL

SMIT Salvage employees work on an average of fifty emergency response operations every year. In some cases this leads to follow-up projects for wreck removal. An example in 2017 was the removal of the stern of the cargo vessel Cabrera in Greek waters.

On Christmas Eve of 2016, SMIT Salvage was asked to conduct a salvage operation on the north shore of the Greek island of Andros, where the 100-meter-long cargo ship Cabrera had grounded on the rocks. The vessel was on its way from the Greek port of Larymna to Tornio in Finland with a valuable cargo of 1600 tons of ferronickel.
"Initially, we were called in to remove about 70 tons of oil from the vessel," says Thijs van der Jagt, global salvage operations manager. "We went to work immediately with a Greek partner." The poor weather conditions meant that the salvage operation had to be suspended almost immediately. The storm subsided only a few days later. When the team returned, the vessel had already sunk. "Our surveys showed that the ship was in pieces on the sea floor at a depth of about 34 meters," says Van der Jagt. "Our divers then started work immediately on removing the remaining oil using the hot tap method. We were also asked to remove the cargo of ferronickel from the hold. We managed to complete that work using grabs and suction equipment," he continues.

61

The Taklift 4 removing the stern of the Cabrera from the seabed in Greece.

ACTION PLAN
The Greek authorities then issued a tender for the removal of the stern from the sea floor. The stern weighed approximately 1,450 tons and it included machine and engine parts, as well as the accommodation for the crew. "The immediate reason for the wreck removal was to prevent environmental damage," explains Van der Jagt. "In addition, the government wanted to make sure that parts of the accommodation, including personal belongings, wouldn't escape from the stern in time." Various additional bathymetric surveys were conducted so that the Salvage team had a clear picture of the local conditions. That allowed them to submit a detailed plan of action for the wreck removal, which was conducted in the fall of 2017 following the contract award earlier that year. "An important factor was that we knew we could use the Taklift 4, a Boskalis floating sheerleg crane, that was working at another place in the Mediterranean," says Van der Jagt. "The fact that we can use the expertise and the versatile Boskalis fleet worldwide is an advantage on salvage projects. Of course, on projects like this, we try to use our own equipment as much as possible."
CONTROLLED LIFTING
"With a lifting capacity of 2,200 tons, the Taklift 4 was ideal for this wreck removal," continues Van der Jagt. "The Taklift 4 is also equipped with four lifting blocks and that factor above all was crucial for the approach we adopted. It meant we could complete the lifting operation very precisely and in a controlled manner." The stern was listing on the sea floor at an angle of about 25 degrees. For safety reasons, the team wanted to keep the wreck at the same angle and raise it onto a barge. "After we had positioned the lifting chains under the wreck, we were able to use the lifting blocks to adjust the strain on the lifting chains precisely. As a result, the operation went exactly according to plan," says Van der Jagt.
ENVIRONMENTAL BARRIER
Prior to the lifting operation, the team fitted out the barge with an environmental barrier, a large steel container welded onto the deck of the barge. "We had already removed the fuel from the wreck," says Van der Jagt, "but if you place such a huge stern in its entirety on a barge, there is always a risk of pollutants being spilled. The environmental barrier made sure that those substances didn't pollute the seawater." The stern was positioned precisely on a layer of cribbing wood which was installed first to protect the deck. The barge was then ballasted. "After we had seafastened the wreck, we towed the barge to a nearby yard where the stern will be recycled in a controlled manner," concludes Van der Jagt.

62
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE

report of the board of management

APPLICATION AT BOSKALIS
Boskalis operates a two-tier board model, which means that management and supervision are segregated.
The Board of Management is responsible for the day-to-day management of the business, the continuity of the company and for setting out and realizing the company's strategy for the long-term value creation as well as for the culture, opportunities and risks and the results of the company. The Board of Management is responsible for establishing the company's objectives, implementing its business policies and for the resulting performance. The Board of Management is accountable to the Supervisory Board and the General Meeting of Shareholders. In performing its tasks, the Board of Management is guided by the interests of the company and its activities, the markets the company is operating in, and takes into account any relevant interests of parties involved with the company.
The Supervisory Board is responsible for supervising the Board of Management on the formulation and implementation of the strategy for the realization of the long-term value creation. Furthermore, the Supervisory Board is responsible for supervising management performance regarding the general affairs of the company and advising the Board of Management. In doing so the Supervisory Board also focuses on the effectiveness of the company's internal risk management and control systems and the integrity and quality of the financial reporting. The Supervisory Board is supported in its work by three so-called core committees: the Audit Committee, the Remuneration Committee and the Selection and Appointment Committee. For a summary of the activities of the Supervisory Board and its committees in 2017, please refer to pages 22 to 26 of this annual report.
At Boskalis there is close collaboration between the Supervisory Board and its committees, the Board of Management and the stakeholders. The Board of Management and the Supervisory Board are jointly responsible for looking after the interests of our stakeholders, which includes creating long-term value creation.
The company has a Group Management, consisting of the members of the Board of Management and the Group Directors. The Group Management meets on a regular basis in order for the Board of Management to obtain a full overview of the activities in the divisions of the company, to align the day-to-day management across the company and to ensure optimal exchange of information between the divisions.
Our stakeholders are those groups and individuals that directly or indirectly influence the company's activities, or are influenced by them. They include the employees, shareholders and other financiers, suppliers, clients, government bodies, educational and knowledge institutes, industry and society associations (including NGOs) and the communities in which Boskalis operates.

At least one General Meeting of Shareholders takes place every year. Its tasks include the adoption of financial statements and it holds authority with regard to the appointment and dismissal of Supervisory Board members and the members of the Board of Management.
The interests of employees are promoted by the Works Council, which provides ongoing employee representation as required under the Dutch Works Councils Act. It is the task of the Works Council to ensure that management objectives correspond to those of the employees.
The general standards and values relating to our business activities are set out in the General Code of Business Conduct and the Supplier Code of Conduct. In these codes the main principles are laid down on how employees and suppliers of Boskalis should conduct themselves with regard to, for example, legislation and regulations, human rights, anti-corruption, competition, the environment, staff and quality. Both codes can be found on the company's website. The General Code of Business Conduct and the Supplier Code of Conduct were revised in early 2018 in line with the periodical evaluation as set out in these documents. In addition, the core values and rules for safety at work are set out in our safety program NINA (No Injuries No Accidents). The Board of Management regularly stresses the importance of complying with the General Code of Business Conduct and the NINA principles. The Board of Management also provides employees with the opportunity to report any suspected misconduct within Boskalis of a general, financial, operational and employment nature which is not in line with the General Code of Business Conduct to an independent counselor, without jeopardizing their legal position. This Whistleblower Policy can also be found on the company's website.
ARTICLES OF ASSOCIATION
The Articles of Association of Boskalis set forth aspects of the governing principles regarding the company related among others to the seat, the objects, the capital and shares of the company as well as its governing bodies, the financial year, the annual accounts and loss and profit. The text of the Articles of Association is available at www.boskalis.com
COMPLIANCE
The Dutch Corporate Governance Code (the "Code") applies to all Dutch companies listed on the stock exchange and comprises a code of conduct for governance best practice. This Code includes both specific principles and best practice provisions, as well as guidelines for their proper supervision.
Boskalis subscribes to the notion that a sound and transparent system of checks and balances is key to maintaining confidence in

ANNUAL REPORT 2017 ­ BOSKALIS

63

companies operating on the capital market. Boskalis believes clarity and openness in accountability and supervision are the cornerstones of good management and entrepreneurship.
The Code has recently been revised by the Monitoring Committee Corporate Governance and has entered into force on 1 January 2017 with a transitional period for the implementation of the required changes in the corporate governance documentation of the company until 31 December 2017 (the "Revised Code').
Boskalis has amended the regulations of the Supervisory Board and its committees as well as the profile of the Supervisory Board to align them with the principles and best practices of the Revised Code, These regulations and the profile of the Supervisory Board are published on the company's website (www.boskalis.com).

requirements related to education and experience contained in the Diversity Policy. Per ultimo 2017 this resulted in five members of the Supervisory Board being male and one member being female. In the year under review no new appointments were made for the Supervisory Board. When drafting the profile for new members of the Supervisory Board emphasis will be placed on diversity in view of the objective of achieving a balanced representation on the Supervisory Board.
In accordance with the Code, Boskalis publishes a `Comply or Explain' report that sets out how the principles and best practice provisions are applied at Boskalis. This report is available on the website and copies can also be requested from the company. This `Comply and Explain' report has also been reviewed in the financial year and has been brought in accordance with the Revised Code.

Furthermore a Diversity Policy has been formulated explaining the company's broad view on diversity. Boskalis operates a strict equal opportunities policy for all employees, the Board of Management and the Supervisory Board, regardless of race, nationality, ethnic background, age , religion, gender, sexual orientation or disability, whereby the principle of the best person for the job is leading. The Diversity Policy is also available on www.boskalis.com  As described in the Diversity Policy, the composition and size of the Board of Management are based on the profile and strategy of the company. The expertise, experience and various competencies of the members of the Board of Management should contribute to this profile and strategy. The goal for the composition of the Board of Management is to aim as much as possible for a diverse composition, where possible in age and gender, taking into account the statutory requirements and the requirements related to education and experience as contained in the Diversity Policy. In the year under review the combination of these elements resulted in the three members of the current Board of Management being male, meaning that the Board of Management, partly due to the nature of the company, is a reflection of the majority of the company's employee population. In 2017 no new appointments were made for the Board of Management. When drafting the profile for new members of the Board of Management emphasis will be placed on diversity in view of the objective of achieving a balanced representation on the Board of Management.

Boskalis subscribes to and applies all the principles and best practice provisions contained in the Corporate Governance Code, with the exception of best practice 4.3.3. In deviation of this best practice, according to the Articles of Association, the General Meeting of Shareholders may pass a resolution to deprive the binding nature of a nomination for the appointment or a resolution for dismissal of a member of the Board of Management or a member of the Supervisory Board by a majority of at least two/ third of the votes cast representing more than one-half of the company's issued share capital. The deviation of this best practice provision is justified in view of the long-term value creation. Maintaining continuity at both the Board of Management and the Supervisory Board is essential for delivering such long-term value. The company is protecting its stakeholders against a sudden change in management and supervision by maintaining the qualified majority and voting quorum requirement, which is in accordance with Dutch law.
The Corporate Governance Declaration can be found on the website www.boskalis.com/corporategovernance.

The composition and size of the Supervisory Board are also based on the company's profile and strategy. As stated in the profile of the Supervisory Board and the Diversity Policy, the expertise, experience and various competencies of members of the Supervisory Board should contribute to proper supervision of the company's management and general performance. The goal for the composition of the Supervisory Board is to aim as much as possible for a diverse composition, where possible in age and gender, taking into account the statutory requirements and the

ANNUAL REPORT 2017 ­ BOSKALIS

report of the board of management

64
OUTLOOK
As stated in our corporate business plan the market picture for the next two years will be characterized by continued lower volumes of work and pressure on both utilization levels and margins. At Dredging & Inland Infra we see a reasonable volume of work in the market in the short term. The emphasis for Boskalis is on maintaining utilization at a responsible level of project risk. The current size of the order book means that a good part of the fleet will be utilized in 2018, albeit at lower margins than in previous years. The picture for the Offshore Energy market has not changed. Past contracts at Heavy Marine Transport are being completed and we are increasingly dependent on the highly competitive spot market. Where necessary transport vessels at the lower end of the market will be laid up. At Offshore Installation & Intervention the order book is filled better and we expect a reasonable year. Market volumes in the Towage activities are relatively stable, although competition in some ports has increased, resulting in lower margins. The project-based nature of a significant part of our activities, in addition to the uncertain market conditions, makes it difficult to provide a specific quantitative forecast with regard to the 2018 full-year result early on in the year. However, knowing what we know now it appears that it will be a challenge to match the 2017 net result. Capital expenditure in 2018 is expected to be around EUR 250 million, excluding acquisitions, and will be financed from the company's own cash flow. Boskalis has a very sound financial position and comfortably meets its financial covenants.
Construction of a port and breakwater in Lekki, Nigeria.

ANNUAL REPORT 2017 ­ BOSKALIS

65
STATEMENT OF DIRECTORS' RESPONSIBILITIES
The Board of Management of Royal Boskalis Westminster N.V. hereby declares, in accordance with article 5:25c of the Dutch Financial Supervision Act, that to the best of its knowledge:
1) the financial statements, which have been prepared in accordance with the applicable standards for preparing financial statements and as included on pages 67 to 133 of the Annual Report, provide a true and fair view of the assets, liabilities and financial position as at 31 December 2017 as well as the profit or loss of Royal Boskalis Westminster N.V. and all the business undertakings included in the consolidation;
2) the Report of the Board of Management provides a true and fair view of the condition, the business performance during the financial year of Royal Boskalis Westminster N.V. and the companies associated with it whose details are included in the financial statements, as at the balance sheet date of 31 December 2017;
3) the Report of the Board of Management provides a description of the material risks faced by the company.
Papendrecht / Sliedrecht, 7 March 2018
Board of Management dr. P.A.M. Berdowski, chairman T.L. Baartmans J.H. Kamps, CFO

ANNUAL REPORT 2017 ­ BOSKALIS

ANNUAL REPORT 2017 ­ BOSKALIS

FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2017

66

67
BOSKALIS FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2017

ANNUAL REPORT 2017 ­ BOSKALIS

TABLE OF CONTENTS

FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2017

Consolidated Statement of Profit or Loss

70

Consolidated Statement of Other Comprehensive Income

71

Consolidated Statement of Financial Position

72

Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows

73

Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity

74

Explanatory notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements

76

1.

General

76

2.

Compliance with International Financial Reporting Standards

76

2.1

Compliance statement

76

2.2

Adopted new and revised standards

76

2.3

New standards and interpretations not yet adopted

76

3.

Principles of financial reporting

77

3.1

Format and valuation

77

3.2

Consolidation

77

3.3

Foreign currencies

78

3.4

Derivatives and hedging

79

3.5

Impairment

79

3.6

Intangible assets

79

3.7

Property, plant and equipment

80

3.8

Strategic investments

80

3.9

Non-current receivables

80

3.10

Financial instruments available for sale

80

3.11

Inventories

80

3.12

Due from and due to customers

81

3.13

Trade and other receivables

81

3.14

Cash and cash equivalents

81

3.15

Share capital

81

3.16

Interest-bearing borrowings

81

3.17

Employee benefits

81

3.18

Provisions

82

3.19

Trade and other payables

82

3.20

Assets held for sale

82

3.21

Revenue

82

3.22

Other income and other expenses

83

3.23

Raw materials, consumables, services and contracted work

83

3.24

Personnel expenses

83

3.25

Lease payments

83

3.26

Finance income and costs

83

3.27

Share in result of joint ventures and associated companies

83

3.28

Taxation / deferred income tax assets and liabilities

83

3.29

Earnings per share

84

3.30

Dividend

84

3.31

Determination of fair value

84

3.32

Consolidated statements of cash flows

84

4.

Segment reporting

85

4.1

Operational segments

86

5.

Business combinations and other significant transactions

87

5.1

Acquisition of Gardline Group

87

5.2

Divestment of stake in Fugro N.V.

88

5.3

Assets and liabilities held for sale

88

5.4

Business combinations and other significant transactions in prior year

89

6.

Revenue

89

7.

Other income and other expenses

90

8.

Raw materials, consumables, services and subcontracted work

90

9.

Personnel expenses

90

10.

Impairment losses

91

11.

Finance income and expenses

91

12.

Income tax expenses

92

13.

Income tax receivable and payable

92

ANNUAL REPORT 2017 -- BOSKALIS

14.

Deferred income tax assets and liabilities

93

15.

Intangible assets

95

15.1

Goodwill

95

15.2

Other intangible assets

96

16.

Property, plant and equipment

97

17.

Joint ventures and associated companies

98

18.

Non-current financial assets

101

18.1

Other non-current receivables

101

18.2

Financial instruments available-for-sale

101

19.

Inventories

102

20.

Due from and due to customers

102

21.

Trade and other receivables

102

22.

Cash and cash equivalents

102

23.

Group equity

103

23.1

Share capital and dividend

103

23.2

Share premium reserve

103

23.3

Retained earnings

103

23.4

Dividend

103

23.5

Earnings per share

104

23.6

Other reserves

104

24.

Interest-bearing borrowings

106

25.

Employee benefits

107

25.1

Defined benefit pension plans

107

25.2

Defined contribution pension plans

111

26.

Provisions

112

27.

Trade and other payables

112

28.

Financial instruments

112

28.1

Financial risk management

112

28.2

On-balance financial instruments and fair value

118

28.3

Capital management

119

28.4

Other financial instruments

119

29.

Commitments and contingent liabilities

120

30.

Related parties

121

30.1

Identity of related parties

121

30.2

Related party transactions

124

30.3

Joint operations

125

Company Statement of Profit or Loss

127

Company Statement of Financial Position

127

Statement of Changes in Shareholders' Equity

128

Explanatory notes to the Company Financial Statements

129

1.

General

129

2.

Principles of financial reporting

129

2.1

Accounting policies

129

2.2

Format

129

2.3

Investments in group companies

129

2.4

Amounts due from group companies

129

2.5

Amounts due to group companies

129

2.6

Result of group company

129

3.

Investments in group companies

129

4.

Issued capital and optional dividend

130

5.

Other reserves

130

6.

Profit or loss for the year

130

NUAL REPORT 2017 -- BOSKALIS

7.

Financial instruments

130

8.

Operating income and expenses

131

9.

Remuneration of the members of the Board of Management and Members of the Supervisory Board

131

10.

Auditor remuneration

131

11.

Commitments and contingent liabilities

131

Provisions in the articles of association relating to profit appropriation

133

Independent auditor's report

134

7700
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF PROFIT OR LOSS
(Consolidated Income statement)

FINFIANNACINACILASLT SATTEATMEEMNETSNT2S0210717

(in thousands of EUR)
OPERATING INCOME
Revenue Other income

Note
[6] [5/7]

OPERATING EXPENSES
Raw materials, consumables, services and subcontracted work Personnel expenses Depreciation and amortization Impairment losses Other expenses

[8] [9] [15/16] [10] [7]

Share in result of joint ventures and associated companies

[17]

Revaluation of investment in joint venture VBMS Holding B.V. prior to business combination [5.4]

RESULTS FROM OPERATING ACTIVITIES (EBIT)

FINANCE EXPENSES

Finance income

[11]

Expenses prepayment US private placements

Interest and other finance expenses

Finance expenses

[11]

Profit/loss (-) before taxation

Income tax expenses

[12]

NET GROUP PROFIT/LOSS (-)

2017
2,337,205 32,152
2,369,357

2016
2,596,326 59,226
2,655,552

- 1,515,904 - 446,286 - 251,563 - 1,579
- 2,215,332
31,020 -
185,045

- 1,593,083 - 451,455 - 277,244 - 748,486 - 316
- 3,070,584
- 82,882 39,839
- 458,075

433 -
- 13,358 - 13,358 - 12,925
172,120
- 21,677
150,443

1,001 - 40,264 - 32,052 - 72,316 - 71,315
- 529,390
- 32,360
- 561,750

NET GROUP PROFIT/LOSS (-) ATTRIBUTABLE TO:
Shareholders Non-controlling interests
Average number of shares Earnings per share Earnings per share, excluding impairment losses Diluted earnings per share

150,469 - 26
150,443

- 563,730 1,980
- 561,750

[23.5] [23.5] [10/23.5] [23.5]

131,097,477 EUR 1.15 EUR 1.15 EUR 1.15

128,204,536 EUR -4.40 EUR 2.16 EUR -4.40

AANNNNUUAALLRREEPPOORRTT22001177­--BBOSOSKKALAILSIS

The notes on pages 76 to 126 are an integral part of these consolidated financial statements.

7711
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF OTHER COMPREHENSIVE INCOME
(Consolidated Statement of Recognized and Unrecognized Income and Expenses)

(in thousands of EUR)
Net Group profit/loss (-)

Note

ITEMS THAT WILL NOT BE SUBSEQUENTLY RECLASSIFIED TO THE STATEMENT OF PROFIT OR LOSS
Actuarial gains and losses and asset limitation on defined benefit pension plans Income tax on unrecognized income and expenses not to be reclassified to statement of profit or loss (-) Share in other comprehensive income of joint ventures and associated companies, after tax Total unrecognized income and expenses for the period that will not be reclassified to statement of profit or loss (-), net of income tax

[25.1] [14]

ITEMS THAT ARE OR MAY BE SUBSEQUENTLY RECLASSIFIED TO THE STATEMENT OF PROFIT OR LOSS

Movement in fair value of investment in Fugro N.V.

[18.2]

Currency translation differences from joint ventures and associated companies, after tax

Currency translation differences on foreign operations

Reclassification of foreign currency differences and hedge reserve to statement of profit or loss

Movement in fair value of cash flow hedges

[28.2]

Income tax on unrecognized income and expenses that are or may be reclassified

subsequently to statement of profit or loss

[14]

Change in fair value of cash flow hedges from joint ventures and associated companies, after

tax

[28.2]

Total unrecognized income and expenses for the period which are or may be reclassified to

statement of profit or loss (-)

UNRECOGNIZED INCOME AND EXPENSES FOR THE REPORTING PERIOD, AFTER INCOME TAX TOTAL RECOGNIZED AND UNRECOGNIZED INCOME AND EXPENSES FOR THE REPORTING PERIOD

ATTRIBUTABLE TO:
Shareholders Non-controlling interests
TOTAL RECOGNIZED AND UNRECOGNIZED INCOME AND EXPENSES FOR THE REPORTING PERIOD

2017 150,443
- 9,272 1,504 -
- 7,768
- 357 496
- 139,700 -
21,043 - 3,257 - 8,415 - 130,190
- 137,958 12,485

2016 - 561,750
- 4,520 1,080 - 6,202 - 9,642
357 - 1,818 25,874
720 13,261 - 2,034
75 36,435
26,793 - 534,957

12,474 11
12,485

- 537,378 2,421
- 534,957

AANNNNUUAALLRREEPPOORRTT22001177­ --B BOSOSKKALAILSIS

The notes on pages 76 to 126 are an integral part of these consolidated financial statements.

7722
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF FINANCIAL POSITION
(Consolidated Balance Sheet)

FINFIANNACINACILASLT SATTEATMEEMNETSNT2S0210717

(in thousands of EUR)
NON-CURRENT ASSETS
Intangible assets Property, plant and equipment Joint ventures and associated companies Non-current financial assets Derivatives Deferred income tax assets
CURRENT ASSETS
Inventories Due from customers Trade and other receivables Derivatives Income tax receivable Cash and cash equivalents Assets of disposal groups
TOTAL ASSETS
GROUP EQUITY
Issued capital Share premium reserve Other reserves Retained earnings
SHAREHOLDERS' EQUITY NON-CONTROLLING INTERESTS TOTAL GROUP EQUITY
NON-CURRENT LIABILITIES
Interest-bearing borrowings Employee benefits Deferred income tax liabilities Provisions Derivatives
CURRENT LIABILITIES
Due to customers Interest-bearing borrowings Bank overdrafts Income tax payable Trade and other payables Provisions Derivatives Liabilities of disposal groups
TOTAL LIABILITIES
TOTAL GROUP EQUITY AND LIABILITIES

31 DECEMBER

Note

2017

2016

[15]

277,430

287,520

[16]

2,538,063

2,484,068

[17]

776,935

827,044

[18]

1,249

116,440

[28]

9,904

4,110

[14]

9,510

10,505

3,613,091

3,729,687

[19]

88,166

90,049

[20]

123,457

87,194

[21]

759,139

597,928

[28]

19,972

76,694

[13]

17,705

7,495

[22]

191,948

965,331

[5]

-

9,627

1,200,387

1,834,318

4,813,478

5,564,005

[23]

1,334

1,301

[23]

636,988

637,006

[23]

507,353

637,822

[23]

1,877,263

1,845,044

3,022,938

3,121,173

2,375

2,031

[23]

3,025,313

3,123,204

[24]

270,567

308,287

[25]

34,442

30,334

[14]

11,683

23,374

[26]

21,593

31,435

[28]

27

818

338,312

394,248

[20]

230,651

315,632

[24]

297

453,144

[22]

40,794

1,188

[13]

148,488

152,331

[27]

1,011,629

1,085,684

[26]

15,763

22,027

[28]

2,231

8,838

[5]

-

7,709

1,449,853

2,046,553

1,788,165

2,440,801

4,813,478

5,564,005

AANNNNUUAALLRREEPPOORRTT22001177­--BBOSOSKKALAILSIS

The notes on pages 76 to 126 are an integral part of these consolidated financial statements.

7733
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF CASH FLOWS

(in thousands of EUR)

Note

CASH FLOWS FROM OPERATING ACTIVITIES
Net Group profit / loss (-) Depreciation, amortization and impairment losses intangible assets and property, plant and equipment Cash flow

[10/15/16]

Adjustments for:

Finance income and expenses

[11]

Income tax expenses

[12]

Results from disposals / divestments

[7]

Movement in provisions and employee benefits

Movement in inventories

Movement in trade and other receivables

Movement in trade and other payables

Movement due from and due to customers

Share in result of joint ventures and associated companies, including share in impairments [17]

Result of revaluation of investment in VBMS Holding B.V.

Gain on acquisition of STRABAG business

Gain on acquisition of Gardline

[5.1]

Cash generated from operating activities

Dividends received

[17]

Interest received

[11]

Interest paid

Income tax paid

Net cash from operating activities

CASH FLOWS FROM INVESTING ACTIVITIES
Purchases of property, plant and equipment, excluding capitalized borrowing costs Proceeds from disposals of property, plant and equipment Investment in business combinations, net of cash acquired Reduction / divestment of Fugro N.V. Investment in and issued loans to other associated companies and/or joint ventures Disposal of (a part of) group companies, net of cash disposed Repayment of loans or share premium by associated company and/or joint venture Net cash used from / (in) investing activities

[16]
[5] [17/18.2] [17] [5.3] [17]

CASH FLOWS FROM FINANCING ACTIVITIES

Repayment of interest-bearing borrowings, including make-whole payments

[24]

Net proceeds from settlement of hedges on early repayment of borrowings

[24]

Repayment of loans

[24]

Purchase of own shares

[23]

Dividend paid to shareholders

[23]

Dividend paid to non-controlling interests

Net cash used from / (in) financing activities

NET INCREASE / (DECREASE) IN CASH AND CASH EQUIVALENTS

Net cash and cash equivalents as at 1 January

[22]

Net increase / (decrease) in cash and cash equivalents Currency translation differences

MOVEMENT IN NET CASH AND CASH EQUIVALENTS NET CASH AND CASH EQUIVALENTS AS AT 31 DECEMBER

[22]

2017
150,443
251,563 402,006
12,925 21,677 - 7,359 - 21,249
2,015 - 147,344
- 59,640 - 112,757
- 31,020 -
- 24,133 35,121
27,045 433
- 20,895 - 44,995
- 3,291
- 371,864 26,001
- 35,979 114,102 - 17,934
- 5,465 452
- 290,687
- 445,751 52,539
- 17,619 - 81,176 - 29,533
- 521,540
- 815,518
969,749
- 815,518 - 3,077
- 818,595 151,154

2016
- 561,750
1,025,730 463,980
71,315 32,360 - 47,927 17,180 - 10,791 272,069 - 313,385 - 46,356 82,882 - 39,839 - 10,983
470,505
42,572 1,001
- 30,059 - 70,580 413,439
- 164,898 9,743
- 149,328 236,982
- 422 124,660
9,326 66,063
- 217,123 - 55,762 - 771 - 273,656
205,846
766,696
205,846 - 2,793
203,053 969,749

AANNNNUUAALLRREEPPOORRTT22001177­ --B BOSOSKKALAILSIS

The notes on pages 76 to 126 are an integral part of these consolidated financial statements.

7744
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF CHANGES IN EQUITY

FINFIANNACINACILASLT SATTEATMEEMNETSNT2S0210717

(in thousands of EUR)
Note
Balance as at 1 January 2017
TOTAL COMPREHENSIVE INCOME FOR THE PERIOD
Net Group profit/loss (-)
Other comprehensive income for the period Defined benefit plan actuarial gains/losses (-) and asset limitation, after income tax Foreign currency translation differences for foreign operations, after income tax Effective cash flow hedges, after income tax Change in fair value of cash flow hedges from joint ventures and associated companies, after tax Currency translation differences from joint ventures and associated companies, after tax Recycling of revaluation of stake in Fugro N.V. Other movements Total other comprehensive income for the period
Total comprehensive income for the period
OTHER RESERVES
Changes in other reserves
Transactions with shareholders, recognized directly in equity Purchase own shares
Distributions to shareholders Cash dividend Stock dividend
Movements in interests in subsidiaries Acquisition of Gardline
Balance as at 31 December 2017

ISSUED CAPITAL
[23.1]
1,301

SHARE PREMIUM
[23.2]
637,006

OTHER RESERVES
[23.6]

RETAINED EARNINGS
[23.3]

NON-

CONTROLLING

TOTAL

INTERESTS

TOTAL GROUP EQUITY

637,822 1,845,044 3,121,173

2,031 3,123,204

150,469

150,469

- 26

150,443

- 7,768
- 139,737 17,786
- 8,415
496 -
- 462 - 138,100
- 138,100

-

- 7,768

- - 139,737

-

17,786

-

- 8,415

- 357
462 105

496 - 357
- 137,995

150,574

12,474

7,631

- 7,631

-

-

- 7,768

37

- 139,700

-

17,786

-

- 8,415

-

496

-

- 357

-

-

37

- 137,958

11

12,485

-

-

-

-

-

- 81,176

- 81,176

-

- 81,176

-

-

33

- 18

-

- 29,533

- 29,533

-

- 15

-

-

- 29,533

-

-

1,334

636,988

507,353 1,877,263 3,022,938

333

333

2,375 3,025,313

AANNNNUUAALLRREEPPOORRTT22001177­--BBOSOSKKALAILSIS

The notes on pages 76 to 126 are an integral part of these consolidated financial statements.

7755

(in thousands of EUR)
Note Balance as at 1 January 2016

ISSUED CAPITAL

SHARE PREMIUM

OTHER RESERVES

RETAINED EARNINGS

NON-

CONTROLLING

TOTAL

INTERESTS

TOTAL GROUP EQUITY

[23.1] 100,501

[23.2] 535,807

[23.6]

[23.3]

621,775 2,456,230 3,714,313

7,593 3,721,906

TOTAL COMPREHENSIVE INCOME FOR THE PERIOD
Net Group profit/loss (-)
Other comprehensive income for the period Defined benefit plan actuarial gains/losses (-) and asset limitation, after income tax Share of other comprehensive income of associated companies and joint ventures Foreign currency translation differences for foreign operations, after income tax Effective cash flow hedges, after income tax Change in fair value of cash flow hedges from joint ventures and associated companies, after tax Currency translation differences from joint ventures and associated companies, after tax Revaluation of stake in Fugro N.V. Reclassification of foreign currency differences and hedge reserve to statement of profit or loss Total other comprehensive income for the period
Total comprehensive income for the period
OTHER RESERVES
Changes in other reserves
TRANSACTIONS WITH SHAREHOLDERS, RECOGNIZED DIRECTLY IN EQUITY
Reduction nominal value (refer to note 23.1)
Distributions to shareholders Cash dividend Stock dividend
MOVEMENTS IN INTERESTS IN SUBSIDIARIES
Sale of SMIT Amandla Marine
Balance as at 31 December 2016

- 563,730

- 563,730

- 3,440
- 6,202
25,433 11,227
75
- 1,818 -
720 25,995
25,995

-
-
-
-
357
357
- 563,373

- 3,440
- 6,202
25,433 11,227
75
- 1,818 357
720 26,352
- 537,378

- 9,948

9,948

-

- 102,760

102,760

3,560

- 1,561

-

-

-

-

- 55,762

- 55,762

-

- 1,999

-

1,301

637,006

637,822 1,845,044 3,121,173

1,980

- 561,750

-
441 -
441 2,421

- 3,440
- 6,202
25,874 11,227
75
- 1,818 357
720 26,793
- 534,957

-

-

-

-

- 771 -

- 56,533 -

- 7,212

- 7,212

2,031 3,123,204

AANNNNUUAALLRREEPPOORRTT22001177­ --B BOSOSKKALAILSIS

The notes on pages 76 to 126 are an integral part of these consolidated financial statements.

7766
EXPLANATORY NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

FINFIANNACINACILASLT SATTEATMEEMNETSNT2S0210717

1. GENERAL
Royal Boskalis Westminster N.V. is a leading global services provider operating in the dredging, dry and maritime infrastructure and maritime services sectors. Royal Boskalis Westminster N.V. (the `Company') has its registered office in Sliedrecht, the Netherlands, and its head office is located at Rosmolenweg 20, 3356 LK in Papendrecht, the Netherlands. The Company is registered at the Chamber of Commerce under number 23008599 and is a publicly listed company on the Euronext Amsterdam.
The consolidated financial statements of Royal Boskalis Westminster N.V. for 2017 include the Company and group companies (hereinafter referred to jointly as the `Group' and individually as the `Group companies') and the interests of the Group in associated companies and entities over which it has joint control. The consolidated financial statements were prepared by the Board of Management and were signed on 7 March 2018. The financial statements for 2017 will be submitted for approval to the Annual General Meeting of Shareholders on 9 May 2018.
2. COMPLIANCE WITH INTERNATIONAL FINANCIAL REPORTING STANDARDS
2.1 COMPLIANCE STATEMENT
The consolidated financial statements and the accompanying explanatory notes have been prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards, as adopted by the European Union (EU-IFRS), and with Part 9 of Book 2 of the Dutch Civil Code.
2.2 ADOPTED NEW AND REVISED STANDARDS
The accounting principles applied to the valuation of assets and liabilities and the determination of results are the same as the valuation principles applied to consolidated financial statements in prior years. The following amendment is effective for 2017 and has been adopted by the European Union for 2017, however, it has no impact on the equity, results of and/or presentation by the Group.
Amendments to IAS 7 `Statement of Cash Flows'
The Group has applied the amendments to IAS 7 `Statement of Cash Flows' as of 1 January 2017 and as a result has included a movement schedule of interest-bearing borrowings (see note 24).
2.3 NEW STANDARDS AND INTERPRETATIONS NOT YET ADOPTED
The following standards, amendments to standards and interpretations, were not effective in 2017 and / or not yet adopted by the European Union. As a consequence, these new standards, amendments and interpretations have not been applied in these consolidated financial statements. The

Group does not adopt these standards and interpretations early and the exact extent of the possible impact has not been determined. The most important possible changes for the Group can be summarized as follows:
 IFRS 9 `Financial instruments' addresses the classification, measurement and recognition of financial assets and financial liabilities. This new standard replaces the guidance provided in IAS 39. The Group has assessed IFRS 9 `Financial Instruments' and it is expected that the effect of implementation of this standard on the Group's Statement of Profit or Loss and Statement of Financial Position and equity will be limited. This new standard does not change hedge accounting and allows more hedges to qualify for hedge accounting. The introduction of the required expected credit loss model may result in a non-material increase in the allowance for receivables at implementation and the changed accounting for modifications in fixed-rate financial instruments may affect the investment in joint ventures and associated companies. IFRS 9 is not expected to materially impact the results of the Group in subsequent periods. Quantitative analysis will be finished in the first half of 2018 and will be included in our 2018 half-year report. This new standard was endorsed by the European Union in the second half of 2016 and will be effective as of 1 January 2018.
 IFRS 15 `Revenue from Contracts with Customers' provides a framework for the recognition of income and will replace the current standards IAS 18 `Revenue' and IAS 11 `Construction Contracts'. The Standard was endorsed by the European Union in the second half of 2016 and will be effective as of 1 January 2018. The effects of IFRS 15 include changing the thresholds for the recognition of variation orders and variable considerations, such as claims and incentives. The Group has assessed the possible effects. The impact is not expected to be material. Also, this standard requires additional internal documentation and additional disclosures, including disclosures regarding the order book. The Group intends to apply the fully retrospective approach and considers using certain practical expedients facilitated by IFRS 15 for the transition towards this new standard. The impact can therefore only be quantified from the effective date of 1 January 2018. Preparations for quantitative analysis commenced in the second half of 2017 and will be finished in the first half of 2018. This quantitative analysis will be included in our 2018 half-year report.
 IFRS 16 `Leases' replaces the current standard for leases (IAS 17) and provides a new framework for the recognition of lease contracts. The new standard mainly requires lessees to recognize a liability in their Statement of Financial Position and to capitalize the right-of-use of a leased asset if

AANNNNUUAALLRREEPPOORRTT22001177­--BBOSOSKKALAILSIS

7777

it is leased for a period exceeding one year. This new

3.2 CONSOLIDATION

standard relates to changes in accounting for operational The Group consolidates companies over which control is

lease commitments of the Group (see note 29). Including

exercised when the Group is exposed or has the right to

these leases in the Consolidated Balance Sheet would result variable returns from its involvement with the investee and has

in an increase of less than 2% of the Consolidated Balance the ability to affect such returns. Subsidiaries are included in

Sheet total, amongst other effects. The standard was issued the consolidation for 100%, taking into account any minority

in January 2016 and will be effective as of 1 January

interests. For joint operations the Group accounts for its

2019. The European Union endorsed the standard in

specific rights and obligations. Strategic investments (i.e. joint

October 2017.

ventures and associated companies) are accounted for using

the equity method.

 IFRIC 23 `Uncertainty over Income Tax Treatments' was

issued in June 2017 and will be effective as of 1 January

3.2.1 SUBSIDIARIES

2019. The interpretation as included in IFRIC 23 is to be

Subsidiaries are included in the consolidation for 100% on the

applied to the determination of taxable profit (taxable loss), basis of existing control, taking into account any minority

tax bases, unused tax losses, unused tax credits and tax

interests. The figures of subsidiaries are included in the

rates, where there is uncertainty over income tax treatments consolidated financial statements from the date that control

under IAS 12. The European Union has not yet endorsed commences until the date that control ceases.

this interpretation.

Control exists if the Group has:

3. PRINCIPLES OF FINANCIAL REPORTING

 the ability to direct relevant activities through its voting

The principles for financial reporting subsequently disclosed are applied consistently for all periods included in these consolidated financial statements and have been applied consistently by the Group companies.

power;  the right to variable returns from its involvement with the
investee; and  the ability to use its power to affect such returns.

3.1 FORMAT AND VALUATION
The consolidated financial statements are presented in euros, the Group's presentation currency. The consolidated financial statements are based upon historical cost to the extent that IFRS does not prescribe another accounting method for specific items. Preparing financial statements means that estimates and assumptions made by management partially determine the amounts recognized under assets, liabilities, revenue and costs. The estimates and assumptions are mainly related to the measurement of intangible assets (including goodwill), property, plant and equipment, joint ventures and associated companies, expected results on the completion of projects, pension liabilities, taxation, provisions and financial instruments. Judgements made by management within the application of IFRS which have a material effect on the financial statements are the qualifications of investments as Group companies, joint operations, joint ventures or associated companies. Details are incorporated in the explanatory notes to these items. Other than the elements already explained in the explanatory notes to the financial statements, no critical valuation judgements relating to the application of the principles need further explanation. The estimates made and the related assumptions are based on management's experience and understanding and the development of external factors that can be considered reasonable under the given circumstances. Estimates and assumptions are subject to alterations as a result of changes in facts and insights and may have different outcomes in different reporting periods. Any differences are recognized in the Statement of Financial Position, or the Statement of Profit or Loss, or the Statement of Other Comprehensive Income, depending on the nature of the item. Actual results may deviate from results reported previously on the basis of estimates and assumptions. Unless stated otherwise, all amounts in the notes to these financial statements are stated in thousands of euros.

In assessing whether the Group has acquired control, and whether such control exists in the sense that it has power over the investee, the Group takes into consideration voting rights, or similar rights in an entity, potential voting rights that are currently exercisable, and all other relevant facts and circumstances.
If and when the Group loses control over a subsidiary, it derecognizes the assets and liabilities of the subsidiary, any non-controlling interests and any components of equity related to the subsidiary. Any resulting gain or loss is recognized in the statement of profit or loss. If the Group retains any stake in the former subsidiary, then such interest is measured at fair value at the date that control is lost.
3.2.2 JOINT OPERATIONS
If the Group has joint control over and is entitled to the rights to the assets and is liable for the liabilities of the partnership, the partnership is classified as a joint operation. Such a joint control has been laid down in a contract and strategic decisions on financial and operational policy are taken by unanimous agreement. Joint operations mainly relate to project driven construction consortiums.
Joint operations are included in the consolidated financial statements on a pro rata basis in accordance with the participation interest of the Group in the joint operation, also referred to as proportionate consolidation.
3.2.3 JOINT VENTURES AND ASSOCIATED COMPANIES
The Group divides strategic investments into joint ventures and associated companies based on the type and degree of influence.
Joint ventures are those entities over which the Group has joint control. Such joint control is laid down in a contract and strategic decisions on financial and operational policy are

AANNNNUUAALLRREEPPOORRTT22001177­ --B BOSOSKKALAILSIS

7788

taken by unanimous agreement. The Group is only entitled to If the excess is negative (bargain purchase), the Group

the net assets of the joint ventures.

reassesses the correctness and completeness of the identified

assets acquired and liabilities assumed, and the

Shareholdings other than subsidiaries and joint ventures,

appropriateness of underlying assumptions and measurement

where there is significant influence on the financial and

approaches applied for valuation purposes. After such

operating policy, are recognized under associated

reassessment, the determined gain on a bargain purchase is

companies. Significant influence is presumed to exist when the immediately recognized in the statement of profit or loss.

Group holds 20 percent or more of the voting power of

another entity.

The consideration transferred does not include amounts related

to the settlement of pre-existing relationships. Such amounts

The consolidated financial statements include the Group's

are recognized in the statement of profit or loss. Costs related

share in the result of associated companies, after adjustments to the acquisition, other than those associated with the issue of

to align the accounting policies with those of the Group, from debt or equity securities, that the Group incurs in connection

the date that significant influence commences until the date it with a business combination are expensed as incurred.

ceases to exist (see note 3.8).

A newly acquired non-controlling interest is valued at either

If the ownership in a joint venture or associated company is the fair value or the proportionate share of the fair value of the

reduced, but joint control or significant influence is retained, acquired asset and liabilities, determined per transaction.

dilution gains and losses arising from joint ventures and

associated companies are recognized in the statement of profit Accounting for acquisitions of non-controlling interests

or loss and only a proportionate share of the amount

Acquisitions of non-controlling interests are accounted for as

previously recognized in the statement of other comprehensive transactions with owners in their capacity as owners and

income is recycled to the consolidated statement of profit or therefore no goodwill is recognized as a result of such

loss, where appropriate.

transactions.

FINFIANNACINACILASLT SATTEATMEEMNETSNT2S0210717

If the Group loses significant influence over or joint control of a strategic investment, it derecognizes the carrying amount of the strategic investment (including any goodwill included in the carrying amount) and recognizes any resulting gain or loss, including the recycling of amounts previously recognized in the statement of other comprehensive income, from this event in the consolidated statement of profit or loss. Any investment retained is recognized at fair value as a financial instrument available for sale.
3.2.4 ELIMINATION OF TRANSACTION UPON CONSOLIDATION
Intragroup receivables and payables, as well as intragroup transactions, finance income and expenses and unrealized results within the Group are eliminated in the preparation of the consolidated financial statements. The Group recognizes its share in the results on transactions that transfer assets and liabilities between the Company and its strategic investments or between its strategic investments, to the extent these are considered realized as transactions with third parties and its joint venture partners, using proportionate elimination.
3.2.5 BUSINESS COMBINATION AND ACQUISITIONS OF NON-CONTROLLING INTERESTS
Business combinations are accounted for using the acquisition method as at the acquisition date, which is the date on which control is transferred to the Group.
The Group measures goodwill at the acquisition date as:  the fair value of the consideration transferred; plus  the recognized amount of any non-controlling interests in the
acquiree; plus  if the business combination is achieved in stages, the fair
value of the existing equity interest in the acquiree (refer also note to 3.8); less  the net recognized amount (generally fair value) of the identifiable assets acquired and liabilities assumed.

3.3 FOREIGN CURRENCIES
The assets and liabilities of foreign Group companies and joint ventures that are denominated in functional currencies other than the euro are translated at the exchange rates as at the end of the reporting period. The statement of profit or loss items of the foreign Group companies and joint operations concerned have been translated at average exchange rates, which approximate the applicable exchange rates at transaction settlement date. Resulting currency translation differences are added or charged directly to the currency translation reserve in group equity. Exchange rate differences as a result of operational transactions are included in the consolidated statement of profit or loss of the reporting period. At the end of each reporting period, monetary items denominated in foreign currencies are translated at the rates prevailing at that date. The foreign currency gain or loss on monetary items is the difference between amortized cost in the functional currency at the beginning of the year, adjusted for effective interest and payments during the year, and the amortized cost in foreign currency translated at the exchange rate at the end of the year. Non-monetary items that are measured in terms of historical cost in a foreign currency are translated using the exchange rate at the date of the transaction. Foreign currency differences on non-current receivables (including those related to financing), loans and other borrowings are recognized as finance income and expenses, except for the foreign currency differences on loans which are part of a net investment hedge which are recognized in other comprehensive income and other foreign currency differences as a result of transactions are recognized in the related items within the operating result.
Joint ventures and associated companies with a functional currency other than the presentation currency of the Group are translated according to the aforementioned method, taking into account that assets and liabilities of these interests are not consolidated.

AANNNNUUAALLRREEPPOORRTT22001177­--BBOSOSKKALAILSIS

7799

3.4 DERIVATIVES AND HEDGING

then the recoverable amount of the asset is estimated.

It is the policy of the Group to use cash flow hedges to cover Goodwill and intangible assets with an indefinite useful life

all operational currency risks that mainly relate to future cash are tested annually for impairment.

flows from contracts which are denominated in currencies

other than the relevant functional currency and if it is highly probable that they will be realized. Fuel price risks and interest rate risks in future cash flows can be hedged from time to time using specific derivatives.

The recoverable amount of an asset or cash-generating unit (or group of units) is the higher of its value in use and its fair value less costs of disposal. Value in use is based on the estimated future cash flows, discounted to their present value using a pre-

tax discount rate that reflects the current market assessments,

Hedge accounting is applied to the majority of cash flow

the time value of money and the risks specific to the asset or

hedges as follows. On initial designation of the hedge, the

the cash-generating unit.

Group formally documents the relationship between the

hedging instrument(s) and hedged item(s), including the risk management objectives and strategy in undertaking the hedge transaction, together with the methods that will be used to assess the effectiveness of the hedging relationship. The Group

An impairment loss is recognized when the carrying amount of an asset or the cash generating unit to which it belongs exceeds its recoverable amount.

makes an assessment, both at the inception of the hedge relationship as well as on an ongoing basis, of whether the hedging instruments are expected to be `effective' in offsetting the changes in the fair value or cash flows of the respective hedged items during the period for which the hedge is designated, and whether the actual results of each hedge are within a range of 80 - 125 percent. For a cash flow hedge of a forecast transaction, the transaction should be highly

Impairment losses are recognized in the statement of profit or loss. Impairment losses recognized in respect of cash generating units are allocated first to reduce the carrying amount of any goodwill allocated to cash-generating units and, if required, subsequently to reduce the carrying amounts of the other assets (of the cash-generating units) on a pro rata basis.

probable to occur and present an exposure to variations in cash flows that could ultimately affect reported net income.

An impairment loss on goodwill is not reversed. For other assets, an impairment loss is reversed only to the extent that

The application of hedge accounting means that movements in the market value of cash flow hedges not yet settled ­ including results realized on the `rolling forward' of existing

the asset's carrying amount does not exceed the carrying amount that would have been determined, net of depreciation or amortization, if no impairment loss had been recognized.

hedges as a result of differences between the duration of the hedges concerned and the underlying cash flows ­ will be directly added or charged to the hedging reserve in group equity, taking into account the applicable taxation. If a cash flow hedge either expires, is closed or is settled, or the hedge relation with the underlying cash flows can no longer be

For financial assets measured at amortized cost the Group considers evidence of impairment at both an individual asset and a collective level. Assets that are not individually significant are assessed for impairment on an aggregated basis.

considered effective, the accumulated result will continue to be recognized in group equity as long as the underlying cash flow is still expected to take place. If and when the underlying cash flow actually takes place, the accumulated result is included directly in the statement of profit or loss. Movements in the market value of cash flow hedges to which no hedge accounting is applied (ineffective cash flow hedges and the ineffective portion of effective cash flow hedges) are included in the statement of profit or loss for the reporting period. Results from settled cash flow hedges and movements in the market value of ineffective cash flow hedges insofar these

An impairment loss for financial assets is calculated as the difference between its carrying amount and the present value of the estimated future cash flows, discounted at the asset's original effective interest rate. Losses are recognized in the statement of profit or loss and are reflected in an allowance account. If the amount of an impairment loss subsequently decreases and the decrease can be related objectively to an event occurring after the impairment was recognized, then the previously recognized impairment loss is reversed through the statement of profit or loss.

AANNNNUUAALLRREEPPOORRTT22001177­ --B BOSOSKKALAILSIS

relate to non-current receivables, loans and other borrowings are recognized as finance income and finance expenses and otherwise in the related items within operating result. The purchase or sale of financial instruments is generally recorded at transaction rate. Derivatives are stated at fair value; attributable transaction costs are recognized in the Statement of Profit or Loss as incurred. Subsequent to initial recognition, derivatives are measured at fair value, and changes therein

An impairment loss in respect of a strategic investment (accounted for using the equity method) is measured by comparing the recoverable amount of the investment with its carrying amount. An impairment loss is recognized in the statement of profit or loss, and is reversed if there has been a favorable change in the estimates used to determine the recoverable amount.

are accounted for as described.

3.6 INTANGIBLE ASSETS

3.5 IMPAIRMENT
At each reporting date, the Group reviews the carrying amounts of its non-financial assets (other than inventories and deferred tax assets) to determine whether there is any indication of impairment. If an indication of impairment exists,

Goodwill arises upon acquiring Group companies and joint operations and is calculated as the difference between the acquisition price and the fair value of the assets acquired and liabilities assumed, according to the accounting principles of the Company. Goodwill is allocated to the relevant cashgenerating unit. These cash-generating units represent the

8800

lowest level within the Group at which goodwill is monitored assets in their operational condition are charged to the

for internal management purposes and not exceeding the level Statement of Profit or Loss.

of the Group's operational segments. Goodwill and other

intangible assets are presented net of accumulated

Methods for determining depreciation, useful life and residual

amortization and accumulated impairment losses.

value are reassessed at the end of each financial year and

amended if necessary.

Amortization of trademarks valued at acquisition takes place

over 10 years, while the amortization of customer portfolios Leases in terms of which the Group assumes substantially all

and contracts valued at acquisition takes place over the

the risks and rewards of ownership are classified as finance

remaining useful life (at acquisition date, determined to be

leases. Upon initial recognition, the leased asset is classified

between 7 and 22 years). Methods for determining

as a tangible fixed asset and is measured at an amount equal

amortization and useful life are reassessed at the end of each to the lower of its fair value and the present value of the

financial year and amended if necessary.

minimum lease payments. Subsequent to initial recognition,

the asset is accounted for in accordance with the accounting

Goodwill and intangible assets with an indefinite useful life policy applicable to that asset.

are not amortized, but are tested for impairment every year or

in case of an indication of impairment (see note 3.5). In

Other leases are operating leases which are not recognized in

respect of strategic investments, the carrying amount of

the Group's consolidated statement of financial position and

goodwill is included in the carrying amount of the investment. are disclosed as part of the other commitments and contingent

liabilities.

Other intangible assets acquired in a business combination

are capitalized only when it is probable that future economic 3.8 STRATEGIC INVESTMENTS

FINFIANNACINACILASLT SATTEATMEEMNETSNT2S0210717

benefits embodied in an asset, will flow to the Group and the Strategic investments are initially recognized at cost including

cost of the asset can be reliably measured. Other intangible the goodwill determined at acquisition date. Subsequently

assets with a finite useful life are stated at cost less

strategic investments are accounted for using the equity

accumulated amortization and accumulated impairment

method, adjusted for differences with the accounting principles

losses.

of the Group, less any accumulated impairment losses. If the

Group's share of losses exceeds the carrying amount of the

Expenditure on research activities, undertaken with the

strategic investments, the carrying amount is reduced to zero

prospect of gaining new scientific or technical knowledge and and the recognition of further losses is discontinued except to

understanding, is expensed as incurred.

the extent that the Group has incurred legal or constructive

obligations or made payments on behalf of the strategic

3.7 PROPERTY, PLANT AND EQUIPMENT

investments. Strategic investments also include the amounts

Property, plant and equipment are stated at cost less

invested by the Group in joint ventures and associated

accumulated depreciation calculated from the date of

companies by means of interest-bearing loans.

commissioning and accumulated impairment losses. The cost

price is based on the purchase price and/or the internally

3.9 NON-CURRENT RECEIVABLES

generated cost based on directly attributable expenses. The Non-current receivables are held on a long-term basis and/or

depreciation, taking into account an assumed residual value, until maturity and are carried at amortized cost. Accumulated

is calculated over the estimated remaining useful lives

impairment losses are deducted from the carrying amount.

assigned to the various categories of assets. Modifications and

capacity enhancing investments are also capitalized at cost and amortized over the remaining life of the asset. Property, plant and equipment under construction are included in the Statement of Financial Position on the basis of installments paid, including interest during construction. In the event that property, plant and equipment consists of components with different useful lives, such components are accounted for as separate items.

3.10 FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS AVAILABLE FOR SALE
Financial instruments available for sale include equity investments (certificates on shares) and are recognized initially at fair value increased with transaction costs. After first recognition, financial instruments available for sale are subsequently measured at fair value with unrealized gains or losses recognized in other comprehensive income. At derecognition or reclassification to associated companies, any cumulative unrealized result is recycled to and recognized in

AANNNNUUAALLRREEPPOORRTT22001177­--BBOSOSKKALAILSIS

Buildings are depreciated over periods ranging from 10 to 30 the statement of profit or loss. In case of impairment, the

years. The depreciation periods for components of the

cumulative loss is reclassified from the other comprehensive

majority of the floating and other construction materials range income to the statement of profit or loss.

from 5 to 30 years. Furniture and other fixed assets are depreciated over a period between 3 and 10 years. Land is not depreciated. The wear of dredging equipment is highly dependent on unpredictable project-specific combinations of soil conditions, material to be processed, maritime circumstances, and the intensity of the deployment of the equipment. As a result of these erratic and time-independent

3.11 INVENTORIES
Inventories, which mainly consist of fuel, auxiliary materials and spare parts, are stated at the lower of cost and net realizable value. Net realizable value is the estimated selling price in the ordinary course of business, less the estimated costs of disposal.

patterns, the maintenance and repair expenses to keep the

8811

3.12 DUE FROM AND DUE TO CUSTOMERS

3.15 SHARE CAPITAL

Due from and due to customers concerns the gross amount yet Ordinary shares are classified as equity. Incremental costs

to be charged which is expected to be received from

directly attributable to the issue of ordinary shares are

customers for contractual work performed up to the reporting recognized as a deduction from equity, net of any tax effects.

date (hereinafter: `work in progress') and services rendered Transaction costs directly attributable to share buy backs are

(mainly salvage work). Work in progress is valued at cost of recognized as a deduction from equity, net of any tax effects.

the work performed, plus a part of the expected results upon

completion of the project in proportion to the progress made 3.16 INTEREST-BEARING BORROWINGS

and less progress billings, advances and, if applicable,

Interest-bearing borrowings are liabilities to financial

provisions for losses. Provisions are recognized for expected institutions. At initial recognition, interest-bearing borrowings

losses on work in progress as soon as they are foreseen, and are stated at fair value less transaction costs. Subsequently,

deducted from the cost price; if necessary, any profits already interest-bearing borrowings are stated at amortized cost with

recognized are reversed. Revenue from additional work is

any difference between cost and redemption value being

included in the overall contract revenue if the customer has

recognized in the statement of profit or loss over the period of

accepted the sum involved. Claims and incentives are

the borrowings using the original effective interest rate.

included in construction work in progress if they are virtually

certain based upon negotiations with the customer. Liquidated 3.17 EMPLOYEE BENEFITS

damages are accounted for if the Group expects that the client Defined contribution pension plans

is entitled to these liquidated damages and will deduct these A defined contribution pension plan is a post-employment

from contract revenue. The cost price includes project costs, benefit scheme under which the Group pays fixed

consisting of payroll costs, materials, costs of subcontracted contributions into a separate pension fund or an insurance

work, cost of local representatives, rental charges and

company. The Group has no legal or constructive obligation to

maintenance costs for the equipment used and other project pay further amounts if the pension fund or insurance company

costs. The rates applied are based on the expected average has insufficient funds to pay employee benefits in connection

occupation in the long run. The progress of a project is

with services rendered by the employee in the current period

determined on the basis of the proportion that contract cost or prior periods. Obligations for contributions to defined

incurred for work performed to date bear to estimated total

contribution pension plans are recognized as an employee

cost. Profits are not recognized unless a reliable estimate can benefit expense as part of the personnel expenses in the

be made of the result upon completion of the project. The

statement of profit or loss when they are owed. Prepaid

balance of the value of work in progress, progress billings and contributions are recognized as an asset. Contributions to a

advance payments is determined for each project. It is

defined contribution pension plan payable more than 12

assessed for each project whether the work in progress relates months after the period during which the employee rendered

to an asset or a liability. These assets are recognized in the the services, are discounted.

statement of financial position as `due from customers' and as

liabilities as `due to customers'.

Defined benefit pension plans

A defined benefit pension plan is every post-employment

Salvage work that is completed at the statement of financial benefit plan other than a defined contribution plan. For each

position date but for which the final proceeds are not yet

separate defined benefit pension plan, the net asset or liability

determined between parties is recognized at expected

is determined as the balance of the discounted value of the

proceeds taking into account the estimation uncertainty less future payments to employees and former employees, less the

progress billings and advances. For expected losses on

fair value of plan assets. The calculations are done by

salvage work, provisions are recognized as soon as they are qualified actuaries using the projected unit credit method. The

foreseen.

discount rate equals the yield on high-quality corporate bonds

as at the date of the statement of financial position, with the

3.13 TRADE AND OTHER RECEIVABLES

period to maturity of the bonds approximating the duration of

Trade and other receivables are stated initially at fair value the liability. If the calculation results in a positive balance for

and subsequently at amortized cost less accumulated

the group, the asset is included up to an amount equal to any

impairment losses, such as doubtful debts. Amortized cost is unrecognized past service pension costs and the discounted

determined using the original effective interest rate.

value of economic benefits in the form of possible future

refunds or lower future pension premiums from the fund. In

3.14 CASH AND CASH EQUIVALENTS

calculating the discounted value of economic benefits, the

AANNNNUUAALLRREEPPOORRTT22001177­ --B BOSOSKKALAILSIS

Cash and cash equivalents consist of cash and bank balances, lowest possible financing obligations are taken into account as

deposits with terms of no more than three months or that

applicable to the individual plans in force within the Group.

qualify as highly liquid investments that are readily convertible An economic benefit is receivable by the Group if it can be

and which are subject to insignificant risks of change in value. realized within the period to maturity of the plan or upon

The explanatory notes disclose the extent to which cash and settlement of the scheme's obligations. Actuarial gains and

cash equivalents are not freely available as a result of transfer losses, including any movements in limits on net pension

restrictions, joint control or other legal restrictions. Bank

assets, are recognized in the unrecognized results within the

overdrafts are included as a component of cash and cash

statement of other comprehensive income. If plan benefits are

equivalents for the purpose of the consolidated statement of changed or if a plan is amended, past service costs or a

cash flows.

resulting curtailment profit or loss is recognized directly in the

statement of profit or loss. The Group recognizes profit or

8822
losses on the settlement of defined benefit plans at the time of settlement.
Short-term employee benefits Short-term employee benefit obligations are measured on an undiscounted basis and are expensed when the related service is provided.
A liability is recognized for the amount expected to be paid under short-term cash bonus or profit-sharing plans if the Group has a present legal or constructive obligation to pay this amount as a result of past services provided by the employee, and the obligation can be estimated reliably.

Provisions for reorganization costs are recognized when the Group has a detailed formal plan for the restructuring and has announced its main features to those affected by it at the date of the statement of financial position or when the execution of the plan has commenced.
Provisions for warranties are recognized based on the best estimate of the expected cash outflows or cost of repair to settle contractually agreed warranties during the defect notification period for completed projects. The carrying amount of these provisions is estimated based on common industry practice and the Group's experience with warranty claims for relevant projects.

FINFIANNACINACILASLT SATTEATMEEMNETSNT2S0210717

Other long-term employee benefits Other long-term employee benefits mainly consist of jubilee benefits. The calculation of these liabilities is executed according to the `projected unit credit' method, using the actuarial assumptions for the predominant defined benefit plan.
Remuneration plans Members of the Board of Management and some senior employees participate in a bonus plan that is based on the development of the share price, whereby the bonus is distributed in cash. The fair value of the amount payable over the year is recognized as personnel expenses in the statement of profit or loss, with a corresponding increase in liabilities. The liability is remeasured each reporting date and at settlement date. Any changes in the fair value of the liability are recognized as personnel expenses in the statement of profit or loss.
EU-IFRS expenses regarding the remuneration of the Board of Management include the amounts paid, payable and accrued for annual salaries and remuneration, pension plans, shortterm and long-term variable remunerations and other reimbursements. Up to and including 2016 pension expenses were based on actuarially determined service costs and as of 2017, following a change in the pension scheme, pension expenses are based on pension premiums paid or due. The short-term and long-term variable remuneration expenses of the Board of Management, based on EU-IFRS, include the charge that relates to the short-term variable part for targets for the reporting year and the charge for the long-term variable part for targets that, until the actual payment is determined by the Remuneration Committee, are based on the assumption that the performance of the Board of Management is on target. This charge also includes any changes to the amounts accrued in previous years.
3.18 PROVISIONS
Provisions are determined on the basis of estimates of future outflows of economic benefits relating to operational activities for legal or constructive obligations of an uncertain size or with an uncertain settlement date that arise from past events and for which a reliable estimate can be made. Provisions are discounted insofar as the difference between the discounted value and nominal value is material. Provisions, if applicable, relate amongst other things, to reorganizations, warranties, onerous contracts, soil contamination, legal proceedings and received claims.

A provision for onerous contracts, including contracts for rendering services to customers, is recognized when the expected benefits to be derived by the Group from a contract are lower than the unavoidable cost of meeting its obligations under the contract.
In accordance with the Group's policy and applicable legal requirements, a provision for site restoration in respect of contaminated land, and the related expenses, is recognized if the land is contaminated.
3.19 TRADE AND OTHER PAYABLES
Trade and other payables are recognized initially at fair value and subsequently at (amortized) cost. If the difference between the discounted and nominal value is not material, trade and other payables are stated at cost.
3.20 ASSETS HELD FOR SALE
Assets are classified as held for sale (disposal group) when it is highly probable that they will be recovered primarily through sale rather than through continuing use. Such assets are generally measured at the lower of their carrying amount and fair value less costs to sell. Liabilities related to the assets held for sale are separately recognized as liabilities held for sale. Once classified as held for sale, intangible assets and property, plant and equipment are no longer amortized or depreciated.
3.21 REVENUE
Revenue from the contracting of projects by the Dredging & Inland Infra and Offshore Energy operational segments, excluding sea transport and other related services, mainly consists of the cost price of the work performed during the reporting period, plus a part of the expected result upon completion of the project in proportion to the progress made during the reporting period, and including and/or less the provisions recognized and/ or used and released during the reporting period for expected losses. The applied `percentageof-completion' method is, by nature, based on an estimation process for the allocation of revenue over the duration of the contract. Revenue from additional work is included in the overall contract revenue if the customer has accepted the sum involved. Claims and incentives are recognized if they are virtually certain based on negotiations with the customer. Liquidated damages are recognized, lowering revenues, if the Group expects that the client is entitled to these liquidated damages and will deduct these from contract revenue.

AANNNNUUAALLRREEPPOORRTT22001177­--BBOSOSKKALAILSIS

8833

Revenue from salvage work that is completed at the date of

3.26 FINANCE INCOME AND COSTS

the statement of financial position (part of the operational

Finance income comprises interest received and receivable

segment Towage & Salvage), but for which the proceeds are from third parties, currency gains on financing and

not finally determined between parties, is recognized at

compensating results of negative changes in the fair value of

expected proceeds taking into account the estimation

financial instruments used to hedge interest or currency results

uncertainty. If it is uncertain whether the economic benefits of on the financing concerned (hedged item), for which the

work done or services rendered will flow to the Group, the

results of the hedged item are included in the finance income.

relevant revenue is not recognized.

Interest income is recognized in the statement of profit or loss

as it accrues, using the effective interest rate method.

Revenue also includes revenue from services rendered to third parties during the reporting period. Such services include the rental/hire of equipment and/or personnel, sea transport services and related services of Offshore Energy and the activities of Harbor Towage. Revenues from services are recognized in the statement of profit or loss in proportion to the stage of completion of the work performed at the reporting date. The stage of completion is determined based on assessments of the work performed.
Revenue does not include any taxes on added value.

Finance expenses include interest paid and payable to third parties which are reported using the effective interest method, expenses resulting from early repayments, arrangement fees, currency losses on financing and results of positive changes in fair value of financial instruments used to hedge interest or currency results on the financing concerned (hedged item), for which the results of the hedged item are included in the finance expenses. The interest component of financial lease payments is recognized in the statement of profit or loss using the effective interest rate method.

3.22 OTHER INCOME AND OTHER EXPENSES
Other income and Other expenses mainly consist of book results from disposals and insurance results. If a business combination resulted in a gain on acquisition, this gain is also recognized in Other income.
3.23 RAW MATERIALS, CONSUMABLES, SERVICES AND CONTRACTED WORK
Raw materials, consumables, services and contracted work consist of the cost price of the work performed during the reporting period, excluding personnel expenses, amortization, depreciation and impairments. This item also includes equipment utilization costs, costs of operational leases, general overhead costs, external costs for research and development where not capitalized, currency translation differences, fair value changes of derivatives related to hedging foreign currency effects of projects, and other results/late results.
3.24 PERSONNEL EXPENSES
Personnel expenses consist of wages and salaries for own personnel and the related social security charges and pension costs, including paid and accrued contributions for defined contribution pension plans and movements in assets and liabilities from defined benefit plans including curtailments and settlements, insofar as applicable, and excluding actuarial gains and losses and the limits on net pension plan assets added or charged directly to group equity.
3.25 LEASE PAYMENTS
Payments made under operating leases are recognized in profit or loss on a straight-line basis over the term of the lease. Lease incentives received are recognized as an integral part of the total lease expense, over the term of the lease. Minimum lease payments made under finance leases are apportioned between the finance expense and the reduction of the outstanding lease liability. The finance expense is allocated to each period during the lease term so as to produce a constant periodic rate of interest on the remaining balance of the lease liability.

Borrowing costs not directly attributable to the acquisition, construction or production of a qualifying asset are recognized in the statement of profit or loss.
3.27 SHARE IN RESULT OF JOINT VENTURES AND ASSOCIATED COMPANIES
Share in result of joint ventures and associated companies comprises the share in the results after taxation of the strategic investments (see note 3.2.3). It includes interest income resulting from capital invested in joint ventures and associated companies by means of interest-bearing loans.
3.28 TAXATION / DEFERRED INCOME TAX ASSETS AND LIABILITIES
Taxation is calculated on the basis of the result before taxation for the reporting period, taking into account the applicable tax provisions and tax rates, and also includes adjustments on taxation from prior reporting periods and movements in deferred taxes recognized in the reporting period. Taxation is included in the statement of profit or loss unless it relates to items recognized directly in equity, in which case taxation is included in equity. Income tax expenses also include the corporate income tax levied on deemed profit determined by revenue (withholding tax). Temporary differences are accounted for in deferred tax assets and/or deferred tax liabilities. Deferred tax assets are only recognized to the extent that it is probable that taxable profit will be available for realization in the foreseeable future. Deferred tax assets are reviewed at each reporting date and are reduced to the extent that it is no longer probable that the related tax benefit will be realized. Deferred tax assets and liabilities are offset if there is a legally enforceable right to do so, and if they relate to income taxes levied by the same tax authority on the same taxable entity or on different tax entities, but provided there is an intention to settle the tax liabilities and assets on a net basis or the tax assets and liabilities will be realized simultaneously. Deferred income tax assets and liabilities are recognized at nominal value. Additional (income) taxes that arise from the distribution of dividend are recognized at the same time that the liability to pay the related dividend is recognized.

AANNNNUUAALLRREEPPOORRTT22001177­ --B BOSOSKKALAILSIS

8844

3.29 EARNINGS PER SHARE
The Group discloses earnings per ordinary share as well as diluted earnings per ordinary share. Earnings per ordinary share is calculated based on the result attributable to the Group's shareholders divided by the calculated average number of issued ordinary shares during the reporting period,

Trade and other receivables The fair value of trade and other receivables, other than due from customers, is estimated as the present value of future cash flows, discounted at the market rate of interest at the reporting date.

taking into account any shares that have been issued or

Share-based payment transactions

repurchased during the reporting period. In calculating the

The fair value is determined based on quoted prices.

diluted earnings per share the result attributable to the Group's

shareholders and the average number of issued ordinary shares are adjusted for all potentially diluting effects on ordinary shares.

Derivatives The fair value of derivatives is based on the estimated amount to be paid or received for a settlement of the contract as at the

3.30 DIVIDEND
Dividends are recognized as a liability in the period in which they are declared.

reporting date taking into account the actual interest rate and the credit rating of the counterparty. The fair value is based on broker quotes tested for reasonableness by discounting estimated future cash flows based on the terms and maturity of

3.31 DETERMINATION OF FAIR VALUE
A number of the Group's accounting policies and disclosures

each contract and using market interest rates for a similar instrument at the measurement date.

require the determination of fair value, for both financial and non-financial assets and liabilities. Fair value is determined for measurement and/or disclosure purposes based on the following methods:

Non-derivative financial liabilities Fair value, which is determined for disclosure purposes, is calculated based on the present value of future principal and interest cash flows, discounted at the market rate of interest at

Intangible assets

the reporting date.

The fair value of other intangible assets recorded as a result of a business combination is based on the discounted cash flows expected to be derived from the use and eventual sale of the assets.

Fair value hierarchy
Assets and liabilities for which fair value is measured or disclosed in the financial statements are categorized within the fair value hierarchy as follows:

FINFIANNACINACILASLT SATTEATMEEMNETSNT2S0210717

Financial assets available for sale The fair value of the financial assets available for sale is determined by quoted prices.
Strategic investments Where relevant, the fair value of strategic investments is determined or disclosed based on quoted prices or business valuations.

 Level 1: quoted prices (unadjusted) in active markets for identical assets or liabilities;
 Level 2: inputs other than quoted prices included within Level
1 that are observable for the asset or liability, either directly (i.e. as prices) or indirectly (i.e. derived from prices).  Level 3: inputs for the asset or liability that are not based on
observable market data (unobservable inputs).

Property, plant and equipment The fair value of property, plant and equipment recognized as a result of a business combination is based on market values. The market value of property is the estimated amount for which a property could be exchanged on the date of valuation between a willing buyer and a willing seller in an arm's length transaction, after proper marketing wherein each party acted knowledgeably, prudently and without compulsion.

3.32 CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS
The consolidated statement of cash flows is drawn up using the indirect method. Cash is defined as cash and cash equivalents including bank overdrafts as presented in the explanatory notes to the cash and cash equivalents. Cash flows are presented separately in the statement of cash flows as cash flows from operating activities, investing activities and financing activities. The cash flows in the statement of cash flows also included the cash flows, if any, related to the disposal group.

AANNNNUUAALLRREEPPOORRTT22001177­--BBOSOSKKALAILSIS

8855
4. SEGMENT REPORTING
The Group recognizes three operational segments which comprise the divisions of the Group as described below. These divisions offer different products and services and are managed separately because they require different strategies. Each of the divisions reports on a quarterly basis, by means of internal management reporting to the Board of Management.
The following is a brief summary of the activities of the operational segments:
 Dredging & Inland Infra Traditionally, dredging is the core activity of the Group. It involves all activities required to remove silt, sand and other layers from the seabed and river bed and in some cases using it elsewhere where possible, for example for coastal protection or land reclamation. The services provided also include the construction and maintenance of ports and waterways, and coastal defense and riverbank protection, as well as associated specialist services such as underwater rock fragmentation. In addition, the Group is active in the extraction of raw materials using dredging techniques and dry earthmoving. In the Netherlands, the Group also operates as a contractor of dry infrastructure projects. This involves the design, preparation (by means of dry earthmoving) and execution of large-scale civil infra works, such as the construction of roads and railroads, bridges, dams, viaducts and tunnels. These activities include performing specialist works such as soil improvement and land remediation.
 Offshore Energy With the offshore contracting capabilities and services the Group supports activities of the international energy sector, including oil and gas companies and providers of renewable energy such as wind power. The Group is involved in the engineering, construction, maintenance and decommissioning of oil and LNGimport/export facilities, offshore platforms, pipelines and cables and offshore wind farms. In performing these activities the Group applies its expertise in the areas of heavy transport, lift and installation work, as well as diving and ROV services complemented with dredging, offshore pipeline installation, rock installation, offshore cable installation and marine survey activities. The acquired offshore activities of Gardline have been part of this segment since 15 August 2017. In the previous financial year, as of 1 July 2016 the offshore activities acquired by VolkerWessels, consisting of VSI, Stemat and VBMS (expanding the Group's share in VBMS from 50% to 100%), were included in this segment.
 Towage & Salvage In ports around the world assistance is provided to incoming and outgoing ocean-going vessels through the Group's joint ventures Keppel Smit Towage, Saam Smit Towage and Kotug Smit Towage. In addition, a full range of services for the operation and management of onshore and offshore terminals is offered through its strategic joint venture Smit Lamnalco. These services include assistance with the berthing and unberthing of tankers at oil and LNG terminals as well as additional support services. The versatile fleet of over 400 vessels ­ including oil and chemical tankers, container ships, reefers, RoRo ships and mixed cargo ships ­ provides assistance in around 100 ports and terminal locations in 35 countries. SMIT Salvage provides marine salvage-related services and assistance to vessels in distress and is able to act at anytime and anywhere in the world. It is able to do so by operating out of four locations which are strategically situated in relation to the main international shipping routes: Houston, Cape Town, Rotterdam and Singapore. Wreck removal of sunken ships and offshore platforms almost always takes place at locations where the wreck forms an obstruction to traffic or presents an environmental hazard.
 Segments The operational segments are monitored based on the segment result (operating result) and EBITDA. The segment result and EBITDA are used to measure the performance of operational segments, both between segments and compared to other companies in the same industry. Inter-operational segment services, if any, take place on an arm's length basis. In the reporting period there were no material inter-operational segment services. EBITDA is defined as being the segment result before depreciation, amortization and impairments. In 2016 the Group reported its share in Fugro N.V. as an associated company until it was reclassified as an available-for-sale investment in December 2016. The Group sold its remaining share in Fugro N.V. in the first quarter of 2017. The net investment in Fugro N.V. and related results were reported under Holding & Eliminations.

AANNNNUUAALLRREEPPOORRTT22001177­ --B BOSOSKKALAILSIS

8866 4.1 OPERATIONAL SEGMENTS
2017 Revenue
EBITDA
Share in result of strategic investments Operating result (EBIT) Non-allocated finance income and expenses Non-allocated income tax expenses Net Group profit / loss (-)
Carrying amount of strategic investments Investments in property, plant and equipment Depreciation on property, plant and equipment Amortization of intangible assets

DREDGING & INLAND INFRA
1,298,317 219,055 3,606 110,488
15,495 143,044 108,567
-

OFFSHORE ENERGY
966,718 221,121
256 85,020
59,244 207,898 126,619
9,482

TOWAGE &

HOLDING &

SALVAGE ELIMINATIONS

100,463

- 28,293

35,086

- 38,654

26,060 32,803

1,098 - 43,266

702,094 444
2,283 -

102 3,293 4,612
-

GROUP 2,337,205
436,608
31,020 185,045 - 12,925 - 21,677 150,443
776,935 354,679 242,081
9,482

FI FNIANNACINCAILASLTSATTEATMEEMNETNST2S0210717

2016 Revenue

DREDGING & INLAND INFRA
1,164,471

EBITDA

222,975

Share in result of strategic investments before impairments, excluding Fugro Impact of Fugro (note 5.2) Revaluation result of investment in VBMS Holding B.V. prior to business combination Book result of Kotug Smit Towage
Operating result (before impairment losses) Impairment losses, including within joint ventures Result after impairments (before interest and tax expenses) Non-allocated finance income and expenses Non-allocated income tax expenses Net Group profit / loss (-)

3,612
119,653

Carrying amount of strategic investments
Investments in property, plant and equipment
Depreciation on property, plant and equipment Reversal impairment losses on property, plant and equipment Amortization of intangible assets Impairment losses on property, plant and equipment Impairment losses on goodwill Impairment losses in joint ventures

4,180
108,727
104,569 - 1,247 16,530 -

OFFSHORE ENERGY
1,333,723

TOWAGE &

HOLDING &

SALVAGE ELIMINATIONS

121,352

- 23,220

374,749

55,069

7,712

2,175
209,500

35,541
48,789

39 - 30,094
39,839 33,974
6,624

55,493
65,973
157,078 - 58
8,229 338,303 382,269
-

767,150
2,261
6,280 -
7,957 -
94,155

221
5,122
856 -
232 3,427
-

As required by IFRS, the information as presented above reconciles to the internal management information of the Board of Management. In measuring the financial performance of operational segments, certain line items in 2016, relating to impairments and the impact of Fugro, were presented differently in the internal management information compared to the EU-IFRS consolidated financial statements.
In the EU-IFRS Consolidated Statement of Profit or Loss the 2016 Result from operating activities (EBIT) shows a loss of EUR 458.1 million and includes impairment losses of EUR 842.6 million, including impairment losses accounted for within joint ventures. The Operating result (before impairment losses) presented in the comparative table above shows a profit of EUR 384.6 million profit and does not include these impairment charges. The impairment losses 2016 are specified for each operational segment in the table above.

GROUP
2,596,326
660,505
41,367 - 30,094
39,839 33,974
384,566 - 842,641 - 458,075
- 71,315 - 32,360 - 561,750
827,044
182,083
268,783 - 1,305 8,461
366,217 382,269
94,155

AANNNNUUAALLRREEPPOORRTT22001177­--BBOSOSKKALAILSIS

8877
Also, EU-IFRS defines the Share in result of joint ventures and associated companies and these are presented as such in the comparative Consolidated Statement of Profit or Loss for 2016 showing a loss of EUR 82.9 million. In the comparative table above the Share in result of joint ventures and associates amounts to EUR 41.4 million profit and excludes both the impact of Fugro amounting to a loss of EUR 30.1 million in 2016 as our share in the impairment loss of EUR 94.2 million in 2016 as reported by joint ventures. In the comparative table above these are reported as separate line items, under Impact of Fugro and Impairment losses in joint ventures, respectively.
In accordance with the presentation of our share in the impairments recognized by joint ventures and associated companies in the management information on the line impairments, the EBITDA in the management information defined as operational results before depreciation, amortization and impairments is EUR 94 million higher in 2016 compared to the consolidated financial statements for that financial year (EBIT before depreciation, amortization and impairments as disclosed in the Consolidated Statement of Profit or Loss).

5. BUSINESS COMBINATIONS AND OTHER SIGNIFICANT TRANSACTIONS
5.1 ACQUISITION OF GARDLINE GROUP
On 15 August 2017 the Group acquired control over Gardline Holdings Ltd, United Kingdom, through the acquisition of all its outstanding shares. This transaction is classified as a business combination and is included as such in the consolidation.

Gardline's main activities include marine geophysical surveys, offshore geotechnical services and environmental surveys. With the acquisition the Group strengthens its existing survey activities and becomes a specialist provider of subsea geotechnical survey with an exposure to the renewables market and the early cyclical oil and gas market.

Since obtaining control on 15 August 2017, Gardline has contributed EUR 24.9 million to Group revenue. The acquisition has resulted in a positive impact on the net result of approximately EUR 14.6 million, comprising a net-profit of EUR 0.8 million (excluding restructuring expenses), a gain from the bargain purchase of EUR 24.1 million (see below), restructuring costs of EUR 9.2 million and transaction costs relating to the acquisition of EUR 1.2 million (see below). Had the Group acquired Gardline at the beginning of the year, management estimates that revenue for the reporting period would have totaled EUR 2,386 million and resulted in a net Group profit of EUR 145.7 million. In determining these amounts management assumed the same fair value adjustments as at the date of acquisition.

Consideration paid
The consideration paid amounted to GBP 34.0 million (EUR 37.4 million) in cash.

Identifiable assets acquired and liabilities assumed
As a result of the acquisition the following identifiable assets were acquired and liabilities assumed:

At 15 August 2017
Intangible assets Property, plant and equipment Joint Ventures and associated companies Non-current financial asset Deferred tax assets Inventory Current receivables and other current assets Cash, cash equivalents and bank overdrafts Deferred tax liabilities Provisions Interest-bearing borrowings Current liabilities Non-controlling interests Net amount of identified assets acquired and liabilities assumed

1,759 62,521
5,888 82
622 3,976 33,063 2,578 - 211 - 2,790 - 17,381 - 28,268 - 333 61,506

AANNNNUUAALLRREEPPOORRTT22001177­ --B BOSOSKKALAILSIS

8888
The following valuation methods were used in assessing the fair value of identified, material, assets and liabilities:
 The fair value of the property and vessels is mainly determined based on a market approach performed by an external valuator.
 The fair value of other material assets identified and liabilities assumed, including creditors and debtors, is based on the market value at which the assets or liabilities are or could be settled with contractual parties.
Net accounts receivables, under current receivables and other current assets, consist of a gross amount of EUR 13.6 million, of which an amount of EUR 1.1 million was deemed irrecoverable at the date of acquisition.

Bargain purchase
The business combination resulted in a gain on acquisition, recognized in Other income in the Consolidated Statement of Profit or Loss, because the net amount of assets acquired and liabilities assumed is higher than the consideration paid. A gain was anticipated, to a certain extent, given the financial position of Gardline and agreement with the seller that expenses required for the restructuring of Gardline would be borne by the Group. These expenses did not qualify as an assumed liability under IFRS at 15 August 2017. Before recognizing the gain the Group reassessed the completeness of assets identified and liabilities assumed, and also reassessed the underlying assumptions and measurement techniques.

At 15 August 2017
Total consideration paid at 15 August 2017 Less: Net amount of identified assets acquired and liabilities assumed Result from bargain purchase of business combination

37,373 - 61,506 - 24,133

FI FNIANNACINCAILASLTSATTEATMEEMNETNST2S0210717

No deferred tax liability was recognized in the Consolidated Statement of Profit or Loss with respect to the profit relating to the bargain purchase of this business combination amounting to EUR 24.1 million. This result is tax exempt.

Transactions related to the acquisition
The Group incurred costs of EUR 1.2 million for the services of external advisors relating to this transaction. These costs are included in the Consolidated Statement of Profit or Loss in the line `Raw materials, consumables, services and subcontracted work' and are incorporated in the segment result under Offshore Energy.

5.2 DIVESTMENT OF STAKE IN FUGRO N.V.
As at 31 December 2016 the investment of 9.4% in Fugro N.V. was reported in the consolidated balance sheet as a financial instrument available-for-sale under Non-current financial assets. On 28 February 2017 the Group sold its remaining investment in Fugro N.V. through an accelerated book-build at EUR 14.50 per share. The net proceeds amounted to EUR 114.1 million, which was EUR 0.9 million lower than the cost price. As a result, the impact of Fugro N.V. on the net result in 2017 was a loss of EUR 0.9 million (2016: loss of EUR 30.1 million).

5.3 ASSETS AND LIABILITIES HELD FOR SALE
At year-end 2017 no activities were classified as held for sale. The assets and liabilities of activities held for sale at year-end 2016 are summarized as follows:

2017

2016

Property, plant and equipment Receivables and other non-current assets Cash and cash equivalents Assets of disposal groups

-

1,244

-

2,777

-

5,606

-

9,627

Provisions Creditors and other current liabilities Liabilities of disposal groups

-

450

-

7,259

-

7,709

AANNNNUUAALLRREEPPOORRTT22001177­--BBOSOSKKALAILSIS

8899
At year-end 2016 the assets and liabilities held for sale related to the subsidiary Aannemingsmaatschappij Markus B.V., which was sold on 12 January 2017. The transaction did not result in a book result.

5.4 BUSINESS COMBINATIONS AND OTHER SIGNIFICANT TRANSACTIONS IN PRIOR YEAR
On 1 July 2016 the Group obtained control over the maritime and offshore wind energy-related activities of VolkerWessels for a total cash consideration of EUR 180 million. The net change in cash and cash equivalents, taking into account the cash and cash equivalents held by the acquired companies, amounted to EUR 78 million. Before this business combination, the Group's share of 50% in VBMS was recognized as a joint venture. Under IFRS this transaction is accounted for as a sale of the 50% share in VBMS, on which a gain of EUR 39.8 million was recognized in the Statement of Profit or Loss, and subsequent an acquisition of a 100% subsidiary. The goodwill arising from this acquisition amounts to EUR 154.9 million. The contribution of this business combination to the Group in 2016 was EUR 292 million to revenue and EUR 14 million to net profit.

On 31 March 2016 the Group obtained control over the German dredging activities of STRABAG Wasserbau GmbH for a cash consideration of EUR 70.7 million. The business combination resulted in a gain on acquisition that was recognized in the Statement of Profit or Loss of EUR 11.0 million (net gain: EUR 7.5 million). The contribution to the Group in 2016 was EUR 8.7 million to revenue and EUR 3.0 million to net profit, respectively.

On 7 April 2016 the Group completed the merger of its European harbor towage activities with those of KOTUG International B.V. Each partner has a 50% participation in the established joint venture, Kotug Smit Towage B.V. The Group received proceeds relating to this transaction of EUR 90 million, which are reported as Cash flow from divestment. The book profit arising from the transaction amounted to EUR 34.0 million (EUR 37.0 million after tax).

On 1 December 2016 the Group completed the sale of its investment in SMIT Amandla Marine. The sale resulted in a net consideration of EUR 38.5 million and a book profit of EUR 8.3 million.

6. REVENUE
Revenue from construction contracts (IAS 11) and services on a project base, by analogy, amounts to approximately EUR 1.8 billion (2016: EUR 1.8 billion). This mainly comprises the net revenue of the Dredging & Inland Infra and Offshore Energy (excluding sea transport and related services) segments and typically involves work in progress. Movements in the value of work in progress, consisting of cumulative incurred costs plus profit in proportion to progress less provisions for losses, together with the work done and completed during the reporting period, determine the revenue for these activities. The revenue from services rendered to third parties is primarily realized in the Offshore Energy (including sea transport and related services) and Towage & Salvage operational segments. The revenue from services amounts to approximately EUR 0.5 billion (2016: EUR 0.8 billion).

For projects executed in a joint operation, the segments only report their own share in the revenue and results recognized, resulting in no material related party transactions between segments that need to be eliminated.

Revenue by region can be specified as follows:
The Netherlands Rest of Europe Australia / Asia Middle East Africa North and South America

REVENUE 2017
497,771 856,522 359,024 256,392
84,840 282,656 2,337,205

2016
552,166 1,078,648
283,658 134,555 232,553 314,746 2,596,326

AANNNNUUAALLRREEPPOORRTT22001177­ --B BOSOSKKALAILSIS

A region is determined as the location in which projects are realized and services are provided; for sea transport the region refers to the (nearest) port of arrival of the transport or the project location for offshore installation. A large part of the Group's revenue is generated on projects for a variety of clients in various countries and geographical areas. Because of the often-incidental nature and spread of the contracts none of these clients qualifies structurally as a material client in relation to the total revenue of the Group.

9900
7. OTHER INCOME AND OTHER EXPENSES
Other income mainly relates to the gross result of EUR 24.1 million on the bargain purchase of the Gardline Group (see note 5.1) and the book profits on the disposal of property, plant and equipment of EUR 8.0 million (2016: EUR 4.7 million). Other income in prior year also included a book profit of EUR 34.0 million on the transfer of the European harbor towage activities into the KOTUG SMIT Towage joint venture, the result on the bargain purchase regarding the assets and activities of STRABAG Wasserbau of EUR 11.0 million, the result on the sale of SMIT Amandla Marine amounting to EUR 8.3 million and a reversal of an impairment amounting to EUR 1.3 million.

Other expenses relates to the book losses on the disposal of equipment amounting to EUR 0.7 million (2016: EUR 0.3 million) and EUR 0.9 million relating to the divestment of the remaining share in Fugro N.V. (see note 5.2).

8. RAW MATERIALS, CONSUMABLES, SERVICES AND SUBCONTRACTED WORK
As part of this line item the operating lease costs relating to leased equipment are reported for an amount of EUR 31 million (2016: EUR 34 million).

9. PERSONNEL EXPENSES
Wages and salaries Social security expenses Pension expenses for defined benefit pension plans Pension expenses for defined contribution pension plans

2017
- 370,803 - 35,376 - 1,046 - 39,061
- 446,286

2016
- 373,146 - 37,318 - 24,267 - 16,724
- 451,455

FI FNIANNACINCAILASLTSATTEATMEEMNETSNT2S0210717

A number of senior managers participate in a long-term incentive plan based upon the development of the share price, which is settled on a cash basis. The fair value of the related liability for the year is included as part of the personnel expenses in the statement of profit or loss. The related charge for 2017 amounts to EUR 2.0 million (2016: EUR 0.4 million) and the corresponding liability is EUR 4.8 million (2016: EUR 4.4 million). For the remuneration of the Board of Management and the Supervisory Board refer to note 30.2.
In 2017 reorganization expenses were incurred for an amount of EUR 14.9 million mainly in connection with a head-office rationalization program, of which an amount of EUR 9.6 million is reported under personnel expenses and EUR 5.3 millon under Raw Materials, Consumables, Services and Subcontracted Work. For the restructuring of the Gardline Group an amount of EUR 9.2 million is recognized in 2017 which is fully reported under Raw Materials, Consumables, Services and Subcontracted Work.
In 2016 expenses for reorganization were incurred for an amount of EUR 11.6 million, mainly in connection with the fleet rationalization and related staff reduction.
In 2016 pension expenses for defined benefit pension plans include settlement and curtailment gains amounting to EUR 13.3 million (see note 25).

AANNNNUUAALLRREEPPOORRTT22001177­--BBOSOSKKALAILSIS

9911
10. IMPAIRMENT LOSSES
In 2016 the Group incurred a non-cash impairment loss of EUR 842,6 million of which EUR 382,3 million related to goodwill (see note 15), EUR 366,2 million to property, plant and equipment (see note 16) and EUR 94,2 million to impairment losses in joint ventures, mainly Smit Lamnalco (see note 17). This impairment charge related almost entirely to the services part of the Group's offshore oil and gas activities. In some of the service-related offshore energy market segments there was and still is a structural imbalance between supply and demand, particularly in the heavy marine transport segment. This puts utilization, rates and margins under pressure. In 2017 no material impairment losses were recognized.

11. FINANCE INCOME AND EXPENSES
Interest income on short-term bank deposits Finance income

2017
433 433

2016
1,001 1,001

Interest expenses Expenses prepayment US private placements Change in fair value of (hedging instruments regarding) borrowings Other expenses Finance expenses

- 11,424 -
- 1,934 - 13,358

- 30,014 - 40,264
- 178 - 1,860 - 72,316

Net finance expenses recognized in consolidated statement of profit or loss

- 12,925

- 71,315

Expenses prepayment US private placements in 2016 relates to the early repayment of the 2010 private placements (see note 24) and consisted of make-whole payments of EUR 30.0 million due to noteholders, EUR 9.9 million of expenses relating to the unwinding of the related cross-currency interest rate swaps and the impairment of capitalized transaction costs incorporated in the carrying amount for early repayment of financing of EUR 0.4 million. Following the early repayment the related cross-currency interest rate swaps no longer qualified for hedge accounting.
Amortization relating to other interest-bearing borrowings amounts to EUR 0.5 million (2016: EUR 0.7 million) and commitment fees paid to EUR 1.1 million (2016: EUR 1.0 million). There are no fair value adjustments for interest-bearing borrowings (with regard to hedging instruments) in 2017.
In 2016 an adjustment of EUR 9.9 million was made for a negative effect on foreign currency translation on interest-bearing borrowings and other financing obligations, as well as an equal but opposite amount for foreign currency translations on the related derivatives.

AANNNNUUAALLRREEPPOORRTT22001177­ --B BOSOSKKALAILSIS

9922
12. INCOME TAX EXPENSES
The tax charge declined to EUR 21.7 million (2016: EUR 32.4 million). The effective tax rate was 12.6% (2016, adjusted for impairment charges: 11.1%) and 18.4% if adjusted for the net result from joint ventures and associates and the book profit on the Gardline transaction.

CURRENT INCOME TAX EXPENSES
Current year Adjustment in respect of current income tax regarding prior financial years Reclassification of deferred income taxes regarding prior financial years

2017
- 43,751 13,170 - 2,734
- 33,315

2016
- 54,422 20,351
- 34,071

DEFERRED INCOME TAX EXPENSES
Origination and reversal of temporary differences Reclassification of deferred income taxes regarding prior financial years Movement of recognized tax losses carried forward
TAXATION IN THE CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF PROFIT OR LOSS

9,271 2,734 - 367 11,638
- 21,677

1,819 -
- 108 1,711
- 32,360

FI FNIANNACINCAILASLTSATTEATMEEMNETSNT2S0210717

The operational activities of the Group are subject to various tax regimes with tax rates ranging from 0.0% to 48.0% (2016: 0.0% to 48.0%). These different tax rates, non-deductible expenses, treatment of tax losses, special taxation regimes, adjustments in respect of prior years and results not subject to taxation, result in an effective tax rate in the reporting period of 12.6% (2016: -6,1%). The effective tax rate is calculated as tax charge divided by profit/loss before taxation, as shown in the consolidated statement of profit or loss.

The reconciliation between the Dutch nominal income tax rate and the effective income tax rate is as follows:

2017

2016

Profit/Loss (-) before taxation Impairment losses Profit/Loss (-) before taxation, adjusted

172,120 -
172,120

- 529,390 842,641 313,251

Nominal tax rate in the Netherlands Tonnage tax, withholding tax, other special tax regimes Different statutory taxes for other jurisdictions
Weighted average tax rate

- 43,030
7,542 8,794 - 26,694

25.0%
- 4.3% - 5.1% 15.6%

- 78,313
18,423 2,981
- 56,909

25.0%
- 5.9% - 1.0% 18.1%

Increase (decrease) in tax rate resulting from: Unrecognized income tax losses and temporary differences Recognition of previously unrecognized tax losses
Tax exempted share in results of joint ventures and associated companies (excl. impairments) Tax exempted revaluation results and book results Non-deductible expenses Prior year adjustments

- 6,896 2,577
6,324 5,803 - 15,961 13,170 - 21,677

4.0% - 1.5%
- 3.7% - 3.4%
9.3% - 7.7% 12.6%

- 7,886 3,461
4,191 20,433 - 18,515 20,351 - 34,874

2.5% - 1.1%
- 1.3% - 6.5% 5.9% - 6.5% 11.1%

Tax benefit on impairments of group companies Effective income tax rate

- 21,677

0.0% 12.6%

2,514 - 32,360

- 17.2% - 6.1%

AANNNNUUAALLRREEPPOORRTT22001177­--BBOSOSKKALAILSIS

Tax exempted revaluation results and book results relate to the Gardline transaction (see note 5.1). In 2016 these results mainly relate to the transfer of the European harbor towage activities into the Kotug Smit Towage joint venture, the revaluation of the share in VBMS prior to business combination and the result on the sale of SMIT Amandla Marine.
13. INCOME TAX RECEIVABLE AND PAYABLE
The current income tax receivables and income tax payables relate to the tax positions of the respective Group companies and consist of financial years yet to be settled less withholding taxes or tax refunds.

9933
14. DEFERRED INCOME TAX ASSETS AND LIABILITIES

Intangible assets Property, plant and equipment Due from and due to customers Trade and other receivables Hedging reserve Actuarial gains / losses (-) and asset limitation on defined benefit pension plans Employee benefits Provisions Interest-bearing borrowings Trade and other payables Other assets and liabilities Foreign branch results Income tax losses carried forward
Offsetting of deferred income tax assets and liabilities
Net in the consolidated statement of financial position

BALANCE AS AT 1 JANUARY 2017

Asset

Liability

MOVEMENT IN TEMPORARY DIFFERENCES DURING THE YEAR

Charged (-)/ added
to net profit

Reclassified

Charged to to disposal

equity

group

In / (out) consolida-
tion and business combina-
tions

Currency translation differences

583
330

- 2,165 - 12,397
- 6,857 -2 -

2 8,887 6,308
2 - 330

- 3,257

-

- 211

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

- 13 197 515
5

5,790 4,083 1,287
345 1,291
445 -
414 14,568

- 3,292
- 1,158 - 1,566 - 27,437

- 350 - 1,053
- 96 - 1,024
- 171 - 170 - 367 11,638

1,504 -
- 1,753

- 4,063

4,063

10,505 - 23,374

-

-

- 225

-

-

197

-

585

78

-

-

-

-

-

- 385

-

-

29

-

-

-

-

37

2

-

411

400

BALANCE AS AT 31 DECEMBER 2017

Asset
390
-

Liability
- 2,387 - 3,120
- 34 -
- 3,252

7,069 4,026
897 249 252 308 600
86 13,877

- 3,388
- 370 - 1,163 - 2,336 - 16,050

- 4,367

4,367

9,510 - 11,683

Intangible assets Property, plant and equipment Due from and due to customers Trade and other receivables Hedging reserve Actuarial gains / losses (-) and asset limitation on defined benefit pension plans Employee benefits Provisions Interest-bearing borrowings Trade and other payables Other assets and liabilities Foreign branch results Income tax losses carried forward
Offsetting of deferred income tax assets and liabilities
Net in the consolidated statement of financial position

BALANCE AS AT 1 JANUARY 2016

Asset

Liability

MOVEMENT IN TEMPORARY DIFFERENCES DURING THE YEAR

Charged (-)/ added
to net profit

Charged to equity

Reclass to disposal group

In / (out) consolida-
tion and business combina-
tions

Currency translation differences

2,301
371 -
2,409

- 2,960 - 13,854
- 358 - 17 -

2,742 - 2,445 - 6,637
17 6

- 2,034

4,930
17
-

- 2,149 - 2,259
- 926 - 17
- 268

202 - 487 693
-2 217

BALANCE AS AT 31 DECEMBER 2016

Asset
583
330

Liability
- 2,165 - 12,397
- 6,857 -2 -

11,583 787
1,070 344 546 317 511
20,239

- 5,346
- 566 - 33
- 154 - 9,371 - 1,565
- 34,224

- 8,219

8,219

- 1,530 1,571
1 247 7,847
- 108 1,711

- 5,801 6,881
- 954

12,020

- 26,005

597 208 50 5,802

- 598 344 443 579 - 4,851

8 -1 - 787 - 311 1 - 135 -1 11 - 592

5,790 4,083 1,287
345 1,291
445 -
414 14,568
- 4,063

- 3,292
- 1,158 - 1,566 - 27,437
4,063

10,505

- 23,374

Deferred income tax assets are not recognized as long as it is not probable that economic benefits can be expected in future periods. Deferred income tax assets and liabilities within fiscal unities are offset in the statement of financial position.

AAANNNNNNUUUAALALLRREREPEPPOORORTRTT22020101717­7 --B- BOBSOKSOSAKLKAILSAILSIS

9944
The following movements in deferred income tax assets and liabilities, including applicable income tax rate changes, together with the items they relate to, are recognized in the statement of other comprehensive income:

BEFORE INCOME TAX

2017
INCOME TAX (EXPENSE) BENEFIT

NET OF INCOME TAX

Foreign currency translation differences for foreign operations Fair value of cash flow hedges Actuarial gains / losses (-) and asset limitation on defined benefit pension plans Movement in fair value of investment in Fugro N.V.

- 139,204 12,628 - 9,272 - 357
- 136,205

- 3,257
1,504 -
- 1,753

- 139,204 9,371
- 7,768 - 357
- 137,958

FI FNIANNACINCAILASLTSATTEATMEEMNETSNT2S0210717

Foreign currency translation differences for foreign operations Fair value of cash flow hedges Actuarial gains / losses (-) and asset limitation on defined benefit pension plans Movement in fair value of investment in Fugro N.V.

BEFORE INCOME TAX

2016
INCOME TAX (EXPENSE) BENEFIT

24,776 13,336 - 10,722
357 27,747

- 2,034 1,080
- 954

NET OF INCOME TAX
24,776 11,302 - 9,642
357 26,793

UNRECOGNIZED DEFERRED INCOME TAX ASSETS
Unrecognized deferred income tax assets regarding income tax losses carried forward and/or timing differences of Group companies amounted to EUR 310.2 million (2016: EUR 251.6 million). These deferred income tax assets are not recognized in the statement of financial position as long as recovery through taxable profit or deductible temporary differences before expiration is not probable.

No later than 1 year Later than 1 year and no later than 5 years Later than 5 years

2017

INCOME TAX LOSSES
CARRIED FORWARD

DEDUCTIBLE TEMPORARY DIFFERENCES

4,813 91,761 96,574

203,693 -
9,979 213,672

DISPOSAL GROUP
-

No later than 1 year Later than 1 year and no later than 5 years Later than 5 years

INCOME TAX LOSSES
CARRIED FORWARD

2016
DEDUCTIBLE TEMPORARY DIFFERENCES

1,409 102,578 103,987

140,731
6,863 147,594

DISPOSAL GROUP
-

AANNNNUUAALLRREEPPOORRTT22001177­--BBOSOSKKALAILSIS

9955
15. INTANGIBLE ASSETS

Balance as at 1 January 2017 Cost Accumulated amortization and impairments Carrying amount
Movements Acquired through business combinations Amortization Currency translation differences and other movements
Balance as at 31 December 2017 Cost Accumulated amortization and impairments Carrying amount

GOODWILL
653,323 - 401,307
252,016

OTHER

TOTAL

130,234 - 94,730
35,504

783,557 - 496,037
287,520

-

1,759

-

- 9,482

-

- 2,367

-

- 10,090

1,759 - 9,482 - 2,367 - 10,090

615,737 - 363,721
252,016

128,328 - 102,914
25,414

744,065 - 466,635
277,430

Balance as at 1 January 2016 Cost Accumulated amortization and impairments Carrying amount
Movements Acquired through business combinations Reclassified to Assets held for sale Amortization Impairment losses Currency translation differences and other movements
Balance as at 31 December 2016 Cost Accumulated amortization and impairments Carrying amount

GOODWILL
489,385 -
489,385
154,939 -
- 382,269 - 10,039
- 237,369
653,323 - 401,307
252,016

OTHER
135,131 - 91,236
43,895
103 - 723 - 8,461
690 - 8,391
130,234 - 94,730 35,504

TOTAL
624,516 - 91,236 533,280
155,042 - 723
- 8,461 - 382,269
- 9,349 - 245,760
783,557 - 496,037 287,520

Currency translation differences mainly relate to the goodwill and other intangible assets resulting from the acquisitions of Dockwise and Fairmount, both of which are denominated in USD. The acquiring Group company has the USD as its functional currency, following the USD as functional currency of the acquired Group companies. Following the impairment losses recognized in 2016, as of 2017 currency translation differences do not occur with respect to the carrying amount of goodwill. However, cost and accumulated amortization and impairments are still impacted by translation differences.
15.1 GOODWILL
For the purpose of impairment testing, goodwill is allocated to the cash-generating units (CGU) which represent the lowest level within the Group at which the goodwill is monitored for internal management purposes. This does not exceed the level of Group's operating segments reported in note 4 on Segment reporting.
Goodwill is allocated to the following cash-generating units:

CASH-GENERATING UNIT Offshore Energy Inland Infra Salvage Dredging
Total

OPERATIONAL SEGMENT Offshore Energy Dredging & Inland Infra Towage & Salvage Dredging & Inland Infra

2017 154,939
46,607 36,875 13,595 252,016

2016 154,939
46,607 36,875 13,595 252,016

When conducting impairment tests on goodwill, the recoverable amounts are determined based on value-inuse calculations. Value-in-use is determined by discounting the expected future cash flows from the continuing operations of the CGU.

AANNNNUUAALLRREEPPOORRTT22001177­ --B BOSOSKKALAILSIS

9966
Management projects cash flows based on past trends and estimates of future market developments, cost development and investment plans. For all cash-generating units, these projections factor in market conditions, order book in hand, expected win rates of contracts, expected vessel utilization, rates and revenues, expected cost developments, investment plans and/or industry developments. Key assumptions in the calculation of valuation in use are the growth rate applied to the calculation of the terminal value and to the discount rate used. Cash flows for the CGUs beyond five years are extrapolated using an estimated long-term growth rate of 1.0% (2016: 1.0%). The applicable growth rates do not exceed the long-term average growth rate which may be expected for the activities. The pre-tax discount rates used per CGU are: Offshore Energy 9.1% (2016: 9.4%), Inland Infra 9.0% (2016: 9.6%), Salvage 6.7% (2016: 6.6% ) and Dredging 8.3% (2016: 9.0%). The pre-tax discount rate used for each CGU to discount the pre-tax cash flows for impairment testing is determined through an iterative calculation using the projected post-tax cash flows, expected tax rate for the respective CGUs and a post-tax discount rate for each CGU.
The Group has analyzed sensitivity to a reasonable possible change in the expected future cash flows over the carrying amount, including goodwill, of the CGU (`headroom'). The recoverable amounts for Inland Infra, Salvage and Dredging exceed the carrying amounts of the CGUs with significant headroom.
Since 2016 there has been a structural imbalance between supply and demand in some of our servicerelated offshore energy market segments, particularly within the heavy marine transport segment. This has put utilization, rates and margins under pressure, resulting in a non-cash impairment in 2016, both on the goodwill included in the table above and on the vessels that operate at the lower end of the market (see note 16). An impairment charge of EUR 382 million, based on a value-in-use calculation, was recognized in the previous financial year, setting the headroom at zero with a recoverable amount of EUR 1.4 billion as at 31 December 2016. With the same market conditions in certain market segments but also several investments in other market segments, the impairment test 2017 shows EUR 90 million headroom for the Offshore Energy cash-generating unit (CGU). The sensitivity analysis of the Offshore Energy CGU showed that if the cash flow projections used in the value-in-use calculations would have been 6% lower subsequent to 2018, the recoverable amount would equal its carrying amount. If the estimated pre-tax discount rate for the Offshore Energy CGU would have been 0.5% higher than disclosed above, the recoverable amount would also equal its carrying amount.
15.2 OTHER INTANGIBLE ASSETS
Other intangible assets, which are identified and recognized at fair value in business combinations, consist of tradenames, technology (including software) and favorable contracts. Up to and including 2016 intangible assets included tradenames with an indefinite useful life for an amount of EUR 9.5 million. In December 2017 the Group decided to use Boskalis as the main trade name. Under IFRS this decision required an evaluation of the lifetimes and an impairment test of the value-in-use, which was performed by an external valuator. The test did not result in the recognition of an impairment and resulted in the harmonization of the remaining useful lives of tradenames to 10 years. This change in accounting estimates had no material impact on the net result for 2017 and will not materially impact future years.

FI FNIANNACINCAILASLTSATTEATMEEMNETNST2S0210717

AANNNNUUAALLRREEPPOORRTT22001177­--BBOSOSKKALAILSIS

9977
16. PROPERTY, PLANT AND EQUIPMENT

LAND AND BUILDINGS

FLOATING AND OTHER
CONSTRUCTION EQUIPMENT

OTHER FIXED ASSETS

PROPERTY, PLANT AND EQUIPMENT
UNDER CONSTRUCTION

TOTAL

Balance as at 1 January 2017 Cost Accumulated depreciation and impairment losses Carrying amount

134,885 - 38,926
95,959

4,440,128 - 2,252,202
2,187,926

56,052 - 39,564
16,488

187,518 - 3,823
183,695

4,818,583 - 2,334,515
2,484,068

Movements Investments, including capitalized borrowing cost Acquired through business combinations Put into operation Depreciation Disposals Other movements Currency translation differences
Balance as at 31 December 2017 Cost Accumulated depreciation and impairment losses Carrying amount

257 12,418
- 4,787
- 999 290
1,764 8,943

104,429 50,103
134,145 - 232,479
- 17,706 5,174
- 102,329 - 58,663

142,569 - 37,667 104,902

4,571,996 - 2,442,733
2,129,263

1,470 -
- 4,815 - 686
- 4,185 111
- 8,105
29,578 - 21,195
8,383

248,523 -
- 134,145 -
- 669 - 1,072
- 817 111,820
299,338 - 3,823
295,515

354,679 62,521 -
- 242,081 - 20,060 207
- 101,271 53,995
5,043,481 - 2,505,418
2,538,063

Balance as at 1 January 2016 Cost Accumulated depreciation and impairment losses Carrying amount
Movements Investments, including capitalized borrowing cost Acquired through business combinations Put into operation Impairment losses Reversal of impairment Depreciation Disposals Other movements Reclassified to disposal group Currency translation differences
Balance as at 31 December 2016 Cost Accumulated depreciation and impairment losses Carrying amount

LAND AND BUILDINGS

FLOATING AND OTHER
CONSTRUCTION EQUIPMENT

OTHER FIXED ASSETS

PROPERTY, PLANT AND EQUIPMENT
UNDER CONSTRUCTION

135,342 - 33,967 101,375

4,154,163 - 1,666,050 2,488,113

39,367 - 24,558 14,809

182,746 - 2,154
180,592

39 -
3,741 - 3,427
- 4,453
- 350 - 1,025
- 33 92 - 5,416
134,885 - 38,926 95,959

51,521 164,390 115,952 - 357,126
1,247 - 258,008
- 4,462 - 3,850 - 26,456 16,605 - 300,187
4,440,128 - 2,252,202 2,187,926

7,279 -
- 4,080 58
- 6,322 - 441 6,362
- 1,445 268
1,679
56,052 - 39,564 16,488

123,244 -
- 119,693 - 1,584 - 130 501 765 3,103
187,518 - 3,823
183,695

The Group reviews the (expected) utilization and operational results of the main units of the fleet to determine potential impairments and adjustments of remaining useful life on an annual basis. In 2017 this resulted in the testing of a limited number of specific units and the recognition of an additional depreciation charge of EUR 2.0 million. Of the impairment charge recognized in 2016 of EUR 366 million which mainly related to Offshore Energy vessels, EUR 115 million related to assets that were valued at fair value less costs to sell (fair value hierarchy: level 3) and was mainly determined by an external valuator and based on scrap values for certain assets that were to be taken out of operation, and EUR 251 million related to assets that were valued at value-in-use. Pre-tax discount rates used in the discounted cash flow models for the useful life of the main vessels vary from 7.0% - 7.6%. Note 4.1 discloses impairments in 2016 recognized at each operational segment.

TOTAL
4,511,618 - 1,726,729 2,784,889
182,083 164,390
- 366,217
1,305 - 268,783
- 5,383 1,988 - 27,934 17,730 - 300,821
4,818,583 - 2,334,515 2,484,068

AANNNNUUAALLRREEPPOORRTT22001177­ --B BOSOSKKALAILSIS

9988
In 2017 the Group has not reversed any material impairment losses (2016: EUR1.3 million). In 2017 and 2016 the capitalized financing costs of investments recognized amounted to zero.
In line with the characteristics of the Group's activities, property, plant and equipment can be deployed on a worldwide scale. As a consequence, segmentation of property, plant and equipment into geographical areas would not provide any additional relevant information.
17. JOINT VENTURES AND ASSOCIATED COMPANIES
The Group participates in a number of strategic joint ventures and associated companies of which the activities correspond with, or provide related services to its own activities. The activities and risks of these joint ventures and associated companies are similar to the activities of the Group. A number of projects, or related activities, within the Dredging & Inland Infra operational segment are placed in private companies, the most important of which is SAAone Holding B.V. (a public private partnership (PPP) in the Netherlands). The Offshore Energy operational segment includes the strategic investments Asian Lift Pte. Ltd. (operation and rental of floating cranes) and VBMS until 30 June 2016. With effect from 1 July 2016 VBMS became a wholly owned subsidiary of the Group and has as such been included in the consolidation. The Gardline Group as reported under Offshore Energy as from 15 August 2017 (see note 5.1), has two strategic joint ventures, being Gardline Marine Sciences do Brasil SA and Gardline Maritime Ltd. Within the Towage & Salvage operating segment, with effect from April 2016 harbor towage services take place through the newly formed Kotug Smit Towage joint venture in Europe, Saam Smit Towage (Saam Smit Towage Brasil SA and Saam Smit Towage Mexico SA de CV, on the American continent and Keppel Smit Towage Pte Ltd and Maju Maritime Pte Ltd in Singapore (both active in harbor towage). In addition, the Group participates in Smit Lamnalco Ltd (worldwide terminal services) and Ocean Marine Egypt S.A.E. (terminal services). Furthermore, until December 2016 Holding & Eliminations included the Group's participation in Fugro N.V. These joint ventures and associated companies are in principle financed on a non-recourse basis. A guarantee of part of its bank financing was provided by the Group to Rebras SA. This guarantee is included in note 29 `Commitments and contingent liabilities'.
The table below shows the movements in the interests in joint ventures and associated companies:

FI FNIANNACINCAILASLTSATTEATMEEMNETSNT2S0210717

Balance as at 1 January 2017
Investments Acquired through business combinations Share in result of joint ventures and associated companies Share in other comprehensive income of joint ventures and associated companies Repayment share capital / share premium Dividends received Currency translation differences and other movements
Balance as at 31 December 2017

JOINT VENTURES
627,729
17,409 3,126
26,065
- 726 -9
- 22,861 - 53,161 - 30,157
597,572

2017 ASSOCIATED COMPANIES
199,315
525 2,762 4,955
1,222 - 443 - 4,184 - 24,789 - 19,952
179,363

TOTAL 827,044
17,934 5,888
31,020
496 - 452 - 27,045 - 77,950 - 50,109
776,935

AANNNNUUAALLRREEPPOORRTT22001177­--BBOSOSKKALAILSIS

9999

Balance as at 1 January 2016

JOINT VENTURES
608,036

2016 ASSOCIATED COMPANIES
584,737

TOTAL 1,192,773

Investments Investment in Kotug Smit Towage Decrease after obtaining control in VBMS Holding B.V. Sale of investment in Fugro N.V. and reclassification to financial instruments available for sale Share in result of joint ventures and associated companies Share in other comprehensive income of joint ventures and associated companies Repayment share capital / share premium Dividends received Currency translation differences and other movements

129,239 - 20,844
- 57,981
- 2,312 - 9,226 - 39,721 20,538 19,693

422 -
- 332,073 - 46,743
494 - 100 - 2,851 - 4,571 - 385,422

422 129,239 - 20,844
- 332,073 - 104,724
- 1,818 - 9,326 - 42,572 15,967 - 365,729

Balance as at 31 December 2016

627,729

199,315

827,044

The Group had earlier committed to a limited capital funding obligation for SAAone Holding B.V., which was effected in October 2017. The loans, amounting to EUR 13.6 million in total, being part of the Group's investment in SAAone Holding B.V, are included in interest in joint ventures in the table above. The interest income of EUR 0.3 million related to these loans is reported under share in result of joint ventures and associated companies.
The share in the result of joint ventures and associated companies in the comparative period for 2016, as disclosed in the table above, amounts to EUR -104.7 million. Following the inclusion of the book profit Fugro N.V. of EUR 21.8 million, the Statement of Profit or Loss 2016 shows EUR -82.9 million in the line share in result of joint ventures and associated companies.
The carrying amount of the Group's share in the associated company Fugro N.V. was zero as at 31 December 2016 following the sale of (certificates of) shares in Fugro N.V. During 2016 the Group reduced its participation from 28.6% to 9.4% and following the loss of significant influence the remaining investment was reclassified as an available-for-sale financial asset (see note 18.2 `Financial instruments available-forsale'). The quoted price at the time when significant influence was lost is applied in determining the sales price for which the remaining investment in Fugro N.V. was classified as an available-for-sale financial asset. The reduction of the investment in Fugro N.V. and the reclassification of the remaining investment as available for sale resulted in a book result in 2016. Based on the information available when the Group lost its significant influence, this sale resulted in a book loss of EUR 2.2 million, including the recycling profit of translation and hedging reserves amounting to EUR 2.3 million based on the book value of our investment including our share in the first half-year loss of Fugro N.V. amounting to EUR 27.9 million. The total impact of the Group's investment in Fugro N.V. on the 2016 Statement of Profit or Loss of the Group was a loss of EUR 30.1 million. Based on the annual results as made public by Fugro N.V. on 24 February 2017, this impact would consist of the share of the Group in the full-year loss of Fugro N.V., amounting to a loss of EUR 51.9 million, and consequently a book result amounting to a profit of EUR 21.8 million. Fugro N.V. did not distribute a dividend in 2017 and 2016.
In 2016 the group incurred a non-cash impairment loss of EUR 94 million as share in impairment losses accounted for by joint ventures, mainly Smit Lamnalco, related to impairments on vessels due to poor market conditions.

AANNNNUUAALLRREEPPOORRTT22001177­ --B BOSOSKKALAILSIS

110000
The main joint ventures of the Group are:

ENTITY
Saam Smit Towage Brasil S.A. Lamnalco Marine Ocean Marine Egypt S.A.E Asian Lift Pte. Ltd. Keppel Smit Towage Pte Ltd Maju Maritime Pte Ltd ACCN B.V. Kotug Smit Partnership B.V. SAAone Holding B.V. Gardline Marine Sciences do Brasil SA Gardline Maritime Ltd.

COUNTRY OF INCORPORATION
Brazil Cyprus Egypt Singapore Singapore Singapore The Netherlands The Netherlands The Netherlands Brazil United Kingdom

Interest in joint ventures

2017

2016

50% 50% 50% 50% 49% 49% 50% 50% 17% 50% 50%

50% 50% 50% 50% 49% 49% 50% 50% 17%
-

The main associated companies of the Group are:

COMPANY

COUNTRY OF INCORPORATION

Damietta for Maritime Services Company S.A.E. Egypt Saam Smit Towage Mexico S.A. de C.V. (2016 name: Saam Remolques S.A. de C.V.) Mexico

Interest in associated companies

2017

2016

31%

31%

49%

49%

FI FNIANNACINCAILASLTSATTEATMEEMNETSNT2S0210717

The voting rights in associated companies are equal to the ownership interests.
As at 31 December 2017, the Group participated in the above-mentioned joint ventures and associated companies. Joint control is established in joint ventures by contract and the Group only has rights to the net assets. Significant influence is established in associated companies by voting rights and/or by contract, also in those cases where the other (investment) partner has control. None of these joint ventures or associated companies is individually material based on their share in the financial figures of the Group and their risk profile. The nature of, and changes in, the risks associated with interest in joint ventures and/or and associated companies is primarily linked to its activities for which a distinction is made in the disclosure. As at 31 December 2017, approximately 90% of the Group's interest in joint ventures and associated companies relates to harbor towage services and terminal services of the Towage & Salvage operational segment. The summarized figures on a 100% basis of the towage/terminal activities can be presented as follows:

Towage joint ventures and associated companies
Revenue EBITDA EBIT before impairment losses EBIT Net debt
* Financial information included on a pro forma and 100% aggregated basis.

100% basis, (in millions of EUR)*

2017

2016

691

738

240

279

117

147

117

- 52

550

695

Other joint ventures and associated companies relate to the Dredging & Inland Infra and Offshore Energy Segments and to Holding & Eliminations.

The future cash flows for the Group are legally and contractually limited to the receipt of dividends, with the exception of certain companies, as listed above, for which capped guarantees or capital contributions are agreed (see note 28). As a result of statutory provisions, the Group, as joint venture partner or minority shareholder, cannot independently decide to distribute dividends. Also, the financial position should be sufficient to enable the distribution of dividends to shareholders. There are no contractual provisions that restrict the distribution of the net result as a dividend, with the exception of covenants in loan agreements and the priority of loan repayment over dividend at some of the joint ventures and associated companies. Legal reserves are formed by the Group for its share in the net result of joint ventures and associated companies.

AANNNNUUAALLRREEPPOORRTT22001177­--BBOSOSKKALAILSIS

110011
On 31 December 2017 our share in the negative equity of SAAone Holding B.V. amounted to EUR 7.6 million (31 December 2016: EUR 11.5 million) following the recognition of the negative fair value of an interest rate swap. On 31 December 2016 the share of the Group in this negative equity was not accounted for by the Group because the Group is not severally liable and the loan was not provided yet.
The table below shows the share of the Group in total assets and revenues of its joint ventures and associated companies that are individually not material to the Group.

Total assets Revenue

JOINT VENTURES 1,174,606
355,714

2017 ASSOCIATED COMPANIES
206,333
43,558

TOTAL 1,380,939
399,272

Total assets Revenue

JOINT VENTURES 1,317,367
326,617

2016 ASSOCIATED COMPANIES
243,659
44,370

TOTAL 1,561,026
370,987

18. NON-CURRENT FINANCIAL ASSETS
18.1 OTHER NON-CURRENT RECEIVABLES
Balance as at 1 January Loan granted (to joint venture) / Acquired through business combinations Repayment of loan (by joint venture) Reclassified to disposal group Currency translation differences and other movements Balance as at 31 December

2017
1,061
201 - 13
1,249

2016
5,915
260 - 23 - 100 - 4,991 1,061

Other non-current receivables generally comprise loans to joint ventures and associated companies, longterm advance payments to suppliers and long-term receivables and retentions from customers, which are due in agreed time schedules. This item also includes accrued receivables which are allocated to the result over periods longer than one year.

18.2 FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS AVAILABLE-FOR-SALE
The development of financial instruments available-for-sale is as follows:

Balance as at 1 January
Reclassification from associated companies Change in fair value since significant influence was lost Divestment (gross proceeds) Balance as at 31 December

2017
115,379
- 357 - 115,022
-

2016
-
115,022 357 -
115,379

As at 1 January 2017 financial instruments available-for-sale consisted of the 9.4% investment in Fugro N.V. In February 2017 the Group sold its remaining investment in Fugro N.V. through an accelerated book-build at EUR 14.50 per share. The net proceeds amounted to EUR 114.1 million. In December 2016, when significant influence was lost, the fair value of the certificates when classified as financial instruments available-for-sale equaled the quoted price at which certificates were sold, EUR 14.50 (fair value hierarchy: level 1). At year-end 2016 the certificates of shares were valued at EUR 14.55 per certificate.

AANNNNUUAALLRREEPPOORRTT22001177­ --B BOSOSKKALAILSIS

110022
19. INVENTORIES
Fuel and materials Spare parts and other inventories

2017
34,727 53,439 88,166

2016
35,943 54,106 90,049

During 2017 no write-down on inventories was recognized (2016: EUR 1.6 million).

20. DUE FROM AND DUE TO CUSTOMERS
Cumulative incurred costs plus profit in proportion to progress less provisions for losses Progress billings Advances received Progress billings and advances received

2017
2,683,678
2,762,794 28,078
2,790,872

Balance
Due from customers Due to customers Balance

- 107,194
123,457 - 230,651 - 107,194

2016
2,420,973 2,619,868
29,543 2,649,411
- 228,438 87,194
- 315,632 - 228,438

FI FNIANNACINCAILASLTSATTEATMEEMNETSNT2S0210717

As at year-end 2017, the payments due from customers include EUR 5 million (2016: EUR 7 million) which will be paid by customers subject to specified conditions (retentions). The determination of profit in proportion to the stage of completion and the provision for losses is based on estimated costs and revenue of the relating projects. These estimates contain uncertainties.

21. TRADE AND OTHER RECEIVABLES
Trade receivables Amounts due from joint ventures and associated companies Other receivables and prepayments

2017
318,942 25,681
414,516 759,139

2016
274,429 22,647
300,852 597,928

22. CASH AND CASH EQUIVALENTS
Bank balances and cash Short-term bank deposits Cash and cash equivalents
Short-term borrowings / Call money Bank overdrafts Bank balances and cash of disposal group Net cash and cash equivalents in the consolidated statement of cash flows

2017 184,624
7,324 191,948
- 40,794 -
151,154

2016 839,395 125,936 965,331
- 1,188 5,606 969,749

AANNNNUUAALLRREEPPOORRTT22001177­--BBOSOSKKALAILSIS

Cash and cash equivalents include EUR 79.1 million (2016: EUR 73.2 million) held by project-driven construction consortiums (joint operations). The Group held EUR 1.8 million (2016: EUR 2.1 million), of which no amount (2016: EUR 0.1 million) in joint operations outside the Netherlands that is subject to local regulations, thus limiting the transfer of these funds. The other cash and cash equivalents are at the free disposal of the Group.

23. GROUP EQUITY
23.1 SHARE CAPITAL AND DIVIDEND
The authorized share capital of EUR 4.8 million (2016: EUR 4.8 million) is divided into 240,000,000 (2016: 240,000,000) ordinary shares with a par value of EUR 0.01 (2016: EUR 0.01) each and 80,000,000 (2016: 80,000,000) cumulative protective preference shares with a par value of EUR 0.03 (2016: EUR 0.03) each.

Movements of the ordinary shares issued were as follows:

(in number of ordinary shares)
Issued and fully paid shares entitled to dividend at 1 January Stock dividend Issued and fully paid shares entitled to dividend at 31 December Repurchased shares Shares entitled to dividend at 31 December

2017
130,076,852 3,275,042
133,351,894 - 2,674,601
130,677,293

2016
125,627,062 4,449,790
130,076,852 -
130,076,852

110033

The nominal value of shares was reduced in 2016. As a result, the issued and fully paid share capital decreased by EUR 104.0 million to EUR 1.3 million, with an opposite effect on the share premium reserve.

Stock dividend
In 2017 a dividend of EUR 1.00 per share was distributed relating to the 2016 financial year, resulting in a total amount of EUR 130.1 million. Of all shareholders, 77% opted to receive the dividend in ordinary shares. As a result 3,275,042 ordinary shares were issued.

Repurchase of shares
On 3 July 2017 the Group initiated a share repurchase program. In total 2,674,601 shares were repurchased for an amount of EUR 81.2 million (including EUR 2.9 million dividend tax) in 2017.

Shares per balance sheet date
The issued capital as at 31 December 2017 consists of 133,351,894 ordinary shares (2016: 130,076,852 shares) with a par value of EUR 0.01 each (2016: EUR 0.01) and consequently amounts to EUR 1.3 million (2016: EUR 1.3 million).
23.2 SHARE PREMIUM RESERVE
The share premium reserve consists of additional paid-in capital exceeding the par value of the outstanding shares. The share premium is distributable free of tax. Following the reduction in the nominal value of each share (see note 23.1) in 2016, the share premium reserve increased by EUR 102.8 million in 2016.
23.3 RETAINED EARNINGS
Retained earnings consist of additions and distributions based on profit appropriations, effects of changes in accounting principles, losses and movements in the legal reserve. The balance is at the disposal of shareholders. Retained earnings also comprises the unappropriated profit or loss for the current year. A proposal for profit or loss appropriation is disclosed in note 6 of the Company financial statements and is included in Other information.
23.4 DIVIDEND
Royal Boskalis Westminster N.V. announced and distributed the following dividend to holders of ordinary shares:

Dividend prior year EUR 1.00 respectively EUR 1.60 per ordinary share Total dividend announced and distributed
Stock dividend Cash dividend
TOTAL DISTRIBUTED DIVIDEND

2017
130,077 130,077
100,544 29,533
130,077

2016
201,003 201,003
145,241 55,762
201,003

AANNNNUUAALLRREEPPOORRTT22001177 --­ BOSKALIS

In 2017 23% of the shareholders opted for a distribution of dividend in cash. An amount of EUR 29.5 million was distributed and the accompanying dividend tax was paid in July 2017.

110044 23.5 EARNINGS PER SHARE
Earnings per share are determined based on the calculation below.

Earnings per share
Net group profit/loss (-) attributable to shareholders in thousands of EUR Average number of shares Earnings per share
Earnings per share before impairment losses
Net group profit/loss (-) attributable to shareholders in thousands of EUR Impairment losses in thousands of EUR, after tax Net group profit/loss (-) attributable to shareholders in thousands of EUR excluding impairment losses Average number of shares Earnings per share, excluding impairment losses
Diluted earnings per share
Average number of shares including dilution effects Diluted earnings per share

2017
150,469 131,097,477
EUR 1.15
150,469 -
150,469 131,097,477
EUR 1.15
131,097,477 EUR 1.15

2016
- 563,730 128,204,536
EUR -4.40
- 563,730 840,127
276,397 128,204,536
EUR 2.16
128,204,536 EUR -4.40

The weighted average number of ordinary shares for the financial year is calculated as follows:

(in number of shares)
Ordinary shares issued (entitled to dividend) as at 1 January Weighted effect of new ordinary shares issued due to optional dividend Weighted effect on purchased own ordinary shares Weighted average number of ordinary shares for the financial year

2017
130,076,852 1,893,243 - 872,618
131,097,477

2016
125,627,062 2,577,474 -
128,204,536

FI FNIANNACINCAILASLTSATTEATMEEMNETNST2S0210717

23.6 OTHER RESERVES
Movement in other reserves:
Note
Balance as at 1 January 2017 Defined benefit plan actuarial gains/losses (-) and asset limitation, after income tax Foreign currency translation differences for foreign operations, after income tax Currency translation differences from joint ventures and associated companies, after tax Effective cash flow hedges, after income tax Change in fair value of cash flow hedges from joint ventures and associated companies, after tax Other movements Movement in legal reserve Total movement
Balance as at 31 December 2017

HEDGING RESERVE
[23.6.1]
- 3,905

Legal reserves

REVALUATION RESERVE

CURRENCY TRANSLATION
RESERVE

[23.6.2]

[23.6.3]

102,458

339,018

OTHER LEGAL RESERVES OTHER RESERVES

[23.6.4]

[23.6.5]

214,339

- 14,088

TOTAL OTHER RESERVES
637,822

-
-
17,786

-

-

-

- 139,737

-

496

-

-

-

- 7,768

- 7,768

-

-

- 139,737

-

-

496

-

-

17,786

- 8,415 -
9,371
5,466

- 462
- 462
101,996

- 139,241
199,777

7,631 7,631
221,970

- 7,768
- 21,856

- 8,415 - 462 7,631
- 130,469
507,353

AANNNNUUAALLRREEPPOORRTT22001177­--BBOSOSKKALAILSIS

Note
Balance as at 1 January 2016
Defined benefit plan actuarial gains/losses (-) and asset limitation, after income tax Foreign currency translation differences for foreign operations, after income tax Currency translation differences from joint ventures and associated companies, after tax Effective cash flow hedges, after income tax Change in fair value of cash flow hedges from joint ventures and associated companies, after tax Reclassification relating to settlement of pension plans Reclassification of revaluation related to gains on business combinations and gains on joint ventures Reclassification of foreign currency differences and hedge reserve to statement of profit or loss Actuarial gains/losses (-) and asset limitation on defined benefit pension plans of associated companies Movement in legal reserve Total movement
Balance as at 31 December 2016

HEDGING RESERVE
[23.6.1]
- 15,207

Legal reserves

REVALUATION RESERVE

CURRENCY TRANSLATION
RESERVE

[23.6.2]

[23.6.3]

45,619

314,683

OTHER LEGAL RESERVES OTHER RESERVES

[23.6.4]

[23.6.5]

320,889

- 44,209

TOTAL OTHER RESERVES
621,775

-
-
11,227

-

-

-

25,433

-

- 1,818

-

-

-

- 3,440

-

-

-

-

-

-

- 3,440
25,433
- 1,818 11,227

75

-

-

-

-

75

-

-

-

-

39,763

39,763

-

56,839

-

-

-

56,839

-

-

720

-

-

720

11,302
- 3,905

56,839
102,458

24,335
339,018

- 106,550 - 106,550
214,339

- 6,202 -
30,121
- 14,088

- 6,202 - 106,550
16,047
637,822

110055

Under Dutch law the legal reserves are not available for dividend distribution to shareholders.
23.6.1 HEDGING RESERVE (LEGAL RESERVE)
The hedging reserve comprises the fair value of effective cash flow hedges, not yet realized at the balance sheet date, net of taxation, including results realized on the `rolling forward' of existing hedges as a result of differences between the duration of the hedges concerned and the underlying cash flows. Details about the movements in the hedging reserve are disclosed in note 28.2.
23.6.2 REVALUATION RESERVE (LEGAL RESERVE)
This reserve mainly relates to profit with respect to the revaluation of existing non-controlling interests prior to the recognition of business combinations and book results on contributions in newly formed strategic partnerships. In 2016 an amount of EUR 56.8 million was recognized relating to the revaluation of VBMS prior to the business combination and the Kotug Towage book profit.
23.6.3 CURRENCY TRANSLATION RESERVE (LEGAL RESERVE)
The currency translation reserve comprises all accumulated currency translation differences arising from investments in foreign operations, which are denominated in functional currencies other than the presentation currency used by the Group, including related intragroup financing. These currency translation differences are accumulated as from the IFRS transition date (1 January 2004) and are taken to the statement of profit or loss at disposal or termination of these foreign operations. At the acquisition date of activities (business combinations) with a functional currency other than the euro, the translation reserve of these activities is zero.
23.6.4 OTHER LEGAL RESERVES
A legal reserve is formed to account for differences between the cost price and the equity value of joint ventures and associated companies where the Group cannot independently decide on the distribution of dividends, unless such differences are already included in the legal reserve for accumulated currency translation differences on foreign operations.

AANNNNUUALALRERPEPOORTRT2201071 ­7 --BOBSOKSAKLIASLIS

110066 23.6.5 OTHER RESERVES
Other reserves mainly comprise actuarial movements related to the limitation on net plan assets of defined benefit pension plans and the actuarial gains and losses originating from the difference between the realized and the expected movement in defined benefit obligations and the return on plan assets.
24. INTEREST-BEARING BORROWINGS

Current Non-current Balance as at 1 January
Movement Assumed in business combinations Repayment Currency results Other movements Total movements Balance as at 31 December
Current Non-current Balance as at 31 December

US PRIVATE PLACEMENTS
452,851 306,876 759,727

REVOLVING MULTI-
CURRENCY CREDIT
FACILITY

OTHER INTERESTBEARING BORROWINGS

-

293

-

1,411

-

1,704

TOTAL 2017
453,144 308,287 761,431

- 445,751
- 45,103 525
- 490,329 269,398
269,398 269,398

-

17,381

17,381

-

- 17,619

- 463,370

-

-

- 45,103

-

-

525

-

- 238

- 490,567

-

1,466

270,864

-

297

297

-

1,169

270,567

-

1,466

270,864

TOTAL 2016
18,127 914,234 932,361
- 197,874
19,144 7,800
- 170,930 761,431
453,144 308,287 761,431

FIFINANANCNICAILALSTSATTAETEMEMNETNSTS20210717

As at year-end 2017 US private placements relate to one placement of EUR 269.4 million, calculated at year-end currency rates (year-end 2016: two placements totaling EUR 759.7 million).
As at year-end 2017 remaining US private placements with a nominal value of USD 325 million were placed with institutional investors in July 2013. The principal of this placement will be repaid after the original duration of ten years. The annual interest rate is 3.66%.
The repaid US private placements concern a US private placement of USD 433 million and GBP 11 million with institutional investors in the United States and the United Kingdom issued in July 2010. The placement consisted of three tranches with an original duration of 7, 10 and 12 years, respectively. In December 2016 the Group informed the noteholders about early repayment and consequently both the loan and the accrued liabilities including the make-whole payments due to noteholders (see note 11 `Finance income and expenses') were accounted for as interest-bearing borrowings under current liabilities. The US dollar and Pound Sterling proceeds from this US private placement had been swapped into euros through crosscurrency swaps, for a total amount of EUR 354 million. The fixed interest rate amounted to 4.76%. As a result of early repayment, these cross-currency interest rate swaps no longer qualified for hedge accounting and the fair value has been accounted for in the 2016 Statement of Profit or Loss (see note 11 `Finance income and expenses'). The cash settlement of these cross-currency interest rate swaps resulted in a cash inflow of EUR 52.5 million in 2017.
Interest bearing borrowings of Gardline (see note 5.1) were repaid in August 2017.
A revolving multi-currency credit facility agreed with a bank syndicate was arranged for the Group in 2014 and amounts to EUR 600 million. This credit facility had an original duration of 5 years with two options, executed in 2015 and 2016, respectively and has therefore been extended to 2021. The Group did not draw on this credit facility in 2017 and 2016.
The Group agreed to comply with a number of customary covenants with the bank syndicate and US private placement holders. Twice a year Boskalis provides a compliance certificate to these lenders, reporting on the covenants for the twelve-month period ending on 30 June and 31 December, respectively. The main financial covenants are a net debt / EBITDA ratio not exceeding 3 and an EBITDA / net interest ratio of at least 4. These covenants are calculated in accordance with definitions agreed with the lenders.

ANANNUNALUARLEPREOPRTOR2T01270 ­17B--OSBKOASLIKSALIS

In the event that the Group does not meet any of these covenants, the loan may be due immediately. These covenants were met at 31 December 2017. The net debt / EBITDA ratio was 0.5 (2016: -0.3) and the EBITDA / net interest ratio was 32 (2016: 15).

Interest rates, remaining terms and currencies of the interest-bearing borrowings are disclosed in the explanatory notes to the financial instruments in the interest rate risk paragraph. As at 31 December 2017 the weighted average interest rate for the non-current portion of the interest bearing loans was 3.67% (2016: 3.67%). The non-current portion of interest-bearing borrowings due after more than five years amounted to EUR 269.4 million (2016: EUR 306.9 million).

25. EMPLOYEE BENEFITS

The liabilities associated with employee benefits consist of liabilities related to defined benefit pension plans and other liabilities relating to a number of defined contribution plans in the Netherlands and other countries as well as jubilee benefits. They amounted to a total of:

31 DECEMBER

Note

2017

2016

Defined benefit pension plans Other liabilities on account of employee benefits Liabilities associated with employee benefits

[25.1]

28,924 5,518
34,442

23,471 6,863
30,334

25.1 DEFINED BENEFIT PENSION PLANS

Balance as at 1 January 2017
Current service expenses Interest expenses on obligation Contributions received from the Group Return on plan assets Net actuarial results Benefits paid Foreign currency exchange rate differences and other changes Total movement
Balance as at 31 December 2017

DEFINED BENEFIT OBLIGATION

FAIR VALUE PLAN ASSETS

160,380

153,196

637 3,554
5,165 - 6,144

4,137 3,248 203 - 6,144

- 4,534 - 1,322
159,058

- 4,076 - 2,632
150,564

Limits on net plan assets as at 1 January Movement in limit net plan assets Limits on net plan assets as at 31 December
Balance as at 31 December 2017 after limits on net plan assets

Total result defined benefit pension plans

SURPLUS/ DEFICIT (-)
- 7,184
- 637 - 3,554
4,137 3,248 - 4,962
-
458 - 1,310
- 8,494

UNFUNDED PENSION LIABILITIES
- 5,142
- 32 - 71
148 270
315
- 4,827

TOTAL

CHARGED TO

CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF

OTHER

PROFIT OR COMPREHENSIVE

LOSS

INCOME

- 12,326

- 669 - 3,625
4,137 3,248 - 4,814
270

669 3,625
- 3,248

4,814

458 - 995 - 13,321
- 11,145 - 4,458
- 15,603 - 28,924
10,318

1,046 1,046

4,814
4,458
9,272

AANNNNUUAALLRREEPPOORRTT22001177­ --B BOSOSKKALAILSIS

110077

110088

DEFINED BENEFIT OBLIGATION

FAIR VALUE PLAN ASSETS

Balance as at 1 January 2016

753,035

734,794

Current service expenses Interest expenses on obligation Contributions received from the Group Return on plan assets Net actuarial results Benefits paid Settlement and curtailment gains PGB and Dutch pension funds Foreign currency exchange rate differences and other changes
Total movement

36,904 17,384
38,687 - 20,481
- 641,246
- 23,903 - 592,655

39,896 16,895 33,618 - 20,481
- 627,986
- 23,540 - 581,598

Balance as at 31 December 2016
Limits on net plan assets as at 1 January Movement in limit net plan assets Limits on net plan assets as at 31 December

160,380

153,196

Balance as at 31 December 2016 after limits on net plan assets

Total result defined benefit pension plans

SURPLUS/ DEFICIT (-)
- 18,241
- 36,904 - 17,384 39,896 16,895
- 5,069 -
13,260
363 11,057
- 7,184

UNFUNDED PENSION LIABILITIES
- 5,175
- 31 - 103
- 219 331
-
55 33
- 5,142

TOTAL

CHARGED TO

CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF

OTHER PROFIT OR COMPREHENSIVE

LOSS

INCOME

- 23,416

- 36,935 - 17,487 39,896 16,895
- 5,288 331

36,935 17,487
- 16,895

5,288

13,260

- 13,260

418 11,090
- 12,326
- 11,913 768
- 11,145
- 23,471

24,267

5,288
- 768

28,787

24,267

4,520

FI FNIANNACINCAILASLTSATTEATMEEMNETSNT2S0210717

In the Netherlands Boskalis has arranged a pension plan for a large part of its Dutch staff with the Pensioenfonds Grafische Bedrijven (PGB), while other employees in the Netherlands participate in the pension plans of five Dutch multi-employer pension funds or in one of the Dutch insured pension plans. In the Netherlands the tasks and responsibilities of employer, employee and pension provider in relation to pensions are set out in the Dutch Pension Act. The Pension Act stipulates the requirements and conditions that pension plans must comply with, including the requirement of integrating the plan into either a recognized pension fund or with a recognized pension insurance company and also that rights granted must be immediately funded by the employer. The law also sets requirements for the amounts of equity that pension providers should maintain. Compliance with the law is supervised by the Dutch Central Bank (DNB) and the Dutch Financial Markets Authority (AFM). In addition, the Group has a number of foreign pension plans, of which the largest is in the United Kingdom.
Pension plan at Pensioenfonds Grafische Bedrijven
The Group has arranged its pension plan, which is qualified as a defined contribution plan, for the majority of its Dutch staff with Pensioenfonds Grafische Bedrijven, a multi-employer fund. The annual premium contribution by the Group is determined by PGB, based on the actuarial cost of purchasing pension rights on an annual basis. The Group has no obligation to cover any plan deficits, nor are there any specific separate plan assets dedicated to the Group in this pension plan that are managed by PGB. After payment of the annual premium, the Group has no obligation to pay for additional contributions or higher future premiums in the event of a shortfall at PGB, nor if the plan or the fund is terminated. Furthermore, the Group has no entitlement to any surplus in the PGB pension fund. Future cash flows are limited to the payment of future premiums for purchasing (new) rights for the years to come. The premium is influenced by the usual, underlying actuarial assumptions, expected returns and agreed contribution ceiling.
Besides Boskalis, multiple other companies have also arranged their pension plans with PGB. The Group has no direct involvement in the governance of PGB. PGB does not hold specific, segregated pension assets dedicated to the Group. The share of the Boskalis pension plans in total liabilities and assets at PGB is limited.
Settlement of the PGB defined benefit plan in 2016 Until 31 December 2016 active participants that commenced employment with Boskalis before 1 January 2015 had a pension plan with unconditional indexation on the basis of indexation granted by the Group, which is not linked to indices. Active participants that commenced employment with Boskalis after 1 January 2015 and inactive participants have a plan with a conditional right to indexation, granted by PGB. In December 2016, Boskalis reached agreement with the Works Council and the PGB Pension Fund on plan

AANNNNUUAALLRREEPPOORRTT22001177­--BBOSOSKKALAILSIS

110099
amendments for its Dutch staff participating in the PGB pension plans. The plan amendments concern the termination of the unconditional indexation right for participants employed by Boskalis before 1 January 2015. Indexation rights are harmonized with the other participants within PGB pension plans. The participants concerned receive compensation in the form of a one-off increase in their accrued pension rights as at 31 December 2016. Also, Boskalis and PGB amended and clarified their agreement in certain areas. After these changes the pension plans were aligned and now qualify as a defined contribution plan. As a result, a net settlement gain of EUR 5 million before tax was recognized at the end of December 2016 in the statement of profit or loss, comprising the release of the net defined obligation to the statement of profit or loss amounting to EUR 22 million and the charge of EUR 17 million resulting from the one-off increase in accrued rights as mentioned above. In addition, the actuarial reserve recognized in equity was released to other reserves.
Dutch multi-employer pension funds
Some of the Dutch staff participate in one of five industry-wide multi-employer pension funds, all within the framework of the Dutch Pension Act as referred to above, of which Bedrijfstak Pensioenfonds Waterbouw is the only one with a proportionately significant premium contribution by Boskalis of 20% (2016: 20%). As at 31 December 2017 the Bedrijfstak Pensioenfonds Waterbouw had a coverage ratio greater than 105% (2016: greater than 105%).
The Group has no direct involvement in the governance of the multi-employer pension funds. Employers' Associations, of which the Group is a member, designate some of the board members and / or supervisors of the multi-employer pension funds. In addition, the boards also include representatives of employees and retirees, possibly supplemented by one or more independent persons. The pension includes retirement and survivor's pension. These pension funds have indicated they are not able to provide sufficient information for a calculation in accordance with IFRS because there is no reliable and consistent basis to which to attribute the pension obligations, plan assets, and the absolute and relative share of the Group in the fund and to which to allocate income and expenses to the individual member companies of these pension funds. As a result, these defined benefit plans are recognized in these financial statements as a defined contribution plan in accordance with IFRS. In all cases relating to industry-wide multi-employer pension funds, the Group has no obligation whatsoever to pay additional contributions in the case of a deficit in the respective fund, other than paying the annual premium. Nor does the Group have a right to any surpluses in the funds. The premium covers the actuarially determined cost of purchasing the yearly rights for participants. The premium on the basis of the actuarial cost of purchasing rights in years is influenced by customary underlying actuarial assumptions, expected returns and often agreed ceilings. The expected contribution for the coming year is explained below.
Other pension plans
Other pension plans relate to, individually not material, multi-employer pension plans arranged with pension funds in the United Kingdom and insurance companies in the Netherlands, Belgium, the United Kingdom and the United States, as well as to minor unfunded defined benefit plans for two Group companies in Germany. These pension plans are in compliance with local laws and/or regulations applicable in the aforementioned countries. With the exception of the plan in the United Kingdom, where the Group may appoint one or more Directors or Trustees, the Group has no direct and/or significant involvement in the governance of these pension plans. The pension plans are characterized by defined benefit rights over the participant's years of service, which are mainly based on average wages and include retirement and survivor's pension. These pensions are indexed, for the main part with a limit being set to the available contributions and the return on plan assets, respectively. The pension liabilities and pension assets are placed with and managed by the pension funds or insurance companies. The risk for the Group relating to these pensions is therefore limited. With the exception of a closed pension plan in the United Kingdom, the future cash flows for the other arrangements are limited to the actuarially calculated annual premiums based on the cost of purchasing future pension rights. In other funded defined benefit plans there is no enforceable statutory or regulatory direct obligation to cover any deficits to fulfil future actuarial obligations. The contributions are subject to the customary, actuarial assumptions, expected returns and agreed contribution ceiling.
The Group's largest company pension fund in the United Kingdom is managed by BKW Trustee Company Limited. The management of the Trust company is partly appointed by Boskalis and partly elected by plan participants. The investment policy is geared to the fact that it is a closed arrangement relating primarily to fixed income. Pension law in the United Kingdom includes the requirement to index pension plans. In 2015 the required tri-annual valuation was conducted, which determined the required annual contributions to this pension fund. There is no requirement to immediately and fully cover an existing deficit in this pension plan.

AANNNNUUAALLRREEPPOORRTT22001177­ --B BOSOSKKALAILSIS

111100
The expected contribution to this fund for the coming year and for the ongoing review period amounted to GBP 0.6 million (2016: GBP 1.2 million) and GBP 0.6 million (2016: GBP 2.1 million) respectively.
Settlement and termination of two other pension plans in 2016 During 2016 two contracts with Dutch insured pension plans reached the end of their contract terms and were not renewed. The plans for the respective staff were transferred, one to PGB and the other to an industry-wide pension fund. Accrued pension rights within these plans will remain with the pension insurers. This resulted in a settlement gain of EUR 6.7 million relating to one - and a curtailment gain of EUR 1.5 million for the other pension plan transferred.
As per 2017, the remaining balance of the net defined benefit obligation mainly relates to closed pension plans. The net defined benefit obligation of the aforementioned pension plans in the United Kingdom mainly are determined by expected future inflation (2017: 3.40%; 2016: 3.55%). The other defined pension plan is a closed insured pension plan for which future cash flows are determined on the basis of Group entitlement to excess returns realized by the insurance company and annual guarantee costs provided for in the balance sheet. Both of these results continue to be recognized through the statement of other comprehensive income. Therefore the expected impact of these remaining defined benefit pension plans on future statements of profit or loss is not significant.
The composition of plan assets, excluding the defined benefit plans that were settled in 2016, is as follows:

FI FNIANNACINCAILASLTSATTEATMEEMNETSNT2S0210717

Other pension plans:
Equities Bonds Real estate
Investments quoted in active markets
Cash (non-interest-bearing) Other receivables and payables
Unquoted investments
TOTAL PLAN ASSETS

31 DECEMBER 2017

2016

19,252 129,892
149,144
1,420 -
1,420
150,564

21,259 129,536
396 151,191
1,226 779
2,005
153,196

As at 31 December 2017 and 31 December 2016 the plan assets did not include shares issued by Royal Boskalis Westminster N.V.

Pension funds periodically perform asset liability management studies to assess the matching of investment assets with the amount and duration of pension liabilities. Based on the outcome of these studies the nature, mix and duration of assets are regularly adjusted. The average duration of the obligations of the pension plans is about 22 years (2016: 21 years).
The table below presents the pension costs from defined benefit pension plans, including the costs recorded in 2016 of plans that were settled in 2016 and which are included in these consolidated financial statements.

Total result defined benefit plans Settlement and curtailment gains on PGB and Dutch pension funds recognized in the consolidated statement of profit or loss Pension costs for defined benefit pension plans charged to the consolidated statement of profit or loss Actuarial gains and losses and asset limitation recognized directly in equity Income tax Actuarial gains and losses and asset limitation recognized directly in equity net of income tax

2017 10,318
-
- 1,046 9,272
- 1,504 7,768

2016 28,787
13,260
- 37,527 4,520 - 1,080 3,440

Effective return on plan assets

3,451

50,513

AANNNNUUAALLRREEPPOORRTT22001177­--BBOSOSKKALAILSIS

The pension charges for the main pension plans are predominantly in euros. As a consequence, the exchange rate exposure for pension charges in other currencies is considered not material.

The accumulated actuarial gains and losses and the balance of the limitation on net plan assets amount to:

Accumulated actuarial gains and losses as at 31 December Asset limits on net plan assets as at 31 December

2017
- 13,547 - 15,603 - 29,150

2016
- 8,733 - 11,145 - 19,878

In 2018 the Group expects to contribute premiums of EUR 2.2 million (2017: EUR 2.9 million) to funded defined benefit plans and premiums of EUR 0.3 million (2017: EUR 0.3 million) to unfunded defined benefit plans.

The principal actuarial assumptions used for the calculations were:

Discount rate Expected future salary increases Expected future inflation Expected future pension increases for active participants Expected future pension increases for inactive participants

2017
2.26% 0.80% 1.90% 0.90% 0.44%

2016
2.27% 0.75% 1.80% 0.73% 0.06%

Sensitivity to changes in the applied assumptions can be summarized as follows:

Assumptions as at 31 December 2017
Effect on defined benefit obligation Change in discount rate Change in expected future salary increases Change in pension increase for active participants Change in pension increase for inactive participants

Increase of 0.25%

Decrease of 0.25%

- 7,534 1,939 1,914 3,083

8,344 - 1,870 - 1,815 - 2,887

Assumptions as at 31 December 2016 Effect on defined benefit obligation Change in discount rate Change in expected future salary increases Change in pension increase for active participants Change in pension increase for inactive participants
Historical information:
Defined benefit obligation Fair value of plan assets Surplus / deficit (-) Unfunded pension liabilities Total surplus / deficit (-)

Increase of 0.25%

Decrease of 0.25%

- 9,332 3,734 1,851 4,332

10,427 - 3,573 - 1,655 - 2,177

2017
- 159,058 150,564 - 8,494
- 4,827 - 13,321

2016
- 160,380 153,196
- 7,184
- 5,142 - 12,326

2015
- 753,035 734,794 - 18,241
- 5,175 - 23,416

2014
- 747,808 691,932 - 55,876
- 5,316 - 61,192

2013
- 554,486 585,038
30,552
- 4,673 25,879

111111

AANNNNUUAALLRREEPPOORRTT22001177­ --B BOSOSKKALAILSIS

The reduction of defined benefit obligations and the fair value of plan assets in 2016 mainly related to the settlement of two defined benefit plans in 2016.
25.2 DEFINED CONTRIBUTION PENSION PLANS
In 2018 the Group expects to contribute an amount of EUR 40.0 million (2017: EUR 42.0 million) to premiums for defined contributions plans. This concerns contributions to defined contribution pension plans and pension plans arranged with multi-employer pension funds, which are accounted for as defined contribution pension plans in these financial statements, in accordance with IFRS.

AANNNNUUAALLRREEPPOORRTT22001177­--BBOSOSKKALAILSIS

111122
26. PROVISIONS
Balance as at 1 January Assumed in business combinations Provisions made during the year Provisions used during the year Provisions reversed during the year Reclassification to disposal group Exchange rate differences and other movements Balance as at 31 December
Current Non-current Balance as at 31 December

ONEROUS CONTRACTS
7,818 2,790
884 - 119 - 7,067
- 687 3,619
3,619 -
3,619

WARRANTIES RESTRUCTURING

15,513 -
3,119 - 922 - 530
- 2,632 14,548

17,324 -
17,578 - 19,360
- 5,068 -
- 595 9,879

2,445 12,103 14,548

8,787 1,092 9,879

OTHER
12,807 -
302 - 567 - 6,138
2,906 9,310
912 8,398 9,310

TOTAL 2017
53,462 2,790
21,883 - 20,968 - 18,803
- 1,008 37,356
15,763 21,593 37,356

FI FNIANNACINCAILASLTSATTEATMEEMNETNST2S0210717

The provision for onerous contracts includes a provision for unfavorable contracts as part of the liabilities assumed in business combinations (see note 5.1). As at year-end 2016 the provisions for onerous contracts related mainly to the lease of a vessel. In 2017 the purchase option to acquire the vessel was exercised, and, subsequently, the respective provision was reversed.
Restructuring provisions relate mainly to the restructuring of Group head office and Gardline.
Other provisions mainly relate to various claims made against the Group or threatening to be made including potential sanctions, from legal, regulatory and governmental proceedings. The Group disputes these claims and proceedings and has made an assessment of the amount of cash outflows that can be reasonable estimated. As litigation is inherently unpredictable, the possible outcome is uncertain and the amount may differ from the provisions listed above.
27. TRADE AND OTHER PAYABLES

Trade payables Taxes and social security payables Amounts due to joint ventures and associated companies Other creditors and accruals

31 DECEMBER 2017
146,155 31,787 4,584
829,103 1,011,629

2016
192,526 66,210 1,815
825,133 1,085,684

The trade and other payables are generally not interest-bearing.
28. FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS
GENERAL
Pursuant to the financial policy maintained by the Board of Management, the Group and its Group companies use several financial instruments in the ordinary course of business. The policy with respect to financial instruments is disclosed in more detail in the Annual Report in the Corporate Governance chapter. The Group's financial instruments are cash and cash equivalents, trade and other receivables, certificates of (listed) shares, interest-bearing loans and bank overdrafts, trade and other payables and derivatives. The Group enters into derivative transactions, mainly foreign currency forward contracts, foreign currency options and to a limited extent interest rate swaps, solely to hedge against the related risks. The Group's policy is not to trade in derivatives.
28.1 FINANCIAL RISK MANAGEMENT
The Group has exposure to the following risks from its use of financial instruments:  credit risk  liquidity risk  market risk, consisting of: currency risk, interest rate risk and price risk

TOTAL 2016
30,808 5,553
24,861 - 4,924 - 3,797
- 900 1,861 53,462
22,027 31,435 53,462

111133
28.1.1 CREDIT RISK
The Group has a strict acceptance and hedging policy in place for credit risk, resulting from payment and political risks. Credit risks are covered by means of bank guarantees, insurance, advance payments, etc., except where it pertains to creditworthy, first class debtors. Credit risk procedures and the (geographical) diversification of the operations of the Group reduce the risk with regard to credit concentration.

Exposure to credit risk Credit risk is the risk of financial loss to the Group if a customer or counterparty to a financial instrument fails to meet its contractual obligations. Credit risk arises principally from the Group's trade and other receivables. The Group's exposure to credit risk is mainly determined by the characteristics and location of each individual customer.

A large part of the Group's work in progress within the Dredging & Inland Infra and Offshore Energy operational segments is directly or indirectly performed on behalf of state-controlled authorities and oil and gas producers (or contractors thereof) in various countries and geographical areas. Salvage receivables (part of Towage & Salvage) are mainly outstanding with shipping companies and their Protection & Indemnity Associations, or `P&I clubs'. The creditworthiness of new customers is individually analyzed before payment and delivery terms and conditions are offered. The same applies for contracting activities with clients the Group has done business with previously, even if business has been done for many years. The Group's review may include external credit ratings, if available, and bank references. Customers that fail to meet the Group's creditworthiness criteria may only transact with the Group on the basis of prepayment or a bank guarantee. In general there is a healthy diversification of receivables from different customers in several countries in which the Group performs its activities. Ongoing credit assessment is performed on the financial condition of accounts receivable. The credit history of the Group over recent years indicates that bad debts expenses incurred are insignificant compared to the level of activities. Therefore, management is of the opinion that credit risk is adequately controlled by the currently applicable procedures.

The maximum credit risk as at the balance sheet date, without taking into account the aforementioned financial risk coverage policy and instruments consists of the carrying amounts of the financial assets as stated below:

Financial instruments available-for-sale Other non-current receivables Trade receivables Amounts due from joint ventures and associated companies Other receivables and prepayments Derivatives Income tax receivable Cash and cash equivalents

31 DECEMBER 2017
1,249 318,942 25,681 414,516 29,876 17,705 191,948 999,917

2016
115,379 1,061
274,429 22,647
300,852 80,804 7,495
965,331 1,767,998

The maximum credit risk on trade receivables by operational segment was as follows as at the reporting date:

Dredging & Inland Infra Offshore Energy Towage & Salvage Holding & Eliminations

31 DECEMBER 2017
200,385 114,182
3,606 769
318,942

2016
165,498 104,045
4,279 607
274,429

AANNNNUUAALLRREEPPOORRTT22001177­ --B BOSOSKKALAILSIS

111144
The aging of trade receivables as at 31 December was as follows:

Not past due Past due 0 - 90 days Past due 90 - 180 days Past due 180 - 360 days More than 360 days
Impairment Trade receivables at book value

2017
Gross
196,935 61,314 12,825 10,421 51,767
333,262

Impairment
- 77 - 212
- 92 - 4,741 - 9,198 - 14,320

- 14,320 318,942

2016 Gross
184,286 44,723 3,354 17,951 44,844
295,158
- 20,729 274,429

Impairment
- 4,175
- 177 - 4,726 - 11,651 - 20,729

FI FNIANNACINCAILASLTSATTEATMEEMNETSNT2S0210717

With respect to the trade receivables at book value, there were no indications as at the reporting date that these will not be settled.
The movement in the allowance for impairment in respect of trade receivables during the year was as follows:

Balance as at 1 January
Acquired through business combinations Reclassified to disposal group Provisions made during the year Provisions used during the year Provisions reversed during the year Currency exchange rate differences
Balance as at 31 December

2017
20,729
42 -
3,898 - 4,396 - 5,109
- 844 - 6,409
14,320

2016
19,560
299 - 14 11,185 - 8,395 - 935 - 971 1,169
20,729

Concentration of credit risk of customers As at reporting date there was no concentration of credit risk with certain customers.
Credit risk cash and cash equivalents The Group had cash and cash equivalents of EUR 192 million at 31 December 2017 (2016: EUR 965 million), representing its maximum credit risk exposure on these assets. The cash and cash equivalents are held with bank and financial institution counterparties with investment grade credit ratings.
28.1.2 LIQUIDITY RISK
Liquidity risk is the risk that the Group will not be able to meet its financial obligations as they fall due.
The Group's approach to managing liquidity is aimed at ensuring that it will have sufficient liquidity to meet its liabilities when due, under both normal and stressed conditions. Liquidity projections including available credit facilities are incorporated in the regular management information reviewed by the Board of Management. The focus of the liquidity review is on the net financing capacity, being free cash (see note 22) plus available credit facilities in relation to financial liabilities (see note 24). The total of free cash and available credit facilities at year-end amounted to EUR 0.7 billion. Furthermore, based on the Group's financial ratios it can be concluded that the Group has significant debt capacity available under an (implied) investment grade credit profile.
The following are the contractual maturities of financial liabilities, including estimated interest payments and excluding both the impact of netting agreements (and in 2016, financial liabilities accounted for as part of the disposal group):

AANNNNUUAALLRREEPPOORRTT22001177­--BBOSOSKKALAILSIS

As at 31 December 2017
US private placements Other interest-bearing borrowings Bank overdrafts Trade and other payables Current tax payable Derivatives

Book value
269,398 1,466
40,794 1,011,629
148,488 2,258
1,474,033

Contractual cash flows One year or less

325,136 1,715
40,931 1,011,629
148,488 2,258
1,530,157

9,906 347
40,931 1,011,629
148,488 2,231
1,213,532

1 - 5 years
39,624 1,368 27
41,019

More than 5 years
275,606 -
275,606

111155

As at 31 December 2016
US private placements Other interest-bearing borrowings Bank overdrafts Trade and other payables Current tax payable Derivatives

Book value
759,727 1,704 1,188
1,085,684 152,331 9,656
2,010,290

Contractual cash flows One year or less

830,074 1,994 1,198
1,085,684 152,331 9,656
2,080,937

465,001 351
1,198 1,085,684
152,331 8,838
1,713,403

1 - 5 years
41,413 1,643 818
43,874

More than 5 years
323,660 -
323,660

28.1.3 MARKET RISK
Market risk concerns the risk that Group income or the value of investments in financial instruments is adversely affected by changes in market prices, such as currency exchange rates, interest rates and fuel prices. The objective of managing market risks is to keep the market risk position within acceptable boundaries while achieving the best possible return.
Currency risk The presentation currency of the Group is the euro. A number of Group companies, the most important of which being Dockwise, and substantial strategic investments (Smit Lamnalco, Keppel Smit Towage, Asian Lift and Saam Smit Towage), have other functional currencies than the euro. The main other currency is the US dollar (the functional currency of the Dockwise, Smit Lamnalco and Saam Smit Towage entities) and to a lesser extent the Pound Sterling and Singapore dollar. The revenue and expenses of these companies are largely or entirely based on their functional currency, other than the euro. Group companies and strategic investments with functional currency other than the euro contributed approximately 25% (2016: 30%) to the group revenue, 40% (2016: 40%) to the operating result excluding impairment losses and 35% (2016: 35%) to EBITDA in 2017. The Board of Management has defined a policy to control foreign currency risk based on the hedging of material transactions in foreign currencies by Group companies other than the functional currency. The policy is that these Group companies hedge their currency risks, if material, resulting from operational transactions in currencies other than their functional currency. This is mainly relevant for Group companies involved in dredging or offshore energy projects. The functional currency of a large part of the activities of Group companies is the euro. The expenses of these companies are mainly presented in euros and to a lesser extent in the local currency of the country in which the activities are undertaken. The Group contracts projects mainly in euro, US dollars, Pounds Sterling and currencies which are pegged to the US dollar.
Consequently, the reported financial results and cash flows of the respective operations are exposed to foreign currency risk. The exchange rate of the US dollar and the euro are most relevant in this respect. The Board of Management has defined a policy to mitigate foreign risks by hedging the foreign currency exposure of operational activities, in most cases through forward currency contracts.
The Group uses derivative financial instruments only to hedge related transactions, mainly from future cash flows from contracted projects. The Group applies hedge accounting for its cash flow hedges.
Exposure to currency risk The Group's currency risk management policy was maintained in 2017 and resulted in a non-material sensitivity of the Group to currency transaction risk.

AANNNNUUAALLRREEPPOORRTT22001177­ --B BOSOSKKALAILSIS

111166
The following significant exchange rates applied during the year under review:

Euro
US Dollar Pound Sterling Singapore Dollar

Average rate 2017
1.133 0.874 1.561

2016
1.102 0.816 1.526

Spot rate as at 31 December

2017

2016

1.201 0.888 1.605

1.055 0.884 1.524

Currency translation risk Currency translation risk arises mainly from the net asset position of subsidiaries, associated companies and joint ventures, whose functional currency is different than the presentation currency of the Group. Investments are viewed from a long-term perspective. Currency risks associated with investments in these affiliated companies are not hedged, under the assumption that currency fluctuations and interest and inflation developments balance out in the long run. Items in the statements of profit or loss of these subsidiaries are translated at average exchange rates. Currency translation differences are charged or credited directly to equity.

At reporting date the net asset positions of the main subsidiaries, associated companies and joint ventures in functional currencies other than the euro were as follows:

Euro
US dollar Pound Sterling Singapore dollar

31 DECEMBER 2017
891,111 88,906 63,506
1,043,523

2016
1,058,871 56,373
157,255 1,272,499

FI FNIANNACINCAILASLTSATTEATMEEMNETSNT2S0210717

For the 2017 financial year, profit before tax, excluding the effect of non-effective cash flow hedges would have been EUR 3.9 million higher (2016: EUR 26.5 million lower) if the corresponding functional currency had strengthened by 5% in comparison to the euro with all other variables, in particular interest rates, held constant. This would have been mainly as a result of currency exchange effects on translation of the result of the above-mentioned affiliates denominated in US dollars. The total impact on the currency translation reserve would have amounted to about EUR 55 million positive (2016: approximately EUR 66 million positive). A 5% weakening of the corresponding functional currency against the euro at year-end would have had the same but opposite effect assuming that all other variables remained constant.
Currency transaction risk, excluding interest-bearing financing The currency transaction risk for Group companies resulting from future operational transactions in currencies other than their functional currency, can be summarized as follows:

Euro
Expected cash flows in US dollars Expected cash flows in Australian dollars Expected cash flows in Pounds Sterling Expected cash flows in Indian rupees Expected cash flows in Swedish kronors Expected cash flows in euros Expected cash flows in other currencies Expected cash flows
Cash flow hedges
Net position

2017
176,892 - 9,770 61,182 83,486 44,082
- 32,016 12,805
336,661
- 330,077
6,584

2016
133,703 - 13,043 42,204
14,306 - 115,604
8,343 69,909
- 77,176
- 7,267

AANNNNUUAALLRREEPPOORRTT22001177­--BBOSOSKKALAILSIS

Sensitivity analysis Due to the fact that expected future cash flows in foreign currencies are hedged, the sensitivity to foreign currency risk for financial instruments, excluding interest-bearing financing, is limited for the Group. The Group is mainly funded by interest-bearing borrowings denominated in US dollars (see note 24 `Interestbearing borrowings'). The US private placements expressed in US dollars are used to hedge, in part, the net investments in Dockwise and Fairmount, including the intercompany financing provided. Therefore, and

111177
due in part to hedge accounting, the sensitivity in the profit or loss account is limited for financing in currencies other than the euro.

Interest rate risk The Group has mainly fixed interest rate liabilities and a revolving multi-currency facility with a variable interest rates. With a view to controlling interest risks, in principle the policy is that interest rates for loans payable are primarily fixed for the entire maturity period. This is achieved by contracting loans that carry a fixed interest rate and/or by using derivatives such as interest rate swaps.

The interest rates and maturity profiles of interest-bearing loans, deposits and cash and cash equivalents are stated below:

As at 31 December 2017
Cash and cash equivalents Short-term deposits US Private Placements (USD) Other interest-bearing borrowings Bank overdrafts

Interest rate One year or less

0.00% 2.36% 3.66% 3.40% 0.34%

184,624 7,324 - 297
- 40,794 150,857

1 - 5 years
- 1,169 - 1,169

Over 5 years
- 269,398 - 269,398

Total
184,624 7,324
- 269,398 - 1,466
- 40,794 - 119,710

As at 31 December 2016
Cash and cash equivalents Short-term deposits US Private Placements (USD) US Private Placements (GBP) Other interest-bearing borrowings Bank overdrafts

Interest rate One year or less

0.00% 0.35% 4.16% 5.19% 3.40% 1.76%

839,395 125,936 - 437,931 - 14,920
- 293 - 1,188 510,999

1 - 5 years
- 1,411 - 1,411

Over 5 years
- 306,876 - 306,876

Total
839,395 125,936 - 744,807 - 14,920
- 1,704 - 1,188 202,712

The US private placements and some of the cash and cash equivalents, short-term deposits and other interest-bearing borrowings have fixed interest rates.

Sensitivity analysis In managing interest rate risks the Group aims to reduce the impact of short-term fluctuations on Group earnings. In the long term, however, permanent changes in interest rates will have an impact on profit.

At the reporting date, the interest rate profile of the Group's interest-bearing financial instruments was:

FIXED RATE INSTRUMENTS
Financial assets Financial liabilities
VARIABLE RATE INSTRUMENTS
Financial assets Financial liabilities

2017
- 270,864 - 270,864
191,948 - 40,794 151,154

2016
264,093 - 761,431 - 497,338
701,238 - 1,188
700,050

A drop of 100 basis points, insofar as possible, in interest rates at 31 December 2017 would have no material impact on the Group's profit before income tax (2016: no material impact), with all other variables, in particular currency exchange rates, remaining constant. A rise of 100 basis points in interest rates at 31 December 2017 would have also no material impact on the Group's profit before income tax (2016: increase by a maximum of EUR 7.0 million), with all other variables, in particular currency exchange rates, remaining constant.

AANNNNUUAALLRREEPPOORRTT22001177­ --B BOSOSKKALAILSIS

111188
Price risks Risks related to price developments on the purchasing side which are usually borne by the Group, for example developments in wages, costs of materials, sub-contracting costs and fuel, are also taken into account when preparing cost price calculations and tenders. Price index clauses are included in contracts wherever possible, especially on projects that extend over a long period of time.
The Board of Management has established a fuel price risk management policy stipulating approved fuel price risk management instruments. These include: delivery of fuel by the client, price escalation clauses, fixed price supply contracts and financial derivatives (forward, future and swap contracts).
28.2 ON-BALANCE FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS AND FAIR VALUE
Financial instruments accounted for under assets and liabilities are financial fixed assets, cash and cash equivalents, receivables, and current and non-current liabilities. Derivatives are mainly future cash flows hedged by forward contracts to which hedge accounting is applied. Furthermore, the Group holds a number of interest rate swaps. These are recognized under other derivatives.
The fair value of the forward exchange contracts is based on their listed market price (unadjusted market prices in active markets for identical assets and liabilities) or discounted cash flows based on relevant conditions and durations of the contracts and including public interest rates for comparable instruments as at the balance sheet date, taking into account the credit risk of the counterparty. The fair value of other financial instruments is based on quoted prices or on the actual interest rate as at the balance sheet date, taking into account terms and maturity. The fair value of non-interest-bearing financial instruments with a maturity of twelve months or less is supposed to be equal to their book value.
The fair value of the majority of the financial instruments does not differ materially from the book value, with the exception of a number of loans and other payables with a fixed rate. The fair value of these instruments is disclosed below.
The fair value and the related hierarchy of the aforementioned financial instruments are:

FI FNIANNACINCAILASLTSATTEATMEEMNETNST2S0210717

Assets Derivatives Financial assets available for sale
Liabilities Derivatives Interest-bearing borrowings with fixed interest rates

As at 31 December 2017

CARRYING

AMOUNT

FAIR VALUE

HIERACHY

29,876

29,876

2

-

-

1

- 2,258

- 2,258

2

- 270,864

- 279,724

3

As at 31 December 2016

CARRYING AMOUNT

FAIR VALUE

HIERACHY

80,804

80,804

2

115,379

115,379

1

- 9,656

- 9,656

2

- 761,431

- 779,607

3

Derivatives The composition of outstanding derivatives at year-end is presented below.

2017
USD forward selling (in US dollar) USD forward buying (in US dollar) Forward selling of other currencies (average contract rates in EUR) Forward buying of other currencies (average contract rates in EUR) Fuel hedges (in US dollar)

WITHIN ONE YEAR
- 128,874 7,039
- 198,611 81,933 1,420

AFTER ONE YEAR
- 98,755 -
- 76,121 34,343 -

TOTAL
- 227,629 7,039
- 274,732 116,276 1,420

AANNNNUUAALLRREEPPOORRTT22001177­--BBOSOSKKALAILSIS

2016
USD forward selling (in US dollar) USD forward buying (in US dollar) Forward selling of other currencies (average contract rates in EUR) Forward buying of other currencies (average contract rates in EUR) Fuel hedges (in US dollar) Interest rate swaps (in EUR)

WITHIN ONE YEAR
- 181,748 38,628 - 88,100
136,288 947
59,669

AFTER ONE YEAR
- 14,347 -
- 28,562 20,620
-

TOTAL
- 196,095 38,628
- 116,662 156,908
947 59,669

The remaining time to maturity of these derivatives is directly related to the remaining time to maturity of the relating underlying contracts in the order book.

Cash flows from forward currency buying and selling can be rolled forward at the settlement date if they differ from the underlying cash flows.

The results on cash flow hedges recognized in Group equity are as follows:

Hedging reserve as at 1 January
Movement in fair value of cash flow hedges recognized in Group equity Transferred to the Statement of Profit or Loss (Raw materials, consumables, services and subcontracted work) Total directly recognized in Group equity Taxation Directly charged to hedging reserve (net of taxes)
Change in fair value of cash flow hedges from joint ventures and associated companies, after taxation Reclassification of hedge reserve to statement of profit or loss
Balance of hedging reserve as at 31 December

2017 - 3,905 19,470
1,573 21,043 - 3,257 17,786
- 8,415 -
- 8,415
5,466

2016 - 15,207
- 2,004
15,265 13,261 - 2,034 11,227
6,365 - 6,290
75
- 3,905

111199

The results on non-effective cash flow hedges are presented within the costs of raw materials, consumables, services and subcontracted work and amount to EUR 2.2 million positive in 2017 (2016: EUR 1.4 million positive).
Netting of financial instruments The Group does not net financial instruments in its statement of financial position.
28.3 CAPITAL MANAGEMENT
The Board of Management's policy is to maintain a strong capital base so as to maintain customer, investor, creditor and market confidence and to support the future development of the business. The Board of Management monitors the return on equity, which the Group defines as net operating income divided by total shareholders' equity, excluding minority interests. The Board of Management also monitors the level of dividend to be paid to holders of ordinary shares. For the dividend policy, see the Shareholders Information in the Annual Report.
The Board of Management seeks to maintain a balance between the higher returns that might be possible with higher levels of borrowings and the benefits of a sound capital position. The Group's target is to achieve a long-term return on equity of at least 12%. In 2017 the return was 4.9% (2016: -16.5%); adjusted for 2016 impairments after tax, the return on equity in 2017 was 4.9% (2016: 8.1%).
There were no changes in the Group's approach to capital management during the year. Neither the Group nor any Group companies are subject to externally imposed capital requirements.
The Group's solvency calculated as the ratio of total liabilities (EUR 1,745 million; 2016: EUR 2,441 million) to Group equity (EUR 3,025 million; 2016: EUR 3,123 million) amounted to 0.58 (2016: 0.78) at the reporting date.
28.4 OTHER FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS
By decision of the General Meeting of Shareholders held on 9 May 2001 the foundation Stichting Continuïteit KBW (the `Foundation') was granted the right to acquire cumulative protective preference shares in Royal Boskalis Westminster N.V. for an amount equal to the nominal amount of the ordinary shares outstanding at the time of issue of the shares concerned, minus the nominal value of one ordinary share. This right qualifies as a derivative financial liability and is subject to the following important conditions. The cumulative protective preference shares shall only be issued to the Foundation against payment of at least one fourth of the nominal sum. Additional payments on cumulative protective preference shares shall only take place after Royal Boskalis Westminster N.V. will have called these payments. After the issue of cumulative protective preference shares to the Foundation, Royal Boskalis Westminster N.V. is obliged, if the Foundation so requires, to reverse the issue by buyback or by cancellation with repayment,

AANNNNUUAALLRREEPPOORRTT22001177­ --B BOSOSKKALAILSIS

112200
at the discretion of Foundation. The dividend regarding the cumulative protective preference shares, if issued, is equal to the average of the Euribor interest, calculated for loans with a term of one year ­ pro rata the number of days to which such percentage applied ­ during the financial year for which the distribution is made, plus a maximum of four percentage points. The lastly mentioned increase shall be determined by the board of directors, subject to the approval of the supervisory board. The interest and credit risk is limited. The fair value of the option right is zero. The option of issuing such cumulative protective preference shares was not exercised during the period under review.

29. COMMITMENTS AND CONTINGENT LIABILITIES
Operational lease obligations The operational lease obligations relate primarily to the operational lease of some floating and other construction equipment, cars and offices. Additional clauses are not taken into account presuming that these are not unconditional. Non-redeemable operating lease contracts are recognized at nominal amounts and are due as follows:

Within one year Between one and five years After more than five years

2017
24,247 33,836 11,663 69,746

2016
31,309 53,547 12,493 97,349

FI FNIANNACINCAILASLTSATTEATMEEMNETSNT2S0210717

Guarantees The guarantee commitments as at 31 December 2017 amounted to EUR 565 million (2016: EUR 776 million) and can be specified as follows:

Guarantees provided with respect to: Joint ventures Contracts and joint operations Lease obligations and other financial obligations

2017
58,300 505,300
1,400 565,000

2016
86,000 689,000
1,000 776,000

The above-mentioned guarantees outstanding as at 31 December 2017 refer to guarantees and counter guarantees provided to financial institutions for approximately EUR 564 million (2016: approximately EUR 775 million). At year-end 2017, 35 key Group companies were jointly and severally liable in respect of credit facilities and guarantees provided to several Group companies. In respect of these facilities, it has been agreed to limit the provision of further securities on existing property, plant and equipment.
Group companies are jointly and severally liable for the non-consolidated part of the liabilities of their joint operations amounting to EUR 152 million (2016: EUR 244 million). Group companies are also jointly and severally liable for performance obligations for contracts with third parties in project-driven construction consortiums. In addition, certain recourse obligations exist in respect of project financiers and guarantees of deployment relating to equipment. Where deemed necessary, provisions have been made.
In principle the Group does not provide parent company guarantees to its subsidiaries, other than for commercial reasons. Group companies have filed declarations of joint and several liability for a number of subsidiaries with the Chamber of Commerce.
Capital commitments As at 31 December 2017 capital expenditure commitments amounted to EUR 120 million (year-end 2016: EUR 62 million).
Capital contribution obligations At year-end 2017 capital contribution obligations relating to Public Private Partnerships (`PPP') amount to nil (2016: EUR 12.5 million, refer to note 17). On behalf of the Group, financial institutions have provided bank guarantees for the amount of the capital contribution obligations as disclosed as part of the aforementioned guarantees and counter guarantees.

AANNNNUUAALLRREEPPOORRTT22001177­--BBOSOSKKALAILSIS

Other Several legal proceedings and investigations, including regulatory and other governmental, are regularly instituted against (entities of) Royal Boskalis Westminster N.V. Provisions were made where deemed necessary and if a reliable estimate of the future cash outflows could be made. Dutch companies form part of a fiscal unity. The companies are therefore liable for the tax obligations of the fiscal unity as a whole.
30. RELATED PARTIES
30.1 IDENTITY OF RELATED PARTIES
The identified related parties of the Group are its Group companies, joint ventures, associated companies (see note 17), shareholders with significant influence, pension funds that are classified as funded defined benefit pension plans in accordance with IAS 19 and the members of the Supervisory Board and Board of Management. There were no significant changes to the companies and people related to the Group other than the following:
 Mr. M. Niggebrugge resigned as a member of the Supervisory Board at the General Meeting of Shareholders on 10 May 2017;
 Gardline Holdings Limited including its group companies, joint ventures and associated companies was acquired on 15 August 2017.

GROUP COMPANIES
The following are the most relevant active Group companies, presented in accordance with the operational segment (division) where the respective entity primarily performs and reports on its activities.

COMPANY

CITY OF INCORPORATION

DREDGING & INLAND INFRA

Aannemingsmaatschappij Markus B.V.

Halfweg

Boskalis Environmental B.V. (formerly Boskalis Dolman B.V.) Papendrecht

Boskalis Dolman Mineraal Recycling B.V.

Rotterdam

Boskalis Dredging & Inland Infra Holding B.V.

Papendrecht

Boskalis International B.V.

Papendrecht

Boskalis Nederland B.V.

Rotterdam

Boskalis Nederland Infra B.V.

Rotterdam

Boskalis Secundaire Grondstoffen B.V.

Rotterdam

Boskalis Transport B.V.

Rotterdam

Boskalis Westminster International B.V.

Papendrecht

Boskalis Westminster Shipping B.V.

Papendrecht

BW Marine B.V.

Papendrecht

BW Soco B.V.

Sliedrecht

Cofra B.V.

Amsterdam

G. Markus & Zonen B.V.

Halfweg

Hydronamic B.V.

Sliedrecht

J. van Vliet B.V.

Wormerveer

MNO Grond- Weg- en Waterbouw B.V.

Rotterdam

MNO Vervat B.V.

Nieuw-Vennep

Wassenaar Recreatie Hedel B.V.

Hedel

Zandwinningsbedrijf Ahoy B.V.

Rotterdam

Zinkcon Dekker B.V.

Papendrecht

HDC Wasserbau Nord GmbH

Hamburg

Heinrich Hirdes GmbH

Bremen

Heinrich Hirdes EOD Services GmbH

Hamburg

Heinrich Hirdes Kampfmittelräumung GmbH

Hamburg

Boskalis Westminster Limited

Fareham

Cofra Limited

Fareham

Rock Fall Company Limited

Fareham

Westminster Dredging (Overseas) Limited

Fareham

Westminster Gravels Limited

Fareham

Boskalis Denmark ApS

Copenhagen

Irish Dredging Company Limited

Cork

Atlantique Dragage SARL

Saint Germain en Laye

Sociedad Española de Dragados S.A.

Madrid

Boskalis Italia S.r.l. Unipersonale

Rome

Terramare Oy

Helsinki

Boskalis Sweden AB

Goteborg

Boskalis Polska Sp. Zo.o

Szczecin

Boskalis S.R.L.

Constanta

COUNTRY OF INCORPORATION
The Netherlands The Netherlands The Netherlands The Netherlands The Netherlands The Netherlands The Netherlands The Netherlands The Netherlands The Netherlands The Netherlands The Netherlands The Netherlands The Netherlands The Netherlands The Netherlands The Netherlands The Netherlands The Netherlands The Netherlands The Netherlands The Netherlands Germany Germany Germany Germany United Kingdom United Kingdom United Kingdom United Kingdom United Kingdom Denmark Ireland France Spain Italy Finland Sweden Poland Romania

2017
100%
100% 100% 100% 100% 100% 100% 100% 100% 100% 100% 100%
100% 100% 100% 100%
100% 100% 100% 100% 100% 100% 100% 100% 100% 100% 100% 100% 100% 100% 100% 100% 100% 100% 100% 100%

112211
2016
100% 100% 100%
100% 100% 100% 100% 100% 100% 100% 100% 100% 100% 100% 100% 100% 100% 100% 100% 100% 100% 100% 100% 100% 100% 100% 100% 100% 100% 100% 100% 100% 100% 100% 100% 100% 100% 100% 100%

AANNNNUUAALLRREEPPOORRTT22001177­ --B BOSOSKKALAILSIS

AANNNNUUAALLRREEPPOORRTT22001177­--BBOSOSKKALAILSIS

112222

COMPANY

CITY OF INCORPORATION

Terramare Eesti OÜ

Tallinn

Limited Liability Company "Boskalis"

St. Petersburg

Boskalis Dredging & Inland Infra Holding Limited

Nicosia

Boskalis Westminster Contracting Limited (formerly Boskalis

Westminster Middle East Limited)

Nicosia

BW Marine (Cyprus) Limited

Limassol

Boskalis Maroc s.a.r.l.

Tangier

Boskalis do Brasil Dragagem e Serviços Maritímos Ltda Rio de Janeiro

Stuyvesant Environmental Contracting, LLC

Wilmington

Stuyvesant Projects Realization, Inc.

Wilmington

Boskalis Canada Dredging & Marine Service Ltd

Vancouver

Dragamex S.A. de CV

Mexico City

Boskalis Panama S.A.

Panama City

Boskalis Guyana Inc.

Georgetown

Boskalis International Uruguay S.A.

Montevideo

Dravensa C.A.

Caracas

Nigerian Westminster Dredging and Marine Limited

Lagos

Boskalis Westminster Contracting FZE

Lekki

BKI Gabon S.A.

Libreville

Boskalis International Maldives Private Limited

Male

Boskalis Mozambique Limitada

Maputo

Boskalis Westminster Oman LLC *

Muscat

Boskalis Westminster Al Rushaid Co Ltd. *

Al Khobar

Boskalis Australia Pty Ltd

Perth

Boskalis International (S) Pte Ltd

Singapore

Koon Zinkcon Pte Ltd *

Singapore

Zinkcon Marine Singapore Pte. Ltd.

Singapore

P.T. Boskalis International Indonesia

Jakarta

Boskalis Smit India LLP

Mumbai

Beijing Boskalis Dredging Technology Co Ltd.

Beijing

Boskalis Taiwan Limited

Taipei

FI FNIANNACINCAILASLTSATTEATMEEMNETSNT2S0210717

OFFSHORE ENERGY
Boskalis CTD - Offshore B.V. Boskalis Holding I (dollar) B.V. Boskalis Holding II (dollar) B.V. Boskalis Offshore Contracting B.V. Boskalis Offshore Fleet Management B.V. Boskalis Offshore Holding B.V. Boskalis Offshore International B.V. Boskalis Offshore International Holding B.V. Boskalis Offshore Marine Contracting B.V. Boskalis Offshore Marine Services B.V. Boskalis Offshore Subsea Contracting B.V. Boskalis Offshore Subsea Services (Europe) B.V. Dockwise B.V. Dockwise Shipping B.V. Dockwise Transporter B.V. Dockwise Vanguard B.V. Fairmount Alpine B.V. Fairmount Expedition B.V. Fairmount Glacier B.V. Fairmount Marine B.V. Fairmount Ocean Towage Company B.V. Fairmount Sherpa B.V. Fairmount Summit B.V. Fairstar Finesse B.V. Fairstar Fjell B.V. Fairstar Fjord B.V. Fairstar Forte B.V. Fairstar Heavy Transport N.V. Offshore Equipment B.V. Stemat B.V. Stemat Beheer B.V. Stemat Holding B.V. Stemat Support Services B.V. Talisman B.V. Target B.V.

Papendrecht Papendrecht Papendrecht Papendrecht Papendrecht Papendrecht Rotterdam Papendrecht Rotterdam Papendrecht Papendrecht Papendrecht Breda Breda Breda Breda Rotterdam Rotterdam Rotterdam Rotterdam Rotterdam Rotterdam Rotterdam Rotterdam Rotterdam Rotterdam Rotterdam Rotterdam Papendrecht Rotterdam Rotterdam Rotterdam Rotterdam Breda Breda

COUNTRY OF INCORPORATION Estonia Russian Federation Cyprus
Cyprus Cyprus Morocco Brazil United States of America United States of America Canada Mexico Panama Guyana Uruguay Venezuela Nigeria Nigeria Gabon Maldives Mozambique Oman Saudi Arabia Australia Singapore Singapore Singapore Indonesia India China Taiwan
The Netherlands The Netherlands The Netherlands The Netherlands The Netherlands The Netherlands The Netherlands The Netherlands The Netherlands The Netherlands The Netherlands The Netherlands The Netherlands The Netherlands The Netherlands The Netherlands The Netherlands The Netherlands The Netherlands The Netherlands The Netherlands The Netherlands The Netherlands The Netherlands The Netherlands The Netherlands The Netherlands The Netherlands The Netherlands The Netherlands The Netherlands The Netherlands The Netherlands The Netherlands The Netherlands

2017 100% 100% 100%
100% 100% 100% 100% 100% 100% 100% 100% 100% 100% 100% 100%
60% 100% 100% 100% 100%
49% 49% 100% 100% 50% 100% 100% 100% 100% 100%
100% 100% 100% 100% 100% 100% 100% 100% 100% 100% 100% 100% 100% 100% 100% 100% 100% 100% 100% 100%
100% 100% 100% 100% 100% 100% 100% 100% 100% 100% 100% 100% 100% 100%

2016 100% 100%
-
100% 100% 100% 100% 100% 100% 100% 100% 100% 100% 100% 100%
60% -
100% 100% 100%
49% 49% 100% 100% 50% 100% 100% 100% 100% 100%
100% 100% 100% 100% 100% 100% 100% 100% 100% 100% 100% 100% 100% 100% 100% 100% 100% 100% 100% 100% 100% 100% 100% 100% 100% 100% 100% 100% 100% 100% 100% 100% 100% 100%

COMPANY
Tranship B.V. Treasure B.V. Triumph B.V. Trustee B.V. VBMS B.V. VBMS Holding B.V. White Marlin B.V. Dockwise Transport N.V. Boskalis Offshore Marine Services N.V. Boskalis Offshore Transport Services N.V. Dredging & Contracting Belgium N.V. Unie van Redding- en Sleepdienst N.V. Boskalis Offshore GmbH Boskalis Offshore International GmbH VBMS GmbH Alicat Workboats Limited Boskalis Offshore Limited Boskalis Offshore CI Limited C.A. Design Services Limited Gardline Geosurvey (Norway) Limited Gardline Limited Gardline Marine Sciences Limited Gardline Shipping Limited VBMS (UK) Limited VBMS ApS Boskalis Offshore AS Boskalis Offshore Subsea Contracting Azerbaijan LLC Alpine Ocean Seismic Survey Inc Gardline Marine Sciences Inc Smit Marine South Africa (Pty) Ltd. Boskalis Offshore Subsea Services (Middle East) L.L.C.* Boskalis Offshore Subsea Services (Australia) Pty Ltd Gardline Pte Ltd Smit Holding Singapore Pte. Ltd. Smit Shipping Singapore Pte. Ltd. Smit Singapore Pte. Ltd. Smit Tak Heavy Lift (S) Pte. Ltd.

CITY OF INCORPORATION
Den Helder Breda Breda Breda Papendrecht Papendrecht Papendrecht Curacao Antwerp Antwerp Overijse Antwerp Hamburg Wilhelmshaven Wilhelmshaven Great Yarmouth Hoddesdon Hoddesdon Great Yarmouth Great Yarmouth Great Yarmouth Great Yarmouth Great Yarmouth Hoddesdon Copenhagen Stavanger Baku Norwood Wilmington Cape Town Dubai Chatswood Singapore Singapore Singapore Singapore Singapore

TOWAGE & SALVAGE
Rotterdam Tug B.V. SMIT Salvage B.V. Smit Towage Brasil B.V. Smit Towage Europe B.V. Smit Towage Holding B.V. Smit Towage Mexico B.V. Smit Towage Terminals B.V.

Rotterdam Papendrecht Papendrecht Papendrecht Papendrecht Papendrecht Papendrecht

HOLDING & ELIMINATIONS
Baggermaatschappij Boskalis B.V. Boskalis Finance B.V. Boskalis Holding B.V. Boskalis Marine Infrastructure Investments B.V. Boskalis Westminster Dredging B.V. Smit Internationale Beheer B.V. Smit Internationale N.V. Smit International Overseas B.V. Smit Nederland B.V. Smit Vessel Management Services B.V. Boskalis Germany Holding GmbH UAB "Boskalis Baltic" B.K.W. Dredging & Contracting Limited Boskalis Westminster Dredging Limited

Papendrecht Papendrecht Papendrecht Papendrecht Papendrecht Rotterdam Papendrecht Rotterdam Rotterdam Rotterdam Hamburg Klaipeda Nicosia Limassol

COUNTRY OF INCORPORATION The Netherlands The Netherlands The Netherlands The Netherlands The Netherlands The Netherlands The Netherlands Curacao Belgium Belgium Belgium Belgium Germany Germany Germany United Kingdom United Kingdom United Kingdom United Kingdom United Kingdom United Kingdom United Kingdom United Kingdom United Kingdom Denmark Norway Azerbaijan United States of America United States of America South Africa United Arab Emirates Australia Singapore Singapore Singapore Singapore Singapore
The Netherlands The Netherlands The Netherlands The Netherlands The Netherlands The Netherlands The Netherlands
The Netherlands The Netherlands The Netherlands The Netherlands The Netherlands The Netherlands The Netherlands The Netherlands The Netherlands The Netherlands Germany Lithuania Cyprus Cyprus

2017 100% 100% 100% 100% 100% 100% 100% 100% 100% 100% 100% 100% 100% 100% 100% 100% 100% 100% 100% 100% 100% 100% 100% 100% 100% 100% 100%
75% 100% 100%
49% 100% 100% 100% 100% 100% 100%
100% 100% 100% 100% 100% 100% 100%
100% 100% 100% 100% 100% 100% 100% 100% 100% 100% 100% 100% 100% 100%

* The Group holds a legal interest of 50% or less in these entities, but has the majority of voting power. As a consequence, the Group consolidates these subsidiaries in accordance with the principles of financial reporting set out in paragraph 3.

2016 -
100% 100% 100% 100% 100% 100% 100% 100% 100% 100% 100% 100% 100% 100%
100% 100%
100% 100% 100% 100% 100% 49% 100% 100% 100% 100% 100%
100% 100% 100% 100% 100% 100% 100%
100% 100% 100% 100% 100% 100% 100% 100% 100% 100% 100% 100% 100% 100%

112233

AANNNNUUAALLRREEPPOORRTT22001177­ --B BOSOSKKALAILSIS

AANNNNUUAALLRREEPPOORRTT22001177­--BBOSOSKKALAILSIS

112244 OTHER RELATED PARTIES

Strategic investments The main active joint ventures and associated companies are mentioned in note 17.

Pension plans classified as funded defined benefit pension plans See note 25.1 for information on pension plans that are classified as funded defined benefit pension plans in accordance with IAS 19. There were no changes and further material transactions with these pension funds as disclosed in this note.

Members of the Board of Management and members of the Supervisory Board The only key management officers qualifying as related parties are the members of the Board of Management and the members of the Supervisory Board.
30.2 RELATED PARTY TRANSACTIONS

Strategic investments Transactions with joint ventures and associated companies as part of regular business take place under normal business conditions at arm's length. In 2017 these transactions regarding sales and purchases amounted to EUR 41.0 million and EUR 16.4 million, respectively (2016: EUR 71.1 million and EUR 15.8 million, respectively). In October 2017 the Company granted two loans to SAAone Holding B.V. of EUR 13.6 million in total, of which the majority has an interest rate of 9%. Amounts receivable from and amounts payable to joint ventures and associated companies were EUR 25.7 million and EUR 4.6 million, respectively (2016: EUR 22.6 million and EUR 1.8 million, respectively).

FI FNIANNACINCAILASLTSATTEATMEEMNETNST2S0210717

Transactions with members of the Board of Management and members of the Supervisory Board The remuneration of current and former members of the Board of Management and Supervisory Board of the Company in 2017 and 2016 were as follows:

ANNUAL SALARIES AND REMUNERATION

Members of the Board of Management Dr. P.A.M. Berdowski T.L. Baartmans J.H. Kamps F.A. Verhoeven (up to 10 May 2016)
Members of the Supervisory Board J.M. Hessels Ms. I. Haaijer (from 10 November 2016) H.J. Hazewinkel M. Niggebrugge (up to 10 May 2017) J. van der Veer J. N. van Wiechen C. van Woudenberg

793 574 574
1,941
66 52 51 22 52 56 52 351

EMPLOYER'S PENSION
CONTRIBUTIONS

SHORT-TERM AND LONGTERM VARIABLE REMUNERATION
PAID*

205 148 148
501

815 536 536
1,887

OTHER REIMBURSE-
MENTS
28 31 28
87
2 2 2 1 2 2 2 13

TOTAL*
1,841 1,289 1,286
4,416
68 54 53 23 54 58 54 364

Total 2017

2,292

501

1,887

100

4,780

Total 2016

2,480

1,220

3,840

107

* The EU-IFRS expenses for the members of the Board of Management deviate from the remuneration as disclosed in the table above. The EU-IFRS short-term and long-term variable remuneration expenses as charged to the statement of profit or loss include, in addition to the paid variable remuneration as disclosed above the changes in the accrued expenses for future payments of variable remuneration and amount for Dr. P.A.M. Berdowski to EUR 1,374 thousand, for Mr. T.L. Baartmans EUR 575 thousand and for Mr. J.H. Kamps EUR 575 thousand which adds up to EUR 2,524 thousand (2016: EUR 1,562 thousand). The total EU-IFRS remuneration expense for Dr. P.A.M. Berdowski amounts to EUR 2,400 thousand, for Mr. T.L. Baartmans EUR 1,328 thousand, and for Mr. J.H. Kamps to EUR 1,325 thousand which adds up to EUR 5,053 thousand in total (2016: EUR 5,393 thousand).

2016*
2,572 1,658 1,657 1,410 7,297
68 7
47 62 54 58 54 350
7,647

112255
Employer's pension contributions Employer's pension contributions include the pension compensation for salaries exceeding EUR 103.3 thousand, as well as the pension premiums paid (EUR 26 thousand per person).
Long-term incentive plan The members of the Board of Management participate in long-term (three-year) incentive plans, which are based partly on the development of the share price of the ordinary shares of Boskalis and partly on the realization of certain objectives, which are defined by the Supervisory Board and are in line with the strategic agenda and the objectives of Boskalis.
The variable remuneration paid in 2017 is related to the achievement of certain targets during the 2016 financial year (short-term variable remuneration: EUR 822 thousand) and the achievement of certain targets during the 2014 - 2016 period (long-term variable remuneration: EUR 1,065 thousand).
Multi-year overview of variable remuneration The following variable remuneration was granted to the members of the Board of Management with regard to the years 2015, 2016 and 2017:

Dr. P.A.M. Berdowski T.L. Baartmans J.H. Kamps F.A. Verhoeven (up to 10 May 2016) Total

2018
859 536 536
1,931

Year of payment 2017
815 536 536
1,887

2016
1,190 775 736
1,139 3,840

Balance sheet position On 31 December 2017 the Group recognized a liability in the balance sheet item Trade and other payables of EUR 2.3 million (2016: EUR 1.9 million) relating to the long-term incentive plans for the periods 2015 ­ 2017, 2016 ­ 2018 and 2017 ­ 2019.
30.3 JOINT OPERATIONS
The Group has activities in the Dredging & Inland Infra and Offshore Energy operational segments through joint operations which are not related parties as defined in IFRS. Legally these joint operations comprise project-driven construction consortiums. In joint operations joint control is established by contract and the Group has rights to the assets and is liable for the debts of the operations. An amount of EUR 219 million of Group revenue was realized through joint operations (2016: EUR 382 million). The balance sheet of the Group holds current assets of EUR 157 million (2016: EUR 162 million), including cash and cash equivalents (refer to note 22) and an amount of EUR 263 million (2016: EUR 287 million) of current liabilities that was included on a pro-rata basis in accordance with the Group's interest in these joint operations. Temporary and other surpluses and shortages in the financing of a joint operation are withdrawn or financed by the partners in the joint operation. At year-end 2017, Group companies owed joint operations an amount of EUR 197.3 million (2016: EUR 177.2 million) and held EUR 81.1 million (2016: EUR 63.5 million) in receivables from joint operations. Similar to contracts of Group companies, guarantees are also provided for contracts of joint operations by the Group or one of its Group companies. The guarantee commitments regarding joint operations are disclosed in note 29 as part of the guarantee commitments relating to contracts and joint ventures. Group companies are jointly and severally liable for the non-consolidated part of the liabilities of their joint operations which are disclosed in note 28. The guarantees provided are predominantly backed up by comparable receivables from the clients of the joint operations, reducing the Group's exposure.

AANNNNUUAALLRREEPPOORRTT22001177­ --B BOSOSKKALAILSIS

AANNNNUUAALLRREEPPOORRTT22001177­--BBOSOSKKALAILSIS

112266
The table below shows the legal share in the major joint operations (project driven construction consortiums) in which the Group is involved:

ENTITY
DREDGING & INLAND INFRA

COUNTRY OF INCORPORATION

Boskalis Van Oord Pluit City JV V.O.F. BPL Beton BPL Wegen Combinatie BadhoeverBogen V.O.F. Combinatie BaggerIJ Combinatie IJsselweide Combinatie Isala Delta Combinatie Ommelanderdiek Combinatie Regenboog V.O.F. Combinatie Tessel Combinatie Wilhelminakanaal Combinatie Houtribdijk V.O.F. MSB Grind & Zand V.O.F Projectorganisatie Uitbreiding Maasvlakte (PUMA) SAAone EPCM Bouwcombinatie V.O.F. SAAone GWW V.O.F. Unie van Marken V.O.F. ZSNH Combinatie Van Oord/Boskalis V.O.F. NMDC-Boskalis-Van Oord-Jan de Nul Consortium for Suez Canal Project Ras Laffan Port Extension Penta-Ocean Koon DI Boskalis Ham JV (Jurong 4) Boskalis Jan de Nul - Dragagens E Afins LDA Bahia Blanca Fehmarn Belt Contractors I/S BSI ---- JDN Joint - Venture

The Netherlands The Netherlands The Netherlands The Netherlands The Netherlands The Netherlands The Netherlands The Netherlands The Netherlands The Netherlands The Netherlands The Netherlands The Netherlands The Netherlands The Netherlands The Netherlands The Netherlands The Netherlands
Egypt Qatar Singapore Angola Argentina Denmark India

2017
50% 50% 50% 20% 50% 50% 50% 70% 38% 70% 33% 50% 33% 50% 30% 50% 70% 50%
25% 50% 17% 50% 50% 50% 51%

FI FNIANNACINCAILASLTSATTEATMEEMNETSNT2S0210717

OFFSHORE ENERGY
Boskalis Offshore AS - Tideway V.O.F. Thames JV Tideway-Boskalis JV Vulcan & Viking JV Nord Stream 2 Rock Joint Venture VBNK Borssele V.O.F.

The Netherlands The Netherlands The Netherlands The Netherlands The Netherlands The Netherlands

50% 50% 50% 50% 50% 50%

2016
50% 50% 50% 20% 50% 50% 50% 70% 38% 70% 33%
33% 50% 30% 50% 70% 50%
25% 50% 17% 50% 50%
-
50% 50% 50% 50%
-

COMPANY STATEMENT OF PROFIT OR LOSS

(in thousands of EUR) OPERATING INCOME
Other operating income
OPERATING EXPENSES
Other operating expenses
PROFIT/LOSS (-) BEFORE TAXATION
Result of group company
NET PROFIT/LOSS (-)

Note

2017

2016

[8]

5,570

8,442

5,570

8,442

[8]

- 5,570

- 8,442

- 5,570

- 8,442

-

-

[3]

150,469

- 563,730

150,469

- 563,730

COMPANY STATEMENT OF FINANCIAL POSITION
(BEFORE PROFIT APPROPRIATION)

(in thousands of EUR)

31 DECEMBER

Note

2017

2016

ASSETS Non-current assets
Investments in group companies
Current assets
Amounts due from group companies

[3]

3,020,710

3,120,236

3,020,710

3,120,236

2,228

937

2,228

937

Total assets

3,022,938

3,121,173

EQUITY AND LIABILITIES Shareholders' equity
Issued capital Share premium Other legal reserves Hedging reserve Revaluation reserve Currency translation reserve Other reserves Retained earnings Profit/loss (-) for the year
Total equity and liabilities

[4]

1,334

1,301

[4]

636,988

637,006

[5]

221,970

214,339

[5]

5,466

- 3,905

[5]

101,996

102,458

[5]

199,777

339,018

[5]

- 21,856

- 14,088

1,726,794

2,408,774

[6]

150,469

- 563,730

3,022,938

3,121,173

3,022,938

3,121,173

AANNNNUUAALLRREEPPOORRTT22001177­ --B BOSOSKKALAILSIS

112277

112288
STATEMENT OF CHANGES IN SHAREHOLDERS' EQUITY

FINFIANNACINACILASLT SATTEATMEEMNETSNT2S0210717

(in thousands of EUR)

Balance Repurchase

as at

own

1 January

ordinary

Note

2017

shares

Issued capital Share premium

[4]

1,301

[4]

637,006

638,307

Other legal reserves

[5]

Hedging reserve

[5]

Revaluation reserve

[5]

Currency translation reserve [5]

Other reserves

[5]

Retained earnings

214,339 - 3,905
102,458 339,018 - 14,088 2,408,774 3,046,596

- 81,176 - 81,176

Profit/loss (-) appropriation

2016

Net profit/loss (-) 2017

Profit/loss (-) for the year

[6]

- 563,730 -
- 563,730

Shareholders' equity

3,121,173

- 81,176

Cash dividend
- 29,533 - 29,533 - 29,533

Stock dividend

Movement retained earnings

Other movements

Total recognized income and
expenses

Balance as at 31 December
2017

33 - 18
15

1,334 636,988 638,322

- 593,278 - 593,278

7,631 -
- 462 -
- 7,169 -

9,371
- 139,241
- 7,768 - 357
- 137,995

221,970 5,466
101,996 199,777 - 21,856 1,726,794 2,234,147

- 15 -
- 15
-

593,278 -
593,278
-

150,469 150,469

150,469 150,469

-

12,474 3,022,938

(in thousands of EUR)
Issued capital Share premium

Note
[4] [4]

Other legal reserves

[5]

Hedging reserve

[5]

Revaluation reserve

[5]

Currency translation reserve [5]

Other reserves

[5]

Retained earnings

Profit/loss (-) appropriation 2015

Net profit/loss (-) 2016

Profit/loss (-) for the year

[6]

Shareholders' equity

Balance as at
1 January 2016

Amendment to Articles of
Association

100,501 535,807 636,308

- 102,760 102,760
-

320,889 - 15,207 45,619 314,683 - 44,209 2,016,052 2,637,827

440,178 -
440,178

3,714,313

-

Cash dividend
- 55,762 -
- 55,762 - 55,762

Stock dividend

Movement retained earnings

Other movements

Total recognized income and
expenses

Balance as at 31 December
2016

3,560 - 1,561 1,999

1,301 637,006 638,307

382,417 382,417

- 106,550 -
56,839 -
39,763 9,948 -

11,302
24,335 - 9,642
357 26,352

214,339 - 3,905
102,458 339,018 - 14,088 2,408,774 3,046,596

- 1,999 -
- 1,999
-

- 382,417 -
- 382,417
-

- 563,730 - 563,730

- 563,730 - 563,730

-

- 537,378

3,121,173

AANNNNUUAALLRREEPPOORRTT22001177­--BBOSOSKKALAILSIS

112299
EXPLANATORY NOTES TO THE COMPANY FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

1. GENERAL
The company financial statements of Royal Boskalis Westminster N.V. (the `Company') are included in the Consolidated Financial Statements 2017 of Royal Boskalis Westminster N.V.

2. PRINCIPLES OF FINANCIAL REPORTING
2.1 ACCOUNTING POLICIES
The company financial statements have been drawn up using the reporting standards applied for preparing the consolidated financial statements, in accordance with Section 362(8), Part 9 of Book 2 of the Dutch Civil Code except for the investment in its subsidiary. Based on Section 362(1), Part 9 of Book 2 of the Dutch Civil Code, the consolidated financial statements have been prepared in accordance with the International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS) as adopted by the European Union. These accounting principles are disclosed in note 3 of the consolidated financial statements, unless stated otherwise below.

2.2 FORMAT
Unless stated otherwise, all amounts in these explanatory notes are stated in thousands of euros. The company statement of financial position is drawn up before profit appropriation.

2.3 INVESTMENTS IN GROUP COMPANIES
Investments in Group companies are accounted for using the accounting policies for assets, liabilities, provisions and profit or loss, as described in the principles of financial reporting and applied in the consolidated financial statements of Royal Boskalis Westminster N.V.

2.4 AMOUNTS DUE FROM GROUP COMPANIES
Amounts due from Group companies are stated initially at fair value and subsequently at amortized cost, using the effective interest rate, less impairments.

2.5 AMOUNTS DUE TO GROUP COMPANIES
Amounts due to Group companies are recognized initially at fair value and subsequently at amortized cost, using the effective interest rate.

2.6 RESULT OF GROUP COMPANY
Result of group company consists of the share of the Company in the result after taxation of its Group company. Results on transactions, where the transfer of assets and liabilities between the Company and its participating interests, and mutually between participating interests themselves, are not incorporated as far as they can be deemed to be unrealized.

3. INVESTMENTS IN GROUP COMPANIES
Investments in Group companies solely consist of the 100% investment in Boskalis Westminster Dredging B.V., Papendrecht. The table below shows the movements in this investment:

Balance as at 1 January
Dividend received Profit/loss (-) for the year Movements directly recognized in equity of group company Balance as at 31 December

2017 3,120,236
- 112,000 150,469
- 137,995 3,020,710

2016 3,708,614
- 51,000 - 563,730
26,352 3,120,236

See notes 17 and 30.1 of the consolidated financial statements 2017 for an overview of the most important directly and indirectly held Group companies.

AANNNNUUAALLRREEPPOORRTT22001177­ --B BOSOSKKALAILSIS

113300
4. ISSUED CAPITAL AND OPTIONAL DIVIDEND
The authorized share capital of EUR 4.8 million (2016: EUR 4.8 million) is divided into 240,000,000 (2016: 240,000,000) ordinary shares with a par value of EUR 0.01 (2016: EUR 0.01) each and 80,000,000 (2016: 80,000,000) cumulative protective preference shares with a par value of EUR 0.03 (2016: EUR 0.03) each.

In 2017 a dividend of EUR 1.00 per share was distributed to the 2016 financial year for a total amount of EUR 130.1 million. Of all shareholders 77% opted for a dividend in ordinary shares. As a result 3,275,042 new ordinary shares were issued.

(in number of ordinary shares)
Issued and fully paid shares entitled to dividend at 1 January Stock dividend Issued and fully paid shares entitled to dividend at 31 December Repurchased shares Shares entitled to dividend at 31 December

2017
130,076,852 3,275,042
133,351,894 - 2,674,601
130,677,293

2016
125,627,062 4,449,790
130,076,852 -
130,076,852

FI FNIANNACINCAILASLTSATTEATMEEMNETSNT2S0210717

The issued capital as at 31 December 2017 consisted of 130,677,293 ordinary shares with a par value of EUR 0.01 each (2016: EUR 0.01) for a total amount of EUR 1.3 million (2016: EUR 1.3 million). On 3 July 2017 the Group initiated a share repurchase program. In 2017 2,674,601 shares were repurchased for an amount of EUR 81.2 million (including EUR 2.9 million dividend tax). The Stichting Continuïteit KBW received an option right to acquire cumulative protective preference shares in Royal Boskalis Westminster N.V. This option has not been exercised yet. Share premium comprises additional paid-in capital exceeding the par value of outstanding shares. Share premium is distributable free of tax.
5. OTHER RESERVES
With regard to the difference between the cost price and equity value of joint ventures and associated companies recognized in accordance with the equity method, a legally required reserve is recognized due to a lack of control over the distribution of profits, only to the extent that these differences are not included in the accumulated currency translation differences on foreign operations. The legal reserve for nondistributed profits of group and/or joint ventures and associated companies amounted to EUR 222.0 million at the end of 2017 (2016: EUR 214.3 million). The legal reserve for associated companies is determined on an individual basis.
The other reserves recognized in the company balance sheet are disclosed in the notes to the consolidated financial statements (note 23.6).
6. PROFIT OR LOSS FOR THE YEAR
An amount of EUR 19.8 million will be added to the retained earnings. The proposal to the Annual General Meeting will be to appropriate the remainder, EUR 130.7 million, for a dividend payment of EUR 1.00 per ordinary share.
The proposed dividend will be made payable in ordinary shares that will be charged to the tax-exempt share premium or charged to the retained earnings, with the exception of shareholder requests for payment in cash.
7. FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS
General Pursuant to its use of financial instruments, the Group is exposed to credit risk, liquidity risk and market risk. The notes to the consolidated financial statements provide information on the Group's exposure to each of these risks, its objectives, principles and procedures for managing and measuring these risks, as well as group capital management. These risks, objectives, principles and procedures for managing and measuring these risks as well as capital management apply mutatis mutandis to the company financial statements of Royal Boskalis Westminster N.V.
Fair value The fair value of the majority of the financial instruments presented in the balance sheet, including receivables, securities, cash and cash equivalents and current liabilities are close to their carrying value.

AANNNNUUAALLRREEPPOORRTT22001177­--BBOSOSKKALAILSIS

8. OPERATING INCOME AND EXPENSES
Other operation expenses comprise the remuneration of the members of the Board of Management and members of the Supervisory Board for a total amount of EUR 4.8 million (2016: EUR 7.6 million) (see note 30.2) as well as other third party expenses of EUR 0.8 million (2016: EUR 0.8 million). Other operating expenses are born by Group companies and these are reported as Other operating income.

9. REMUNERATION OF THE MEMBERS OF THE BOARD OF MANAGEMENT AND MEMBERS OF THE SUPERVISORY BOARD
The remuneration of members of the Board of Management and members of the Supervisory Board is disclosed in the consolidated financial statements under Related party transactions (note 30.2).

10. AUDITOR REMUNERATION
Ernst & Young Accountants LLP and its entire network charged the following fees to the Company and its subsidiaries:

ERNST & YOUNG ACCOUNTANTS
LLP

2017
OTHER EY NETWORK

TOTAL

ERNST & YOUNG ACCOUNTANTS
LLP

2016
OTHER EY NETWORK

Audit of financial statements Other audit engagements Tax advisory services Other non-audit services Total

1,778 118 -
1,896

483 8
358 -
849

2,261 126 358 -
2,745

1,705

542

88

22

-

352

--

--

1,793

916

In addition to the statutory audit of the financial statements, Ernst & Young Accountants LLP provided the following services:  Audits of financial statements of group entities  Services in accordance with ISA 800 `Audits of financial statements prepared in accordance with special
purpose framework'  Services in accordance with ISA 2400 `'Engagements to review historical financial statements'  Services in accordance with ISA 3000 `Assurance engagements other than audits or reviews of historical
financial information'  Services in accordance with ISA 4400 `Engagements to perform agreed upon procedures'.
11. COMMITMENTS AND CONTINGENT LIABILITIES
Royal Boskalis Westminster N.V. heads a fiscal unity. The Company is therefore liable for the tax obligations of the fiscal unity as a whole.
The Company has arrangements with third parties, amongst which banks and pension funds. These arrangements are on behalf of Group companies. Because the risks and rewards are with these Group companies, the costs are charged to these companies and the liabilities are recognized by these companies. The Company is jointly and severally liable for the fulfillment of obligations.
The Company has issued no guarantees on behalf of project-driven construction consortiums and Group companies' own contracts as at 31 December 2017 (2016: EUR 1.0 million). Certain recourse obligations exist in respect of project financing. Where necessary, provisions are deemed to have been made.
Some legal proceedings and investigations are ongoing with respect to entities of Royal Boskalis Westminster N.V. Where necessary, provisions are deemed to have been made.

113311
TOTAL 2,247
110 352
2,709

AANNNNUUAALLRREEPPOORRTT22001177­ --B BOSOSKKALAILSIS

113322
Papendrecht / Sliedrecht, 7 March 2018
Supervisory Board J.M. Hessels, chairman H.J. Hazewinkel, deputy chairman Ms. I. Haaijer J. van der Veer J.N. van Wiechen C. van Woudenberg
Board of Management dr. P.A.M. Berdowski, chairman T.L. Baartmans J.H. Kamps, CFO

FI FNIANNACINCAILASLTSATTEATMEEMNETSNT2S0210717

AANNNNUUAALLRREEPPOORRTT22001177­--BBOSOSKKALAILSIS

133
PROVISIONS IN THE ARTICLES OF ASSOCIATION RELATING TO PROFIT APPROPRIATION

ARTICLE 27. 1. If possible, from the profits gained in any financial year shall
first be paid on the cumulative protective preference shares the percentage, defined below, of the amount that was required to be paid on those shares at the start of the financial year to which the distribution pertains. The percentage meant above is equal to the average of the Euribor interest, calculated for loans with a term of one year ­ pro rata the number of days to which such percentage applied ­ during the financial year for which the distribution is made, plus a maximum of four percentage points; the lastly mentioned increase shall be determined by the board of directors, subject to the approval of the supervisory board. If, in the financial year for which the abovementioned distribution is made, the amount that was required to be paid on the cumulative protective preference shares has been decreased or ­ as a result of a resolution to require additional payments ­ raised, the distribution will be decreased or ­ if possible ­ increased, respectively, by an amount that is equal to the aforementioned percentage of the amount of the decrease or increase, respectively, calculated from the time of the decrease or the time the additional payment became obligatory, respectively. If, in the course of any financial year, cumulative protective preference shares have been issued, the dividend on those cumulative protective preference shares will be decreased pro rata until the day of issue, counting part of a month as a whole month. 2. If and to the extent the profits are not sufficient to allow for the distribution referred to in paragraph 1 in full, any shortfall shall be paid out of the reserves with due observance of the provision of the law. 3. In case in any financial year the profits referred to in paragraph 1 are not sufficient to allow for the distributions referred to in this article, and no distributions or only partial distributions are made from the reserves as referred to in paragraph 2, as a result of which the shortfall is not or not fully paid out, the conditions in this paragraph above and in the following paragraphs will only apply after the shortfall will have been settled. After application of paragraphs 1, 2 and 3, no further distributions shall be made on the cumulative protective preference shares. 4. The board of directors shall decide, subject to the approval of the supervisory board, which part of the profits remaining will be reserved. What remains of the profits after reserving as referred to in the preceding sentence, shall be at the disposal of the general meeting of shareholders and, when distributed, shall be paid to the holders of ordinary shares pro rata the number of ordinary shares they hold.

ARTICLE 28. 1. Dividends will be paid out thirty days after adoption of the
relevant resolution or as soon as the board of directors decides. 2. Dividends which remain unclaimed for five years from the day they become due and payable, shall accrue to the company. 3. In case the board of directors, subject to the approval of the supervisory board, adopts a resolution to that effect, interim dividends shall be paid out, with due observance of the preference of the cumulative protective preference shares and the provisions of Section 2:105 of the Dutch Civil Code. 4. The general meeting of shareholders may resolve to pay out dividends in the form of shares in the company or depository receipts for those shares, in full or in part, provided that it does so pursuant to a proposal of the board of directors. 5. The company can only make distributions to the shareholders insofar as its equity capital exceeds the amount of the issued capital, plus the reserves that must be maintained by law or in accordance with the articles of association. 6. A shortfall may only be paid from a statutory reserve to the extent permitted by law.
PROPOSED PROFIT APPROPRIATION The amount of EUR 19.8 million will be added to the retained earnings. The proposal to the Annual General Meeting will be to appropriate the remainder, EUR 130.7 million, for a dividend payment to the shareholders of EUR 1.00 per ordinary share.
The proposed dividend will be made payable in ordinary shares that will be charged to the tax-exempt share premium reserve or charged to the retained earnings, unless a shareholder expressly requests payment in cash.

ANNUAL REPORT 2017 ­ BOSKALIS

134
INDEPENDENT AUDITOR'S REPORT

To: the Shareholders and Supervisory Board of Royal Boskalis Westminster N.V.
REPORT ON THE AUDIT OF THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2017 INCLUDED IN THE ANNUAL REPORT
OUR OPINION

Accountants, a regulation with respect to independence) and other relevant independence regulations in the Netherlands. Furthermore we have complied with the Verordening gedrags- en beroepsregels accountants (VGBA, Dutch Code of Ethics).
We believe the audit evidence we have obtained is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our opinion.

We have audited the financial statements 2017 of Royal Boskalis Westminster N.V., based in Sliedrecht, the Netherlands. The financial statements include the consolidated financial statements and the company financial statements.
In our opinion:  The accompanying consolidated financial statements give a true
and fair view of the financial position of Royal Boskalis Westminster N.V. as at 31 December 2017, and of its result and its cash flows for 2017 in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards as adopted by the European Union (EU-IFRS) and with Part 9 of Book 2 of the Dutch Civil Code.  The accompanying company financial statements give a true and fair view of the financial position of Royal Boskalis Westminster N.V. as at 31 December 2017, and of its result for 2017 in accordance with Part 9 of Book 2 of the Dutch Civil Code.
The consolidated financial statements comprise:  The consolidated statement of financial position as at
31 December 2017  The following statements for 2017: the consolidated statement of
profit or loss, the consolidated statement of other comprehensive income, the consolidated statement of cash flows and the consolidated statement of changes in equity  The notes comprising a summary of the significant accounting policies and other explanatory information
The company financial statements comprise:  The company balance sheet as at 31 December 2017  The company profit and loss account for 2017  The notes comprising a summary of the accounting policies
and other explanatory information
BASIS FOR OUR OPINION

MATERIALITY
MATERIALITY
BENCHMARK APPLIED EXPLANATION

EUR 18.0 million (2016: EUR 16.0 million)
0.75% of revenue
Based on our professional judgment we consider an activity based measure as the most appropriate basis to determine materiality. In prior years materiality was based on profit before tax. Given the current market conditions we consider revenue a more stable and appropriate measure to determine materiality. We applied a percentage of 0.75%, which is the mid-end of an acceptable range.

We have also taken into account misstatements and/or possible misstatements that in our opinion are material for the users of the financial statements for qualitative reasons.
We agreed with the Supervisory Board that misstatements in excess of EUR 0.9 million, which are identified during the audit, would be reported to them, as well as smaller misstatements that in our view must be reported on qualitative grounds.

SCOPE OF THE GROUP AUDIT
Royal Boskalis Westminster N.V. is at the head of a group of entities. The financial information of this group is included in the consolidated financial statements of Royal Boskalis Westminster N.V.

We conducted our audit in accordance with Dutch law, including the Dutch Standards on Auditing. Our responsibilities under those standards are further described in the "Our responsibilities for the audit of the financial statements" section of our report.
We are independent of Royal Boskalis Westminster N.V. in accordance with the EU Regulation on specific requirements regarding statutory audit of public-interest entities, the Wet toezicht accountantsorganisaties (Wta, Audit firms supervision act), the Verordening inzake de onafhankelijkheid van accountants bij assurance-opdrachten (ViO, Code of Ethics for Professional

Our group audit mainly focused on significant group entities and joint ventures in terms of size and/or risk, within the operating segments Dredging & Inland Infra, Offshore Energy and Towage & Salvage. We performed most of the audit procedures at those segments ourselves. For the audit work in amongst others Australia, Mexico, Singapore, Germany and the UK, we used other EY network firms. We have used the work of other non-EY firms when auditing a number of entities, especially in the Middle East and France, which represented approximately 5% of the net turnover. Also certain joint ventures were audited by non-EY firms.

ANNUAL REPORT 2017 ­ BOSKALIS

135

In total these procedures represent approximately 92% of the group's revenue.
We performed audit procedures on certain accounting areas at group level, such as impairment tests of goodwill, assessment of impairment indicators of property, plant and equipment, acquisitions and pension accounting. We also visited project sites in the Netherlands, UK and Oman where we had meetings with local project-management to discuss and to obtain a better understanding of the progress and risks of the related projects.
For the remaining entities we performed other procedures, including analytical review and detailed testing to respond to any risks of potential material misstatements in the financial statements.
INVOLVEMENT WITH COMPONENT TEAMS Component materiality was determined by our judgment, based on the relative size of the component and our risk assessment. Component materiality did not exceed EUR 13.5 million and the majority of our component auditors applied a component materiality that is significantly less than this threshold.

Based on our risk assessment, we visited component locations in the UK and Singapore. We had meetings with the external auditors and local management on the audit findings and financial reporting. We interacted with all component teams where appropriate during various stages of the audit and were responsible for the scope and direction of the audit process. By performing the procedures mentioned above at group entities, together with additional procedures at group level, we have been able to obtain sufficient and appropriate audit evidence about the group's financial information to provide an opinion about the consolidated financial statements.
OUR KEY AUDIT MATTERS
Key audit matters are those matters that, in our professional judgment, were of most significance in our audit of the financial statements. We have communicated the key audit matters to the Supervisory Board. The key audit matters are not a comprehensive reflection of all matters discussed. These matters were addressed in the context of our audit of the financial statements as a whole and in forming our opinion thereon, and we do not provide a separate opinion on these matters.

RISK

OUR AUDIT APPROACH

KEY OBSERVATIONS

RECOGNITION OF CONTRACT VALUE, MARGIN AND RELATED RECEIVABLES AND LIABILITIES (SEE NOTE 3.12, 6, 20, 26 AND 29)

The contracting industry is characterised by

Our audit procedures on projects relating to

We assessed that the Company's revenue

contract risk with significant judgments

contract revenue included an assessment of the recognition accounting policies were

involved in the assessment of contract

company's project control, substantive audit

appropriately applied and that the impact of

financial performance. Revenue and margin procedures and testing of management's

the new revenue recognition accounting

are recognised based on the stage of

positions against underlying documentation.

standard (IFRS 15) is appropriately disclosed

completion of individual contracts. The status We performed substantive procedures relating in note 2.3. Furthermore, we have assessed

of contracts is updated on a regular basis.

to contractual terms and conditions, including that management assumptions and estimates

In doing so, management is required to

disputes, claims and variation orders, costs

are within an acceptable range and that the

exercise significant judgment in their

incurred, including local representatives' fees, disclosure notes are appropriate.

assessment of the valuation of contract

and forecasted cost to complete including

variations, claims and liquidated damages

progress measurement. We also analysed

(revenue items); the completeness and

differences with prior project estimates and

accuracy of forecasts regarding costs to

assessed consistency with the developments

complete; and the ability to deliver contracts during the year. We verified that claims and

within forecast timescales. The potential final variation orders on projects meet the

contract outcomes can cover a wide range.

recognition criteria and are valued accurately

Changes in these judgments, and the related and complete. In connection with the above,

estimates, as contracts progress can result in we discussed, also during site visits, a range of

material adjustments to revenue and margin, financial and other risks, disputes and related

which can be both positive and negative.

estimation uncertainties with management and

We therefore identified correct and complete project staff, assessing whether these have

recognition of contract revenue, margin

been adequately addressed in the financial

and related receivables and liabilities as

statements. We challenged management's

significant to our audit.

assumptions at the project and group

management levels in order to evaluate the

reasonableness and consistency of the

recognition of contract revenue and related

receivables and liabilities.

We also assessed the adequacy of required disclosures including the impact of the new revenue recognition accounting standard (IFRS 15) which will be adopted as of January 1, 2018 (note 2.3).

ANNUAL REPORT 2017 ­ BOSKALIS

136
RISK

OUR AUDIT APPROACH

KEY OBSERVATIONS

VALUATION FLOATING AND OTHER CONSTRUCTION EQUIPMENT (SEE NOTE 3.5, 3.7, 10 AND 16)

Property, plant and equipment includes floating and other construction equipment amounting to EUR 2.5 billion as at 31 December 2017, which represents 53% of the balance sheet total. Management performed an annual assessment whether there are indications of impairment of the floating equipment. In case of an impairment indication, an estimate is made of the recoverable amount of the assets concerned. This annual assessment is significant to our audit because this requires significant management judgments, such as future market and economic conditions. No material impairment charges were recognized in the profit and loss account of 2017 (2016: EUR 366.2 million).

In our audit approach we evaluated management's assessment of impairment indications and we assessed the historical accuracy of management's estimates. Furthermore, we evaluated the adequacy of the company's disclosures regarding the valuation of these property, plant and equipment.

We consider management's assessment of impairment indicators as appropriate and the key assumptions and estimates to be within an acceptable range. We agree with management's conclusion that no impairment is required in 2017. We further assessed that the required disclosures were appropriate.

VALUATION OF GOODWILL (SEE NOTE 3.5, 3.6, 10 AND 15)

Goodwill amounts to EUR 0.3 billion as at 31 December 2017, which represents 5% of the balance sheet total. Management's annual goodwill impairment test is considered complex and requires significant management judgment with respect to future market and economic conditions, developments in revenue, margins, working capital levels and investments, which individually may have a material effect on the result of the calculation. Therefore it is significant to our audit. No impairment charges were recognized in the profit and loss account of 2017 (2016: EUR 382.3 million).

In our audit approach we evaluated the goodwill impairment testing model including the main assumptions used. This includes assessing the forecasted margins, working capital and investment levels and discount rate. The procedures performed include comparing assumptions to external data. Furthermore, we analysed sensitivities, compared the projected cash flows to budgets and management's forecast and assessed the historical accuracy of management's estimates. We included valuation experts in our team to assess the valuation models and parameters used and assist us with these procedures. Furthermore, we evaluated the adequacy of the company's disclosures.

We consider management's key assumptions and estimates, used in the annual impairment test, to be within an acceptable range. We note that the Company concluded from its impairment tests that headroom for the CGU Offshore Energy is relatively limited and thus sensitive to changes in the assumptions. We agree with management's conclusion that no impairment is required in 2017. We further assessed that the required disclosures were appropriate.

UNCERTAIN TAX POSITIONS (SEE NOTE 3.28 AND 12)

Boskalis operates in a range of jurisdictions subject to different tax regimes. The cross-border operations may result in estimation differences or disputes with national tax authorities. If management considers it probable that such disputes will lead to an outflow of resources, accruals have been formed accordingly. We therefore identified correct and complete recognition of accruals for uncertain tax positions as significant to our audit.

In our audit approach, we tested the acceptability of the accruals formed in this estimation process. In doing so, we used tax specialists in reviewing the assumptions underlying the estimates and discussing them with management in the light of local tax rules and regulations. In connection with this, we also devoted attention to the substantiation of the estimated probability of the positions taken and details provided thereon by management.

We assessed that the Company's accounting policies were appropriately applied. Furthermore, we have assessed that management assumptions and estimates are within an acceptable range. We further assessed that the disclosure notes are appropriate.

ANNUAL REPORT 2017 ­ BOSKALIS

In the previous year's auditor's report, `Accounting for business combinations' was identified as a key audit matter. Since the magnitude of business combinations in 2017 is limited, the topic `Accounting for business combinations' is not a key audit matter in this year.

REPORT ON OTHER INFORMATION INCLUDED IN THE ANNUAL REPORT

137
the financial statements that are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error.

In addition to the financial statements and our auditor's report thereon, the annual report contains other information that consists of:  The Report of the Board of Management and the Report of the
Supervisory Board  The Chairman's Statement, Boskalis at a Glance and Other
Information  Other information pursuant to Part 9 of Book 2 of the Dutch Civil
Code (included in the Financial Statements 2017 section)
Based on the following procedures performed, we conclude that the other information:  Is consistent with the financial statements and does not contain
material misstatements  Contains the information as required by Part 9 of Book 2 of the
Dutch Civil Code
We have read the other information. Based on our knowledge and understanding obtained through our audit of the financial statements or otherwise, we have considered whether the other information contains material misstatements. By performing these procedures, we comply with the requirements of Part 9 of Book 2 of the Dutch Civil Code and the Dutch Standard 720. The scope of the procedures performed is less than the scope of those performed in our audit of the financial statements.

As part of the preparation of the financial statements, management is responsible for assessing the company's ability to continue as a going concern. Based on the financial reporting frameworks mentioned, management should prepare the financial statements using the going concern basis of accounting unless management either intends to liquidate the company or to cease operations, or has no realistic alternative but to do so. Management should disclose events and circumstances that may cast significant doubt on the company's ability to continue as a going concern in the financial statements.
The Supervisory Board is responsible for overseeing the company's financial reporting process.
OUR RESPONSIBILITIES FOR THE AUDIT OF THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Our objective is to plan and perform the audit assignment in a manner that allows us to obtain sufficient and appropriate audit evidence for our opinion.
Our audit has been performed with a high, but not absolute, level of assurance, which means we may not have detected all material errors and fraud.

Management is responsible for the preparation of the other information, including the Report of the Board of Management in accordance with Part 9 of Book 2 of the Dutch Civil Code and other information pursuant to Part 9 of Book 2 of the Dutch Civil Code.
REPORT ON OTHER LEGAL AND REGULATORY REQUIREMENTS
ENGAGEMENT
We were engaged by the Annual General Meeting as auditor of Royal Boskalis Westminster N.V. on 13 May 2014, as of the audit for the year 2014 and have operated as statutory auditor ever since that date.
NO PROHIBITED NON-AUDIT SERVICES We have not provided prohibited non-audit services as referred to in Article 5(1) of the EU Regulation on specific requirements regarding statutory audit of public-interest entities.
DESCRIPTION OF RESPONSIBILITIES FOR THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
RESPONSIBILITIES OF THE BOARD OF MANAGEMENT AND THE SUPERVISORY BOARD FOR THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Management is responsible for the preparation and fair presentation of the financial statements in accordance with EU-IFRS and Part 9 of Book 2 of the Dutch Civil Code. Furthermore, management is responsible for such internal control as management determines is necessary to enable the preparation of

Misstatements can arise from fraud or error and are considered material if, individually or in the aggregate, they could reasonably be expected to influence the economic decisions of users taken on the basis of these financial statements. The materiality affects the nature, timing and extent of our audit procedures and the evaluation of the effect of identified misstatements on our opinion.
We have exercised professional judgment and have maintained professional skepticism throughout the audit, in accordance with Dutch Standards on Auditing, ethical requirements and independence requirements. Our audit included e.g.:  Identifying and assessing the risks of material misstatement of
the financial statements, whether due to fraud or error, designing and performing audit procedures responsive to those risks, and obtaining audit evidence that is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our opinion. The risk of not detecting a material misstatement resulting from fraud is higher than for one resulting from error, as fraud may involve collusion, forgery, intentional omissions, misrepresentations, or the override of internal control.  Obtaining an understanding of internal control relevant to the audit in order to design audit procedures that are appropriate in the circumstances, but not for the purpose of expressing an opinion on the effectiveness of the company's internal control.  Evaluating the appropriateness of accounting policies used and the reasonableness of accounting estimates and related disclosures made by management.  Concluding on the appropriateness of management's use of the going concern basis of accounting, and based on the audit evidence obtained, whether a material uncertainty exists related to events or conditions that may cast significant doubt on the company's ability to continue as a going concern. If we

ANNUAL REPORT 2017 ­ BOSKALIS

138
conclude that a material uncertainty exists, we are required to draw attention in our auditor's report to the related disclosures in the financial statements or, if such disclosures are inadequate, to modify our opinion. Our conclusions are based on the audit evidence obtained up to the date of our auditor's report. However, future events or conditions may cause a company to cease to continue as a going concern.  Evaluating the overall presentation, structure and content of the financial statements, including the disclosures.  Evaluating whether the financial statements represent the underlying transactions and events in a manner that achieves fair presentation.
Because we are ultimately responsible for the opinion, we are also responsible for directing, supervising and performing the group audit. In this respect we have determined the nature and extent of the audit procedures to be carried out for group entities. Decisive were the size and/or the risk profile of the group entities or operations. On this basis, we selected group entities for which an audit or review had to be carried out on the complete set of financial information or specific items.
We communicate with the Supervisory Board regarding, among other matters, the planned scope and timing of the audit and significant audit findings, including any significant findings in internal control that we identify during our audit. In this respect we have reported to the Audit Committee in accordance with Article 11 of the EU Regulation on specific requirements regarding statutory audit of public-interest entities. The information included in this additional report is consistent with our audit opinion in this auditor's report.
We provide the Supervisory Board with a statement that we have complied with relevant ethical requirements regarding independence, and to communicate with them all relationships and other matters that may reasonably be thought to bear on our independence, and where applicable, related safeguards.
From the matters communicated with the Supervisory Board, we determine those matters that were of most significance in the audit of the financial statements of the current period and are therefore the key audit matters. We describe these matters in our auditor's report unless law or regulation precludes public disclosure about the matter or when, in extremely rare circumstances, not communicating the matter is in the public interest.
Rotterdam, 7 March 2018
Ernst & Young Accountants LLP
Signed by J. Hetebrij

ANNUAL REPORT 2017 ­ BOSKALIS

139

ANNUAL REPORT 2017 ­ BOSKALIS

140
OTHER INFORMATION
The mega cutter Helios and trailing suction hopper dredger Strandway dredging in the Port of Rotterdam.

ANNUAL REPORT 2017 ­ BOSKALIS

141

142 HISTORIC OVERVIEW

145

STICHTING CONTINUÏTEIT KBW

146

SUPERVISION, BOARD & MANAGEMENT

150

DISCLOSURES REQUIRED BY THE DECREE ARTICLE 10 OF THE EU DIRECTIVE ON TAKEOVER BIDS

152 GLOSSARY

155 EQUIPMENT

ANNUAL REPORT 2017 ­ BOSKALIS

142
HISTORIC OVERVIEW (1) (15)

OTHER INFORMATION

(in EUR million, unless stated otherwise)
Revenue Order book
EBITDA Depreciation and amortization Operating result Impairments EBIT
Net profit Net group profit/loss Cash flow
Shareholders' equity
Average number of outstanding shares (x 1,000) Number of outstanding shares (x 1,000)
Personnel (headcount)
Ratios (in percentages) EBIT as % of the revenue Return on capital employed Return on equity Solvency
Figures per share (in EUR) Profit Cash flow Dividend
Share price range (in EUR) Low High

2017
2,337 3,495

(3)

436.6

251.6

(12)

185.0

0.0

(2)

185.0

(14)

150.5

150.4

402.0

3,023

2016
2,596 2,924
660.5* 277.2 384.6 842.6 -458.1
276.4* -561.8 464.0
3,121

2015
3,240 2,490
884.7 278.6 577.3
14.5 562.8
440.2 443.5 765.4
3,714

2014 (11)
3,167 3,286

2013 (11)
3,144 3,323

2012 (10)
3,081 4,106

2011
2,801 3,489

945.9 261.9 684.0
31.6 652.3

757.2 254.4 502.8
39.4 463.4

567.1 227.2 339.9
4.1 335.8

590.5 230.0 360.5
6.4 354.1

490.3 492.2 785.7

365.7 365.3 659.1

249.0 252.0 483.3

254.3 261.0 497.4

3,152

2,525

1,898

1,733

(4) 131,097

(5) 130,677

(13)

6.410

128,205 130,077
6,960

124,182 125,627
8,268

121,606 122,309
8,446

118,445 120,265
8,459

105,644 107,284
15,653

102,391 103,472
13,935

7.9

14.8*

(6)

4.8

9.1*

(7)

4.9

8.1*

(8)

62.9

56.1

17.4 10.8 12.8 56.3

20.6 13.8 17.3 53.4

14.7 13.0 16.5 47.6

10.9 11.1 13.8 39.2

12.6 12.1 15.4 37.4

(5) (9)

1.15

(5)

3.07

1.00

2.16* 3.62 1.00

3.54 6.16 1.60

4.03 6.46 1.60

3.09 5.56 1.24

2.36 4.58 1.24

2.48 4.86 1.24

27.08 35.51

27.89 37.60

35.70 49.21

33.71 47.18

26.92 38.58

23.26 34.50

20.67 38.46

* Excluding impairments
(1) Figures taken from the respective financial statements. (2) EBIT as reported in the consolidated statement of profit or loss. (3) EBIT before depreciation, amortization and impairment losses. (4) Weighted average number of outstanding shares less the number of shares owned by the company. (5) Number of outstanding ordinary shares less the number of shares owned by the company as at 31 December. (6) Net profit + interest expenses regarding long term loans (non-current interest bearing borrowings) as % of the average capital employed
(2016 average capital includes adjustment for debt to be repaid early). (7) Net profit as % of the average shareholders' equity. (8) Group equity as % of balance sheet total (non-current assets + current assets). (9) The dilution effect was practically nil up to and including the financial year 2017. (10) Adjusted for changes in the IFRS regulations (IAS19R). (11)As of 1 January 2014 Boskalis applies IFRS11 which impacts the way joint ventures and associated companies are recognized.
The full year 2013 comparative figures have been adjusted accordingly. (12)EBIT - impairments. (13) Employees employed by majority owned entities including employees Anglo Eastern, crew of the Dockwise vessels. (14) The 2016 net loss of EUR 563.7 million has been adjusted for post tax impairment charges of EUR 840.1 million. (15) On 21 May 2007 a share split on a three-for-one basis was effected. For comparative purposes the data regarding the number of shares and figures  per share of all the periods preceding the share split have been recalculated.

ANNUAL REPORT 2017 ­ BOSKALIS

143

2010
2,674 3,248
621.5 210.9 410.6
8.7 401.9
310.5 312.9 532.5
1,565

2009
2,175 2,875
444.9 147.0 297.9
48.6 249.3
227.9 229.2 424.8
1,296

2008
2,094 3,354
454.6 110.2 344.3
5.2 339.1
249.1 250.1 365.6
860.1

2007 1,869 3,562
348.1 102.5
245.5
204.4 207.1 309.6
768.1

2006 1,354 2,543
236.8 86.6
150.3
116.6 117.0 203.6
618.6

2005 1,156 2,427
162.5 80.2
82.3
62.7 63.3 143.5
542.9

2004 1,020 1,244
136.5 89.0
47.5
33.9 34.1 123.1
467.9

99,962 100,974
13,832

88,372 98,651 10,514

85,799 85,799 10,201

85,799 85,799
8,577

85,799 85,799
8,151

85,254 85,800
7,029

83,307 84,522
7,033

15.0 18.1 21.7 37.1

11.5 20.2 21.1 46.5

16.2 29.1 30.6 34.0

13.1 27.7 29.5 35.3

11.1 19.1 20.1 39.4

7.1 12.0 12.4 41.3

4.7 7.0 7.2 38.1

3.11 5.33 1.24

2.58 4.81 1.19

2.90 4.26 1.19

2.38 3.61 1.19

1.36 2.37 0.68

0.74 1.68 0.37

0.41 1.48 0.25

23.16 36.58

13.25 28.45

15.30 42.45

21.06 46.25

14.67 25.48

8.58 18.75

6.02 8.33

ANNUAL REPORT 2017 ­ BOSKALIS

144

ANNUAL REPORT 2017 ­ BOSKALIS

145
STICHTING CONTINUÏTEIT KBW
REPORT By decision of the General Meeting of Shareholders held on 9 May 2001 the foundation Stichting Continuïteit KBW was granted the right to acquire cumulative protective preference shares in Royal Boskalis Westminster N.V. for a nominal amount equal to the nominal amount of ordinary shares outstanding at the time of issue of the shares concerned, minus the nominal value of one ordinary share. The option of issuing such cumulative protective preference shares was not exercised during the period under review.
The Board of Stichting Continuïteit KBW consists of three members:
J.A. Dekker, chairman J.S.T. Tiemstra P.N. Wakkie
The articles of association of the Stichting Contuïteit KBW are to be found at www.boskalis.com/corporategovernance.
DECLARATION OF INDEPENDENCE The Board of Stichting Continuïteit KBW and the Board of Management of Royal Boskalis Westminster N.V. hereby declare that in their opinion Stichting Continuïteit KBW is an independent legal entity, separate from Royal Boskalis Westminster N.V., as defined in Section 5:71, first paragraph under c of the Dutch Financial Supervision Act.
Papendrecht / Sliedrecht, 7 March 2018 Royal Boskalis Westminster N.V. Board of Management
's-Gravenland, 7 March 2018 Stichting Continuïteit KBW The Board

ANNUAL REPORT 2017 ­ BOSKALIS

146
SUPERVISION, BOARD AND MANAGEMENT

OTHER INFORMATION

MEMBERS OF THE SUPERVISORY BOARD

MR. J.M. HESSELS (1942), CHAIRMAN

MR. J. VAN DER VEER (1947)

 date of first appointment 17 August 2011, current term ends AGM 2019
 former chairman of the Management Board of Royal Vendex KBB N.V.
 former chairman Board NYSE Euronext, Inc.  member Board General Atlantic Coöperatief U.A./non-executive
member of the Board of MeteoGroup Ltd.  chairman of the board of Stichting Preferente Aandelen Philips

 date of first appointment 12 May 2015, current terms ends AGM 2019
 former CEO of Royal Dutch Shell plc  chairman of the Supervisory Board of ING Groep N.V./
ING Bank N.V. and Royal Philips N.V.
 member of the Board of Directors of Statoil ASA  chairman of Het Concertgebouw Fonds  chairman of the Supervisory Committee of the Delft University
of Technology

MR. H.J. HAZEWINKEL (1949), DEPUTY CHAIRMAN
 date of first appointment 27 March 2010, current term ends AGM 2018
 former chairman of the Management Board of Royal Volker Wessels Stevin N.V.
 chairman of the Supervisory Board of SOWECO N.V.  deputy chairman Supervisory Board of N.V. Luchthaven
Schiphol  member Supervisory Board VanWonen Holding B.V.  non-executive partner Quadrum Capital B.V.  chairman of the Board of Stichting Continuïteit ASR Nederland  member of the Board of Stichting Administratiekantoor Slagheek
MS. I. HAAIJER (1969)
 date of first appointment 10 November 2016, current term ends AGM 2020
 former president & CEO of DSM Food Specialties and member of the Leadership Team of Royal DSM N.V.

MR. J.N. VAN WIECHEN (1972)
 date of first appointment 12 May 2011, current term ends AGM 2019
 member of the Executive Board of HAL Holding N.V./director HAL Investments B.V.
 chairman of the Supervisory Board of Mondhoekje B.V. (Coolblue)
 member of the Supervisory Board of Atlas Services Group Holding B.V.
MR. C. VAN WOUDENBERG (1948)
 date of first appointment 9 May 2007, current term ends AGM 2019
 former member of the Executive Committee of Air France-KLM  chairman of the Supervisory Board of Blauwe Oceaan B.V.  member of the Supervisory Committee of Stichting Het Gelders
Orkest (The Arnhem Philharmonic Orchestra)

All the members of the Supervisory Board have the Dutch nationality. They do not hold shares or associated option rights in Royal Boskalis Westminster N.V.

Company secretary: Ms. F.E. Buijs (1969)

ANNUAL REPORT 2017 ­ BOSKALIS

147
MEMBERS OF THE BOARD OF MANAGEMENT

From left to right: T.L. Baartmans, dr. P.A.M. Berdowski, J.H. Kamps

DR. P.A.M. BERDOWSKI (1957), CHAIRMAN

MR J.H. KAMPS (1959), CHIEF FINANCIAL OFFICER

 chairman of the Board of Management since 2006  member of the Board of Management since 1997  member of the Supervisory Board of Ames Auto Lease B.V.  member of the Supervisory Board of GustoMSC Investments B.V.

 member of the Board of Management since 2006  member of the Supervisory Board of Sligro Food Group N.V.

MR T.L. BAARTMANS (1960)
 member of the Board of Management since 2007  chairman of the Executive Board of the Netherlands Association
of International Contractors (NABU)  member of the board of the International Association of
Dredging Companies (IADC)  member of the Supervisory Committee of the Stichting Prosea
marine education

All the members of the Board of Management have the Dutch nationality. They do not hold shares or associated option rights in Royal Boskalis Westminster N.V.
Company secretary: Ms. F.E. Buijs (1969)

ANNUAL REPORT 2017 ­ BOSKALIS

148
GROUP MANAGEMENT

dr. P.A.M. Berdowski T.L. Baartmans J.H. Kamps R.J.A. van Acker A.A. Gräber P. van der Knaap P. van der Linde

chairman Board of Management member Board of Management member Board of Management, Chief Financial Officer group director Towage & Salvage group director Offshore Energy group director Dredging & Inland Infra group director Offshore Energy

CORPORATE SUPPORT
Company secretary & Corporate Legal Treasur y IR & Corporate Communications Group Controlling Fiscal Affairs Insurance Corporate Development

F.E. Buijs F.A.J. Rousseau M.L.D. Schuttevâer E.C.P. Verstraete J. Jager A.J. Huiskes C.A. Visser

CENTRAL BUSINESS SUPPORT
Personnel & Organization ICT SHE-Q Research & Development Central Fleet Support Procurement & Logistics

J. den Hartog M.J. Krijger J.M. Vavier - van Vugt dr. A.C. Steenbrink P.E. van Eerten J.E. Rijnsdorp

OTHER INFORMATION

DREDGING & INLAND INFRA

OFFSHORE ENERGY

TOWAGE & SALVAGE

Area Northwest Europe W.B. Vogelaar Area Middle M. Siebinga Area Middle East P.G.R. Devinck Area East L. Slinger Area West P. Klip The Netherlands R.P. Rijper Boskalis Environmental H.H.A.G. Wevers
Finance W.T. Bien Business Development J.F.A. de Blaeij Design, Tendering & Engineering A.J. Fokkema Fleet Management  J.T. van Leeuwen Personnel & Organization L. Wijngaard

Installation & Intervention:
Installation  C.J. d'Cort Intervention  J.M.L.D. Dieteren Offshore Wind  M.R.J. van Bergen Cables  A.M.J. van Poppel
Transport Services:
Transport & Marine Services  A.C. Bikkers, H. van Raaphorst, S.R.L. van Hulle Logistical Management J.W. Oosterhuis Subsea Services  S. Korte Design, Tendering & Engineering W.Q. Nelemans
Marine Survey (Gardline) G.M. Eggink

Towage T.R. Bennema Salvage R.L.C. Janssen

Finance R.F.P. van `t Hof Business Development J.G.M. Meij Fleet Management E.B. van Dodeweerd, H.R. Maliepaard Personnel & Organization T. Lageman, M.C. Verhage

WORKS COUNCIL D.A. van Uitert (chairman), M.A. Koerts (vice-chairman), L. Wubben (secretary), E.J. van den Biggelaar, K. de Bruijn, K. van Dam, R. Gooijer, L. Keuning, J. van Reijendam, J.G. Roos, B. Scheutjens, H. Schonewille, T. Swalen, R. Wisse, A. Zwart.

ANNUAL REPORT 2017 ­ BOSKALIS

The semi-submersible heavy transport vessel Blue Marlin transporting Statoil's Askeladden jack-up drilling rig.

ANNUAL REPORT 2017 ­ BOSKALIS

149

150
DISCLOSURES REQUIRED BY THE DECREE ARTICLE 10 OF THE EU DIRECTIVE ON TAKEOVER BIDS

OTHER INFORMATION

Under the Decree article 10 of the EU Directive on takeover bids companies whose securities are admitted to trading on a regulated market must disclose information in their annual reports on matters including their capital structure and the existence of any shareholders with special rights. Furthermore, the Code requires Boskalis to give an overview of all existing and potential antitakeover measures indicating the circumstances whereunder and by whom these measures may likely to be used. In accordance with these requirements, Boskalis hereby makes the following disclosures:
a.For information on the capital structure of the company, the capital and the existence of various types of shares, please refer to page 103 of the notes to the consolidated financial statements in this annual report. For information on the rights attached to these shares, please refer to the company's Articles of Association which can be found on the company website. To summarize, the rights attached to ordinary shares comprise pre-emptive subscription rights upon the issue of ordinary shares, the entitlement to attend the General Meeting of Shareholders, and to speak and vote at that meeting, and the right to distribution of such amount of the company's profit as remains after allocation to reserves. As at December 31, 2017 the issued capital consisted exclusively of ordinary shares (partly registered and partly bearer shares (aandelen aan toonder)). These are only issued against payment in full.
b. The company has imposed no limitations on the transfer of ordinary shares. The Articles of Association have stipulated a blocking procedure for protective preference shares. The company is not aware of any shares having been exchanged for depositary receipts.
c. For information on equity stakes in the company to which a notification requirement applies (pursuant to Sections 5:34, 5:35 and 5:43 of the Financial Supervision Act), please refer to the section `Shareholder information' on page 17 of this annual report. Under the heading `Shareholders' you can find a list of shareholders who are known to the company to have holdings of 3% or more at the stated date.
d. There are no special control rights or other rights associated with shares in the company.
e. The company does not operate a scheme granting employees rights to acquire or obtain shares in the capital of the company or any of its subsidiaries.

f. No restrictions apply to voting rights associated with the company's shares, nor are there any deadlines for exercising voting rights.
g. No agreements with shareholders exist which may result in restrictions on the transfer of shares or limitation of voting rights.
h. The thresholds for shareholders to exercise the right of inquiry (het enquêterecht) are based on article 346 sub clause 1 under c of the Dutch Civil Code, regardless of the current nominal share capital of the company.
i. The rules governing the appointment and dismissal of members of the Board of Management and the Supervisory Board and amendment of the Articles of Association are stated in the company's Articles of Association. Members of the Board of Management and Supervisory Board are appointed and dismissed by the General Meeting of Shareholders on binding nomination of the Supervisory Board. The General Meeting of Shareholders may pass a resolution to deprive the binding nature of the nomination for the appointment or dismissal of any member of the Board of Management or the Supervisory Board by at least a majority of two/thirds of the votes cast, representing more than one-half of the company's issued share capital. An amendment of the company's Articles of Association requires a decision by the General Meeting of Shareholders in response to a proposal made by the Board of Management with the approval of the Supervisory Board.
j. The general powers of the Board of Management are set out in the Articles of Association of the company. The powers of the Board of Management in respect of the issuance of shares in the company are set out in article 4 of the company's Articles of Association. To summarize, the General Meeting of Shareholders ­ or the Board of Management authorized by the General Meeting of Shareholders ­ takes the decision, subject to prior approval by the Supervisory Board, to issue shares, whereby the issue price and other conditions relating to the issue are determined by the General Meeting ­ or the Board of Management authorized by the General Meeting of Shareholders. In the event the Board of Management is authorized to take decisions with respect to the issue of shares, the number of shares that may be issued as well as the term of the authorization must also be determined. Procedures governing the acquisition and disposal by the company of shares in its own capital are set out in article 7 of the Articles of Association. To summarize, the Board of Management may

ANNUAL REPORT 2017 ­ BOSKALIS

151

decide, subject to authorization by the General Meeting of Shareholders and to prior approval by the Supervisory Board, for the company to buy back fully paid-up shares up to a statutory maximum of 50% of issued capital. Decisions regarding the disposal of shares acquired by the company are taken by the Board of Management, subject to prior approval by the Supervisory Board.

l. The company has not entered into any agreements with either members of the Board of Management or employees, which provide for a pay-out on termination of their employment as a result of a public offer within the meaning of Section 5:70 of the Financial Supervision Act.

k. With the exception of the option agreement with Stichting Continuïteit KBW concerning the placement of cumulative protective preference shares as set out in section 28.4 of the financial statements, the company is not a party to any significant agreements which take effect or are altered or terminated upon a change of control of the company as a result of a public offer within the meaning of Section 5:70 of the Financial Supervision Act. The General Meeting of Shareholders of May 9, 2001 decided to grant Stichting Continuïteit KBW the right to acquire cumulative protective preference shares as a preventive measure against a unsolicited offer for the shares of the company. These shares may be issued in the event that (significant) influence is obtained or is threatened to be obtained by (legal) persons, who, without the involvement of the Board of Management, intend to acquire control over the company, without safeguards being in place for the independence and continuity of the company and its enterprise and without ensuring the interests of employees, other shareholders and other stakeholders of the company and its enterprise.

ANNUAL REPORT 2017 ­ BOSKALIS

152
GLOSSARY

OTHER INFORMATION

Acquired orders Contract value of acquired assignments.
Average capital employed Shareholders' equity + long term loans (non-current interest bearing borrowings).
Backhoe dredger A large hydraulic excavating machine positioned on the end of a pontoon. The pontoon is held firmly in place using spuds. Backhoes can dredge in a range of soil types with extreme precision.

Home market Boskalis distinguishes itself from its competitors in the Dredging segment by the use of a home market strategy. The home market organizations have local marketing profiles, as well as their own fleets and infrastructures. They can rely on the support of the financial and technical resources of the global Boskalis organization. Home markets provide a stable flow of assignments and opportunities to generate additional margins through associated activities.
Hopper/hopper dredger See trailing suction hopper dredger.

Bunker fuel Type of fuel used by oceangoing and other vessels. Bunkering refers to the act or process of supplying a ship with this type of fuel.
Cash flow Group net profit + depreciation + amortization + impairment losses.
Cost leadership Achieving lowest cost price.
Cutter suction dredger (CSD) A vessel that dredges while being held into place using spuds and anchors. This technique combines powerful cutting with suction dredging. Cutter suction dredgers are mainly used where the sea- and riverbed is hard and compact. The dredged material is sometimes loaded into hoppers but is generally pumped to land through a pressure pipeline.
Decommission To dismantle and/or remove an object.
EBIT Earnings before interest and tax.
EBITDA EBIT before depreciation, amortization and impairment losses.

HTV A (semi-submersible) heavy transport vessel. At 275 meters long and 70 meters wide the Dockwise Vanguard is the biggest semi-submersible heavy transport vessel in the world and is capable of conveying objects weighing up to 110,000 tons.
International projects market Market that focuses primarily on larger capital expenditure projects for new buildings and/or extensions. In addition, there are projects that regularly involve cooperation with third parties. This makes it possible to provide clients with optimal services and to share risks.
Jack-up platform An offshore platform that can either float or have its legs lowered to stand on the seabed. Jack-up rigs are generally used by oil and gas companies for exploration and production purposes. Platforms of this type can be transported either by semi-submersible heavy transport vessel (Dockwise) or by oceangoing tug (Fairmount).
LNG Liquefied Natural Gas.
LTI Lost Time Injury. Expresses the number of workplace accidents serious enough to result in absence from work.

CO2 Emissions Carbon dioxide released into the environment.
EPC contract EPC stands for Engineering, Procurement, Construction and is a type of contracting agreement in the construction industry. The contractor is responsible for carrying out the detailed engineering design of the project, procure all the equipment and materials required, and then construct to deliver a functioning facility or asset to the client.
EU-IFRS IFRS stands for International Financial Reporting Standards. EU-IFRS are financial reporting rules drawn up and issued by the IASB (International Accounting Standards Board) and adopted within the European Union. Since 2005 all publicly listed companies within the European Union have been obliged to comply with these standards in their external financial accounting/reporting.
Fallpipe vessel Vessel that moves over the area to be covered, while dumping rock through a fallpipe. The vessel is kept in place by a dynamic positioning system in which the propellers and rudders are controlled by an automatic system. The end of the pipe is located just a few meters above the level of the surface to be covered. The fallpipe is controlled using a precise positioning system. The fallpipe vessel Seahorse can also be equipped with an A-frame on the aftship and a grab controlled by an ROV (Remotely Operated Vehicle). This makes it possible to dredge down to depths of 1,000 meters.
Float-over installation Installation of a topside (for an offshore oil or gas platform production unit) on a subsea structure such as a jacket. A semi-submersible heavy transport vessel is used to convey the topside to the site and position it precisely in relation to the subsea structure piles. The ship is then partially submerged, allowing the support points of the topside to be lowered precisely onto the jacket connectors.
Floating sheerleg crane Floating cranes for heavy lifting.

LTIF Lost Time Injury Frequency. Expresses the number of workplace accidents serious enough to result in absence from work, per 200,000 hours worked.
Net Group profit Net profit + net profit attributable to non-controlling interests.
NINA No Injuries No Accidents. To achieve an incident and accident-free working environment Boskalis applies the NINA safety program. NINA sets out Boskalis' vision on safety and describes the safety conduct the company expects from its staff and subcontractors. The program makes people aware of their own responsibility and encourages them to take action in situations which are unsafe.
Operating result EBIT - impairments including joint ventures.
Order book Contract revenue as yet uncompleted.
Return on capital employed Net profit + interest expenses regarding long term loans (non-current interest bearing borrowings) as % of the average capital employed.
Return on equity Net profit as % of the average shareholders' equity.
Roll-on/roll-off vessel (ro-ro) Vessels designed to carry wheeled cargo such as automobiles, trucks, semi-trailer trucks, trailers or railroad cars that are driven on and off the ship on their own wheels.
Rock fragmentation under water Drilling and blasting hard materials such as rock and granite, often to deepen ports and clear navigational channels.
ROV Remotely Operated Vehicle. An unmanned robotic subsea vehicle that is remotely controlled (often from a ship or platform).

FPSO Floating Production Storage and Offloading unit. Floating production, storage and transshipment systems that often operate a long way offshore. The systems separate the incoming liquids into oil, gas and water and temporarily store the crude oil. Tankers are used to transport the oil.
Futures A future (derivative) is a so-called forward contract; an agreement between traders to purchase or sell certain financial products on a specified future date at a previously agreed fixed price.
Global Reporting Initiative International organization that develops global standards for sustainability reporting.

SHE-Q Safety, Health, Environment & Quality.
Solvency Group equity as % of balance sheet total (non-current assets + current assets).
Topside The upper section of an offshore oil production platform.
Trailing suction hopper dredger (TSHD) A self-propelled unit that loads its well or hopper using centrifugal pumps and pipes that trail over the bed as the ship sails. Trailing suction hopper dredgers can operate independently of other equipment and can transport material over long distances. The dredged material is dumped through flaps or bottom doors, by rainbowing, or pumped onto land using a pipeline.

Hazardous substances Liquid or solid substances which present a health hazard and/or TRIR Total Recordable Injury Rate. Number of LTIs, restricted work cases and medical

are damaging to the environment.

treatment cases per 200,000 hours worked.

Heavy lift vessel See HTV.

ANNUAL REPORT 2017 ­ BOSKALIS

153

ANNUAL REPORT 2017 ­ BOSKALIS

154

ANNUAL REPORT 2017 ­ BOSKALIS

155
EQUIPMENT

DREDGERS

Trailing suction hopper dredgers Capacity > 6,000 m3 Capacity  6,000 m3

OCEANGOING TUGS AND ANCHOR HANDLING TUGS

23

11

Oceangoing tugs

12

Cutter suction dredgers

12

Capacity > 12,000 kW

5

Capacity  12,000 kW

7

Anchor Handling Tugs From 70 to 205 ton bollard pull

OFFSHORE VESSELS

Backhoes Bucket capacity from 1.4 to 33 m3

18 BARGES AND PONTOONS
Hopper barges Capacity from 50 to 3,800 m3

Floating grab cranes

12

Grab capacity from 1.2 to 9.2 m3

Other dredging equipment

27

bucket dredger, environmental disc cutter,

barge unloading dredgers, suction dredgers, stone

placing vessels

Oceangoing flat top barges (semi-submersible) Capacity 21,000 tons
Oceangoing flat top barges/pontoons Capacity from 1,000 to 14,000 tons

Heavy transport vessels (semi-submersible) 19 Capacity up to 110,000 tons

Inland barges Capacity from 100 to 2,000 tons

Heavy lift vessels Capacity from 500 to 3,000 tons

VESSELS TOWAGE JOINT VENTURES 3
LAUNCHES, WORK/SUPPLY VESSELS

Fallpipe vessels Capacity from 17,000 to 24,000 tons

2 VARIOUS/OTHER FLOATING EQUIPMENT

Diving support vessels

5

Air and saturation diving support, ROV services

4 16
69 2
45 35 414 98 87

Cable-laying vessels

3

Floating sheerlegs cranes Capacity from 400 to 5,000 tons
Survey vessels

7 The numbers listed above include the vessels under construction and vessels and floating equipment of the (non-controlled) associated companies. In addition to the equipment shown here, the group also owns a range of auxiliary equipment such as floating pipelines, winches, pumps, draglines, hydraulic excavators, wheel loaders, dumpers, bulldozers, mobile cranes,
15 crawler drill rigs, sand pillers, filling installations for shore protection, mattresses, fixed land pipelines and a wide variety of salvage equipment, such as fire-fighting, diving and anti-pollution equipment.

ANNUAL REPORT 2017 ­ BOSKALIS

156

ANNUAL REPORT 2017 ­ BOSKALIS

COLOPHON
Compiled and coordinated by Royal Boskalis Westminster N.V. Corporate Communications Department Group Controlling Department www.boskalis.com
carbon neutral
natureOffice.com | NL-001-276520
print production

Royal Boskalis Westminster N.V. Rosmolenweg 20 PO Box 43 3350 AA Papendrecht The Netherlands
royal@boskalis.com T +31 78 6969000
www.boskalis.com

